
                               1 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 12, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

In Colorado, a Deal On Immigration Bills;
GOP Angered as Issue Won't Go to Voters

BYLINE: T.R. Reid, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: DENVER July 11


Ending a bitterly divisive special session of the legislature, Colorado Gov.
Bill Owens (R) cut a deal with Democratic leaders on a package of bills to deny
some state services to illegal immigrants and to punish employers who hire them.

But the compromise late Monday brought angry criticism of the governor from some
of his GOP allies because it did not include a key Republican goal: a tough
referendum on illegal immigration  on the November ballot.

Owens had called the special session specifically to reverse a ruling last month
by the state Supreme Court that removed the proposed referendum from the ballot.
In the end, though, the governor agreed with Democratic leaders of the
legislature to deal with the red-hot political issue through legislation rather
than a ballot issue.

In passing its crackdown on illegal immigration,Colorado is following the
national trend in which  state legislatures are taking the initiative on an
issue that used to be considered a matter for the federal government.

More than 60 bills dealing with undocumented immigrants have been approved in 27
states  this year, according to a tally last week by the National Conference of
State Legislatures.

The states have been moved to act in large part because "we seem to have a
Congress in gridlock on the issue," said Ann Morse, who tracks immigration
matters for the group. "State legislators feel if they don't act, nobody will."

Congressional leaders have identified illegal immigration as a key concern in
the current session, but it now appears unlikely that any bill will emerge from
Congress before the November elections.

Colorado is the home of Rep. Tom Tancredo, the Republican who has become a
national leader for groups that want to increase border enforcement and deport
illegal immigrants. The cause has won support from conservative Republicans here
and from some Democrats, including Richard D. Lamm, who served three terms as
governor.

A group headed by Lamm and senior Republicans got more than 50,000 signatures
this spring to put a strict  measure against illegal immigration on the November
ballot. But the state Supreme Court ruled that the initiative's wording did not
meet legal standards.

"The Republicans really wanted a ballot referendum in November," noted Terry
Snyder, a Denver political consultant who works with Democrats. "They thought
that would get all the anti-immigration people out to the polls. That's why
Owens called the special session in the first place."

But Democrats, with control of both houses of the legislature, said from the
start that they wanted to avoid a divisive ballot proposal.

The key measure approved Monday would deny illegal immigrants unemployment
checks, grants to pay energy bills, professional or business licenses, and some
public medical care. An undocumented resident who applies for such benefits
would face a fine.

For anyone younger than 18, the bill allows state services and services
generally provided by local governments, such as soup kitchens.

Under federal law, many governmental services  --  including education, police
and emergency health care  --  must be provided equally to all. This has been an
obstacle in several state legislatures that sought this year to cut services to
illegal immigrants; the Colorado bill authorizes all state services mandated by
federal law.

A second law passed Monday requires  employers in the state to certify that each
new hire is a legal resident. Under intense  lobbying from businesses, the
wording was softened so that employers can be sanctioned only if they show
"reckless disregard" about an employee's background.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               2 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Backlog At Borders, Cracks in The System;
With Detention Sites Full, More Immigrants Avoid Deportation

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1456 words


Beefed-up enforcement at the U.S.-Mexico border since Sept. 11, 2001, has
substantially increased the number of arrests of illegal immigrants, but tens of
thousands of captured non-Mexicans continue to be released into the United
States because there is no place to hold them, according to experts and
immigration officials.

The vast majority simply slip away inside the country after being issued
"Notices to Appear" for a deportation hearing  --  documents known to Border
Patrol agents as "Notices to Disappear." The success of border crossers who stay
in the United States through this "catch-and-release" process has encouraged
others who hope to enter the country the same way.

In a dozen speeches since October, President Bush has vowed to replace
catch-and-release with the "catch-and-return" of 150,000 "other than Mexican"
(OTM) immigrants arrested each year. The goal is to deny court hearings to all
but asylum-seekers, speed deportations and make the most of limited detention
space in jails, prisons and immigration centers.

But as Washington debates the overhaul of the nation's immigration laws and Bush
prepares to address the nation tomorrow on border protection, the persistent
catch-and-release problem is a reminder of costly and unintended consequences of
past enforcement efforts.

Even if authorities overcome operational and legal hurdles to curb the flow of
people from El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala and other countries, experts say
they will be addressing only a tiny sliver of the illegal immigration problem.
The U.S. Border Patrol arrested nearly 1.2 million people last year  --  the
vast majority of them Mexicans who were promptly returned across the border  --
and estimates that 500,000 others evaded capture.

"What Congress has built is one of the most expensive revolving doors in the
world," said Victor Cerda, former chief of staff of the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency. Without broader changes, he said, "You're going to be here
in 10 years, with another 20 million aliens."

Since the founding of the Department of Homeland Security, which sought to deter
illegal crossings with a show of force, arrests of non-Mexican border crossers
have tripled, from 49,545 in 2003 to 155,000 in 2005. But presidents and
Congress for 20 years have not shown corresponding support for detention beds,
courts, inland enforcement or diplomatic and administrative changes.

As a result, the spike in arrests backfired, because there was no place to put
the tens of thousands of new detainees. Overwhelmed immigration courts have been
unable to keep up.

Nor could the Border Patrol immediately send non-Mexicans back to Mexico, which
does not accept other countries' nationals, forcing the agency to house them at
an annual cost of $35,000 per bed.

Beset by start-up and coordination problems in the new Homeland Security
Department, ICE faced a $500 million budget deficit in 2004, leaving a fourth of
its detention jobs unfilled. As arrests climbed last year, Border Patrol agents
released 70 percent of non-Mexicans into the United States. Of those released
and later ordered to leave the country, only 18 percent do.

Word soon spread to smugglers and illegal immigrants, who rushed in to learn
whether finding work in the United States meant only a short detention at the
border.

Federal statistics show the result, which has enraged border communities. Once
arrested and released, the number of illegal immigrants who failed to appear in
court more than tripled from 29,550 in 2003 to 97,868 in 2005, or 60 percent of
cases, up from 32 percent.

"The system is broken as we've known it. . . . It's a joke," said Robert C.
Bonner, head of U.S. Customs and Border Protection from 2003 to 2005. For those
considering entering the country illegally, Bonner said, "it was the opposite of
deterrence. It was an invitation."

The new attempt to solve the problem draws critics from the right and left. Of
those who want tougher enforcement, the offensive on non-Mexicans tackles only a
small portion of the flow of illegal immigration and amounts to
"window-dressing" that obscures feckless efforts elsewhere.

"It's not quite as important as the administration would have you believe," said
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
wants stronger efforts against employers, foreign national fugitives, illegal
immigrants and document fraud inside the United States. "Focusing on just one
rivulet of this flood is missing the point."

Among pro-immigration advocates, the changes "put a Band-Aid on a broken leg,"
said Christina DeConcini, director of policy at the National Immigration Forum.
With the estimated number of illegal immigrants in the United States at nearly
12 million and growing, the nation cannot enforce its way out of the problem,
DeConcini said.

Bush and Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff propose to reduce the flow
of illegal immigration by creating a guest-worker program and a path for
undocumented workers to earn citizenship. They would toughen enforcement at the
borders and inside the country through new surveillance technology and
crackdowns on employers.

They have proposed $858 million more for 1,500 new Border Patrol agents  --
which would bring the total to 14,000, a 62 percent increase since 2001  --  and
6,700 new detention beds, for a total of 27,500.

In September, Chertoff expanded the use of a process known as "expedited
removal" to the full southern border, with a goal of applying it to all
non-Mexican illegal immigrants this year. Using power granted by Congress in
1996, the department can deport recently arrived non-Mexicans caught within 100
miles of the border without hearings, unless they seek asylum or cite a fear of
persecution.

The American Bar Association strongly opposes expedited removal, arguing that it
deprives immigrants of due process. The U.S. Commission on International
Religious Freedom warned that it also jeopardizes asylum seekers.

U.S. officials want to lower the average detention from 90 days to as few as 15,
the time needed to arrange travel documents and home country clearances. If they
can accomplish that, the government could remove six times as many people with
the same number of beds, said John P. Torres, acting chief of the ICE Office of
Detention and Removal.

Results so far are mixed. After seven months, apprehensions of non-Mexicans are
down 9 percent from the same period last year. About 55,000 people, 74 percent,
are still being set free. But the United States completed expedited removal of
19,324 non-Mexicans, more than the 18,730 it removed all of last year.

"The gap is closing," Chertoff said. "The word on the street used to be, if you
were a non-Mexican and you were caught, you would be released and then you were
home free. . . . If you are caught at the border, you are going to be detained,
and you are going to be detained till you get sent back home."

Former Customs and Border Protection chief Bonner said "100 percent 'Catch,
Detain and Remove' will deter the flow of OTMs and actually reduce the amount of
detention bed space needed. . . . I guarantee it."

But T.J. Bonner of the National Border Patrol Council called Chertoff's optimism
"a false promise," saying that the problem is "as persistent as ever." Bed space
is still scarce, immigrants evade officers instead of turning themselves in as
they did last year, and those who are caught try to exploit loopholes.

"The sense of the rank and file is, it's smoke and mirrors," said Bonner,
president of the agents' union. He is not related to the former Customs and
Border Protection official.

Legal and diplomatic hurdles remain. The Homeland Security Department is
scrambling to set up a 500-bed detention facility capable of housing entire
families, for example, and wants a 1988 court injunction lifted that exempts El
Salvadorans from expedited removal. The United States also wants China, for
example, to take back 40,000 nationals, beginning with 675 who are in detention.

Federal judges also blame a 2002 decision by then-U.S. Attorney General John D.
Ashcroft to "streamline" deportation proceedings, which sparked a huge increase
in appeals and an unexpected backlog in federal appeals courts. Deportation
appeals grew from a 3.2 percent share of appellate cases in 2000 to 18 percent
in 2005.

Some factors are beyond immediate U.S. control. Part of the crisis began in
February 2004 when Mexico allowed Brazilians to enter that country without a
visa. Smugglers exploited the pipeline until Mexico reversed course in October.
Now, smugglers advise illegal immigrants to travel with children or say they are
from El Salvador, U.S. officials say.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               3 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 25, 2006 Thursday 10:00 AM EST

Immigration Reform Proposals

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 925 words



HIGHLIGHT: The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have passed competing
immigration reform bills. The two sides are expected to meet in conference
committee in an attempt to hammer out a compromise bill.  The Senate bill's
guest worker and "path to citizenship" programs are expected to be points of
contention. The House bill includes no such provisions.


The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have passed competing immigration
reform bills. The two sides are expected to meet in conference committee in an
attempt to hammer out a compromise bill.  The Senate bill's guest worker and
"path to citizenship" programs are expected to be points of contention. The
House bill includes no such provisions.

* The House: The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation last December
that has drawn widespread protests from immigrants and immigrant rights
advocates. It focuses on border security and enforcement. It makes undocumented
presence in the country a felony and calls for construction of a fence along
parts of the U.S. border with Mexico. It also would require employers to check
the status of employees. It includes no temporary worker or guest worker program
favored by Bush.

Highlights of the House bill:

* No provisions providing path to legal residency or citizenship for illegal
immigrants. No new temporary guest worker program.

* Makes illegal presence in the country a felony and increases penalties for
first-time illegal entry to the U.S.

* Makes it a felony to assist, encourage, direct or induce a person to enter or
attempt to enter or remain in the United States illegally.

* Beginning in six years, all employers would have to use a database to verify
Social Security numbers of all employees.

* Increases maximum fines for employers of illegal workers from current $10,000
to $40,000 per violation and establishes prison sentences of up to 30 years for
repeat offenders.

* Requires mandatory detention for all non-Mexican illegal immigrants arrested
at ports of entry or at land and sea borders.

* Establishes mandatory sentences for smuggling illegal immigrants and for
re-entering the U.S. illegally after deportation.

* Makes a drunken driving conviction a deportable offense.

* Requires building two-layer fences along 700 miles of the 2,000-mile border
between Mexico and the United States.

Roll call vote and bill analysis

* The Senate: On May 25 the Senate passed a bill with provisions that are
supported by President Bush, most Democrats, and moderate Republicans.

The bill calls for a 370-mile fence along the Mexican border, 6,000 National
Guard troops to support border agents, aerial surveillance, road construction to
aid border patrols, and other border security measures.  It would also establish
a guest-worker program and a three-tiered "path to citizenship" plan for most of
the estimated 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants in the country.

Senate bill highlights:

* Allows illegal immigrants who have been in the country five years or more to
remain, continue working and eventually become legal permanent residents and
citizens after paying at least $3,250 in fines and fees and back taxes and
learning English.

* Requires illegal immigrants in the U.S. between two and five years to go to a
point of entry at the border and file an application to return.

* Requires those in the country less than two years to leave.

* Orders deportation of illegal immigrants convicted of a felony or three
misdemeanors no matter how long they have been in the U.S.

* Creates a special guest worker program for an estimated 1.5 million immigrant
farm workers, who could also earn legal permanent residency.

* Provides 200,000 new temporary "guest worker" visas a year.

* Caps employment-based green cards, conferring legal permanent residency, at
650,000 a year for the worker and family. Currently 140,000 are available for
the worker and family members are not counted against the cap.

* Authorizes 370 miles of new triple-layered fencing plus 500 miles of vehicle
barriers along the U.S.-Mexico border.

* Authorizes hiring an additional 1,000 Border Patrol agents this year, for a
total additional 3,000 agents this year.

* Adds 14,000 Border Patrol agents by 2011 to the current force of 11,300
agents.

* Authorizes additional detention facilities for apprehended illegal immigrants.

* Requires employers and subcontractors to use an electronic system within 18
months to verify new hires are legal. Increases maximum fines to employers for
hiring illegal workers to $20,000 for each worker and imposes jail time for
repeat offenders.

* Delays by 17 months, until June 1, 2009, a requirement that Americans
re-entering the U.S. after cruises or short visits to Canada and Mexico show a
passport or high-tech identification card.

* Declares English the country's national language.

* Increases the number of H1-B visas for skilled workers from 65,000 to 115,000
annually, beginning in 2007. Immigrants with certain advanced degrees would not
be subject to the caps, which could rise by 20 percent depending on labor market
demands.

* Limits National Guard tours of duty on the U.S.-Mexico border to 21 days.

* Allows additional countries to participate in the visa waiver program, which
allows citizens of certain countries to visit the U.S. without a visa. The
United States and more than two dozen countries now have reciprocal visa waiver
agreements.

Roll call vote and bill analysis

* The president: President Bush's proposal for a temporary worker program has
put him at odds with many in his own Republican Party. Bush insists it is a
legal way to fill the jobs that Americans are unwilling to do, a position
supported by business. Labor groups are wary of a guest worker program that does
not provide a path to permanent residence saying it would create an underclass
of workers. The president also proposed sending 6,000 National Guard troops to
border states to aid in law enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 15, 2006 Friday 12:00 AM EST

Enacting Immigration Reform, Again

BYLINE: Romano L. MazzoliÂ and Â Alan K. Simpson, Special to washingtonpost.com,
washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 880 words



HIGHLIGHT: The 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act - IRCA, or the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill - is referred to frequently in today's high-decibel
immigration debates - and rarely affectionately. As co-authors of that
legislation, we think honest perspective is in order.


The 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act - IRCA, or the Simpson-Mazzoli bill
- is referred to frequently in today's high-decibel immigration debates - and
rarely affectionately. As co-authors of that legislation, we think honest
perspective is in order.

Today's tough issues are the same as when we chaired our respective immigration
subcommittees: controlling illegal entry, the question of what to do with
existing undocumented, illegal immigrants, and guest worker programs.

Our effort to craft responsible reform legislation was assisted by the
well-documented recommendations of the bipartisan Commission on Immigration
Reform, under the capable chairmanship of the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, then
President of Notre Dame University.

We knew that enacting an immigration reform law would require a bipartisan
effort. We were Democratic and Republican - a good start. We held unprecedented
joint House-Senate hearings - not just in Washington but all over the country.
We heard from all sides and points of view.

We quickly realized that if immigration reform was to work and be fair it had to
be a "three-legged stool." If one leg failed, so would the entire bill.

"Leg one" was improved security against illegal crossings at the border with
Mexico, using the best available technology and additional, better-trained
personnel. For the first time in U. S. history, we imposed penalties on
employers who knowingly hired undocumented workers.

"Leg two" was the H-2A temporary worker program for agricultural workers,
designed to ensure wage and workplace protections, and not to be another
exploitative "bracero" program.

"Leg three" was what we called "legalization." We would allow some, but not all,
undocumented aliens then living and working here to regularize their unlawful
status and begin the long process to earn temporary residency and, eventually,
if they chose to continue, to earn permanent residency and citizenship.

Since illegal immigration continues nearly unabated today, legitimate questions
can be raised about the effectiveness of IRCA. Although we do have pride of
authorship, we also believe that the shortcomings of the act are not due to
design failure but rather to the failure of both Democratic and Republican
administrations since 1986 to execute the law properly.

Not surprisingly, 20 years after the enactment of Simpson-Mazzoli, the Senate
has passed an immigration reform bill composed of three main elements that are
modified versions of the three legs of our bill: border security and workplace
enforcement, a temporary worker program and legalization.

Would the Senate, knowing IRCA's track record, have settled upon our basic
framework for its 2006 bill if IRCA was fatally flawed? We doubt it. From 1981,
when our bill was introduced, to 1986, when it became law, we were aided by the
expertise of hundreds of policy experts, scholars and advocates. Our
comprehensive bill was crafted to curtail illegal immigration, to provide
personnel for labor-scarce markets and to give the most worthy of our illegal
population a chance to earn legal status.

The foundation of IRCA was enforcement and border security, but to work, it
required consistent funding: for agents to investigate workplace violations, for
prosecution of employers who broke the law, for more Border Patrol agents, and
for installing the latest in high-tech monitoring and surveillance equipment. We
saw the need for funding to develop a simple, reliable and tamper-proof system,
a "more secure identifier," using cards or biometrics. Opponents from the right
and the left savaged it as "a National ID," although it was not something that
had to be carried on one-s person but was to be presented only at the time of
"new hire" employment or when applying for government benefits.

After two decades, the system is still not in place. Unfortunately, what is in
place is the use of several different identifiers, which were meant to be
temporary, and a flourishing underground economy engaged in creating fraudulent
documents for illegal immigrants.

All administrations since 1986 have allocated funding and personnel resources
more generously to the task of securing the border than to enforcing IRCA in the
workplace. Why? One answer is that there are never enough federal budget
resources. Another is that administrations of both stripes are loathe to disrupt
economic activities - i.e. labor supply in factories, farms and businesses. And
we know that disruptions in the labor supply are the natural, unavoidable and
even desirable consequence of strong border and workplace enforcement.

We believe that our three-legged-stool approach is still relevant and workable
if carried out vigorously. We commend the Senate, which, in a worthy bipartisan
effort, adopted such a framework this spring. The House bill is basically a
tough "enforcement-only" measure.

We earnestly hope that before this Congress adjourns, the House and Senate will
compromise, wring out the raw partisanship, and find a way to send President
Bush - who has staked so much on enactment of solid immigration reform - a
measure structured along the lines of our original bill. There is still time.

Romano L. Mazzoli was a Democratic representative from Kentucky. Alan K. Simpson
was a Republican senator from Wyoming.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Congress Resumes Immigration Efforts

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1058 words


The House and the Senate moved yesterday toward a piecemeal crackdown on illegal
immigration, pushing forward separate bills to require photo identification to
vote, build vast fences on the U.S.-Mexico border and speed the deportation of
undocumented workers. The measures would take the place of President Bush's far
broader rewrite of the nation's immigration laws.

Voting almost completely along party lines, the House voted 228 to 196 for a
bill that would require all who register to vote in federal elections to show
photo identification that proves they are U.S. citizens. The Senate, meanwhile,
voted 94 to 0 to take up a measure passed by the House last week to build 700
miles of double-layered fencing on the U.S.-Mexico border, with a final vote to
come as early as Monday.

Today, the House will take up bills to speed the deportation of undocumented
workers, ratchet up penalties for immigrant gang members and human smugglers,
end an exemption for Salvadoran illegal immigrants from rapid deportation,
criminalize tunneling under the border, and overtly deputize state and local
police officers to enforce federal immigration laws.

In an interview on CNN, President Bush said he would sign the measures, even
though they do not embrace a more comprehensive approach  --  including a
guest-worker program  --  that he has backed.

"Yes, I'll sign it into law," Bush said. "I would view this as an interim step.
I don't view this as a final product."

Passage of the measures would permit leaders of the Republican-controlled
Congress to claim they have taken steps to deal with the flood of illegal
immigrants. It is an issue that has rent the party, spawned huge demonstrations
in many cities last spring, and called into question the Republicans' ability to
face tough issues. GOP leaders also believe that the hardening of legislative
lines on illegal immigration and border security will bolster the party's
conservative political support ahead of the midterm elections.

"Border security is national security," declared House Rules Committee Chairman
David Dreier (R-Calif.), with House GOP leaders by his side. "We're going to try
our doggonedest to enact as many of these bills as we can."

With little more than a week left before the Sept. 29 start of Congress's
scheduled recess, GOP leaders are considering appending some or all of the bills
to must-pass spending measures before they leave town. But Senate Appropriations
Committee Chairman Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) appeared to close off that avenue last
night, saying he will not add any legislative language onto the spending bills
that could slow their progress in the final days before the coming recess.

The sudden rush of activity startled immigrant and civil rights groups, which
had largely thought a legislative response on immigration was dead for the year.
The National Immigration Law Center sent out an "urgent" notice to allies to
prod them into action, noting: "In recent days, there has been a serious
deterioration of the position of pro-immigrant forces in Congress."

The lawmakers' embrace of a piecemeal approach came as members of a private task
force on immigration reiterated their belief that a comprehensive solution is
necessary to solve the nation's immigration problems. The task force's plan
includes strong border enforcement and a program that allows undocumented
workers currently in the country to remain by paying a stiff fine.

But it also proposes that the president and Congress establish two federal
organizations that would regulate the flow of immigrants and help them
assimilate into society. Former congressman Lee H. Hamilton (D-Ind.), who
co-chaired the Migration Policy Institute task force with former senator Spencer
Abraham (R-Mich.), said the House's approach is draconian to  immigrants, while
a Senate bill approved in May is too complex.

Most of the provisions in the bills the lawmakers are now considering were
plucked from the House's border security and anti-illegal-immigration bill that
passed in December, then sparked protests this spring that brought millions of
immigrants into the streets. But Republicans believe the politics of the
immigration issue have shifted in favor of their get-tough approach. Even some
Republicans who have backed Bush's approach, such as Rep. John Shadegg
(R-Ariz.), said yesterday that the shift among voters in favor of "enforcement
first" is palpable.

"While I've made it clear that I prefer a comprehensive solution, I have always
said we need an enforcement-first approach to immigration reform," said Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), who surprised many immigration rights
activists when he took up the House border-fencing bill.

Cecilia Muñoz, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, warned that
Republicans "are politically playing with fire" with Latino voters, who gave 40
percent of their vote to Bush in 2004.

The rhetoric in the House yesterday was particularly heated, with a stream of
African American and Latino Democrats taking to the floor to denounce a voter ID
bill that they called a "modern-day poll tax" designed to disenfranchise
minority, elderly and disabled voters who lean Democratic.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) called the bill "a tawdry attempt
by Republicans to suppress the votes of millions of Americans."

Rep. Vernon Ehlers (R-Mich.), a soft-spoken moderate who helped craft the
legislation, angrily called the charges nonsense, saying the bill authorizes
funds to help state and local governments cover the costs of helping the poor
obtain identification cards.

Under the bill, all states would be required to check photo identification by
the November 2008 elections. By the 2010 elections, states could accept only
identification that shows proof of citizenship, a passport or a new federal
"Real ID" card authorized by Congress but not yet implemented.

The bill coming before the Senate would authorize the construction, on the
southern border, of 700 miles of double-layered fencing  --  at an estimated
cost of at least $3 million a mile  --  and a "virtual fence" of cameras,
sensors and unmanned aerial vehicles. That is nearly double the size of the
fence approved by the Senate in May as part of its comprehensive immigration
bill.

Staff writer Darryl Fears contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               6 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

After the Walkout;
Absent comprehensive immigration reform, scattered enforcement won't mean much.

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 447 words


THE FIRST WAVE of immigration reform protests was spontaneous: First in Los
Angeles, then across the country, undocumented workers and their documented
cousins took to the streets at the urging of Spanish-language radio stations.
The current wave, including today's planned walkout, is less spontaneous, better
organized  --  and more controversial. Not all immigrant workers, legal or
illegal, want to risk their jobs by walking out for the day. Not all like the
choice of May Day, picked for obvious political reasons by some of the
organizers. Not all want to sing the national anthem in Spanish.

If immigrant workers are divided on tactics, it appears the administration is as
well. On the one hand, there has been a lot of talk about "enforcement."
Recently, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff announced the arrest of
1,200 undocumented immigrants and seven current and former managers at 40 sites
of a Dutch-owned, Houston-based crate and pallet manufacturing company that had
allegedly provided illegal workers with housing, transportation and even false
identity documents. The case provided definitive proof that the most important
flaw in U.S. immigration law is not its lack of severity. Current law has long
given federal authorities plenty of scope for enforcement. Although this case
was flagged as a political gesture to the anti-immigration wing of the
Republican Party, the arrests were in fact the result of a year-long
investigation.

But immigration reform must mean more than enforcement, as the administration at
other times seems to understand. Reform must also include more legal ways for
unskilled workers to cross the border and a reasonable path to legality for the
people who are here.  Ideally, it would also include investments in Mexico's
economy to reduce the gap between the two countries.

In remarks last week, President Bush came close to arguing for some of these
principles. He did not, however, do so in a way that gives much confidence. He
spoke of one Senate immigration proposal as "an interesting concept that people
need to think through" and talked about the question of the 12 million
undocumented workers as "one of the really important questions Congress is going
to have to deal with."

It's too late to be using such vague language. To make this legislation happen
--  this spring  --  the president will have to use whatever clout he still has
and work for a comprehensive immigration reform containing specific proposals
that address all of these issues. In some of his private discussions with
senators, he has been making the right case.  He should also do so when speaking
publicly to Americans, present and future.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               7 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Sending National Guard to Border

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 333 words


President Bush said he will send 6,000 National Guard troops starting next month
to help secure the porous U.S.-Mexican border, calling on a divided Congress and
country to find "a rational middle ground" on immigration that includes
providing millions of illegal workers a new route to citizenship.

In a  prime-time speech, Bush said the nation must move immediately to stanch
the flow of illegal immigrants across its southern border by sending in the
National Guard to free up U.S. Border Patrol agents in Arizona, California, New
Mexico and Texas. The  troops will provide intelligence, surveillance and
logistical assistance over the next two years.

Bush also endorsed new procedures that would give illegal immigrants who have
lived here for an extended time preferred status in obtaining citizenship. To
qualify, workers would have to pay a fine and back taxes, and would have to
learn English and meet other requirements, he said.

The president's focus on border control was aimed at mollifying conservative
Republican lawmakers and disgruntled voters who have accused him of paying
insufficient attention to tightening the border and enforcing immigration laws.
Bush said his goal is to help lawmakers forge a bipartisan compromise this year
to change how the United States deals with illegal immigration and the pressing
need for foreign workers.

A fragile Senate coalition backing a broad restructuring of the nation's
immigration laws last week survived legislative tests, preserving provisions to
grant millions of illegal immigrants a path to citizenship and hundreds of
thousands of foreigners a new guest-worker permit. But the overhaul of the
legislation took a conservative turn, with the Senate voting to build a 370-mile
fence along the U.S.-Mexican  border and restrict the federal services that
non-English speakers can receive.

Bush's efforts to win House conservatives to his immigration proposals still
faced an uphill climb.

--  Jim VandeHei

and Jonathan Weisman

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               8 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Approves Immigration Bill;
Measure Faces Tough House Opposition

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1115 words


The Senate yesterday approved legislation that would trigger the biggest changes
to U.S. immigration policy in decades, by strengthening border security,
establishing a guest-worker program, and providing the means for millions of
illegal immigrants to stay in the country and possibly become citizens.

The product of a tenuous bipartisan coalition that faced tough conservative
opposition, the measure calls for 370 miles of triple-layer fencing along the
Mexican border, a complicated three-tiered system for determining who can stay
and who must leave the country, and more jail cells for those awaiting
deportation. It would declare English the country's national language, a gesture
that many advocates found insulting but accepted in hopes of helping millions of
undocumented workers achieve legal status.

But even as the Senate approved the bill 62 to 36, the measure's backers
acknowledged that it faces formidable opposition in the House, whose political
dynamics differ markedly from the Senate's. Numerous House members insist that
Congress do nothing about legalizing immigrants until illegal border crossings
are dramatically reduced.

Democrats and Republicans alike said a House-Senate accord will be nearly
impossible without the vigorous involvement of President Bush, who favors an
approach similar to the Senate's. The White House has already begun lobbying
efforts, but it faces resistance from more than 200 House Republicans seeking
reelection this fall, many in districts where the sentiment against illegal
immigrants runs high.

"This is the most far-reaching immigration reform in our history," Sen. Edward
M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), a leader of the Senate effort, said of the bill's passage.
"It is a comprehensive and realistic attempt to solve the real-world problems
that have festered for too long in our broken immigration system."

Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), Kennedy's partner in the effort, said more than 11
million illegal immigrants "harvest our crops, tend our gardens, work in our
restaurants and clean our houses," and added: "Some Americans believe we must
find all these millions, round them up and send them back to the countries they
came from. I don't know how you do that. And I don't know why you would want
to."

But opponents called the bill fundamentally flawed and predicted that it will be
completely rewritten by a House-Senate conference committee, which will try next
month to craft a compromise version acceptable to both chambers.

Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) called the measure "a bad bill" that "puts more
emphasis on amnesty than on border security."

The House in December passed a bill that dealt only with border and workplace
enforcement. It would make illegal presence in the country a felony.

After mass demonstrations by immigrants in several cities and complaints by
Roman Catholic officials  --  plus Bush's recent televised speech calling for a
comprehensive approach that would include pathways to legal status for
undocumented immigrants  --  House GOP leaders signaled a willingness to modify
their bill. But they said the Senate bill goes too far and would amount to
"amnesty," a term that many dispute, for millions of foreigners who broke the
law and jumped ahead of would-be immigrants waiting for legal entry.

A possible compromise, some lawmakers said, might start with tighter border
security and then  --  if there is measurable evidence the crackdown is working
--  proceed to a mechanism for some illegal immigrants to achieve legal status.
But lawmakers said it is far from clear whether such a plan would appeal to
enough House Republicans, and enough Senate Democrats, to win passage in either
chamber.

Further complicating matters is Speaker J. Dennis Hastert's policy of allowing
votes on major issues only if most of the House's 231 Republicans back them.
Theoretically, a compromise immigration bill could be supported by most of the
House's Democrats and nearly half of its Republicans  --  making up a clear
majority in the 435-seat chamber  --  only to be thwarted by Hastert's dictum.

If the Senate had embraced the same policy, the bill would have died.
Twenty-three Republicans, 38 Democrats and one independent voted for the
immigration bill; 32 Republicans and four Democrats voted against it. Sens.
Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.) and John W. Warner (R-Va.)
voted for the bill. Sen. George Allen (R-Va.) voted against it.

The Senate bill calls for 1,000 new Border Patrol agents and thousands of
National Guard troops to support them, plus 500 miles of vehicle barriers on the
Mexican border. Several such provisions, added during two weeks of debate, were
designed to appease Senate conservatives who threatened to kill the entire bill.
But senators repeatedly rejected conservatives' bids to strip or weaken the
provisions allowing legal status for undocumented immigrants.

The Senate bill would provide 200,000 new temporary guest-worker visas a year,
while creating a separate guest-worker program for immigrant farm laborers. Its
key compromise would divide the nation's estimated 11 million to 12 million
illegal immigrants into three groups.

Those here five years or longer would be allowed to stay and apply for
citizenship, provided they pay back taxes, learn English and have no serious
criminal records. Those here two to five years would eventually have to return
to another country and apply for a green card, which could allow their immediate
return. The roughly 2 million immigrants who have been in the United States
illegally for less than two years would be ordered home and be subject to
deportation. Illegal immigrants convicted of a felony or three misdemeanors
would be deported no matter how long they have been in the United States.

Critics on the left and right call the bill  --  and especially its three-tiered
formulation  --  unworkable. The notion of apprehending and deporting 2 million
illegal immigrants who have been in the United States less than two years defies
logic, some say. They add that the task would be six times as great under the
House proposal to empty the nation of all illegal immigrants.

Immigrants who have lived largely underground for more than five years might
have trouble proving their length of stay, advocacy groups say, while those who
arrived less than five years ago might try to convince officials that they have
been here longer. The bill would obligate immigrants to prove their length of
residency, and fraudulent claims would be a crime.

Those claiming five years of residency or more would have to prove they were
employed for at least three years to qualify for a citizenship application.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               9 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 2, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

'Unscrupulous' Firms Are Faulted;
Bush Seeks Bigger Fines for Illegal Hiring

BYLINE: Peter Baker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 636 words


President Bush told the nation's most prominent business group yesterday that
"unscrupulous" employers have contributed to the illegal immigration crisis in
the United States by knowingly hiring undocumented workers, and called for steep
new penalties on those exploiting the shadow economy.

As part of his emerging public campaign for the immigration legislation pending
in Congress, Bush visited the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to emphasize his focus on
enforcement and to combat the conservative complaint that his immigration
proposals add up to amnesty for millions of foreigners violating U.S.
immigration law.

"Businesses that knowingly employ illegal workers undermine this law and
undermine the spirit of America," the president said during a speech against a
backdrop of U.S. flags, images of the Statue of Liberty and the slogan
"Comprehensive Immigration Reform." "And we're not going to tolerate it in this
country." Although most businesses abide by the law, he said, "there are some
unscrupulous folks who want to take advantage of low-cost labor."

Bush's speech came hours before his administration reached an agreement with
California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to send the California National Guard to
the Mexican border. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, has criticized Bush's plan to
dispatch 6,000 National Guard troops to the Mexican line to bolster overwhelmed
Border Patrol agents, but he agreed yesterday to contribute 1,000 troops as long
as the federal government picks up the full cost.

The president has tried to straddle a difficult political divide in the fight
over immigration. For years, he has been promoting a guest-worker program that
would allow millions of illegal immigrants already in the country to stay
temporarily under certain conditions. He has also embraced a Senate plan that
would offer a path to citizenship for many illegal immigrants if they have been
here for years, pay back taxes, pay a penalty, learn English and maintain a
crime-free record.

At the same time, under withering criticism from within his own party, Bush has
lately offered tough rhetoric and the National Guard plan to demonstrate his
commitment to enforcing the law and to stop new waves of illegal immigrants from
crossing the border. The Guard troops would stay until the government can hire
an additional 6,000 Border Patrol agents. The House has passed legislation that
focuses almost exclusively on enforcement and has resisted the Senate bill.

Bush used the occasion yesterday to press both sides in Congress to come up with
a deal. He suggested that he is willing to concede some of what he wants. "The
House and Senate bills will require effort and compromise on both sides," he
said. "It's a difficult task. Yet the difficulty of this task is no excuse for
avoiding it."

The chamber was an important setting for that message because corporate America
has been among the leading forces backing Bush's guest-worker plan and the
Senate approach, seeing the estimated 11 million to 12 million illegal
immigrants as a vital part of the U.S. economy.

Bush noted that the government is working to make it easier for businesses to
check the status of would-be workers. He said both House and Senate bills would
require employers to use a new online verification system called Basic Pilot.
But he said the penalties for violating the law are too light, noting that a
business that fails to check an employee's identification faces a fine as low as
$100, and that one that knowingly hires an illegal immigrant faces a fine as low
as $250.

"You might as well pay a speeding ticket," Bush said. He added: "We got to
increase the penalties. If we want to be smart about work site enforcement, we
got to say to somebody who's breaking the law, there's going to be a cost, and
it's more than $250."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              10 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 19, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Hiring Is Rarely Penalized;
Politics, 9/11 Cited in Lax Enforcement

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Kari Lydersen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1603 words


The Bush administration, which is vowing to crack down on U.S. companies that
hire illegal workers, virtually abandoned such employer sanctions before it
began pushing to overhaul U.S. immigration laws last year, government statistics
show.

Between 1999 and 2003, work-site enforcement operations were scaled back 95
percent by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which subsequently was
merged into the Homeland Security Department. The number of employers prosecuted
for unlawfully employing immigrants dropped from 182 in 1999 to four in 2003,
and fines collected declined from $3.6 million to $212,000, according to federal
statistics.

In 1999, the United States initiated fines against 417 companies. In 2004, it
issued fine notices to three.

The government's steady retreat from workplace enforcement in the 20 years since
it became illegal to hire undocumented workers is the result of fierce political
pressure from business lobbies, immigrant rights groups and members of Congress,
according to law enforcement veterans. Punishing employers also was
de-emphasized as the government recognized that it lacks the tools to do the job
well, and as the Department of Homeland Security shifted resources to combat
terrorism.

The administration says it is learning from past failures, and switching to a
strategy of building more criminal cases, instead of relying on ineffective
administrative fines or  pinprick raids against individual businesses by
outnumbered agents.

It is seeking more resources to sanction employers, toughen penalties and
finally set up a reliable system  --  first proposed in 1981  --  to verify the
eligibility of workers. That would allow the government to hold employers
accountable for knowingly hiring illegal immigrants.

The Homeland Security Department also is seeking access to Social Security
Administration records of workers whose numbers and names don't match  --
access that has long been blocked by privacy concerns.

Still, in light of the government's record, experts on all sides of the debate
are skeptical that the administration will be able to remove the job magnet that
attracts illegal immigrants.

"The claims of this administration and its commitment to interior enforcement of
immigration laws are laughable," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, an advocacy group that favors tougher workplace
enforcement, among other measures. "The administration only discovered
immigration enforcement over the past few months, five years into its existence,
and only then because they realized that a pro-enforcement pose was necessary to
get their amnesty plan approved."

Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, which supports
immigrant rights, agreed that enforcement has been "woefully tiny."

"Why should the public believe it, because the government hasn't done it
before?" Kelley asked.

In recent months, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which succeeded the
INS, has dramatically stepped up enforcement efforts. It won 127 criminal
convictions last year, up from 46 in 2004, and obtained $15 million in
settlements from an investigation of Wal-Mart and 12 subcontractors last fall, a
spokesman said. Comparable figures before 2003 were not tracked, the agency
said.

In the past few months, ICE has led several high-profile actions: against a
Houston-based pallet-services company, Maryland restaurateurs and Kentucky
homebuilders, among others. The activity marks a pronounced shift in emphasis,
after increasing bipartisan criticism.

However, experts say the linchpin of comprehensive new enforcement plans  --
developing an electronic employment-eligibility verification system to replace
the paper I-9 forms used for two decades  --  is years from being ready.
Meanwhile, a cottage industry of document fraud and identity theft will
continue, they say.

While most of the government's get-tough rhetoric has focused on people
illegally crossing the border, others noted, about 40 percent of the nearly 12
million illegal immigrants living in the United States entered the country
legally on visas and simply stayed. That means they probably can be caught only
at work.

Major work-site crackdowns have run into trouble in the past. A spring 1998
sweep that targeted the Vidalia onion harvest in Georgia, and Operation
Vanguard, a 1999 clampdown on meatpacking plants in Nebraska, Iowa and South
Dakota, provide case studies of how the government fared when confronted by a
coalition that included low-wage immigrant workers and the industries that hire
them, analysts said.

The Georgia raids netted 4,034 illegal immigrants, prompting other unauthorized
workers to stay home. As the $90 million onion crop sat in the field, farmers
"started screaming to their local representatives," said Bart Szafnicki, INS
assistant district director for investigations in Atlanta from 1991 to 2001.

Georgia's two senators and three of its House members, led by then-Sen. Paul
Coverdell (R) and Rep. Jack Kingston (R), complained in a letter to Washington
that the INS did not understand the needs of America's farmers. The raids
stopped.

For Operation Vanguard, the INS used a more sophisticated tactic. It subpoenaed
personnel records from Midwestern meatpacking plants and checked them against
INS and Social Security databases of authorized workers, then interviewed
suspect employees. Of 24,148 employees checked, 4,495, or 19 percent, had
dubious documents at about 40 plants in Nebraska, western Iowa and South Dakota.
Of those workers, 70 percent disappeared rather than be interviewed. Of 1,042
questioned, 34 were arrested and deported.

Nebraska's members of Congress at first called for tougher enforcement, recalled
Mark Reed, then INS director of operations. But when the result shut down some
plants, "all hell broke loose," he said.

Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns (R), who was governor at the time,
appointed a task force to oppose the operation. Former governor Ben Nelson (D),
now a U.S.  senator, was hired as a lobbyist by meatpackers and ranchers. Sen.
Chuck Hagel (R) pressured the Justice Department to stop.

Members of Congress at first hostile to immigrants embraced "all the same people
who were so repugnant to them before," Reed said, "and they prevailed."
Operation Vanguard  --  which was designed to expand to four states in four
months and nationwide the next year, eventually including the lodging, food and
construction industries  --  was killed.

Congress "came to recognize that these people . . . had become a very important
part of their community, churches, schools, sports, barbecues, families  --  and
most importantly the economy," Reed said. "You've got to be careful what you ask
for."

The mention of Operation Vanguard provokes strong reactions in Omaha, where
people say a similar effort today would still cause trouble.

Henry Davis, chief executive of Greater Omaha Packing Company and a
third-generation meatpacker, fumes that the INS singled out Nebraska's beef
industry. Davis said there is a symbiosis between his company and its workers.
His business, which slaughters 2,400 cattle a day, offers free English and
citizenship classes, paid vacations, health fairs and citizenship ceremonies to
workers, he said.

Lourdes Gouveia, a sociologist at the University of Nebraska at Omaha who has
studied the meatpacking industry for two decades, said Operation Vanguard's
lessons have gone unlearned. Rather than leave the country after the crackdown,
workers just changed jobs.

Meatpackers "need workers, and white Americans are not going to apply for these
jobs," said Ben Salazar, a longtime activist and publisher of the  newspaper
Nuestro Mundo. "Immigrants know they're needed, so they will take their
chances."

In an interview, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff acknowledged the
administration's record but said a combination of carrots and sticks for
business can work.

"It would be hard to sustain political support for vigorous work-site
enforcement if you don't give employers an avenue to hire their workers in a way
that is legal, because you're basically saying, 'You've got to go out of
business,' " Chertoff said.

On the other hand, he said, "businesses need to understand if you don't . . .
play by the rules, we're really going to come down on you. . . . That's a very
powerful place to stand in resisting people who are going to push back."

Company officials who knowingly employ illegal workers can be fined and, if they
continue, face jail time. Housing or harboring illegal workers or laundering
money can carry long prison sentences. But the easy availability of fraudulent
documents frustrates investigators, as does a law that protects businesses as
long as a worker's document "appears on its face to be genuine."

Statistics show that the numbers of fines and convictions dropped sharply after
1999, with fines all but phased out except for occasional small cases. After the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, a 2003 memorandum issued by ICE required field offices
to request approval before opening work-site cases not related to protecting
"critical infrastructure," such as nuclear plants. Agents focused on removing
unauthorized workers, not punishing employers.

ICE also faced a $500 million budget shortfall, and resources were shifted from
traditional enforcement to investigations related to national security. Farms,
restaurants and the nation's food supply chain "did not make the cut," Reed
said. "We were pushed away from doing enforcement."

Lydersen reported from Omaha.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              11 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

At Front Line of Immigration Debate;
Ariz. Governor Favors Tough Enforcement But Humane Treatment

BYLINE: John Pomfret, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1175 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Two decades ago, lawyer Janet Napolitano represented a Tucson church battling an
investigation into whether it smuggled illegal immigrants into the United States
from Central America. In 1990, a federal appeals court ruled that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service could not send undercover informants into
the Southside Presbyterian Church services on mere fishing expeditions to try to
gather intelligence.

Over the next 20 years, Napolitano served as U.S. attorney for Arizona, as the
state's attorney general and, since 2002, as governor. Now Napolitano's old
clients view her as a defector, in the words of John Fife, the former pastor of
Southside Presbyterian, who led what was called the sanctuary movement for
illegal immigrants.

Among the nation's top Democrats, Napolitano has developed some of the toughest
policies against illegal immigration. She was one of the first major politicians
to call for the deployment of the National Guard along the border and declared a
state of emergency in her state's counties nearest Mexico. She has aggressively
pursued smugglers in Arizona. In February, she joined with Utah Gov. Jon
Huntsman Jr. (R) to outline a plan for immigration reform that called for more
funding for border security, more visas for foreign workers and no blanket
amnesty for illegal immigrants.

Her Republican critics here, however, say she has not gone nearly far enough and
has routinely blocked legislative efforts against illegal immigration.

Napolitano's transformation from crusading lawyer to a tough-minded governor is
reflective of the political reality of Arizona, which, more than any other
state, has become the battleground for what the nation should do about illegal
immigration. And her too-tough for some, not-tough-enough for others stance
reflects the political difficulties the issue presents here.

In Arizona's congressional delegation, conservative Republican J.D. Hayworth of
Scottsdale wants to place troops on the Mexican border, while liberal Democrat
Raul M. Grijalva of Tucson favors granting citizenship to many illegal
immigrants. In Maricopa County around Phoenix, the sheriff has begun arresting
suspected illegal immigrants on smuggling charges, while to the south in Pima
County, the school superintendent is defying a state order to reveal how many
children of illegal immigrants are in the school district.

"We've got all kinds here," said Robin Hoover, head of Humane Borders, a
Tucson-based interfaith organization devoted to stopping deaths among illegal
immigrants as they cross the desert. "We've got people who all say they want to
save America  --  and they're fighting like cats and dogs."

At the center of the debate is Napolitano, a native New Yorker raised in
Albuquerque, who is running for reelection. Despite being a Democrat in a state
where the legislature is controlled by Republicans, she boasts an approval
rating of 60 percent. Napolitano was on Sen. John F. Kerry's list of possible
running mates in 2004, and, in 2005, Time magazine named her one of the nation's
five best governors.

"My challenge is to devise a policy that makes Arizonans confident that some
things are being done," Napolitano said, "without going overboard and just
throwing money at the problem to make it look like I'm 'tough,' whatever that
means."

Despite sharing a 350-mile-long border with Mexico, Arizona was not always a
frontline state in the immigration debate. For decades, California and Texas
bore the brunt of illegal immigration through San Diego and El Paso. In the
mid-1990s, the Clinton administration built walls and launched enforcement
efforts around both cities, and the illegal flow shifted to Arizona's deserts.
Federal authorities promised a similar enforcement program for Arizona,
Napolitano said, but it never happened.

"The thing was allowed to fester and fester and fester," Napolitano said. "Not
only did the traffic move to Arizona, but it was left untended by the feds for
so long, you had this growing public frustration and perception that control of
the border in Arizona had been lost."

Napolitano said her views on immigration began to change during her tenure as
U.S. attorney in the mid-1990s with the crush of immigrant smuggling cases.

Ruth Ann Myers, who led the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Arizona
from the days when Napolitano was battling her agency in court through the
beginning of Napolitano's tenure as the federal prosecutor, recalled
Napolitano's transformation. "As U.S. attorney," Myers said, "she was very
enforcement-minded."

In recent years, the Border Patrol estimated that more than 6,650 people were
attempting to cross into Arizona from Mexico every day and that about 4,000 were
succeeding. The state's hospitals were routinely handing out tens of millions of
dollars in free medical care to ailing illegal immigrants, according to state
data, and the Medicaid bill ballooned from $200 million in 2001 to $1.2 billion
in 2003, at least partly because of illegal immigration.

While toughening her stance on the border, Napolitano has also opposed what she
terms "inhumane" restrictions on illegal immigrants. In 2004, Arizonans passed
Proposition 200, which directed the state to stop all non-federally required
assistance to illegal immigrants. Since then, Arizona's attorney general, with
Napolitano's support, has ruled that the law only pertains to discretionary
state programs and not to federally funded entitlements such as food stamps and
subsidized school lunches. The proposition's backers have sued the state to
demand what they call full implementation. Meanwhile, on Thursday, the
legislature voted to let the electorate decide whether to deny more state
services, such as state-funded child care, to illegal immigrants, and whether to
make English the state's official language. Napolitano opposes both measures.

"This governor has dragged her feet and tried to stop all improvement and
changes with respect to illegal immigration problems within the state," charged
Randy Pullen, a Republican activist who is among those suing Napolitano. "She
talks a great story, but she believes in open borders. Every time we try to get
something done, she vetoes it."

These days, Napolitano finds herself back in the position of a gadfly to the
feds  --  the same feds she sued 20 years ago and then led, as U.S. attorney, in
the 1990s. Napolitano says she was forced to take a tougher stance on
immigration because she, like many state politicians in the West, believes "our
federal immigration policy is broken." Still, she assailed the idea of simply
increasing border security without a comprehensive solution that involves Mexico
and new regulations on visas and employers.

"We're not going to seal the border; we can't," she said, referring to vast
stretches of forbidding desert. "When I hear congressional and media people
saying, 'Shut the border,' I think to myself, 'They've never seen the border.'
You can't possibly have been to the Arizona-Mexico border and believe that is
possible."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              12 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 25, 2006 Monday 12:00 AM EST

Border Enforcement Is Not Enough

BYLINE: David B. Muhlhausen, Special to washingtonpost.com's think Tank Town,
washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 821 words



HIGHLIGHT: Despite vast differences, the House and Senate immigration reform
bills share a common strategy on border security. Both would build fences (real
and "virtual") and beef up border patrols to keep out migrants.


Despite vast differences, the House and Senate immigration reform bills share a
common strategy on border security. Both would build fences (real and "virtual")
and beef up border patrols to keep out migrants.

But sealing the borders will not, in and of itself, reduce the number of illegal
aliens living in this country. Indeed, research suggests that the approach may
well produce the opposite effect.

Admittedly, the experts are not unanimous. Some researchers conclude increased
border enforcement makes little difference in reducing illegal immigrations.
Others find it helps, while still others say it exacerbates the problem.

But a review of the entire body of research clearly suggests that enhanced
border security will, at best, do little to reduce the overall number of illegal
immigrants living in the U.S. Why? Because even as it pares the entry of
illegals, it slows the flow of illegal immigrants leaving the United States

The most comprehensive investigation of this phenomenon, conducted by University
of Arizona Professor Manuela Angelucci, finds that each additional border patrol
agent hired:

Stops roughly 771 to 1,621 individuals from entering the country illegally.

Encourages roughly 831 to 1,966 illegals already living here to extend their
stay, for fear of being caught trying to exit or re-enter the country.

The upshot of putting more manpower on the border, then, is unclear. Taking into
account the likely length of "extended stays" by would-be illegal emigrants, it
appears that this initiative may yield a net reduction of as many as 503 illegal
residents for each additional agent hired, or a net increase that is nearly
twice as large (995 illegal residents).

Three factors work to undermine the effectiveness of the Border Patrol:

First, the wage disparity between the U.S. and Latin American countries provides
a powerful incentive to cross the border. The U.S. minimum hourly wage is $5.15,
while the minimum daily wage in Mexico is $4.50. In Honduras, the minimum daily
wage ranges between $3.24 and $5.17, depending on the worker's occupation. Given
this economic reality, the potential reward of higher earnings in this country
would still outweigh the higher risk of apprehension from beefed up border
security. Research indicates that those determined to enter the United States
illegally in search of a better life will likely keep trying to cross the border
until they succeed.

Second, the deterrent effect of dramatically expanding the Border Patrol will be
undercut if those who are caught are not strongly penalized. Currently, the
federal government imposes virtually no sanctions (such as fines or detention)
on the illegal immigrants it apprehends. Instead, nearly all detained illegal
immigrants sign a voluntary departure form promising to return to their home
countries. In 1998, the feds prosecuted only 1.25 percent of the 1.6 million
illegals they detained. For the overwhelming majority of illegal immigrants, the
cost of being apprehended is the loss of a day's wages.

Third, the rigor with which the Border Patrol enforces the law appears to vary
according to domestic labor demands. While the agency's public mission is to
guard the border, research indicates that it relaxes enforcement when the demand
for migrant workers is high.

Professor Gordon H. Hanson of the University of California, San Diego, and
Antonio Spilimbergo of the International Monetary Fund found that price
increases in low-skilled sectors are associated with decreases in the amount of
"linewatch" hours devoted to watching the U.S.-Mexico border by Border Patrol
agents. Specifically, when the price of fruits, vegetables and livestock rises,
the number of linewatch hours declines. Similarly, when these prices fall,
linewatch hours increase. A similar relationship between housing starts in the
West and linewatch hours exists as well.

Clearly, a crackdown in border enforcement is not enough to solve the problem of
illegal immigration. Immigration reform must also:

Address the "demand" side of the equation, by cracking down on employers who
hire illegal migrants.

Simplify procedures to accommodate an expanded guest-worker program, so that
immigrants may legally fill temporary jobs and easily return their country of
origin.

Encourage economic reforms in countries of origin.

In short, we need to consider far more than the largely symbolic act of hiring
thousands of new Border Patrol agents and building fences.

If America wishes to significantly reduce the number of people living here
illegally, we must adopt an immigration strategy that encompasses border
security, interior enforcement and a lawful temporary work program.
Unfortunately, Congress appears enamored of a "border first" approach that
sounds tough, but will likely do little to reduce illegal immigration.

David B. Muhlhausen, Ph.D., is a senior policy analyst in the Center for Data
Analysis at The Heritage Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

An Ever-Changing Path to Legal Status

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 331 words


Since Congress has tabled immigration reform, millions of immigrants living and
working here illegally now find they have a tougher path toward legalization.

In the past, illegal immigrants have been helped by specific amnesty programs,
such as a 1986 law that allowed nearly 3 million immigrants to gain legal
status. In 1994, Congress passed a law that allowed people sponsored by
employers or relatives to qualify for green cards, if they paid a $1,000 fine.
The law was phased out in 1998 but then reinstated by Congress in December 2000.
The deadline was April 30, 2001.

While employers and relatives can still sponsor immigrants for green cards,
limited quotas have resulted in extremely long waits.  The United States allows
5,000 low-skilled workers to be sponsored for green-card-based visas every year.

Those sponsoring an illegal worker, such as a nanny, often encounter a "cruel
myth," said Crystal Williams, deputy director for programs at the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "Families go through the process and they
discover that the kids will be grown before the nanny gets a green card."

Exceptions are made for some immigrants who come from crisis-ridden countries
that can no longer absorb them. Immigrants from El Salvador, Nicaragua,
Honduras, Somalia and Sudan, for example, can qualify for temporary protected
status if they were in the United States before a certain date. Temporary
protected status is given to immigrants from certain countries who cannot return
because of ongoing conflicts, environmental disasters or other conditions. The
program does not lead to permanent residency.

One way to gain legal status, depicted in a movie aptly named "Green Card," is
to marry a U.S. citizen. But, Williams warned, "the marriage has got to be real.
If you do it on a bogus basis, it's a felony." (Twenty-two people in the
Washington area were charged last week in relation to sham marriages related to
immigration status.)

--  S. Mitra Kalita

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              14 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Plenty of Holes Seen In a 'Virtual Fence';
Border Sensors Not Enough, Experts Say

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Griff Witte, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1116 words


The selection of Boeing Co. to erect a "virtual fence" along 6,000 miles of U.S.
border marks a potential turning point in the government's long quest to stop
illegal immigration, but its success hinges on overcoming obstacles that doomed
past efforts, funding shortages and other problems with the country's
immigration controls, according to experts and former U.S. officials.

Congress and the Department of Homeland Security must focus on overcoming
technology and management problems that have derailed similar remote-sensing
networks set up over the decades by the military and border agencies from
Vietnam to Iraq to the southwestern United States, they said.

They also must acknowledge that as much as half of the illegal-immigration
problem is driven by the hiring of people who enter the United States through
official border points but  use fraudulent documents or overstay visas to become
part of the estimated population of 11 million illegal immigrants in the United
States, former immigration officials and members of Congress said.

Surveillance by the government's $2.5 billion Secure Border Initiative Network,
or SBInet, "makes some sense and is part of the solution," said former Indiana
congressman Lee H. Hamilton (D), vice chairman of the commission that
investigated the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. "It's also insufficient, I
believe."

C. Stewart Verdery Jr., a former Bush administration assistant secretary for
border policy, agreed that a "smart border" buildup alone is doomed to fail,
given the government's track record and the labor needs of U.S. employers.

"Boeing and its subcontractors should be pushing the hardest for a comprehensive
immigration solution," Verdery said.

Boeing proposes to construct a necklace of 1,800 towers equipped with cameras,
sensors and links to sophisticated computers along the nation's vast frontiers
with Mexico and Canada. The Department of Homeland Security is scheduled to
announce Boeing as the winner of the competition today.

Boeing's plan rests heavily on adapting military technology from the battlefield
to the border. The company has suggested, for instance, flying a
camera-equipped, truck-mounted, 10-pound drone called the Skylark that Israeli
and Australian forces have used to track suspects for as long as 90 minutes at a
range of six miles.

Boeing also proposed a variety of ground-based sensors, including underground
seismic sensors and tower-mounted motion and heat detectors that have been used
to thwart insurgents in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Congressional backers and military experts are confident that technologies
devised to detect troop movements and tank formations can be adapted for
homeland security and, by extension, individual border crossers.

But scientists warn of bedeviling details, and analysts cite political pressures
that have led to lavish spending on borders, technology and guards with few
results.

Gervasio Prado, founder of SenTech Inc., a sensor maker that was part of two
unsuccessful bid teams, said SBINet is good for his industry but is not likely
to work.

"I don't think you'll make a dent really," because of the difficulty of managing
information from 6,000 miles of sensors and the economic incentives for illegal
migrants and their smugglers, he said. "I'd love to say that if you put
thousands of sensors in that you could really solve the problem. But I think the
help is going to be minimal."

Since 1995, spending on border security has increased tenfold, from $1.2 billion
to $12.7 billion, and the number of Border Patrol agents has more than doubled,
from 5,000 to 12,319, according to the House Appropriations Committee. Yet the
number of illegal immigrants in the United States has jumped from 5 million to
more than 11 million.

In addition, several experts said, tighter borders could discourage illegal
immigrants already living here from attempting to leave for fear that they won't
be able to reenter the country.

The Department of Homeland Security and the former Immigration and
Naturalization Service spent $429 million since 1998 on video and remote
surveillance on the borders. But nearly half of 489 planned cameras were never
installed, 60 percent of sensor alerts are never investigated, 90 percent of the
rest are false alarms, and only 1 percent overall resulted in arrests, the
Homeland Security inspector general reported in December.

On April 25, the Border Patrol's first and only Predator 2 unmanned aerial
vehicle crashed outside Tubac, Ariz., seven months after the $6.5 million craft
began flights.

"There has been a huge amount of money poured into the border . . . but the
track record of the performance of these technologies is disappointing," said
Doris Meissner, former INS commissioner.

James Jay Carafano, senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation, noted
that Congress is moving to build 700 miles of border fence, at a cost of more
than $2 billion, and adding about 2,500 border agents, at a cost of about $500
million a year, with an eye on this fall's elections.

By comparison, SBINet is funded at less than $130 million next year by the House
and Senate, Carafano said. "If Congress is mandating all this money to go to
guards and fences," he said, "my concern is there won't be enough money to put
into place SBINet."

Other priorities that could lose the competition for funding are big-ticket
programs to process and return illegal immigrants, develop computer systems to
verify legal workers for U.S. companies, monitor visa compliance and tighten
legal ports of entry, which will cost well over $10 billion, said Meissner and
Steven A. Camarota, research director at the Center for Immigration Studies.

Boeing's record at delivering major technology is mixed. The company pointed to
its success deploying baggage-screening devices to more than 400 airports in
less than six months after the terrorist attacks.  But the company's machines
were criticized for being too large and having high false-alarm rates.

The inspector general's office has also found fault with the work of L-3
Communications, a Boeing subcontractor on SBInet. In December, investigators
reported that cameras L-3 deployed for border security as part of the Integrated
Surveillance Intelligence System malfunctioned when exposed to severe cold or
heat.

Homeland Security officials want contractors to fully deploy their equipment in
four years, and Boeing has said it can do it in three.

Gregory J. Pottie, a UCLA engineering professor who specializes in sensor
technology, testified to the House last week that "if we want to solve this in
three years, it could cost us a fortune and we're going to make a lot of
mistakes."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              15 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 27, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

States, Counties Begin to Enforce Immigration Law

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1505 words

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE


Police here operated for years under what amounts to a "don't ask, don't tell"
policy toward illegal immigrants.

As elsewhere in the United States, law enforcement officers did not check the
immigration status of people they came into contact with, and in the vast
majority of cases, a run-in with the law carried little threat of deportation.

But that accommodation for the burgeoning illegal population ended abruptly in
April, when the Mecklenburg County sheriff's office began to enforce immigration
law, placing more than 100 people a month into deportation proceedings. Some of
them had been charged with violent crimes, others with traffic infractions.

The program takes one of the most aggressive stances in the United States toward
illegal immigrants, and officials in scores of communities, including Herndon
and Loudoun County, have been considering adopting their own version.  The House
earlier this month was weighing a measure "reaffirming" the authority of local
law enforcement agencies to arrest people on suspicion of violating immigration
laws.

Some Latino leaders say the program here is contributing to a discriminatory
climate in which Hispanic drivers feel as if they are being "hunted" by police.
And some law enforcement agencies elsewhere have shied away from enforcing
immigration laws, saying that doing so would rupture any trust they have
developed in Latino neighborhoods.

But advocates see it as a way to catch illegal immigrants who slip through
porous federal enforcement measures and then run afoul of state or local police.

Mecklenburg County Sheriff Jim Pendergraph says there should be little sympathy
for illegal immigrants caught by his program: They have already broken the law
once by being here illegally, and then been arrested on suspicion of another
crime.

"When any of them cross that border without proper documentation, they've
violated the law  --  however insignificant it may seem to some people," he
said. "I've heard sad stories about folks wanting to come up here and have a
better life and earn money for their family. I've arrested bank robbers who've
had the same excuse."

While the program has led to the removal of many illegal immigrants charged with
felonies, people arrested for lesser charges such as traffic violations are also
subject to deportation. That, according to Hispanic leaders, has created a
constant worry for people who are in the United States illegally and now fear
deportation after a simple traffic stop.

Many illegal immigrants lack valid licenses. As a result, they now risk not only
arrest but also deportation whenever they drive.

"It's tense, very tense," said Angeles Ortega-Moore, director of the Latin
American Coalition in Charlotte. "It used to be everybody here loved the
Latinos. They would say, 'We like you more than the blacks.' Now we're like the
Big Bad Wolf."

"The law enforcement community is split on this issue," said Gene Voegtlin,
legislative counsel for the International Association of Chiefs of Police. The
local agencies against enforcing immigration law "are concerned about the
chilling effect it will have on immigrants' cooperation with law enforcement,"
he said.

In Mecklenburg County, about 1,200 foreign-born people have been arrested since
April, on charges ranging from traffic violations and trespassing to sex crimes,
and nearly 600 have been found to be here illegally.

Among those snared earlier this month was Guadalupe Lara, an 18-year-old Mexican
carpenter.

The fifth of eight children born to farmworkers in Queretaro, he walked across
the border when he was 16 to find work. Two years later, he has only a wispy
beard and stands 5-foot-3.

He makes $7.50 an hour and lives with four others in a small, sparsely furnished
apartment. Though they lack beds, they have a television on which Lara watches
his favorite telenovela, "Heridas de Amor." He sends money home monthly and
calls home every week.

"It's difficult," he said in Spanish. "When I call they say 'How are you?' I say
'I am fine.' " On Monday night, Lara was pulled over by police after buying a
pack of cigarettes. He was not drunk but had an open bottle of beer in the car.
He also lacked a license. He was arrested and when asked admitted he had no
papers.

Had he been detained elsewhere, his illegal status may  not have mattered.

But in Mecklenburg, two sergeants and 10 deputies at the jail are trained to
handle immigration infractions, running checks in databases and holding people
in custody if necessary.

Some of those arrested face immediate deportation. Some are held on bond pending
an immigration hearing. Lara was relatively lucky. Because he had no prior
immigration or criminal charges, he was given a notice to appear before an
immigration judge in Atlanta and released. He is likely to be ordered deported.

Lara says police now unfairly target Latinos. More than 90 percent of  the
illegal immigrants discovered in Mecklenburg are from Latin America.

"The police are just looking for problems with Hispanics," Lara said. "They know
we don't have driver's licenses  --  we can't get them  --  and so they pull us
over."

Liliana "La Chula" Ramos, a host on local Spanish radio, said: "A lot of people
here are very afraid because they think the police will pull them over for
anything. It's very difficult for people to get licenses now, and people have to
go to work, so they're out there driving."

Philip Turtletaub, a Charlotte immigration lawyer, says he sometimes receives
six or seven calls a day from relatives of illegal immigrants caught by the
program. He tells them not to waste their money.

"Most people I can't do anything for," he said.

While he ventured no opinion on the program's fairness, he said he thinks it
could make life as an illegal immigrant in the region so uncomfortable that
fewer illegal immigrants would choose to live there.

"They're putting the pressure on these people. They're scaring them. People say
we can't deport 10 million. But you don't have to. If you deport enough of them,
others will go back voluntarily because they don't want to live in these
conditions."

Besides Mecklenburg, six other state and local law enforcement agencies have
started similar programs in recent years. A dozen more are being worked out with
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. And in the past three months, hundreds
of state and local departments have inquired about similar efforts, said Robert
J. Hines, who heads the program for the ICE.

"When you are removing the criminal element from the community, it's hard to
point a finger and say it's a bad thing," Hines said.

Loudoun County Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson said his department is considering
participating. Early this morning, the Herndon Town Council was to vote on
Police Chief Toussaint E. Summers Jr.'s request to apply for such a program.

Officials in Alexandria, Arlington, Fairfax and Prince William  said they are
not considering the idea, and police officials in suburban Maryland say there is
lukewarm interest in deputizing officers to enforce immigration laws.

"In the Montgomery County area, we've taken more the track that we celebrate
diversity," said Gaithersburg Police Chief Mary Ann Viverette, who is also the
president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police. Immigration is
"not an issue we want to enforce."

In federal testimony from August, Pendergraph, the Mecklenburg County sheriff,
said "political correctness" is preventing some communities from adopting the
program, and that "will eventually be the downfall of this country if someone
doesn't wake up."

Like much of the mid-Atlantic region, Charlotte has seen a rapid rise in the
number of Latino immigrants over the past 15 years, many of them here illegally.
Between 2000 and 2005, the estimated number of illegal immigrants in North
Carolina rose 38 percent, from 260,000 to 360,000, according to a Department of
Homeland Security report.

The influx, particularly conspicuous in a metropolis clinging to its small-town
past, has caused ripples of concern.

"Texas, New York and California might be used to large influxes of illegal
immigrants  --  but we're not," said Mecklenburg County Commissioner Bill James,
who favors stronger enforcement. "James Carville had it right: We're just
Mayberry with a major airport."

Local support for broad enforcement coalesced in July 2005 after a truck driven
by an illegal immigrant whose blood-alcohol level was nearly triple the legal
limit, hit a car, killing a local teacher and leaving the teacher's wife in a
vegetative state. The accident resulted in Ramiro Gallegos's fifth
impaired-driving charge in five years  --  and led to the new enforcement
policy.

"No more excuses," U.S. Rep. Sue Myrick (R) said at a news conference at the
time, calling for tougher enforcement. "You're drunk. You're driving. You're
illegal. You're deported. Period."

Staff writers Bill Turque, Karin Brulliard, Ernesto Londoño and Candace Rondeaux
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              16 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 28, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Herndon Zeroing In On Illegal Immigrants;
Policies Could Affect Police, Businesses

BYLINE: Bill Turque, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 788 words


Herndon's decision Tuesday night to seek federal training for some of its police
officers so they can enforce federal immigration law is part of a long-term
effort by a new mayor and Town Council to aggressively curb the presence of
residents who are in the country illegally.

Two proposals on the draft agenda for next week's council session would
intensify the town's scrutiny of private employers. One would require anyone
seeking a business license to prove legal immigration status. The other would
compel contractors doing business with the town to provide evidence that their
employees live in the United States legally.

The measures are likely to enlarge Herndon's role as a crucible in the national
debate on immigration policy  --  a position that town officials say they were
forced into because of inaction by the federal government. The proposals also
add fuel to charges from immigration advocates and some residents that Herndon,
which has the largest proportion of foreign-born residents of any locality in
the Washington area, has become implacably hostile to all immigrants, legal and
illegal.

Illegal immigration has been the dominant issue in town politics since summer
2005, when the council voted, after bitter debate, to open a publicly funded
center to help workers connect with employers. Before the Herndon Official
Workers Center was established, laborers had gathered each morning in a 7-Eleven
parking lot to find jobs  --  an arrangement that neighbors and officials said
was chaotic and confusing. Opponents of the center said that by opening it, the
town was abetting illegal immigration.

In May, Herndon voters unseated Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly and two council
members who supported the publicly funded facility and replaced them with
challengers, including new Mayor Stephen J. DeBenedittis, who were highly
critical of the idea.

Vice Mayor Dennis D. Husch, one of two council members who voted against the
labor center last year, said that the new proposals are still "notional" at this
point but that the council intends to send a message that illegal immigrants are
not welcome in Herndon.

"These [proposals] may never see the light of day," Husch said. "But we need to
do something."

Business licenses have traditionally served as revenue-raising instruments, with
governments charging owners a set percentage of projected gross sales. But in an
advisory opinion this summer, Virginia Attorney General Robert F. McDonnell said
local governments can withhold licenses from applicants who are not living
legally in the United States.

What the contracting measure would accomplish is less clear. Federal law already
establishes penalties for employers who knowingly keep illegal workers on their
payroll. Herndon's own standard contract language also forbids companies that
employ the undocumented from working on major projects. Town Attorney Richard B.
Kaufman said the council was interested in "beefing up" the language so that it
applied to all contractors who provide services to the government.

The council's 6 to 1 vote late Tuesday authorizes town officials to contact U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to express interest in enrolling some
officers in the agency's "287 (g)" program, a provision of the Immigration and
Nationality Act.

If the town is accepted into the program, it would negotiate an agreement
covering the scope of the training officers would receive  --  often in the
areas of document identification and cross-cultural communication  --  and what
the law would empower them to do. In general, those who pass the five-week
course are authorized to question or detain people they believe to be in the
country illegally, according to ICE descriptions of the program.

In a hearing preceding the vote, supporters of the program said it would take
criminals off the streets.

"You guys were elected because you said you would take action," Brenda Kelley, a
21-year resident of the town, told the council. "We all want safe, secure,
happy, respectful neighborhoods."

"Herndon has a chance to lend a helping hand to federal immigration agents,"
Stacey Brooks said.

Jorge Rochac, a Salvadoran immigrant and former translator for the Herndon
police department who ran unsuccessfully for a council seat this year, said
adoption of the federal program "would tend to alienate the Hispanic community
and makes them less apt to cooperate and trust the police."

Former council member John DeNoyer was also critical. "Would I be profiled as a
suspected terrorist or illegal alien because I have a beard and often turn brown
toward the end of an outdoor summer?" he asked. "Please do not glorify and
nurture the xenophobic hysteria that is affecting our town."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              17 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 28, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Hispanic Unemployment Down, Study Finds

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 652 words


Unemployment among Hispanics fell sharply this year, and their wages rose after
a two-year decline, according to a national study released yesterday.

Bolstered by immigration, the Hispanic labor force is growing rapidly, and those
workers are having little trouble finding jobs  --  especially in construction,
said the report by the Pew Hispanic Center.

"In terms of employment, there are strong gains for Hispanics," said Rakesh
Kochhar, the center's associate director for research and author of the report.

Latinos, who represent 13 percent of the U.S. labor force, accounted for 40
percent of all new workers in the year ending June 30, the report said.  Eighty
percent of jobs filled by Hispanics went to immigrants, who make up the biggest
share of the Latino labor force.

The findings come as Congress debates proposals for immigration laws, some
addressing the immigrant workforce and the hiring of illegal immigrants, and
immigration authorities step up work site arrests and border security.

Kochhar said the number of immigrant workers and the market for them seem to be
"stronger than what we may do at the borders."

Although the report did not examine labor trends for illegal immigrants, it
noted that previous studies have found that many new Latino immigrants are in
the country illegally.

The Latino labor force is growing about three times the rate for all workers,
the report found. Hispanic unemployment fell this spring to 4.9 percent from 5.8
percent in the same period last year. Median weekly wages for Latinos rose from
$423 in 2005 to $431 in 2006  --  still lower than those of any other ethnic
group.

This decade's construction boom drove the Latino job growth, particularly for
the foreign-born, the report said. Half the new jobs for Latinos in the past
year were in construction, and nearly all those jobs were generated in the South
and the West, according to the report, which did not examine trends at the state
or city level.

Since 2003, nearly 90 percent of Latinos workers hired in construction have been
immigrants, the report found.

That came as no surprise to Hugo Carballo, business manager for Laborers
International Union Local 11, which organizes construction workers in Northern
Virginia.

"You just go through any job. That's all you see right now. A majority of them
are Latino who are working on construction," Carballo said. "It might be that in
a couple of years it'll be somebody else, but right now we are the ones."

Yet the labor landscape was not all rosy for Latinos. Although they landed more
jobs, wages dropped for foreign-born Hispanic workers. Hispanic immigrants'
median weekly wages declined from $400 to $389.

That is probably because as more immigrants have arrived, competition for the
jobs they perform has stiffened, Kochhar said.

"High growth in employment may have come at the price of wages," Kochhar said.

The report also noted that the nation's construction industry appears to be
slowing. That is especially true in places such as the Washington region, which
were booming a year ago but are now "screeching to a halt," said Mark Zandi, an
analyst with Moody's Economy.com.

Growth in commercial construction is softening the blow for workers, Zandi said,
but will probably not make up for all the jobs lost as home building cools.

Carballo said he has seen that play out locally.

"On the residential part, like houses and condominiums, that's where I see that
it's the most people getting laid off," Carballo said. "On [commercial]
buildings, we are at least pretty good right now. Buildings are going up
everywhere."

The report, based on recent data from the U.S. Census Bureau and the Labor
Department, found that unemployment dropped over the fiscal year from 4 percent
to 3.5 percent for Asians, from 4.1 percent to 3.9 percent for non-Hispanic
whites and from 9.9 percent to 9 percent for blacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              18 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 2, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration in Herndon;
Proposals smack of desperation to "do something."

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 376 words


CONGRESS LEFT town having failed to pass the comprehensive reform of immigration
laws that President Bush claimed to want but didn't do much to promote at
crunchtime. The failure leaves millions of illegal immigrants sought after by
U.S. employers but with no path to legal status. The nation wants and needs
their labor but can't bring itself to deal honestly with the situation. Among
the victims of this hypocrisy and gridlock on the national level are the
nation's local governments, which are left with little guidance in handling the
challenges posed by rapid immigration.

You can get an early sense of how this increasingly will play out in Northern
Virginia's town of Herndon, which is back in the news with more ideas on how to
clamp down on illegal immigrants. The proposals are small-minded and, if
enacted, are likely to be futile in resolving any problems. But we understand
local officials' frustration with the federal government's inability to craft an
immigration policy for the country.

Herndon is proposing to train local police to enforce federal immigration laws
and to place new restrictions on businesses. Anyone seeking a business license
would have to prove valid immigration status, and anyone wanting to do business
with the town would have to show that workers for the business are in the
country legally.

The new initiatives are, as one official conceded, an effort to just do
something. But, toward what end, and at what cost? The business proposals
duplicate existing laws. Letting the police officer on the corner take over the
federal role in the complex world of immigration law could lead to heartbreaking
mistakes and unintended consequences. People who look "foreign" to one police
officer or another might become targets for unfair scrutiny. Many law
enforcement authorities fear that such policies will chill relations with
immigrant communities and, as a result, more serious crimes will go unreported
and unsolved.

Officials in Herndon say they are still in the early stages of studying their
proposals; let's hope that, instead of the emotion that shaped much of last
year's debate on day laborers, a more analytical and reasoned examination will
be undertaken. Congress would do well to take the same advice.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              19 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 9, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

What Part of 'Illegal' Does The Post Not Get?

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 307 words


I neither understand nor accept the continued position that The Post's
editorials take with regard to illegal immigration, most recently in
"Immigration in Herndon" on Oct. 2. The statement that "the nation wants and
needs their labor" is disingenuous at best.

The reason Congress left town without passing a comprehensive reform of
immigration laws has nothing to do with deadlines. It has everything to do with
the fact that, regardless of what big business wants, U.S. citizens do not want
or need illegal workers at any price.

Read my lips: "We are mad as hell and do not want to take it anymore."

It is for this reason that Herndon's officials have once again acted
courageously and taken it upon themselves to take reasonable measures on behalf
of the citizenry.

The dictionary defines "illegal" as prohibited by law and not sanctioned.
America was founded on a basic set of laws.

In fact, one could make a strong argument that the only things that bind our
country's various races and cultures are adherence to our laws and English as
our national language.

M. DAVID KLEIN SR.

Rockville

*

Regarding "States, Counties Begin to Enforce Immigration Laws" [front page,
Sept. 27]:

If I enter any other sovereign nation in violation of its laws, I can count on
sure and swift justice when I am caught. In some places I would never be heard
from again.

However, in America's current politically correct daze, if our law enforcement
officers do their jobs and arrest individuals for breaking our local laws then,
according to Latino advocates, we are being discriminatory.

But these individuals have ignored our laws when entering our nation and then
broken our laws while here.

Yes, we are a nation of immigrants but, in the vast majority of cases, a nation
of legal immigrants.

MARTIN P.

BROMSER-KLOEDEN

Purcellville

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              20 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Splits Over Immigration Reform On Display From Coast to Coast

BYLINE: Shailagh Murray and Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 1032 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA July 5


House and Senate Republicans sparred over immigration in hearings on opposite
coasts Wednesday, holding firm to their starkly different viewpoints on what has
become one of the most intractable and divisive issues to confront the GOP in
years.

Here in the City of Brotherly Love, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen
Specter (R-Pa.) called witnesses including New York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg
and a landscaper to testify to the growing economic necessity of immigrant labor
and the potential consequences if that demand is ignored. Bloomberg said his
city's economy "would collapse" if all illegal immigrants were deported.

In San Diego, meanwhile, House members gathered at a U.S. Border Patrol station,
where Republicans called for a 700-mile fence and thousands of new federal
agents along the border with Mexico, and prison and "hard labor" for illegal
immigrants who commit serious crimes. Democrats accused Republicans of trying to
divert attention from the party's struggle to find consensus on immigration even
though Republicans control the House, Senate and White House.

President Bush, who prefers the Senate's more comprehensive approach, staged his
own immigration event, showing up at a Dunkin' Donuts in Alexandria owned by two
Iranian American brothers to reiterate his call for a guest-worker program.

"If you talk to employer[s] such as these folks, they'll tell you they need
workers," Bush said. "And people are willing to do the work that others aren't
willing to do, but we want to make sure there's a legal way to do it."

The House-passed bill deals only with tighter border controls and deportation
standards, along with tougher enforcement of employment rules. The Senate
package includes similar provisions but would create a pathway for many of the
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants to become citizens. It calls for a
temporary-worker program that would provide legal U.S. status for as much as six
years.

Bush, like Specter and his Senate Republican and Democratic allies, wants a bill
that acknowledges the economic forces that entice foreigners to sneak across the
border or overstay their visas. Illegal immigration is an issue that Bush came
to know well as Texas governor, and he has spoken of tackling it since his first
White House campaign.

But some advocates are disappointed that Bush has not taken a more active role
in trying to weaken the House Republicans' resolve, which has intensified as the
midterm elections near and conservatives try to rally their voting base.

In recent weeks, the White House and Senate Republicans have indicated a
willingness to tackle border security first, but only if the action later
triggers some or all of the Senate bill's residency-related provisions. House
GOP leaders have dismissed such features as the guest-worker program as an
unacceptable "amnesty" for lawbreakers. They were the first to call for field
hearings as a means of showcasing popular support for their approach while also
delaying negotiations with senators on a final bill.

In Philadelphia, Specter called on Bush to "provide the leadership to bring the
House and Senate together," as well as to engage in the "nuts and bolts" of
consensus-building between the warring GOP factions.

Specter said the Senate hearings  --  which he said will continue through the
August recess  --  are an attempt to broaden the debate beyond border-related
issues. "It's easy to talk about enforcement," Specter said, referring to House
Republicans. "But how do you run an economy without immigrant workers?"

Ronald Bird, a Department of Labor economist, told the Senate panel that
"immigrants are a significant and growing component," constituting nearly 15
percent of the U.S. labor force and accounting for about 40 percent of labor
force growth between 2002 and 2005.

Bloomberg said that about 500,000 of the 3 million immigrants in New York
arrived illegally. The foreign workforce must expand at all levels, from farm
workers to scientists, he said. "The economics are very simple," Bloomberg said.
"We need more workers than we have."

Dan Eichenlaub, who owns a landscaping firm in Pittsburgh, described how he lost
$500,000 in revenue two years ago because a glitch prevented him from hiring the
seasonal foreign workers who sustain his business.

However, Louis Barletta, mayor of Hazleton, Pa., told the Senate panel that
illegal residents have boosted the crime rate and drained scarce resources. "We
must dig deep into the city's accounts to pay for illegal immigrants," said
Barletta, who wants the federal government to deport them.

To help counter that view, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who joined Specter
at the hearing, noted that in a Fourth of July ceremony in Iraq, 76 U.S.
soldiers from 27 countries had been sworn in as American citizens.

The House hearing in San Diego took a different tone, starting with its title,
"Border Vulnerabilities to Terrorist Threats." Republican members of the
International Relations subcommittee on terrorism emphasized the dangers of a
porous border and touted the House immigration bill's emphasis on greater border
enforcement.

"We put the border gangs out of business, because we took away their mobility,"
said Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.), praising a multilayer fence built on the
Mexican border south of San Diego. The structure is similar to a 700-mile fence
called for in the House bill.

Subcommittee Democrats devoted more attention to the Bush administration's
relatively few prosecutions of employers who hire illegal immigrants and the
funding shortage for tools needed to capture, hold and deport illegal residents
who commit serious crimes. When Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-Calif.) asked why
there were not more deportations of illegal immigrants who reenter the country
and commit felonies, Border Patrol officer Darryl Griffen replied, "There are
very few formal deportations, because you have no place to put them" while they
await hearings.

Even some Republicans accused Bush of pouring too little money and effort into
tightening the borders. "The president of the United States has not been doing
his job," Rep. Dana Rohrbacher (R-Calif.) said.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              21 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Enforcement-Plus Is Critical;
Any immigration bill must include a path to legalization.

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 406 words


AS REPUBLICANS began a series of hearings on immigration policy last week,
President Bush was reportedly signaling new openness to compromise designed to
produce legislation this year. The compromise, according to a report in the New
York Times, would center on "enforcement-first": improve border security, as a
majority of House Republicans want, and only then move on to the guest-worker
program and legalization for illegal immigrants that Mr. Bush and a majority of
senators favor.

In principle such a compromise makes sense, but there are many ways it could go
wrong. The rationale goes something like this: Congress has tried immigration
reform before, most recently in 1986. That measure provided a path to
legalization for undocumented workers and promised tougher enforcement to
discourage illegal immigration, but the tougher enforcement never came, so the
illegal immigrants kept coming. This time, therefore, the government should
prove its commitment to controlling the nation's borders before offering hope to
the 11 million or so illegal immigrants here now. Some version of amnesty
(though the word won't be used) would be more palatable if Americans knew it
wouldn't be repeated every decade or two.

The danger, though, is that "enforcement-first" will devolve into
"enforcement-only," which would be both inhumane and impractical. So Mr. Bush,
if he is exploring a compromise, should insist that enforcement and a path to
citizenship remain part of one legislative package. The path to citizenship
should be generous enough, and free enough of bureaucratic requirements, to be
meaningful to most immigrants who have followed every other law since arriving
here (including paying taxes). The comprehensive package should include a
healthy enough increase in legal immigration to meet the needs of a growing U.S.
economy on both the high-tech and low-wage ends.

Most important, the delay in implementing these measures can't be indefinite  --
and can't depend on conditions that will never be met. The legalization part of
the package could wait for a year or two while the administration beefs up
border patrols and workplace inspections. But it can't depend on some promise of
decreased immigration that can never be met or measured.

In the end, enforcement-only won't work; and Mr. Bush, who knows that, shouldn't
accept a disguised version of enforcement-only simply because he wants some
legislation this year.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              22 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 14, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Groups Split on Boycott;
Walkouts May Do More Harm Than Good, Some Say

BYLINE: Darryl Fears and N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 863 words


The coalition of grass-roots organizations that staged huge rallies on behalf of
illegal immigrants in recent weeks is torn over an ambitious next step, a
massive job and economic boycott that some are calling "A Day Without
Immigrants."

Across the country, some groups have expressed enthusiasm for a May 1 action
that they hope would paralyze restaurants, hotels, meat-packing plants and
construction sites. But others have questioned the strategic value of such a
move so soon after the wave of demonstrations, particularly  as it would require
many illegal immigrants to risk their jobs by skipping yet another workday.

Skeptics  have another pressing concern  --  that a prominent antiwar group may
be playing a leading role in the boycott, linking its cause with the immigrant
rights campaign  to promote its own agenda.

The dispute is a symptom of the decentralized nature of the immigrant rights
movement, where organizers have struggled to catch up to and harness ideas that
bubble up from a vast network of local groups, rather than come down from one
primary leader or committee. The disagreements also highlight the challenge of
fashioning the mobilization of Latinos into a lasting movement.

"You can only march for so long to make your point," said Juan Jose Gutierrez,
national coordinator for Latino Movement USA, an early proponent of the boycott.
He said organizers need to keep the pressure on Congress to reject a House
immigration bill that would make it a felony to be in the country illegally or
to assist an illegal immigrant.

"You have to think of other creative ways to make it clear to Congress and the
Bush administration that we expect them to behave responsibly," Gutierrez said.
Organizers chose May 1, he said, because of "its special symbolism" as an
international workers' day.

In Los Angeles, organizers were planning the boycott even before the March 25
rally there that produced half a million people. They want to erect a stage
downtown on May 1 and invite movie stars, said Mike Garcia, president of the
Service Employees International Union Local 1877.

In Chicago, "everyone in the Spanish media now is talking about a May Day,"
said Artemio Arreola, a member of the Mexican Federation, a driving force behind
a march last month that included  about 300,000 people.

And in Dallas, where between 350,000 and 500,000 turned out for a demonstration
on Sunday, Jesse Diaz, president of the local League of United Latin American
Citizens, predicted that the boycott idea "is going to take off like wildfire.
There's so much emotion in the air. You're going to see something like you've
never seen in the United States."

But that optimism is not shared in Washington, where  100,000 to 300,000 people
filled the Mall on Monday. Many organizers of that demonstration  expressed
serious doubts about the boycott.

"This is something we need to take very seriously, and consider all the
repercussions of not doing it right or of creating a backlash," said Jaime
Contreras, president of the National Capital Immigrant Coalition and chairman of
the local Service Employees International Union.

"It's premature to do the boycott May 1, given that the Senate doesn't get back
in session until the week of the April 23," added Contreras, who said he will
recommend that his organization reject the plan. "We want to see what comes out
of the Senate and what compromises [with the House] emerge before we do that."

Those concerns were echoed by organizers in Philadelphia and Des Moines. "We are
not going to cause division amongst the group," said Ricardo Diaz, who helped
organize two marches in Philadelphia. "We are not yet committed to the May 1
boycott."

Diaz, Contreras and other leaders were alarmed that the antiwar organization Act
Now to Stop War and End Racism co-sponsored an April 4 news conference in the
District to announce the boycott, even before the April 10 events. The group has
been criticized by conservatives as being affiliated with the Socialist Workers
Party and supporting the Palestinian uprising against Israel.

"Groups . . . that have done nothing on immigration have no reason to stick
their nose where it doesn't belong," Contreras said. "They have no business
saying, 'Let's do a strike' when it will create a humongous burden on immigrant
groups. They need to stay in their box."

Brian Becker, national coordinator of the antiwar organization, said his group
has long supported immigrant rights and is not trying to co-opt the May 1
action. "We are just part of the coalition;  we are not spearheading it at all,"
he said. "Whatever the immigrant rights community calls for is what we support."

In the coming days, representatives of hundreds of groups across the nation will
be meeting to decide whether to support the boycott. Whatever happens at those
gatherings, supporters of the action said, the idea has already taken hold.

"Word has started getting out through the Listservs   on the Internet, through
mass media," Gutierrez said. "The buzz has gone national. This idea has taken a
life of its own, and although there will be detractors for a whole variety of
reasons, May 1 will happen."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2006



CORRECTION: An April 14 article incorrectly described the group Act Now to Stop
War and End Racism. ANSWER has long been affiliated with the Workers World
Party, not the Socialist Workers Party.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              23 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Enforcement's Shift in Workplace;
Case of Md. Restaurateurs Reflects Use of Criminal Investigations, Rather Than
Fines, Against Employers

BYLINE: Eric Rich, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 896 words


Serious criminal charges once typically reserved for drug traffickers and
organized-crime figures are increasingly being used to target businesses that
employ illegal immigrants, a strategy highlighted last week when three Maryland
restaurateurs pleaded guilty to federal offenses and agreed to forfeit more than
$1 million in cash and property.

The little-publicized approach, which can include charging such employers with
money laundering and seizing their assets, amounts to a strategic shift in the
enforcement of immigration law in the workplace.

As a result, investigations into the employment of illegal immigrants, known as
worksite enforcement, resulted in 127 criminal convictions in 2005 nationwide,
up from 46 the previous year, according to figures from U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, or ICE.

A single criminal investigation last year resulted in settlements and
forfeitures of $15 million, an amount that surpassed the sum of administrative
fines  --  the traditional tool of workplace enforcement  --  from the previous
eight years.

Julie Myers, assistant secretary of ICE, called the approach "the future of
worksite enforcement" and predicted that, because such investigations are often
lengthy, results would be more evident later this year and next.

"People are doing this for money, not for any other reason," Myers said of those
who employ illegal immigrants. "They're doing it for pure greed, so we really
need to go after them where it hurts. If you're blatantly violating our worksite
enforcement laws, we'll go after your Mercedes and your mansion and your
millions. We'll go after everything we can, and we'll charge you criminally."

The agency's strategy provides a backdrop to a roiling immigration debate that
has divided lawmakers and spawned a surge in political activism among legal and
illegal immigrants. Generally speaking, liberal and some business interests tend
to oppose aggressive worksite enforcement while conservatives tend to support
it.

The approach draws on long-standing legal authority and has occurred only
recently because of the 2003 merger between the Customs Service, which developed
vast financial expertise in targeting drug traffickers, and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The INS traditionally relied on administrative fines and
on the criminal charge of knowingly hiring an illegal immigrant, a misdemeanor.

On Friday, the co-owners of Kawasaki restaurants, a popular sushi chain in
Baltimore, pleaded guilty to money laundering and harboring illegal immigrants,
offenses that are punishable by 20 and 10 years in prison, respectively. The
wife of one of the owners pleaded guilty to hiring an illegal immigrant.

The defendants admitted to harboring as many as 24 illegal immigrants, paying
them less than minimum wage and using the profits to buy luxury cars and
property. Some workers were housed above Kawasaki's elegant restaurant on
Charles Street, where they lived in trash-strewed quarters and slept on bare
mattresses.

The defendants agreed to forfeit $386,000 in cash, two properties and five cars,
including two Lexuses.

Last week, an indictment unsealed in Ohio charged two temp agencies and nine
people affiliated with them in a $5.3 million money laundering scheme involving
the employment of illegal immigrants.

And in the largest worksite enforcement action in U.S. history, the Justice
Department announced an $11 million settlement with Wal-Mart last year as a
result of a criminal investigation by ICE into the alleged hiring of illegal
immigrants by contactors providing cleaning services to the company's stores
across the country.

Although the INS rarely if ever brought money laundering charges, it once
initiated far more worksite enforcement investigations than ICE now does. ICE
officials acknowledge that they have all but abandoned administrative fines in
favor of criminal investigations. The General Accounting Office reported last
year that the number of notices of intent to fine issued to employers for hiring
unauthorized workers dropped from 417 in 1999 to three in 2004.

"If you've got 11 to 20 million here illegally, at least a fourth of those are
working here illegally," U.S. Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), the firebrand leader
of the movement for tougher controls and sanctions, said yesterday. "It seems to
me if you were serious about worksite enforcement, the numbers of people being
arrested and or fined would be far more dramatic."

Yet some immigrant rights supporters said that aggressive worksite enforcement
could deprive illegal immigrants of the ability to find work.

"I think they should go after employers who exploit workers and violate labor
laws, but we should not be going after legitimate employers who are trying to
maintain a business but cannot find workers otherwise," said Jaime Contreras, a
labor leader and chairman of the National Capital Immigration Coalition, the
umbrella group that coordinated last week's immigrant rights rally on the Mall.
"The reality is that businesses like restaurants and hotels would not be able to
survive without undocumented workers."

Although ICE is required to enforce worksite immigration laws regardless of
whether a worker is being exploited, day laborer sites are unlikely targets for
investigation, Myers said. "Our focus is really on corporate responsibility,"
she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              24 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Enforcement's Shift in the Workplace;
Case of Md. Restaurateurs Reflects Use of Criminal Investigations, Rather Than
Fines, Against Employers

BYLINE: Eric Rich, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C06

LENGTH: 897 words


Serious criminal charges once typically reserved for drug traffickers and
organized-crime figures are increasingly being used to target businesses that
employ illegal immigrants, a strategy highlighted last week when three Maryland
restaurateurs pleaded guilty to federal offenses and agreed to forfeit more than
$1 million in cash and property.

The little-publicized approach, which can include charging such employers with
money laundering and seizing their assets, amounts to a strategic shift in the
enforcement of immigration law in the workplace.

As a result, investigations into the employment of illegal immigrants, known as
worksite enforcement, resulted in 127 criminal convictions in 2005 nationwide,
up from 46 the previous year, according to figures from U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, or ICE.

A single criminal investigation last year resulted in settlements and
forfeitures of $15 million, an amount that surpassed the sum of administrative
fines  --  the traditional tool of workplace enforcement  --  from the previous
eight years.

Julie Myers, assistant secretary of ICE, called the approach "the future of
worksite enforcement" and predicted that, because such investigations are often
lengthy, results would be more evident later this year and next.

"People are doing this for money, not for any other reason," Myers said of those
who employ illegal immigrants.

"They're doing it for pure greed, so we really need to go after them where it
hurts. If you're blatantly violating our worksite enforcement laws, we'll go
after your Mercedes and your mansion and your millions. We'll go after
everything we can, and we'll charge you criminally."

The agency's strategy provides a backdrop to a roiling immigration debate that
has divided lawmakers and spawned a surge in political activism among legal and
illegal immigrants. Generally speaking, liberal and some business interests tend
to oppose aggressive worksite enforcement while conservatives tend to support
it.

The approach draws on long-standing legal authority and has occurred only
recently because of the 2003 merger between the Customs Service, which developed
vast financial expertise in targeting drug traffickers, and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The INS traditionally relied on administrative fines and
on the criminal charge of knowingly hiring an illegal immigrant, a misdemeanor.

On Friday, the co-owners of Kawasaki restaurants, a popular sushi chain in
Baltimore, pleaded guilty to money laundering and harboring illegal immigrants,
offenses that are punishable by 20 and 10 years in prison, respectively. The
wife of one of the owners pleaded guilty to hiring an illegal immigrant.

The defendants admitted to harboring as many as 24 illegal immigrants, paying
them less than minimum wage and using the profits to buy luxury cars and
property. Some workers were housed above Kawasaki's elegant restaurant on
Charles Street, where they lived in trash-strewed quarters and slept on bare
mattresses.

The defendants agreed to forfeit $386,000 in cash, two properties and five cars,
including two Lexuses.

Last week, an indictment unsealed in Ohio charged two temp agencies and nine
people affiliated with them in a $5.3 million money laundering scheme involving
the employment of illegal immigrants.

And in the largest worksite enforcement action in U.S. history, the Justice
Department announced an $11 million settlement with Wal-Mart last year as a
result of a criminal investigation by ICE into the alleged hiring of illegal
immigrants by contactors providing cleaning services to the company's stores
across the country.

Although the INS rarely if ever brought money laundering charges, it once
initiated far more worksite enforcement investigations than ICE now does. ICE
officials acknowledge that they have all but abandoned administrative fines in
favor of criminal investigations. The General Accounting Office reported last
year that the number of notices of intent to fine issued to employers for hiring
unauthorized workers dropped from 417 in 1999 to three in 2004.

"If you've got 11 to 20 million here illegally, at least a fourth of those are
working here illegally," U.S. Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), the firebrand leader
of the movement for tougher controls and sanctions, said yesterday. "It seems to
me if you were serious about worksite enforcement, the numbers of people being
arrested and or fined would be far more dramatic."

Yet some immigrant rights supporters said that aggressive worksite enforcement
could deprive illegal immigrants of the ability to find work.

"I think they should go after employers who exploit workers and violate labor
laws, but we should not be going after legitimate employers who are trying to
maintain a business but cannot find workers otherwise," said Jaime Contreras, a
labor leader and chairman of the National Capital Immigration Coalition, the
umbrella group that coordinated last week's immigrant rights rally on the Mall.
"The reality is that businesses like restaurants and hotels would not be able to
survive without undocumented workers."

Although ICE is required to enforce worksite immigration laws regardless of
whether a worker is being exploited, day laborer sites are unlikely targets for
investigation, Myers said. "Our focus is really on corporate responsibility,"
she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              25 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 13, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Bush May Widen National Guard Patrols at Border

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman and Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1166 words


President Bush will push next week for a broad overhaul of the nation's
immigration laws and plans to tighten security on the borders, possibly with a
wider deployment of the National Guard, White House officials said yesterday.

The officials said Bush will use a prime-time television address Monday to
outline his plans and then visit the U.S.-Mexico border on Thursday to highlight
the problem of illegal immigration.

Officials say he is considering substantially increasing the presence of
National Guard troops, some of whom are already deployed under state of
emergency declarations in New Mexico and Arizona. Administration officials are
exploring ways to allow governors to deploy troops across state lines to help
seal the porous border with Mexico.

The militarization of border security would be a dramatic  --  and controversial
--  gesture in the ongoing political war over illegal immigration. The military
has long maintained a small presence under the auspices of drug interdiction,
but conservatives in Congress have been pushing for a far more visible and
substantial effort.

An administration official stressed that no final decisions have been made on
deploying National Guardsmen along the border.

But congressional Republicans who back Bush's call for a guest-worker program
and a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants say that is precisely what they
need to win over House conservatives. Otherwise, the president's stand will run
headlong into a House bill, passed in December, that would make illegal
immigrants felons and build hundreds of miles of fence along the Mexican border
without offering avenues to legality for undocumented workers.

"I think members of the House will like what the president has to say on border
security," said a senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because he did not want to upstage Bush's address.

White House officials were intentionally vague on the National Guard deployment,
instead emphasizing a plan to hire more contractors to fill administrative posts
with the Border Patrol so more agents could be deployed to the frontiers.
Pentagon officials emphasized that any military support would be limited.

"Any additional [Defense Department] support for Customs and Border Protection
operations would be temporary in nature and allow CBP to recruit and train
additional personnel," said military spokeswoman Cynthia O. Smith. The main
responsibility for border security lies with the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection agency, with the military performing "a limited support role," she
said.

New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson (D) said he was concerned that the
administration had not consulted directly with him and other governors of border
states. "While the immediate deployment of troops may create a short-term fix,
it creates further problems and concerns regarding our National Guard troops who
may be called upon to respond to other emergencies and natural disasters," he
said.

The Monday night speech, Bush's first prime-time television address since
December, will come the same day the Senate takes up immigration again, more
than a month after a bipartisan compromise measure collapsed amid partisan
acrimony. This time, Senate leaders from both parties are confident that a bill
will emerge before Memorial Day, and they are already preparing for difficult
negotiations with the House.

Rallies that have brought millions of illegal immigrants and their supporters to
the streets of Washington, Los Angeles, Dallas and Chicago have convinced
politicians they must act, Republicans and Democrats say.

"The winds have shifted," said Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), who will serve
on the conference committee that will negotiate a final deal with the House.
"The American people are outraged at all of us for not controlling our borders
and coming up with a legal system that works. They are not looking for revenge.
They are looking for results."

With their agreement Thursday to bring the immigration bill back to the floor
Monday, Senate leaders practically guaranteed contentious, protracted
negotiations with the House. Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) had
said he would give up parliamentary delaying tactics only if he received
assurances that the conference committee would not be stacked against a final
bill that tightened border security, offered a new temporary work permit for
future immigrants and granted illegal immigrants a pathway to citizenship.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) had to assure conservatives opposed
to such legislation that they would have a seat at the table as well.

What they agreed to was an ideological split. Senate negotiators will include
some of the strongest supporters of the compromise legislation: Sens. Graham,
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), Arlen
Specter (R-Pa.) and Ken Salazar (D-Colo.) But the committee will also include
three of its most ardent opponents, Sens. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), John Cornyn
(R-Tex.) and Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.).

Across the table from them will be House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), the main author of the House immigration bill, who
is considered one of the toughest negotiators the House has to offer.

"Everyone is skeptical that anything can come out of conference," conceded a
House Judiciary Committee aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because
she was not cleared to speak to the media. "We've never had bills as divergent
as these."

Republicans who support the president on the issue say Bush must create the
momentum for those negotiations by forcefully making the case that it is
unrealistic to think 12 million illegal immigrants can be deported, and by
making serious commitments to seal the borders. Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.) said
Americans still remember the 1986 immigration law, when they were promised that
an amnesty for illegal immigrants would be coupled with border security and a
crackdown on businesses that employ undocumented workers. They got the amnesty,
he said, but the flow of illegal immigrants went on unabated.

Martinez told the National Press Club yesterday that "the president probably
misplaced what the Americans needed to hear" as this debate was launched. "He
needed to have spoken first about border enforcement. He spoke about a
guest-worker program," said the senator from Florida.

Sean Spicer, a spokesman for the House Republican Conference, said a tough
border security bill with a temporary worker program has the support of a
majority of Republicans and enough Democrats to secure House passage. But the
idea that illegal immigrants should also be offered a path to citizenship,
embraced by most senators and by the president, will still give most House
Republicans pause, he said. Sensenbrenner is dead set against it, according to
Judiciary Committee spokesman Jeff Lungren.

Staff writer Ann Scott Tyson contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              26 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

One Nation;
Mr. Bush wants enforcement but inclusiveness, too.

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 499 words


HOW MANY border guards would it take to make the U.S.-Mexican border
impenetrable? The answer  --  like the answer to an older question, "How many
policemen would it take to enforce Prohibition?"  --  is: It depends. It depends
on how much money people are willing to spend and how many trappings of a police
state they're willing to accept. With billions of dollars more invested in
electric fences,  guns, workplace raids, roadblocks and national identity cards,
illegal immigration could be slowed, though not halted, under current
immigration laws.

On the other hand, if those underlying laws were altered to reflect economic
reality  --  that people  cross the border because American employers want to
hire them and that they will continue to do so as long as there are jobs  --
then stricter enforcement might succeed. Grant temporary visas that allow
workers to come and go; permit those who are here to regularize their status
after paying taxes and a fine, learning English, and waiting their turn; improve
the immigration bureaucracy to cope with larger numbers of visa and green-card
applications. Then stricter border controls would have a chance.

Does President Bush understand that equation? In his speech last night, he
dwelled first on enforcement, the preferred tactic of the grass roots of his
party. He called, reasonably, for better technology, tamper-proof identity cards
for legal immigrants, more rapid deportation of captured  illegal immigrants and
more funding for local officials. Less reasonably, he also promised to deploy
the National Guard, which he already has overtaxed and under-supported.

But for the first time in such a setting, the president stated eloquently that
enforcement is not sufficient. He insisted on "comprehensive" reform, which he
said must include a temporary visa program and a route to legality for the
undocumented immigrants who are here  --  what he called a "rational middle
ground" between amnesty and deportation. This matters: At the moment there is an
immigration bill on the Senate floor  that contains some of the elements needed
for a qualitative change in U.S. immigration policy.  But the House has passed a
bill that would effectively criminalize all  of the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants in this country, while offering none of the reforms needed to make
enforcement work.

Mr. Bush will have to push hard to achieve legislation closer to the Senate
vision. He responded weakly when the House passed its draconian measure; he may
not have the political strength now to resist it. But last night was a good
start. "Our new immigrants are just what they've always been: people willing to
risk everything for the dream of freedom," the president said. "We honor the
heritage of all who come here, no matter where they come from, because we trust
in our country's genius for making us all Americans, one nation under God." Well
said; now  the president will have to persuade his party to share in that trust.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              27 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Fragile Senate Coalition Set To Pass Bill on Immigration

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1000 words


The Senate moved to the verge of passing landmark immigration legislation
yesterday, scheduling a final vote for today on a bill that would tighten the
borders while allowing millions of illegal immigrants to stay in the country and
permitting new guest workers to come and go.

But the very mixture of get-tough and be-kind measures that have made Senate
approval possible could prove the biggest obstacle to reaching an accord with
the House, where conservatives are determined to secure the borders before
tackling other matters. Senate leaders said their coalition is fragile, and it
may be hard pressed to survive changes that House members signal they will
demand this summer.

"There are plenty of things wrong with this bill, but there are plenty of things
right with it," Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) said yesterday, acknowledging
the hodgepodge of compromises built into the Senate measure that leave virtually
no one enthusiastic about it without reservation.

The Senate voted 73 to 25 to prevent endless debate on the legislation, setting
up a final vote for today. Proponents called yesterday's "cloture" vote a
bipartisan victory and a momentum-builder that virtually ensures passage of the
bill today. But some of the measure's harshest critics voted for cloture,
suggesting the final margin may be closer.

"We fought off a number of very cleverly crafted amendments that would have
basically destroyed the bill," said Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), a leader of the
Senate effort. But several battles over amendments, from the political left and
right, involved close votes in recent days, underscoring what Sen. Arlen Specter
(R-Pa.) has called "the fragile, delicate coalition that we have for this bill."

Anticipating the clash with the House, White House political adviser Karl Rove
met privately with House Republicans yesterday, urging them to move closer to
the Senate position, which President Bush embraces. He got a cold reception,
according to people who attended. In particular, they said, Rep. John Carter
(R-Tex.) testily told Rove that he was underestimating Americans' hostility to
the notion of "amnesty" for illegal immigrants, especially if there is not proof
that tougher border measures are taking effect. Rep. Sue W. Kelly (R-N.Y.) also
told Rove that the president's position was a tough sell in her district, the
sources said.

The House bill, passed in December, deals only with border and workplace
enforcement matters. The Senate bill addresses such matters, calling for a
370-mile fence along the Mexican border, 6,000 National Guard troops to support
border agents, aerial surveillance, road construction to aid border patrols, and
other items.

But the Senate bill also calls for a guest-worker program and a three-tiered
system for dealing with the estimated 11 million to 12 million illegal
immigrants in the country. Those here five years or longer would be allowed to
stay and apply for citizenship, provided they pay back taxes, learn English and
have no serious criminal records. Those here two to five years would eventually
have to return to a point of entry in Mexico or Canada and apply for a green
card, which could allow their immediate return. The roughly 2 million immigrants
who have been in the United States illegally for less than two years would be
ordered home.

Even its proponents privately agree that the three-tiered plan is an ungainly
compromise that resulted from long negotiations designed to build and hold a
centrist coalition in the Senate. The "touchback" requirement for the middle
category has especially drawn questions about its usefulness. Defenders say it
will force immigrants to undergo background checks and is symbolically important
to lawmakers who want immigrants to enter the country under legal circumstances.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) said this week that she does not believe "it is
realistic to assume that, first, the Department of Homeland Security is going to
be able to go out and deport 2 million people, and then secondly, to ensure that
the other 2.8 million leave to go back for the 'touchback' program." But
supporters of the Senate bill rejected her bid to scrap the three-tiered system,
saying it threatened to fracture their coalition.

What senators are gingerly assembling, however, is unacceptable to a significant
number of House Republicans, several lawmakers said.

"The majority of the people that I know, I don't think we are going to bend at
all on this amnesty that is known as a 'pathway to citizenship,' " Rep. Walter
B. Jones Jr. (R-N.C.) said in an interview. If Bush had cracked down on border
security four years ago, he said, the House might consider the Senate's broader
measures.

Jones and others predict that House negotiators will insist on significant
changes to the Senate version in the conference committee, which is expected to
begin work in June. But such changes could fracture the Senate's coalition,
making passage of a final compromise difficult or impossible.

"I can't be for the bill without the balance it has now," Sen. Joseph R. Biden
Jr. (D-Del.) said yesterday. The three essential elements, he said, are greater
border security, a guest-worker program and a system for dealing with illegal
immigrants similar to the three-tiered scenario.

A frequent topic of discussion in Capitol hallways is how an impasse over
immigration might affect the November midterm elections. Some Democrats say
voters will view Republicans as ineffective, because they control the House,
Senate and White House. Some Republicans predict that Senate Democrats can be
blamed if they spearhead a rejection of whatever emerges from the House-Senate
conference.

Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) warned both parties yesterday to abandon such
thoughts. "To those who believe that no bill is a good answer: You're dead
wrong," he told reporters. "The American people know what the answer should be,
it's within the body of this bill. . . . To do nothing is a political loser."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              28 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Expanded Worker Checks Would Use Faulty System

BYLINE: Griff Witte, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1332 words


A federal database program with a checkered track record could dramatically
expand to affect every U.S. employer and worker under provisions of the
immigration legislation being considered by Congress.

The program is intended to keep illegal immigrants from working in the United
States and to discourage more from entering, but in nearly a decade of
small-scale tests, it has had trouble distinguishing between those who are here
legally and those who are not. Fixing it and rolling it out nationwide could
cost more than $1 billion.

Under the proposal, employers would be required to submit information about
their employees to a federally administered electronic system that would
automatically check workers' immigration status. Supporters say it is the only
way to prevent employers from hiring illegal workers. But an unusual coalition
has emerged to oppose the idea, with labor advocates saying it would dissuade
legal immigrants from applying for work, big business groups asserting it would
be too bureaucratic and civil-liberties organizations arguing that it would
jeopardize individuals' privacy.

Their opposition softened somewhat this week after the Senate passed a
bipartisan amendment intended to give workers more protections and to make the
process less burdensome for businesses. The amendment puts the Senate's version
even more starkly at odds with a hard-line House bill that emphasizes
aggressively curbing illegal immigration by cutting off the primary incentive
--  jobs.

Many conservatives have said that neither bill goes far enough and that the
system will be too easily circumvented unless workers are required to use a
biometric identification card or other form of ID that is tough to forge.

At the center of the debate is the Basic Pilot Program, which electronically
searches a combination of Social Security and immigration databases to verify an
employee's status. Now, the Homeland Security program is small and voluntary,
with about 6,000 employers enrolled. But it would extend to each of the
country's approximately 8 million employers if Congress passes, and the
president signs, either the House or Senate version of the immigration
legislation. Employers who skirt the rules would be subject to stiff fines, with
jail sentences for repeat offenders.

"The new Senate version is a good compromise," said Tyler Moran, policy analyst
with the National Immigration Law Center, a group that advocates for low-income
immigrants. "But the pilot program's performance so far has been so dismal that
it's hard to conceive of a system that will work effectively nationwide."

Reviews of the pilot program have found that though it has the potential to
limit illegal immigration, it suffers from serious deficiencies. A Government
Accountability Office report issued in August criticized it for its inability to
catch identity fraud, for flaws in the databases and for the possibility that
employers will abuse the system.

Moran said she is especially concerned by the relatively high error rates when
it comes to legal immigrants. Nearly one in three noncitizens the electronic
system cannot initially verify are later cleared based on a manual search of the
records, according to government statistics.

Even some citizens have had trouble. Fernando Tinoco, a 51-year-old Mexican
immigrant, has been working in the United States for three decades and has been
an American citizen since 1989. But when he reported for his new job at a Tyson
Foods Inc. factory in Chicago in March, an automated search of government
records raised questions about his status. Two hours into his first day of work,
Tinoco was fired.

"I was surprised," he said. "I've never had a problem like this before."

In response to inquiries from a reporter, Tyson said Tinoco can come back to his
$8.05-an-hour job. Tinoco's attorney said yesterday that he would return at the
end of May.

Officials with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which oversees the
pilot program, say they are aware of its shortcomings and have been making
progress in fixing them.

"We hope in the next few months to see a significant improvement," said Gerri
Ratliff, chief of the CIS's verification division.

Many of the problems, she said, occur because immigration databases have not
been updated quickly enough as workers enter the country or as their status
changes.

As it is, Ratliff said, the system errs in just a small percentage of overall
cases. For every 100 names entered, only two or three go unverified in the
initial, electronic search but are later cleared in a manual check, according to
CIS statistics.

Critics of the program contend that even those error rates, when multiplied
across a labor force of about 140 million, have the potential to create mass
confusion.

"We're essentially creating a no-work list," said Timothy Sparapani, legislative
counsel at the American Civil Liberties Union. "So we can't have a situation
where the government's mistakes are preventing a person from earning a living."

The Senate amendment passed Tuesday would give workers the benefit of the doubt
until the program is proven effective, would allow workers to seek back wages
from the government if there is an error, and would, in some cases, limit
employers' liability for hiring illegal workers  --  but it would also increase
the penalties.

Many of the program's operational details are still being worked out. House and
Senate legislation differ over how quickly the program would take effect and
whether it would include all existing employees or just new hires.

Funding is also an issue. No additional money has been promised, but the
Congressional Budget Office has estimated that it would cost at least $1 billion
over the next five years to expand the program and keep it running if the
Senate's version is enacted.

Many lawmakers think the program is worth the expense. "People will keep trying
to enter illegally if they believe an employer will hire them," Rep. F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), a key backer of House legislation, said in a written
statement. "Making the Basic Pilot Program mandatory will shut off this magnet."

The Bush administration, too, has endorsed the idea, asking for $110 million in
its 2007 budget to improve the program. "That would give us the ability for the
first time to say to employers  --  all employers, not just a small group  --
now you have a tool that will allow you to check the status of your employees,"
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff told Congress in February.

Under the new system, employers would submit their employees' identification
information over either the phone or the Internet. Then, software would check
employee records against Social Security Administration and immigration
documents. In most cases, employees would be cleared immediately. But if they
are not, government workers would begin a manual search of the records to see if
a match was overlooked, a process that can take several days. If the employee is
still not cleared, he or she would be issued "a tentative nonconfirmation" and
has up to 10 business days to contest the ruling. Employers would be forbidden
from firing an employee until they receive a final notice confirming that the
worker is ineligible.

The system would replace a paper-based process in which employers certify on a
government form, known as an I-9, that they have examined their workers'
documentation and that it appears authentic. That process has been plagued with
forgeries  --  sometimes with the employer's consent or encouragement. But the
government has been virtually powerless to do anything about it because of the
difficulty of proving a company knowingly hired illegal workers.

"There's simply no way of enforcing existing law without the Basic Pilot or
something like it," said Kevin Jernegan, an immigration specialist at George
Washington University. "But nothing is as easy in practice as it appears to be
on paper."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              29 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Critics Say Bill Diminishes Due Process for Immigrants

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 799 words


The legislation approved by the Senate yesterday would offer many illegal
immigrants a chance at citizenship. But advocates of expanded immigration rights
complain that "hidden traps" woven through the bill's 300 pages erode
significant due-process protections for all foreign-born people living in the
United States.

A coalition of civil rights, religious and legal groups says the legislation
would make it easier for the government to detain or deport immigrants  --
whether in the country legally or not  --  while making it more difficult for
them to prove they deserve asylum or naturalization.

One provision would add to the list of acts considered "aggravated felonies"
under immigration law  --  automatic grounds for removal from the country. The
rewritten list would include carrying fraudulent documents. According to
immigration and civil rights lawyers, that change could prompt the government to
expel people who use such documents to escape oppressive regimes or those who
have been working in the United States for years under false Social Security
numbers.

Another change would give federal courts less latitude to review the cases of
immigrants who have applied for asylum or citizenship and been turned down by
immigration boards. Currently, U.S. circuit courts consider such appeals from
scratch. Under the bill, courts could consider only whether the immigration
agency had any reasonable grounds for its decision  --  not whether its decision
was correct.

The bill also would give Border Patrol officers new powers to jail and deport,
without a judge's review, immigrants suspected of having recently crossed into
the country illegally. Border officers would be allowed to make such decisions
on their own for any foreigners, except Mexicans, they stop within 100 miles of
the Mexican or Canadian line. The provision essentially would cement in law a
controversial policy that the Department of Homeland Security has phased in
during the past few years.

Critics predict that it would lead to racial profiling, and they complain that
the enforcement area is so wide it would encompass several major cities,
including San Diego, El Paso and Detroit.

The changes indicate that the bill is far more intricate than its public image
as a measure that is relatively friendly to immigrants, particularly in
comparison with an immigration measure passed by the House late last year.

The merits of the changes are a matter of intense debate.

"We had counted on senators taking the time to eliminate . . . the unwise and
unsound provisions that strike due process," said Timothy D. Sparapani,
legislative counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union. "And the Senate
failed to do its job."

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that favors low immigration, disagreed. "The limits on what the other side
calls 'due process' are actually essential if we are going to get control of the
immigration system," he said.

Krikorian said so many illegal immigrants are crossing into the country that the
immigration and judicial systems do not have the capacity to review every case.
"We need to restrict the amount of access illegals have to the court system.
There is nothing morally problematic about it. It's not a criminal matter. We
are simply deciding whether they should stay in the country or be sent home," he
said.

Late yesterday afternoon, the Senate removed from the bill one provision that
had alarmed immigration rights groups. An amendment sponsored by Sens. Dianne
Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Sam Brownback (R-Kan.) eliminated a section that would
have made it more difficult for immigrants to avoid being deported while they
are appealing asylum or other applications.

Still, Paul M. Igasaki, executive director of a coalition called the Rights
Working Group, said that, on balance, the Senate measure represents "a very
serious deterioration of the rights of immigrants."

In several instances, the Senate essentially embraced the due-process
restrictions included in the House bill. In at least a few ways, however,
senators included provisions that are stricter than those created by the House.

Nancy Morawetz, a law professor at New York University, said that in the Senate
version legal residents would be counted as having committed an aggravated
felony if they had been convicted repeatedly of driving under the influence of
alcohol, even if the convictions happened years ago.

And only the Senate bill, Morawetz said, would create penalties for legal
residents if they do not notify the government when they move. She said the
requirement has existed for years, but many immigrants do not know they are
supposed to file an address change and the federal government has done a poor
job of keeping track.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 27, 2006



CORRECTION:  A May 26 article on the Senate-passed immigration bill incorrectly
identified a co-sponsor of an amendment that eliminated a section that would
have made it more difficult for immigrants to avoid being deported while they
are appealing asylum applications. The co-sponsor was Sen. Russell Feingold
(D-Wis.), not Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              30 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 7, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Pushes Immigration Plan in New Mexico

BYLINE: Michael Abramowitz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 732 words

DATELINE: ARTESIA, N.M. June 6


President Bush returned to the U.S.-Mexico border region Tuesday to tout what he
described as a growing consensus around proposed immigration reforms and see
firsthand how new border agents are being taught to keep people from entering
the country illegally.

In Washington, House Republicans are showing little  sign of meeting the
president's demands on a comprehensive immigration plan. But appearing at the
training facility here for  border agents, Bush sounded an optimistic note that
agreement is possible on plans to increase border security, crack down on
employers hiring illegal immigrants and help immigrants assimilate into  U.S.
society.

"People are coming to the conclusion we got to do something about a system that
isn't working," said Bush, clad in shirt sleeves in the searing sun. "And while
the differences grab the headlines, the similarities in approaches are
striking."

Bush broke little ground substantively in his speech to border agents and agents
in training, repeating many of the same points he had made since announcing his
general approach to immigration in a nationally televised address last month.
But aides say he is trying to build grass-roots support in advance of
negotiations aimed at reconciling House and Senate bills that take sharply
different approaches toward undocumented workers.

The president is also trying quiet diplomacy. Joining Bush on Air Force One on
the trip  from Washington were two New Mexico representatives who have been
critical of the president for various aspects of his plan, Democrat Tom Udall
and Republican Steve Pearce. During the trip, Pearce said, the two received a
briefing from David Aguilar, chief of the  Border Patrol, who outlined a more
aggressive approach to keeping illegal immigrants from entering New Mexico.

"They actually have begun to develop a comprehensive plan for securing the
border which we have not seen before,"  Pearce said.

A key sticking point for Pearce and other House Republicans is the president's
plan for resolving the status of millions of illegal immigrants already in this
country. The bill approved by the Senate would allow illegal immigrants who have
been here at least five years a way to become citizens if they pay fines and
back taxes and learn English; the House plan would make illegal presence in this
country a felony.

The president has been supportive of the Senate approach, and in his speech
Tuesday indicated that he does not regard such an approach as "amnesty"  because
illegal immigrants would have to get behind legal immigrants in line for
citizenship. He added:  "If Congress is worried about the number of people
getting in, they can decrease the number of green cards.  . . . If you want a
longer line for people, issue fewer green cards."

Despite  Bush's growing emphasis on border security, House conservatives remain
wary of any final bill that would make undocumented  immigrants legal. Despite
the president's statement, "most Americans" consider his plan to be amnesty,
said Rep. Mike Pence (R-Ind.), a leading conservative. "There's just no support
at home or in my heart."

But New Mexico's Democratic governor, Bill Richardson, who attended the  speech
here and met privately with Bush, said the president indicated he would deploy
even more assets to overcome such doubts. "I came away with two strong
impressions  --  that he is sincerely eager to get a comprehensive bill, and
that at the appropriate time he will weigh in heavily," Richardson said.

Before his speech here, Bush watched as agents in training staged various scenes
depicting what it is like to work on the border. First was a document check of
passengers on a bus, followed by agents scrambling over three train cars,
yelling statements such as   "All clear on the bottom" as lids and  doors
clanged. Bush also watched as agents staged a routine traffic stop,  speaking in
Spanish to a suspect who had his hands up while they trained on him what
appeared to be plastic guns.  He later flew to Laredo, Tex., to visit  a
regional Border Patrol facility.  He watched  screens monitoring different
points on the border.

Earlier, he made an unannounced stop at Cotulla Style Pit Bar-B-Q,   where he
greeted diners in Spanish and English before sitting down with a dozen or so
border agents around a long table. "Why don't we bring a couple of plates of
nachos?" he asked.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              31 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 21, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

GOP Plans Hearings on Issue of Immigrants;
Field Sessions May Delay Talks on Hill

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman and Shailagh Murray, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 880 words


In a move that could bury President Bush's high-profile effort to overhaul
immigration law until after the midterm elections, House GOP leaders yesterday
announced a series of field hearings during the August recess, pushing off final
negotiations on a bill until fall at the earliest.

The announcement was the clearest sign yet that House Republicans have largely
given up on passing a broad rewrite of the nation's immigration laws this year.
They believe that their get-tough approach  --  including building a wall along
the border with Mexico and deporting millions of illegal immigrants  --  is far
more popular with voters than the approach backed by Bush and the Senate, which
would create a guest-worker program and allow many illegal immigrants to apply
for U.S. citizenship.

House GOP leaders said yesterday that several committee chairmen will hold field
hearings in congressional districts in the Southwest, the South and other areas
where the issue of illegal immigration is especially potent. Those hearings will
take place before the start of the formal negotiating process between the House
and Senate, which could take months to complete given the complexity of the
issue and the competing business, labor and social concerns.

"I'm not putting any timeline on this thing, but I think we need this thing done
right," Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) said after a House leadership
strategy session.

Senate negotiators played down the hearings, noting that informal talks had
already started between the House and the Senate. "There's a general recognition
that we need a bill," said Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter
(R-Pa.), a key backer of the Senate legislation. "We're going to get together.
We're going to sit down and try to work it all out."

Asked whether a deal could be struck with the Senate this fall, in the throes of
a difficult reelection season, House Majority Whip Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) allowed: "I
think that's possible. I don't know how likely it is."

White House spokeswoman Dana Perino sought to put the House announcement in a
positive light, saying the field hearings could "possibly provide an opportunity
to air out issues" that she conceded are "complex." But she added: "The
president is undeterred in his efforts to pass comprehensive immigration
reform."

Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), who is leading the fight against the Senate plan,
said: "Odds were long that any so-called 'compromise bill' would get to the
president's desk this year. . . . The nail was already put in the coffin of the
Senate's amnesty plan. These hearings probably lowered it into the grave."

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), one of the main authors of the Senate plan,
called the announcement "a cynical delaying tactic."

The House move was widely viewed as a slap at Bush, who is seeking a
comprehensive immigration bill along the lines of the one approved by the Senate
on May 25, which would tighten border controls, establish a guest-worker program
for future immigrants and offer most of the nation's estimated 12 million
illegal residents a chance to become citizens. The announcement came shortly
after Bush left on a trip to Europe.

House Republicans have long frowned upon the president's approach. In December,
they passed a bill that would tighten border controls, clamp down on employers
who hire undocumented workers, and declare illegal immigrants and those who
assist them to be felons. Their position was solidified this month after
Republican Brian Bilbray defeated Democrat Francine Busby by running against
Bush's immigration plan in a hard-fought special election to replace imprisoned
former congressman Randy "Duke" Cunningham (R-Calif.).

Since then, House leaders have dragged their feet on naming negotiators to a
House-Senate conference to reconcile the chambers' two bills. The field
hearings, which will be conducted through Labor Day, will be held at the
discretion of the chairmen of the Judiciary Committee, the Homeland Security
Committee, the Government Reform Committee and any other House committee that
can demonstrate tangential jurisdiction over immigration, GOP leaders said.

GOP aides said the topics could include the Senate's decision to allow
undocumented workers to keep Social Security benefits earned while they worked
in the country illegally; the Senate requirement that illegal workers be
required to pay taxes on three of their last five years of income to become
eligible to apply for citizenship; and the assertion that the Senate plan could
allow as many as 100 million new immigrants into the country over the next 20
years.

"We clearly want to solve this problem," said House Majority Leader John A.
Boehner (R-Ohio). "But the House bill is very different than the Senate bill,
and I think we want to have a clear understanding of what is in that bill."

The field hearings "will be about forming a credible strategy and a credible
plan to secure the borders," said Rep. Eric I. Cantor (R-Va.), the House GOP's
chief deputy whip. "That's what the issue is. Once we can accomplish that, we
can begin to talk about the rest of the equation, the 12 million illegals here,
et cetera."

Hastert added: "Right now, I haven't heard a lot of pressure to have a path to
citizenship."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              32 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 23, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Ruling Opens Door to Deportations;
Justices Say Immigration Law Can Be Applied Retroactively

BYLINE: Charles Lane, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A16

LENGTH: 599 words


The Supreme Court endorsed a tough application of immigration law to certain
longtime illegal immigrants, clearing the way for summary deportations of
perhaps thousands who have been living in the United States for a decade or
more.

By a vote of 8 to 1, the court ruled that the U.S. government properly sent Utah
truck driver Humberto Fernandez-Vargas back to Mexico in 2004 because he
returned to the U.S. illegally in 1982 after having been previously deported.

The court ruled that he and others in a similar position are covered
retroactively by the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act, which says illegal immigrants who reenter the country after
a previous deportation must be removed, usually with no opportunity for an
appeal or change in immigration status, and must stay away for at least 10
years.

The ruling does not change the legal situation facing immigrants in most of the
Washington area, because the federal court of appeals that covers Maryland and
Virginia had already ruled in favor of the government  --  though the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit  had not yet addressed the
question.

But the impact on immigrant-heavy California, Arizona and other Western states,
which account for about 45 percent of all immigration cases in the federal
courts of appeals, could be significant.

There are no official statistics on how many of the country's estimated 12
million illegal residents entered after a previous deportation before 1997 and
would thus be directly affected by the ruling.

But in one of its briefs in the case, Fernandez-Vargas v. Gonzales, No. 04-1376,
the Bush administration said it "believes that the number is substantial and is
likely to remain so for some time," adding that the application of the 1996 law
to them is "of significant practical importance."

Fernandez-Vargas has no criminal record. In 2001, he married a U.S. citizen,
with whom he already had a son, and applied for legal status on that basis. But
immigration authorities arrested him and deported him, citing the 1996 law.

Fernandez-Vargas, who now lives in Juarez, Mexico, said his case should have
been covered by the law that was in force in 1982, when he reentered the United
States, which would have permitted those with clean criminal records to remain
in the country while applying for legal status.

Justice David H. Souter wrote for the majority yesterday that there was no
problem in applying the law retroactively because it does not deprive
Fernandez-Vargas or others of any rights they were legitimately entitled to.

Fernandez-Vargas was to blame for his own predicament, Souter wrote, because he
had plenty of notice that the new law was going into effect in 1997 and  he
could have left for Mexico and applied for legal admission from there.

In a dissenting opinion, Justice John Paul Stevens wrote of the "harsh
consequences" the court's ruling will have for "thousands of individuals."

Separately, the court ruled 7 to 2 that criminal defendants bear the burden of
proving a claim that they broke the law only because someone else forced them
to.

The case, Dixon v. United States, No. 05-7053, was closely watched by advocates
for victims of domestic violence, because Keshia Dixon contended that she had
illegally purchased guns at a gun show under threat from her abusive boyfriend.

Dixon argued that the federal government should have to disprove her defense
beyond a reasonable doubt. But Stevens wrote for the majority that neither the
Constitution nor looser common-law rules supported her position.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              33 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Hearings Likely to Delay Bus ...

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 900 words


In a move that could bury President Bush's  effort to overhaul immigration law
until after the midterm elections, House GOP leaders announced a series of field
hearings during the August recess, pushing off final negotiations on a bill
until fall at the earliest.

The announcement was the clearest sign yet that House Republicans have largely
given up on passing a broad rewrite of the nation's immigration laws this year.
They believe that their get-tough approach  --  including building a wall along
the border with Mexico and deporting millions of illegal immigrants  --  is
more popular with voters than the approach backed by Bush and the Senate, which
would create a guest-worker program and allow many illegal immigrants to apply
for U.S. citizenship.

House GOP leaders said Tuesday that several committee chairmen will hold field
hearings in congressional districts in the Southwest, South and other areas
where the illegal immigration issue is especially potent. Those hearings will
take place before the start of the formal negotiating process between the House
and Senate, which could take months to complete given the complexity of the
issue and the competing business, labor and social concerns.

--  Jonathan Weisman

and Shailagh Murray

The number of rapes per capita in the United States has plunged by more than 85
percent since the 1970s, and reported rape fell last year even while other
violent offenses increased, according to federal crime data.

This seemingly stunning reduction in sexual violence has been so consistent over
the past two decades that some experts say they have started to believe it is
accurate, even if they cannot fully explain why it is occurring.

In 1979, according to a Justice Department estimate based on a wide-ranging
public survey, there were 2.8 rapes for every 1,000 people. In 2004, the same
survey found the rate had decreased to 0.4 per thousand.

Many criminologists and victims' advocates say these numbers could be a
statistical mirage, because rape is still underreported and poorly understood.
But others say they have been convinced that there is real improvement and that
a devastating crime has been receding from American life.

--  David A. Fahrenthold

A federal jury found former White House aide David Safavian guilty of lying and
obstructing justice, making him the highest-ranking government official to be
convicted in the  scandal involving former lobbyist Jack Abramoff.

Safavian, a former chief of staff of the General Services Administration, was
convicted in U.S. District Court in Washington of covering up his many efforts
to assist Abramoff in acquiring two properties controlled by the GSA, and also
of concealing facts about a lavish weeklong golf trip he took with Abramoff to
Scotland and London in the summer of 2002.

This was the first Abramoff-related legal action to go to trial and face a jury.
Several legal experts said the case could embolden federal prosecutors to seek
additional indictments against cronies of Abramoff, who has been cooperating
with the Justice Department since pleading guilty in January to corrupting
public officials.

The jury found Safavian guilty of obstructing an inquiry by the inspector
general's office of the GSA and of lying to the Senate Indian Affairs Committee,
a GSA ethics officer and the GSA inspector general. He was acquitted of
obstructing the Senate's probe. He faces as much as 20 years in jail and $1
million in fines; sentencing was set for Oct. 12.

Safavian's attorney, Barbara Van Gelder, said she will seek a new trial.

Safavian, 38, is the fifth person to be found guilty in legal actions connected
to Abramoff, the once-powerful lobbyist who has pleaded guilty to charges of
fraud, tax evasion and conspiracy to bribe government officials. Like Abramoff,
the other four negotiated plea agreements and did not go to trial.

--  Jeffrey H. Birnbaum

The Supreme Court said new limits could be set regarding the federal
government's power to enforce the 34-year-old Clean Water Act, but a set of
opinions handed down by the justices did little to define what those limits
might be.

The splintered decision was the clearest sign yet that the court's long-standing
ideological divisions have not disappeared with the addition of two conservative
justices. It also underscored that, perhaps more than ever, forming a majority
in significant cases depends on winning the vote of a single justice:  moderate
conservative Anthony M. Kennedy.

In Monday's ruling, a five-justice majority agreed that the Army Corps of
Engineers, the lead federal agency on wetlands regulation, had exceeded its
authority when it denied two Michigan developers permits to build on wetlands.
The court said the Corps had gone beyond the Clean Water Act by making
landowners obtain permits to dump rocks and dirt not only in marshes directly
next to lakes and rivers, but also in areas linked to larger bodies of water
only through a network of ditches and drains.

But there was no clear majority as to where the Corps should have drawn the
line, with a four-justice plurality made up of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.
and Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. arguing for
an across-the-board reduction in the Corps' regulatory role but with Kennedy
rejecting that view and calling for a case-by-case approach.

--  Charles Lane

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              34 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

REGIONAL BRIEFS

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 198 words


IMMIGRAnt WORKER PROGRAM

The Salvadoran government launched a campaign yesterday to persuade 225,000 of
its citizens living in the United States under a temporary work program to
re-register and avoid becoming illegal immigrants.

Registration for the program, called temporary protected status, opens Monday
and closes Sept. 1. The permits, if renewed,  allow immigrants to live and work
legally in the United States for another year. Immigrants from other Central
American countries were slow to re-up for the program recently because they
hoped that Congress would overhaul immigration law and legalize undocumented
immigrants. Last month, thousands of Hondurans and Nicaraguans who qualified for
the program did not register and became illegal, immigration officials said.

The Salvadoran government will distribute 300,000 brochures encouraging
enrollment. It also will send a recorded message to those who have called El
Salvador from the United States, on which Salvadoran President Elias Antonio
Saca encourages qualifying immigrants to re-enroll.

"This is one of the most important priorities for our country," Saca said
yesterday at the Salvadoran Embassy.

--  Krissah Williams

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              35 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Enforcement-Plus Is Critical;
Any immigration bill must include a path to legalization.

SECTION: Editorial; A14

LENGTH: 406 words


AS REPUBLICANS this week began a series of hearings on immigration policy,
President Bush was reportedly signaling new openness to compromise designed to
produce legislation this year. The compromise, according to a report in the New
York Times, would center on "enforcement-first": improve border security, as a
majority of House Republicans want, and only then move on to the guest-worker
program and legalization for illegal immigrants that Mr. Bush and a majority of
senators favor.

In principle such a compromise makes sense, but there are many ways it could go
wrong. The rationale goes something like this: Congress has tried immigration
reform before, most recently in 1986. That measure provided a path to
legalization for undocumented workers and promised tougher enforcement to
discourage illegal immigration, but the tougher enforcement never came, so the
illegal immigrants kept coming. This time, therefore, the government should
prove its commitment to controlling the nation's borders before offering hope to
the 11 million or so illegal immigrants here now. Some version of amnesty
(though the word won't be used) would be more palatable if Americans knew it
wouldn't be repeated every decade or two.

The danger, though, is that "enforcement-first" will devolve into
"enforcement-only," which would be both inhumane and impractical. So Mr. Bush,
if he is exploring a compromise, should insist that enforcement and a path to
citizenship remain part of one legislative package. The path to citizenship
should be generous enough, and free enough of bureaucratic requirements, to be
meaningful to most immigrants who have followed every other law since arriving
here (including paying taxes). The comprehensive package should include a
healthy enough increase in legal immigration to meet the needs of a growing U.S.
economy, on both the high-tech and low-wage ends.

Most important, the delay in implementing these measures can't be indefinite  --
and can't depend on conditions that will never be met. The legalization part of
the package could wait for a year or two while the administration beefs up
border patrols and workplace inspections. But it can't depend on some promise of
decreased immigration that can never be met or measured.

In the end, enforcement-only won't work; and Mr. Bush, who knows that, shouldn't
accept a disguised version of enforcement-only simply because he wants some
legislation this year.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              36 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 20, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Backers Rally In Chicago

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO July 19


Thousands of people supporting more lenient treatment of illegal immigrants
marched through downtown Chicago and rallied at the lakefront Wednesday, calling
for a moratorium on deportations.

The marchers chanted: "We are Americans!"  Others hoisted U.S. flags and signs
with messages such as "Deportation equals broken families" and "We build your
American dream."

Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D.-Ill) fired up the crowd at the rally in Grant Park,
telling them: "It is through your actions and mobilizations that you will get
Congress to act on immigration reform."

Philip Cline, Chicago police superintendent, estimated the crowd at 10,000 and
said  the event was peaceful,  with no arrests. Event organizers said they
believe 50,000 participated.

The focus of the city's third-largest immigration rally since March was to urge
the government to stop deporting illegal immigrants and to put a moratorium on
sanctions against businesses that employ them, while Congress debates
immigration legislation.

"It causes an economic crisis  as well as hurt these people's personal lives
when they get deported," said Emma Lozano, executive director of one of the
organizing groups, Centro Sin Fronteras.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              37 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 22, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Views on Immigration From Georgia

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 466 words


I was disappointed to read in The Post that I am an "advocate of deporting
illegal immigrants" as a solution to the immigration debate ["U.S. Border Town,
1,200 Miles From the Border; Georgia's 'Carpet Capital' Relies on Immigrants,"
front page, July 17]. Not only is this inaccurate but The Post failed to check
with my office to verify my  position.

Reforming immigration laws is the most emotional and politically charged issue I
have worked on during my 12 years in Congress. I don't think that rounding up
all of the estimated 11 million to 12  million  illegal immigrants in the United
States and sending them home is a realistic or practical solution to the serious
situation our country faces. At the same time, we should not  reward those who
have broken laws by giving them an easy pathway to  citizenship.

I believe there is a common-sense solution somewhere between deporting all
illegal immigrants and giving all illegal immigrants access to citizenship. We
can have an effective temporary worker program that addresses the problem
without making the same mistakes Congress made during the 1986 amnesty.

Last year I introduced legislation to create a "blue card" to give foreign
workers non-immigrant work-related status so that they and their employers could
comply with U.S. immigration law. While my provision is specifically focused on
agricultural workers, I believe it could be expanded to encompass all sectors of
our economy.

SAXBY CHAMBLISS

U.S. Senator (R-Ga.)

Washington

*

There's an interesting parallel to the situation of immigrants in Dalton, Ga. At
the birth of the carpet industry in Dalton, people like Shaheen Shaheen (who was
quoted and pictured) were themselves immigrants. His son and I were friends in
school, growing up there. The boom days in the late 1940s and '50s attracted
many immigrant families who helped build the industry, much like what is
happening today.

My parents were farmers who came from other parts of the state, but growing up
in this small town I had friends who were born in other places or whose parents
were first-generation Americans. I recall knowing people from India, Britain,
the Middle East and Eastern Europe, which seems unusual for a small town in the
middle of nowhere in the '50s.

This diversity contributed to the growth of the industry and the quality of the
school system, health-care facilities and government in that corner of Georgia.
Without that diversity, Dalton would have been just another mill town.

I appreciate what a difference the immigrants who came to Dalton in the '40s and
'50s made for the town and for me. It will be interesting to see what Dalton is
like in another 25 years, after the current wave of immigrants has been
assimilated (or run out of town).

JEFF CHANDLER

Falls Church

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              38 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 28, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Rights Groups Split Over Senate Bill

BYLINE: Anushka Asthana, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 1027 words


Even as Congress is stalled over legislation dealing with the growing number of
illegal immigrants, a split has emerged among pro-immigrant rights groups over
whether to back the Senate measure, seen as the more lenient of the two bills
being considered by lawmakers.

A number of the larger and more well-known organizations, such as the National
Immigration Forum and the National Council of La Raza, back the Senate bill,
albeit reluctantly. But a growing number of other liberal immigrant rights
advocates, dismayed at what they say are onerous provisions of the Senate
measure, are now saying they would prefer that Congress not enact an immigration
law this year.

The split among pro-immigrant rights groups has the potential of complicating
efforts by lawmakers to cobble together compromise legislation between the House
and Senate versions, which some advocates say suits them just fine.

"Neither the House nor the Senate bill in current form can be effectively,
fairly and wisely implemented," said Rick Swartz, a Washington lawyer who has
often coordinated legislative efforts for pro-immigration groups. "Therefore,
better no law than a bad law."

The Senate measure, sponsored by Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and John
McCain (R-Ariz.), contains a guest-worker program and provides a means for many
illegal immigrants to gain citizenship. It is backed by President Bush but
vilified by supporters of the House bill, which emphasizes tough enforcement of
immigration laws.

But a number of liberal, pro-immigrant rights advocates said the Senate bill
contains "dangerous" loopholes that could criminalize individuals, including
legal immigrants, for helping family members or friends who are in the country
illegally.

"So far, both bills do not meet the requirements we think are needed for
successful reform," said Judith Golub, executive director of the Immigrant Legal
Resource Center, a San Francisco-based organization that aims to advance
immigrant rights. "While the Senate bill has some good provisions, it also has
some that are fatally flawed."

John J. Sweeney, president of the AFL-CIO, previously said he was deeply
disappointed with the Senate bill: "This is not the time to start popping
champagne corks."

Immigrant rights groups supporting the Senate measure acknowledged that it is
flawed. But they said it is headed in the right direction and support it to head
off enactment of the House bill.

"We have concerns, but this is a battle for the hearts and minds of the people,"
said Angela Kelley, deputy director at the National Immigration Forum. "First
and foremost, the battle has to be won to put to bed the notion of enforcement
first and enforcement alone. I want to make the Senate bill better, but I want
to win the first battle before we begin the second."

Supporters such as the Immigration Forum and La Raza calculated that if they can
beat back the House bill, they will be able to eliminate or soften provisions in
the Senate bill they find objectionable. Michele Waslin, director of immigration
policy research for La Raza, said her organization has "deep concerns with many
of its provisions. We supported its passage, because it's important to advance
the debate. But we understand that vast improvements will need to be made if it
gets into law."

Immigrant rights advocates who oppose the Senate bill said they reached their
conclusions after close scrutiny of the measure. A report from the Immigrant
Legal Resource Center said that teachers could be prosecuted if they helped
undocumented students, although this is an interpretation disputed by others.

Some fear that U.S. citizens or legal immigrants who have sent money to family
members abroad that was used in an attempt to enter the United States illegally
could find themselves facing criminal charges. Caroline Fredrickson, director of
the American Civil Liberties Union's Washington legislative office, said neither
bill offered adequate safeguards for U.S. citizens and legal immigrants: "We
have always thought both bills were bad. We think it is better to start from
scratch."

Their opposition stems from the fact that both the Senate and the House reforms
would make more people vulnerable to jail sentences for crimes that would
normally be considered misdemeanors. Both expand the number of acts considered
"aggravated felonies" for immigration purposes. This means that immigrants who
have lived legally in the United States for decades could find themselves
detained and deported for relatively minor crimes.

"The increasing criminalization of immigration law violations under either the
Senate or the House bills raises many concerns from both a legal and a social
policy perspective," said Stephen Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at
Cornell Law School.

Some of the consequences of the Senate bill that Yale-Loehr pointed to include
the fact that employers could face time in jail for omitting information from an
employee's immigration form.

It would also limit, for the first time, the right of some U.S. citizens, who
have committed certain sex offenses, such as statutory rape, to petition to
obtain green cards for spouses or children. The bill also calls for
long-unenforced law that says green-card holders could face detention if they
did not fill a change-of-address card within 10 days of moving.

"People are looking at how the legislation impacts on the 12 million
undocumented people. They should look at how this will affect the other 12
million legal residents," Golub said. "This not about enforcement; it is about
eliminating due process, eliminating civil liberties."

Those who support tighter immigration controls said the people who are
criticizing the bills want complete amnesty for illegal immigrants. Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a think
tank that supports more controls, said: "The Senate comes up with the most
radical, anti-enforcement bill ever considered, and it is still not enough.
These complaints are from people who want the Senate bill to be a pure amnesty,
and any effort of combining that with tougher measures is odious to them."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              39 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 2, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Bill Would Add 20 Million Legal Immigrants, Report Says

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 907 words


The nation's population of legal immigrants would increase by nearly 20 million
over the next decade if the recently passed Senate immigration bill becomes law,
and taxpayers would spend more than $50 billion to operate a new guest-worker
program and pay for extra welfare, Social Security and public health-care costs,
according to a Congressional Budget Office report.

But the cost of absorbing the newcomers would be offset by a boost of $66
billion in federal revenue from income taxes and payroll taxes generated by the
temporary guest-worker program, along with fees that immigrants must pay to
participate, the report said.

By 2016, about 8 million immigrants would enter the United States as temporary
guest workers, and 11 million immigrants who now live in the country illegally
would become permanent legal residents under provisions of the bill.

The report, the first definitive look at the impact of the Senate bill, was
commissioned by the Senate Finance Committee and was submitted on May 16, nine
days before the measure was passed. The study has been embraced by the Bush
administration and the bill's supporters, but opponents said crucial omissions
greatly lowered its population and cost estimates.

Critics said the report does not take into account the 950,000 newcomers who
enter the country legally under current immigration law, bringing the 10-year
total of new immigrants to about 30 million. Some say that number will double by
2026.

The report also does not consider the possibility of future mass illegal border
crossings that might occur in spite of technological enhancement and increased
personnel along the Southern border, according to critics.

An explosion of immigrants is one reason that House Republicans say they are
strongly opposed to the Senate bill, and have vowed to fight it when members of
the two chambers meet for negotiations in a congressional conference. Supporters
of the Senate's approach, which is backed by President Bush, say they will stand
firm.

"We can build miles of fences, but the fact remains that immigrants will still
come because employers need workers and immigrants want jobs," said Sen. Edward
M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who fought for a guest-worker program. "It's far better
for American jobs and wages to have a practical, common-sense policy of legal
immigration, than to continue leaving millions of immigrants underground and
underpaid."

Will Adams, a spokesman for Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), who opposes granting
residency to illegal immigrants, called legal immigration "the soft underbelly
of the Senate bill." It is overlooked in the debate, he said, "but when it's
exposed, the public is outraged."

Robert E. Rector, a senior research fellow in domestic policy studies at the
conservative Heritage Foundation, said the bill "is horrendous." Assisting tens
of millions of low-income workers with less than a high school education would
lead to costs in welfare, health care, housing and other areas that far exceed
the half-billion dollars the government already pays each year, he said.

"Once [illegal immigrants] become legal, they are going to receive welfare
that's vastly disproportionate to the taxes that they're going to pay," Rector
said. High school dropouts, immigrants or not, earn about $22,000 yearly and pay
far fewer taxes than middle-class Americans. "There's no way they can contribute
to the cost of educating their children. The cost they impose on government . .
. far exceeds anything they bring in in terms of tax revenue."

The budget office report, compiled with help from the Joint Committee on
Taxation, disputed that account, as did others who took issue with Rector's
belief that the Senate bill would increase the immigrant population by 60
million.

Earlier, Rector predicted an even higher number: 100 million. He updated the
figure after an amendment to the bill capped the yearly number of guest workers
at 200,000 per year.

Alan Reynolds, a senior fellow for the libertarian Cato Institute, said Rector's
estimates "are preposterous." He accused Rector of compounding numbers to reach
an alarming total and not taking into account that most immigrants who would
become legal citizens already live in the country.

"They're basically saying, 'Gee, if we keep illegals illegal, then we would have
fewer legal residents,' " Reynolds said.

A report released yesterday by the National Foundation for American Policy also
said Rector "overstated the numbers." Stuart Anderson, executive director of the
foundation, said most "new entrants" who would become legal residents currently
live in the United States. In 20 years, the net total of new entrants would be
about 47 million.

Rector is supported by other groups, including the Center for Immigration
Studies and NumbersUSA, two opponents of increased immigration. He said his
concern about the number of immigrants is outweighed by the cost.

According to the Congressional Budget Office, 750,000 immigrants would be
eligible to receive food stamps, and 1.3 million would be eligible for some form
of Medicaid, in addition to other benefits.

The cost of providing food stamps, Medicare, Medicaid and visa fees for guest
workers would total $5 billion between 2009 and 2016.  An additional $6.5
billion would be needed for new residents who unite with families. Providing
services to illegal immigrants who become permanent legal residents would cost
$10 billion more.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              40 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 17, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Guest Workers Sue New Orleans Hotel Chain;
Immigrants Say Decatur Group Failed to Deliver on Promised Employment

BYLINE: Julia Cass, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 682 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS Aug. 16


Latin Americans hired as legal "guest workers" by a major hotel group filed a
federal lawsuit Wednesday contending that they were recruited with false
promises of good earnings and instead have been left with thousands of dollars
in debt for their visas, recruitment fees and journeys here.

They are among the thousands of legal and illegal immigrants who came after
Hurricane Katrina, in some cases replacing African Americans displaced by the
storm.

The 82 guest workers from Bolivia, Peru and the Dominican Republic paid between
$3,500 and $5,000 to recruiting firms working on behalf of Decatur Hotels LLC,
which owns 15 hotels in the historic areas of New Orleans, to work in
maintenance, housekeeping and other service departments.

They came here under the federal H-2B visa program, in which employers must
stipulate that they cannot find U.S. workers to fill the jobs. The guest workers
contend that Decatur Hotels has not provided them with the promised 40 hours of
work per week.

"Under immigration law, they are bound to their employer and cannot legally work
for anybody else," said Mary Bauer, attorney for the Immigrant Justice Project
of the Montgomery, Alabama-based Southern Poverty Law Center, which brought the
suit with the Washington, D.C.-based National Immigration Law Center and New
Orleans civil rights lawyer Tracie L. Washington. "Their debt makes them
desperate to work  --  but Decatur doesn't give them enough hours. And if they
switch jobs, they're breaking the law. They are captive workers in a situation
of virtual debt peonage."

In a copy of an H-2B application form filed by a representative of Decatur with
the U.S. Labor Department, the company states that it tried unsuccessfully to
find U.S. workers through newspaper ads and Internet searches, that local
students could not work sufficient hours and that no evacuees applied.

The lawsuit contends that U.S. workers were available and that the company's
goal in hiring foreigners was to drive down wages. "I don't think they looked
that hard," Washington said.

F. Patrick Quinn III, Decatur's co-founder and president, said in a statement
that after the hurricane displaced much of the local workforce, the company
contracted with an international recruitment company. He said the company last
week offered to meet with "the small group of workers who were expressing
concerns" but that the offer was refused. It is not clear how many foreign
workers Decatur employs; the lawsuit estimates at least 300.

At a news conference in front of the federal courthouse, about 20 workers held
signs that said "Dignidad," and several choked up as they described their
personal ordeals. In their home countries, they were government workers,
secretaries, mechanics, carpenters, university students. They did the math and
figured they would come out ahead if they were paid the $6.02 to $7.79 an hour
for the 40-hour week specified in their nine-month contracts. They said they
also were told they could expect a substantial amount of overtime at a higher
rate.

"I think I am coming here for an opportunity, but instead I am having the most
worst living nightmare," said Luis Lopez, 34, a room service worker at the
Decatur group's Astor Crowne Plaza at the edge of the French Quarter. In the
Dominican Republic, he worked at an architecture firm. Salaries there are low,
he said, and he signed up with a recruiting firm in Santo Domingo seeking
workers for Decatur after hearing about the opportunity from a friend. He
borrowed money from a bank and family members to pay for the visa, recruitment
fees and travel.

Lopez arrived in April and at first worked 40-hour weeks. Then the hours slacked
off, and he has not worked for several weeks. His last two-week paycheck was for
$18, he said. He lives with three other workers in a room in a Decatur-owned
hotel for guest workers, for which each pays $50 a week. "I would not have come
if I had known the truth," he said.

The suit seeks payment of double the workers' visa, travel and recruitment
expenses as reimbursement and penalty.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              41 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Reaching for Legitimacy in the Immigrant Economy;
Networks Help Illegal Workers Find Jobs, Housing

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 2443 words


Moments before stepping out of a shadowy illegal economy into the light of a
more lawful existence, Edy Diaz practiced what he would say.

"Cambiar is 'to change,' right?" he asked, pausing outside his white delivery
van. Then he walked into a Wachovia bank and showed his new Social Security card
to the branch manager. Slowly and carefully, he explained: "The number you have
is wrong."

For more than a decade, Diaz, who was born in Guatemala, had been using a bogus
Social Security number, nine digits purchased on a corner in Columbia Heights.
He had carried a hand-me-down cellphone, still in the original owner's name. He
had "bought" a home in Beltsville by having a cousin put his name on the loan.

Now, on that sunny morning in July, he looked forward to making new financial
footprints  --  finally, his own.

An estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants live in the United States,
creating what is described as an underground or illicit economy. Their finances
elude easy classification. They deal with street criminals and with mortgage
lenders. They pay taxes. Their vast yet intimate networks help them find jobs,
housing, schools and shopper's discount cards.

Each has his own story, or her own system. As a national debate wages over the
future of people like Edy Diaz, he and his family illustrate a strategy they
have used to survive in the United States, one that allowed him to live in
suburban Washington and work illegally for a decade.

That young Edy would emigrate to the United States was something not so much
discussed in the Diaz family as it was taken for granted. The third of 11
brothers and sisters, he saw little future on the family farm about 100 miles
from Guatemala City. He left school after the sixth grade to work in the corn
and coffee fields, and by his 17th birthday the family had saved the $3,500
needed to pay a human smuggler, called a coyote, for his journey to America.
They made it clear that, once there, Edy should find work and keep it. "I don't
want to hear you got fired because you were lazy," his father said.

Edy Diaz walked for 40 days in a group of 180 people, praying that his sneakers
would last. When he arrived in Los Angeles in April 1995, Diaz called his
brother, living in Hyattsville, to tell him he'd made it  --  and to ask him to
wire enough cash for his flight to Washington.

From a relative, Diaz got the name of a person who could take his picture and
put it on a fake green card for about $80. They met on a corner in Columbia
Heights in Northwest Washington, and the price included an equally fake Social
Security card. Diaz took the first job he found: $5.50 an hour to pot plants at
a nursery.

Three years into his job, a young Guatemalan at the nursery caught Diaz's eye.
She turned to him with questions, like where to find carne asada and fresh
produce, and would ask him for rides. She asked everyone to call her Rosie, even
though she filled in a different name on her job application. Nobody asked why.

Like about half the illegal immigrants in the United States, Rosa Guzman arrived
in the United States legally, on a tourist visa. Her parents were successful
restaurateurs on an island off Guatemala's coast, and a friend of theirs pulled
some strings to get her the visa, which would expire in six months. Overeducated
for her job handing out maps at a tourism center, Guzman was eager for an
adventure.

When she got to Washington, Guzman, like Diaz, bought fake papers  --  delivered
to her at a McDonald's in Adams Morgan. Not wanting to use her real name on
phony documents, she picked one she knew she wouldn't forget  --  her cousin's
--  and she became her for $75.

Within a couple of years of meeting Diaz, they had moved in together. In 2000,
Rosa Guzman gave birth to Edy Jose, and the newborn U.S. citizen suddenly gave
her and Edy a new connection to this land. Increasingly, the couple began to
reconsider their vague hope of returning someday to Guatemala. They questioned
what the family would do there. Did Diaz want young Edy Jose to work in the
fields? No, he realized, he didn't even want him to work in the plant nursery.

"No hay nada aqui," Rosa Guzman's parents reminded her in their weekly phone
calls from Guatemala. "There is nothing here."

They realized they wanted to stay.

From the time he began working, Edy Diaz understood he should file tax returns.
It would help him achieve legal status if he wanted to remain in this country.
Most of the 1 million immigrants in the Washington region, regardless of legal
status, pay taxes, according to a study conducted by the Urban Institute  --
with undocumented immigrants paying about half what the legal immigrants do.

At first, Diaz didn't file. Every week, his employer deducted an appropriate
percentage of his wages for federal taxes, Social Security and workers'
compensation  --  thousands of dollars, as years went by. But because he was
using a fake Social Security number, Diaz didn't expect he'd ever get a dime
back in benefits.

In 1999, around the time he met Rosa, he decided to start filing, motivated
mostly by his hopes of becoming a legal resident. He approached a notario  --
someone who provides such services as legal advice, translation and typing
services, largely to Spanish speakers. Diaz's notario was a Dominican with a
useful background: He had once worked at the Internal Revenue Service.

With his guidance, Diaz did what millions of undocumented immigrants had done
before him: He applied to the IRS for an individual taxpayer identification
number, or ITIN, which the agency issues to foreign nationals and others
ineligible for Social Security numbers. The agency does not verify an
applicant's identity and says the document is only for tax-filing purposes.
Critics, such as the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates tighter
borders, call the ITIN a "backdoor way" for millions of illegal aliens to
receive U.S. government-issued identity numbers.

The IRS counters that the ITIN merely enables the government to collect money
from workers who have "responsibilities under the Internal Revenue Code."
Internal Revenue Commissioner Mark W. Everson testified to Congress in July:
"Our function is tax administration. . . . If someone is working without
authorization in this country, he/she is not absolved of tax liability."

Since 1998, Diaz says, he has filled out a 1040 form under his ITIN number every
year, even though the W-2 attached to it bears his fake Social Security number.
An accountant does the filing for him, and Diaz said nobody has ever asked any
questions. In fact, every year he counts on a refund of at least a few thousand
dollars.

Diaz said he has also used the ITIN to open bank accounts. For
employer-sponsored health insurance, he used the fake Social Security number  --
again with no problem. A spokesman for the Social Security Administration said
that letters are sent to holders of Social Security numbers suspected of being
misused, but if the letters are ignored, the agency has no enforcement power.

For years, Diaz had no idea who was behind the Social Security number, whether
it was even a real person's or some arbitrary sequence of digits. It was only in
2000, when he applied for a loan to buy an Acura Integra, that the dealer ran a
credit check and told him that the person whose number Diaz had given him was
dead.

"But still, I can do something," the dealer said, and went on to process the
loan. Diaz asked no questions. He just bought the car.

Diaz asks few questions  --  that much he has learned after a decade in this
murky economic reality. He says he doesn't like to challenge authority and that
people like his lawyer often can't be bothered to explain things, at least in a
way he understands.

His memory is fuzzy, he says, on some of the details of the past 11 years. How
did he get a driver's license? He's not sure but knows it was easier then than
it would be now, with increased scrutiny of illegal immigrants. His wife, Rosa,
meanwhile, used her state of Maryland identification and, after shopping around
motor vehicle offices, found one outside Baltimore where nobody asked her for a
Social Security number.

For years, Diaz and his brothers and many other relatives in this country have
turned to the same person for advice and help: Edy's cousin Dimas Diaz.

Dimas, a local organizer with the Service Employees International Union-32BJ,
studied English intensely when he arrived in the United States in 1991 and later
became a U.S. citizen. He married an American woman he met in Arlington, and
they bought a big, modern house in Prince William County.

In early 2004, Edy Diaz came to him with a plea: He and Rosa were married and
had had a second child, Gabriela. They were tired of living in a basement and
needed more space. He had found a three-bedroom house with a basement apartment
in Beltsville  --  but he didn't know how to get a mortgage with no legal
papers. "It's an amazing deal," he assured Dimas. "I promise I will always pay
the mortgage. I just need your name."

Dimas said he'd think about it and talked to his wife. "No," Catherine Diaz said
immediately. "He is the most caring and honest of your cousins, but it's too
risky."

Everyone else Dimas Diaz asked had the same advice. About to turn Edy down,
Dimas was out one day with another cousin, also undocumented. A street beggar
approached them. Though bedraggled and apparently homeless, he was obviously
native-born.

"I would do anything to be him," the cousin said. "To be a citizen. To speak his
English. To have a Social Security number." Moved almost to tears, Dimas decided
to give his cousin Edy a taste of the American dream.

The closing was held on their lunch hours. Dimas signed and initialed paper
after paper. Edy sat silently beside him. And so Dimas Diaz bought the house on
Bellevue Street in Beltsville for $320,000, in name only. It would really be
home to Edy, Rosa, Edy Jose and baby Gabriela.

It would also be home, it was soon clear, to many others. To pay the $2,100
monthly mortgage, Edy Diaz had to rent the basement out to a few cousins and his
aunt for $1,000. Recent arrivals from Guatemala seemed to flock to them, seeking
a place to stay, a few dollars, advice on how to make it. Still, the aunt in the
basement meant child care for little Gabriela that was loving and always
available.

While many of the immigrants around them dwell on lives left back home  --
remittances to Latin America top $13 billion annually  --  the Diazes say they
send money only on holidays. They're trying to save money for a future here, and
their lifestyle reflects that. Alongside floral-patterned couches, family
pictures line the shelves in their home, next to knickknacks that exude a sabor
that is much more americano than latino. They shop at Costco and Sam's Club. Edy
Diaz speaks quite a bit of English, albeit heavily accented, and has been after
his wife to learn the language.

Neither has been back home since they left Guatemala  --  afraid they might not
be allowed to return  --  and neither has met the other's parents.

In 2001, after Edy had been working at the nursery for six years, his employer
agreed to sponsor his green card, which would grant him permanent residence in
the United States and the right to live and work here freely. Under a law passed
by Congress in late 2000, undocumented immigrants or immigrants who had
overstayed visas could apply for green cards if a family member or employer
sponsored them  --  but they had to do it by April 2001. The result was a surge
of green card applications and a backlog of half a million applications, meaning
it has not been unusual for applicants to wait for their papers for several
years. So, like so many others, Edy Diaz and his family continued living and
working on the fringes of the illicit world they knew too well.

One day, in late June, a thin official envelope came in the mail, among the
bills and the Fourth of July circulars. Eleven years and two months after
walking into the United States, Edy Diaz got his work permit.

He wasted no time applying for a new Social Security number. At the local office
in Wheaton, the processor mentioned something that astounded him: Diaz could
roll over his earnings and history associated with the old Social Security
number into the new one. "What a country we live in, no?" Diaz asked.

Days later, nine new digits arrived.

"These are my fortuna," Diaz said excitedly, waving the cards and slipping into
Spanglish. "Do you know what is fortuna? It means all my opportunity is right
here."

He began the task of cleaning up his finances, shocked at how easy it was. From
business to business, Diaz walked in and asked to be recorded under his new ID.
At most places, few questions were asked and he was finished in seconds.

"Congratulations," said the man at his Langley Park insurance office, with a
knowing look. "Now  --  can I interest you in a homeowner's policy to bundle
with your car insurance?"

"I'll come back," Edy said.

As Edy Diaz spent this past summer becoming legal, Rosa Guzman waited for her
turn. She spent most of her days cleaning houses because of the flexibility it
gave her to be home with the children. Her green card application was linked to
Edy Diaz's, and she'd been told to expect the work permit by Labor Day. Now she
watched enviously as her husband suddenly exuded a certain ease and confidence.
He inquired about applying for credit cards, talked about buying a new
flat-screen television and a new house.

On the day after Labor Day, it finally arrived: a work permit bearing her real
name and photo. Guzman had been anticipating the day for so long that she didn't
feel joy as she opened the envelope. Just relief.

Still, she understood how the document changed everything, the giddiness it
inspired to plan, to spend, to want. More than her right to work, it represented
a future, a fortuna, as her husband had said.

This week, Rosa Guzman begins English classes through a free program offered in
Anne Arundel County; she is tired of relying on her husband to navigate life in
America. Edy Jose is in first grade now, and Rosa has bought him an electronic
English-Spanish translator for $125 to help with his homework. She hopes the
device will help her learn, too.

Her goals remain simple: Visit Guatemala, learn enough English to converse
freely with her son, find a job cleaning at an embassy, maybe. Edy Diaz's goals,
on the other hand, seem limitless: He wants a new house, a big five-bedroom.

They have one goal in common. Both want to become citizens.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              42 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 8, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Advocates Say Illegal Workers Suffer After 9/11 Cleanup;
But a Recent N.Y. Program Offers Help to Many With Lung, Other Diseases

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 1091 words


Jose Moncada watched the World Trade Center towers tumble, and, like so many
Americans, felt a patriotic urge to help rescue survivors and rebuild after
Sept. 11. "It was my time to put my hand on my heart," he said. "It was my time
to help somebody."

It did not matter to him that he was an illegal immigrant from Honduras. And
that did not seem to matter to supervisors who oversaw the retrieval of human
remains and the removal of toxic debris at Ground Zero. They welcomed Moncada
and thousands of other illegal immigrants, no questions asked.

Working on the pile for 10 days, Moncada breathed in thick dust, grainy asbestos
and foul-smelling gases driven by an angry downtown wind. Now, five years later,
he suffers from a hacking cough, nosebleeds, wheezing breath and
life-threatening respiratory illnesses that also trouble thousands of legal U.S.
residents who worked there.

No one knows how many illegal immigrants worked at Ground Zero in the days after
Sept. 11. Immigration advocates claim it was thousands.

And now, as the workers have become sick, partisans on both sides cast their
plight in moral terms.

"After 9/11, everybody responded with their heart," said Carmen Calderón,
coordinator of Sept. 11 immigrant outreach for the New York Committee for
Occupational Safety and Health. "Immigrants died in those towers. They wanted to
be part of the recovery of this nation."

But when a backlash developed against the huge wave of illegal immigration,
"they changed the DMV laws, and a lot of asbestos workers lost their licenses
because they couldn't get a picture ID," Calderón said. "A lot of them are sick
now, without work. They've lost their insurance. They lost their incomes. They
lost everything."

Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which opposes
immigration increases, expressed regret for illegal immigrants who fell sick
after working at Ground Zero but said they should not have been allowed to enter
the country illegally.

"It tells us how harmful it is to have a policy that winks at illegal
immigration and gives status to illegal aliens," Krikorian said. "If they
present themselves to authorities, they should be sent home. It makes people
squeamish to say this because of what happened. But this is a result of the
ridiculous situation we've put ourselves in."

Moncada said fires were still burning on the streets when he showed up to
volunteer in September 2001. "No one asked for papers or anything," he said. He
worked with others who spoke Spanish.

Volunteers searched for survivors but found only pieces of remains.

"They had 100 people on one side, 50 people on the other, a big long line. We
had to remove all the dust and the debris, the steel and metal. The machines
couldn't do it because the vibrations caved everything in, so they worked by
hand," Moncada said.

Andrzej, an illegal immigrant from Poland who would not give his last name
because he feared deportation, worked for pay. He arrived at Ground Zero in
October 2001 and took a job doing cleanup, wearing only a paper mask. "Nobody
was asking me for any documents or any paper," he said. "All the time I only
heard that I was doing a good job, 'Thank you.' "

Workers were paid about $19 an hour, toiling for up to 16 hours a day. They were
given buckets, mops, rags and little protective equipment as they cleared away
glass, metal, dust and waste from downtown buildings that were not destroyed,
advocates said.

"The ladies were smaller, so they put them in the air ducts, huge pipes,"
Calderón said. "They crawled in to wipe down the pipes with no masks, no gloves,
nothing, not even a change of clothes."

Two years later, Moncada started to feel tired. Then he felt pain.

"My nose hurts every time I breathe," he said. "My vision is very bad. My
breathing is very bad. A doctor gave me Tylenol and Advil.

"I don't want to speak to anybody. I want to stay home. I feel depressed. I
can't sleep very well at night. Every day I wake up and I do nothing. I don't
know what is happening to my system, my body."

Andrzej said he felt even worse. He went to an emergency room when he could not
move his arms. He was admitted for a week and released with medication to
control blood clotting.

"I don't work anymore," he said. "I am too sick to work. I can't speak or
clearly think. I try but I have to push myself. It feels like someone is sitting
on my chest. It's hard to breathe."

The New York Committee for Occupational Safety and Health estimates that 40,000
workers cleaned along Canal Street. Thousands of illegal immigrants from China,
Honduras, Russia, El Salvador, Guatemala and Mexico worked beside legal U.S.
residents.

"For low-income immigrant communities where health insurance is scarce . . .
this disaster magnified an already desperate situation," Calderón said. "Their
choice is concrete. Do I pay my rent? Do I buy medicine? Do I put food on the
table? These choices are obviously choices that some victims of Sept. 11 have to
make."

In 2004, an advocacy group called Beyond Ground Zero noticed more and more
immigrants getting sick. The advocates approached Bellevue Hospital and asked
for help. The hospital started an unfunded program that provided care to
patients, and last year the American Red Cross donated money to expand the
program.

This month, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg (R) pledged $16 million over five years
to expand the initiative further. Within two weeks, the occupational safety
committee received more than 350 calls from immigrants, Calderón said. Newton
said 500 people had been screened for medical examinations by her organization,
and 700 people were waiting.

But the assistance may have come too late for illegal immigrants who have gone
home since working at Ground Zero, advocates and workers said.

"It's going to be a challenge finding them, because undocumented immigrants move
around a lot," Calderón said. "Because of some of the anti-immigrant sentiment,
many of them have returned home to Mexico, to Poland. They might not hear the
message."

Mike Cutler, who tracked down illegal immigrants for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said authorities should do what they can to aid the
sick. But he said they should also send home illegal immigrants and fix the
dysfunctional immigration system.

"While I feel bad for people who saw Sept. 11 happen, chipped in and got sick, I
would not want a blanket amnesty for them," he said. "You would wind up with
millions and millions of people saying they worked at Ground Zero."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              43 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Fallacies

SECTION: Editorial; A13

LENGTH: 237 words


Tamar Jacoby [op-ed, March 26] editorialized that permanent citizenship is the
answer for the millions of illegal workers in the United States. Her theory that
all illegal immigrants would rather be U.S. citizens was interesting,
well-written  --  and wrong.

It is pure arrogance to assume that everyone else in the world would rather be
here. Most have every intention of building a better life back home. They send
home almost $20 billion annually, hardly proof that they intend to stay here
forever. U.S. policies make it so difficult to come and go that we turn
temporary workers into permanent immigrants. Many feel trapped in a secret, cash
world that is unhealthy, underpaid and even abusive.

The common-sense solution is border control and handling "guest workers" quickly
and efficiently. Government can't do that, but private companies can run
background checks, link workers to specific jobs and issue smart cards that
cannot be duplicated. Border security could be easier and cheaper if these
workers were handled legally and efficiently.

Forget government ineptness. If the illegal labor market disappeared and were
replaced by a quick and easy legal system, illegal immigrants would go home and
apply on their own. Our economy can remain strong and our borders protected
without a huge buildup of more government.

--  Helen E. Krieble

Denver

The writer is president of the Vernon K. Krieble Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              44 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 19, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Guest Workers Can Be Part of the Reform

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 237 words


Robert J. Samuelson [op-ed, April 5] said that we "may still have time to
fashion a more sensible consensus" on immigration. I share his hope, but I
disagree with his recommendations concerning amnesty and guest workers.

The choices are not limited to a large-scale amnesty or forcing  illegal
immigrants to leave. According to a Department of Homeland Security report,  a
third of the 3.5 million illegal immigrants who lived here in 1990 adjusted to
legal residence during  the 1990s. Like other immigrants, they applied,
qualified and waited in line. Instead of a new amnesty, we could increase the
numbers of qualified illegal immigrants adjusting to legal status. This would be
fair to immigrants who have waited their turn.

Mr. Samuelson also argued that we should "[f]orget guest workers." But a program
already exists for admitting temporary workers. More than 1.1 million arrived in
2004, just over 10 percent of them from Mexico. That program could be expanded
to include migrant workers. Channeling labor legally through the ports of entry
would improve security, particularly along our southern border. Proponents of
increased security at the border should be the strongest supporters of an
expanded temporary-worker program.

ROBERT WARREN

Lewes, Del.

The writer was a director of the statistics division in the former Immigration
and Naturalization Service, now part of the Department of Homeland Security.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              45 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Begins Push for Immigration Deal With Congress

BYLINE: Jim VandeHei and Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 1261 words

DATELINE: IRVINE, Calif. April 24


Under pressure from Republicans to play a bigger role in the immigration debate,
President Bush will begin meeting key lawmakers Tuesday to help forge a
bipartisan agreement by Memorial Day to offer some undocumented workers a path
to citizenship.

But White House aides emphasized that Bush has no intention for now of staking
clear legislative positions on the immigration bill. He does not want to embrace
a proposal, only to see it lose once House and Senate negotiators try to reach a
final agreement, whose prospects are still seen as remote on Capitol Hill.

For a president eager to show he still wields power in Washington, the
immigration issue is looming ever larger. Beyond a few smaller energy and
science proposals, legislation to tighten the nation's borders, address the 12
million illegal immigrants already here and offer new avenues for legal
employment for immigrants may be the only major domestic initiative still
attainable for Bush this year.

Speaking here to the Orange County Business Council, in a region where the
competing arguments about immigration are in constant tension, Bush rebuked
those who believe the answer is sending illegal immigrants back home.

"Massive deportation of the people here is unrealistic. It's just not going to
work," Bush said, while anti-immigration demonstrators chanted outside the
hotel. "You can hear people out there hollering it's going to work. It's not
going to work."

As Bush's comments suggested, the issue has left his party deeply divided
between conservatives who favor a bill that only clamps down on illegal
immigration, and others who believe any immigration legislation must maintain a
supply of low-cost labor for an economy dependent on it. A compromise forged in
the Senate this month is locked in a procedural stalemate, even though it
appears a clear bipartisan majority supports it.

"The president . . . has to get involved in immigration right now," said Senate
Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), an architect of the
compromise.

But beyond general calls for a comprehensive approach to the immigration issue,
Bush has refused to say exactly what he wants in a bill. In his speech to the
business council, he again stopped short of endorsing a particular bill.
Instead, he spoke favorably of components of the middle-of-the-road approach
that Specter and the bipartisan group of senators are pursuing.

The president called the Senate group's idea of allowing illegal immigrants an
easier path to citizenship the longer they have been here an "interesting
approach" that Congress must debate. Work visas should be temporary, he said,
but "the definition of temporary will be decided in halls of Congress."

To Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), a co-author of the compromise, Bush's
statements amounted to an endorsement of the bill at a critical time. Other
Democrats  --  and many Republicans  --  were not so sure.

"I had hoped that the president would finally weigh in and exert some
leadership, but that did not happen again today," said House Minority Whip Steny
H. Hoyer (D-Md.).

A senior aide said Bush  --  after private discussions with Senate Majority
Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.)  --  is
trying to push Republicans for a compromise before Memorial Day that does not
alienate either his party's conservative base or the fast-growing Latino
community.

Tuesday's meeting will be heavy on senators favoring the Senate compromise,
including Frist, Specter and John McCain (R-Ariz.), Mel Martinez (R-Fla.),
Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.), Kennedy,
Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) and Joseph I. Lieberman (D-Conn.).

Of those invited, only Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has not
endorsed the plan. In contrast, its most vociferous opponents, including Sen.
John Cornyn (R-Tex.), will not be there.

But Bush is resisting pressure from members to take the lead hands-on role in
cementing a congressional compromise, aides said. The White House first wants to
see if the Senate can strike a bipartisan agreement on its own. Bush does not
want to be seen as interjecting himself prematurely while the legislative debate
remains fluid.

Bush's strategy, said aides, is to press for a Senate deal and step up his
personal involvement to get the House to agree to its parameters. Many House
leaders, including Hastert, have told Bush they are open to softening the bill
they passed in December and allowing illegal immigrants a road to citizenship,
as long as it includes stiff financial penalties and back taxes for illegal
immigrants who seek lawful work papers, and strong border enforcement. White
House advisers see the debate playing out like previous ones over Medicare and
tax cuts, in which Bush allows Congress a lot of leeway and then comes in at the
end to help secure a deal  --  and claim credit.

White House officials consider the next few months critical to Bush's domestic
agenda. With the budget season in full swing, Congress will also consider new
spending for math and science training and other components of the president's
"competitiveness initiative," a centerpiece of Bush's 2006 wish list.

The House and Senate will also debate Bush-backed plans to provide new
incentives for production and use of domestic fuel sources such as ethanol and
hydrogen. The energy debate is moving to the top of the agenda with gasoline
prices expected to hold at $3 or more per gallon throughout the summer.

White House aides are scrambling to find new proposals to hold down gas prices
and deflect criticism that Bush is doing little to ease consumer pain at the
pump. Bush plans to put increasing pressure on companies to prove they are not
colluding to drive up prices, though Republican aides concede the move is mostly
cosmetic.

All of this must be done with an eye toward holding down overall government
spending. Conservative activists have told top officials the chief concern of
many Republican voters is not the war or even the rash of scandals but the
growth of government under Bush.

A key part of the Bush political recovery plan, which aides hope will result in
what they jokingly call a "Bolten bounce," is persuading the Republican Congress
to cut spending before the August congressional recess. New White House Chief of
Staff Joshua B. Bolten has told aides he hopes the addition of former
congressman Rob Portman as head of the budget office and other forthcoming
changes will help facilitate a willingness to make tough budget cuts.

One key congressional aide will not be leaving, according to White House
sources: Candida Perotti Wolff, the head of the legislative affairs office. At a
morning meet with top aides, Bolten said that he has full confidence in Wolff
and that she will be staying, the sources said. Bolten also reaffirmed his
support for White House counsel Harriet Miers, the sources said.

Still, the budget-cutting efforts may prove difficult  --  Congress has already
rejected Bush's call for trimming entitlement spending. Worried about
conservatives sitting out the November elections to protest spending, White
House and top congressional officials are planning a summer push for legislation
on abortion, same-sex marriage and stem cell research to excite social
conservatives. After losing control over policy as part of the White House
shake-up, Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove is expected to focus intensely on
maximizing voter turnout, as he did in the 2004 presidential race.

Weisman reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              46 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Bill Lobbying Focuses on House Leaders;
With Senate in Hand, Bush May Face a Skeptical GOP Base

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman and Jim VandeHei, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 1135 words


President Bush's growing confidence that he will secure a victory on immigration
runs in direct contrast to the House Republican leadership, which is prepared to
block legislation that offers illegal immigrants a path to citizenship without
sending them home.

Senate Democratic and Republican leaders are closing in on a bipartisan deal to
secure the nation's borders, create a guest-worker program for foreign workers
and offer citizenship to illegal immigrants who clear certain hurdles.

Assuming agreement is reached in the Senate, White House advisers said Bush
believes that he can count on House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) and other
leaders to rally skeptical House Republicans behind legislation. But the White
House may be underestimating the degree of opposition from within his party,
according to several GOP members and aides.

GOP leaders are open to a compromise, but not one that involves a centerpiece of
the carefully calibrated Senate approach  --  allowing illegal immigrants a
chance at citizenship as long as they pay a penalty and back taxes, learn
English, remain employed and crime-free and get in line.

"That is certainly not the view of the House," said House Majority Whip Roy
Blunt (R-Mo.), who reiterated the House Republican view that the border must be
secured before lawmakers even consider offering illegal immigrants guest-worker
visas or citizenship.

House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), the
chief architect of the House-passed bill that would crack down on illegal
immigration without providing avenues for lawful employment, much less
citizenship, was equally direct. In an interview with the Milwaukee Journal
Sentinel last week, Sensenbrenner said he was "disturbed" by Bush's recent
pronouncements on a pathway to citizenship.

Immigration policy will provide the next important test of Bush's second-term
vitality, as he overhauls his White House staff and tries to reverse his low
standing in the polls before this fall's midterm elections.

But he will do so in the face of an increasingly fractious party  --  a problem
he rarely had in the first term.

At an appearance April 24 in California, Bush said, "A person ought to be
allowed to . . . pay a penalty for being here illegally, commit him or herself
to learn English, which is part of the American system, and get in the back of
the line" for citizenship.

Sensenbrenner was not impressed.

"That is a buzzword for amnesty, and amnesty is a non-starter with the American
people," he said.

The new GOP leadership team  --  which has promised to take its marching orders
from House Republicans, not from Bush  --  could prove an insurmountable
obstacle, despite Senate progress. In Bush's first term, House GOP leaders were
a Bush beachhead, passing his agenda and helping force it into law. But with
Bush's popularity sinking and the prospect of losing House seats increasing, GOP
leaders are putting the interests of their members first.

Hastert has said he is willing to look at the guest-worker and citizenship
provisions the Senate produces. But, House Republican leadership aides said, the
consensus of the rank-and-file is that conservatives do not want to reward
people who broke the law. Most simply want to see more secure borders and better
enforcement of current laws.

Before considering the fate of the nation's estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants, Blunt said, the flow of illegal immigrants must be stopped.

"Why deal with 13 million people when you can stop it at 12?" Blunt asked. "It
has to stop somewhere."

With passage in December of the House's get-tough immigration law, Republican
leadership aides say the GOP has done its part to insulate its members from
growing anger over illegal immigration. Large immigrant rallies against the
House bill have done nothing to shake that belief, Blunt said. If anything, the
images of a sea of immigrants, many of them illegal and many waving foreign
flags, have bolstered the get-tough views of most Republican constituents.

"I think they're hardening positions," Blunt said of the rallies, with another
round planned for today. "It just convinces the people we work for that the
problem is bigger than they knew."

Sensenbrenner spokesman Jeff E. Lungren pointed to an "Insider's Poll" of 12
Senate Republicans, 46 House Republicans, six Senate Democrats, 46 House
Democrats and one Senate independent that the National Journal published Friday.
Half of the Republicans polled  --  by far the largest number  --  said
immigration was the biggest issue on their constituents' minds. Energy prices
came next with 34 percent, followed at a distance by Iraq, which topped the
constituent concerns of just 5 percent of lawmakers polled.

In contrast, Democrats  --  who have embraced the most generous path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants  --  appear to have great leeway on the
issue. About 55 percent of Democratic lawmakers said their constituents are most
concerned about energy prices, followed by the 24 percent who pointed to Iraq.
Immigration, at the top of Republican worries, was at the bottom of Democratic
concerns. Only 3 percent said it was most on constituent minds.

National polls may be pressuring Republicans in the Senate to bend. A new NBC
News/Wall Street Journal poll indicates Hispanics, who overwhelmingly support
the Senate deal, prefer Democrats in the congressional elections, 55 percent to
22 percent.

But unlike senators, who represent whole states and a broader range of opinions,
most House members come from districts with more homogeneous political views  --
often polarized on the left or right of the spectrum.

White House aides said Bush does not believe Hastert is opposed to a deal
similar to the one making its way through the Senate. These aides consider
Hastert persuadable, and said the speaker's opposition is a reflection of the
politics of the moment. Bush is focusing on getting a Senate deal and then
lobbying a more resistant House.

A top GOP leadership aide said Hastert does want an immigration deal before the
August recess to defuse  the political situation before the November election.
But the speaker's personal views may actually be softer than the Republican
conference as a whole.

A senior White House adviser said Bush is very sensitive to the anti-immigration
sentiments raging among some conservative activists and lawmakers. In a private
meeting last week with senators, Bush said he supports giving illegal immigrants
a shot at citizenship without leaving but did not want to trumpet his position
in public for fear of alienating conservatives in the House, participants said.
A senior aide said Bush will have to thread the needle to get a deal and does
not want to provoke a premature fight with House conservatives.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              47 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Boycott Gives Voice To Illegal Workers;
The Day's Impact On Economy Unclear

BYLINE: Darryl Fears and Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1483 words


Through rallies and boycotts of schools and businesses across the nation
yesterday, illegal immigrants and their supporters sought to present a case to
the American people that they are vital to the country's economy and should not
be subject to deportation.

Demonstrators opposed to strict immigration proposals in Congress staged huge
marches in Chicago and Los Angeles, curtailed operations at at least one major
port, shut down construction sites in the District, forced the closing of
crossings at the Mexican border and halted work at meat-processing plants in the
Midwest. Although the protests caught the nation's attention, the economic
impact was mixed, as many immigrants heeded the call of some leaders not to
jeopardize their jobs, and businesses adopted strategies to cope with absent
employees.

More than 300,000 demonstrators marched in Chicago, and another 300,000 took to
the streets of Los Angeles to shout their disapproval of House measures that
would make it a felony to be in the country illegally and to help those who are.
In the District, more than 1,000 people rallied at Meridian Hill Park  --  also
known as Malcolm X Park  --  in the Mount Pleasant neighborhood, and smaller
rallies were held in Herndon, Alexandria and Baileys Crossroads. Immigrants also
marched in San Francisco, Phoenix, Atlanta and many other cities.

The action may have been stronger had the coalition of grass-roots organizations
that advises immigrants not been deeply conflicted over whether to endorse a
boycott. Some supported the effort to demonstrate immigrant power, but others
discouraged it, saying it was premature because Congress has not taken action
since the first demonstrations, and because the strike might induce a backlash
by those born in the United States.

"I think that for the most part, people in the community understood the reasons
why . . . we asked them to go to work and go to school," said Jaime Contreras,
president of the National Capital Immigration Coalition of Washington, part of
an immigrant coalition that discourages boycotting before Congress can act.
"Rest assured, if we don't have a bill we can live with, we will have a general
strike and a general boycott."

Clearly, protesters in Washington did not want to wait that long. More than half
of the 1,147 construction workers on projects at Dulles International Airport
did not show up, said airports spokeswoman Tara Hamilton. Work on an underground
tunnel linking airport terminals continued, but at a slower pace, she said.

Several businesses in the District, such as the Corner Bakery on Vermont Avenue
downtown and La Chaumiere in Georgetown, shut their doors because their workers
chose to boycott.

"Unfortunately, most of our kitchen staff is Spanish and they decided to be part
of the movement," said La Chaumiere night manager Marielle Minges.

Oscar Mendez stayed home in Alexandria with his wife and three children. "We
want to show the government that all the work in this country is impossible
without us," said Mendez, who is El Salvadoran.

At Davis Construction, a large Rockville-based general contractor, many of the
workers were absent yesterday. "We are missing them," chief executive Jim Davis
said. "It is having an impact."

The protests drew few counter-demonstrations, though the chief House proponent
of tough measures against illegal immigrants said the boycott would help his
cause.

"I couldn't be happier, because every single time this kind of thing happens,
the polls show that more and more Americans turn against the protesters and
whatever it is they are trying to advance," Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) told the
Reuters news agency in an interview.

Still, the boycotters tried to make their presence felt wherever they could.

The boycott rippled through Prince George's County schools that serve many
Latino immigrant families. About 150 Bladensburg Elementary students  --  a
quarter of the school's population  --  stayed home. About 140 stayed home from
Adelphi Elementary, more than one-third of that school's population. One school
system official said attendance at several other schools was "way down."

At C.D. Hylton High School in Woodbridge, for example, 143 of 392 students did
not show up. And more than half of the Latino students at Stonewall Jackson High
School in Manassas were absent. Prince William school officials saw unusually
high absentee rates among Hispanics, especially in high schools.

In Montgomery County, 70 schools reported more than 25 percent of their Latino
students absent, said spokesman Brian K. Edwards. A spokesman for Fairfax
schools reported higher-than-usual absenteeism but said "it's not spectacular."
The principal at Annandale High School said 139 of 609 Hispanic students were
absent.

Roxanne Evans, a spokeswoman for the D.C. schools, could not provide absentee
figures but said that, according to preliminary reports, several schools
appeared to have an unusually high number of absences.

High absentee rates were also reported in schools in other parts of the nation,
particularly California. In Santa Ana, the Orange County seat, about 3,000
middle and high school students were absent. The 62,000-student district is
about 90 percent Hispanic.

Ricardo Juarez, coordinator for Mexicans Without Borders in Northern Virginia,
the most vocal local proponent of the boycott, called the action a success
because of the construction slowdown and closed strips of Latino-owned
businesses.

"What is happening around this region is a part of all the impact around the
nation," he said.

At least a dozen meat-processing plants owned by Tyson Foods Inc. were forced to
close, said spokesman Gary Mickelson, "but most of the more than 100 plants were
running," he said. But, he added, "there were higher absentee rates than usual."
Some of the plants that were closed will operate on Saturday to offset the lack
of production.

In Chicago, flag-waving marchers paraded through downtown streets, chanting "¡Si
se puede!" and "Yes we can!" Though there was no boycott called there,
businesses were shuttered throughout the city and suburbs as owners of
restaurants, stores, insurance agencies, bars, auto repair outfits and other
enterprises gave employees the day off, some with pay, to attend the march.

"The biggest message is we have a voice. This is something people have wanted to
happen for a long time," said Rudy Martinez, 27, whose mother was born in
Mexico. "A lot of us said, 'We have to do something before it's too late.' "

At the country's busiest port of entry, between Tijuana, Mexico, and San Ysidro,
Calif., a surge of Mexican protesters heckled travelers coming into the United
States and forced the border patrol to slow traffic at the 24-lane crossing.
Protests also forced the temporary closing of crossings at Tecate, Calif., and
Laredo and Hidalgo in Texas, where representatives of human rights groups, labor
unions and Catholic churches, as well as deported Mexican immigrants, chanted,
"¡No va a pasar!"  --  "You will not pass!"

The agriculture industry saw some impact in California's Central Valley, where
growers are harvesting lettuce and thinning fruit trees. An estimated 30 to 40
percent of fieldworkers elected not to go to work Monday, said Manuel Cunha,
president of the Nisei Farmers League.

At the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles  --  which, averaging 30,000 truck
trips a day, is the busiest combined U.S. seaport  --  there was little or no
truck traffic as thousands of truck drivers, mostly Latinos, stayed home.

"We have no truck activity," said Theresa Adams Lopez, spokeswoman for the Los
Angeles port. Demonstrating truckers parked their rigs illegally to block roads
leading into the port, but police had them towed, she said.

Art Wong, spokesman for the Long Beach port, said rail traffic was lighter than
usual but functioning normally. Freight workers had prepared for the boycott by
working overtime last week and throughout the weekend.

Adams Lopez said: "The point was made, but whether it's really going to shut
down commerce remains to be seen."

Her refrain was echoed locally  --  "It's not affecting us at all," said a
harried maitre d' at Spago's in Beverly Hills  --  and throughout the nation.

In Las Vegas, the strike's effect seemed minimal, perhaps because of hardball
tactics adopted by the larger hotels.

The Wynn Las Vegas hotel and casino told its 10,000 employees that "if they
called out and were not sick that they would be disciplined up to and including
termination," said Arte Nathan, chief human resources officer. As a result, only
two workers called in.

"We are amazed. We are thrilled," Nathan said.

The MGM-Mirage, which runs casinos such as the MGM-Grand, Treasure Island and
the Bellagio, reported minimal absences among its 60,000 employees, about
one-third of whom are Latino, spokeswoman Debra Nelson said.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              48 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Hill Impasse Spurs States to Tackle Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: T.R. Reid, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1366 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


State legislatures around the nation are considering hundreds of proposals
dealing with illegal immigration, reflecting the exasperation of many local
officials with Congress's failure to contend with the millions of undocumented
workers who have entered the nation in recent years.

Here in Arizona, the House has passed a proposal to set fines and other
penalties for companies that hire undocumented workers. The bill, which had
regularly failed in previous years, is expected to win Senate approval within
days and is only one of many plans under consideration.

Others include bills to erect an 80-mile fence and a multimillion-dollar radar
system along the Mexican border, designed to slow the nightly flow of migrants
across the desert. Another bill would require police to check the citizenship of
anyone stopped for a traffic offense. The state House, by a vote of 43 to 12,
has passed a resolution calling on Washington to dispatch the U.S. Coast Guard
to this landlocked, coast-free state to assist in patrolling the border.

For the most part, the new state measures are designed to get tough on illegal
immigrants, on employers who give them jobs and on state officials who give them
benefits. In some states, illegal immigrants can buy lottery tickets but cannot
collect if they win a significant prize.

At the same time, though, some states are moving in the other direction  --
making life easier for immigrants, legal or otherwise. In April, Nebraska's
legislature overrode a gubernatorial veto to offer in-state college tuition
rates to the children of illegal immigrants. Nine other states have formally
authorized tuition breaks for undocumented immigrants, and many public
universities employ a "don't ask, don't tell" policy for graduates of high
schools in the states.

Maryland and Virginia lawmakers considered proposals to crack down on illegal
immigrants in their recently concluded legislative sessions, but none passed.

The multistate approach, with some states at variance with others, threatens to
create a maze of laws and regulations at a time when the nation as a whole is
struggling with how to contend with an unprecedented wave of illegal
immigration.

"We're not going to solve this problem with a patchwork approach at the state
level. It's a national problem, and the need is to repair the national system,"
said Josh Bernstein of the National Immigration Law Center, which works to
promote the rights of low-income immigrants. "We're not going to erect barriers
between states."

Advocates on both sides said that Monday's economic boycott and rallies will
work to their advantage. Opponents of illegal immigration said the protests
hardened their resolve, while immigrants' rights activists predicted that the
large turnout will sway lawmakers to their side.

The National Conference of State Legislatures has tallied 463 bills introduced
this year in 43 states, by far the biggest crop of state immigration proposals
ever recorded. Ann Morse, who tracks the issue for the NCSL, said this rush of
legislation demonstrates that state legislators are no longer willing to cede
this high-profile political concern to Congress.

Morse cited three reasons for the unprecedented interest in immigration at the
state level. "First, there's the reaction to 9/11 and the concern that our
borders are not safe,"  she said. "Another factor is the number of immigrants
and a general sense that the influx is growing rapidly. And finally, we seem to
have a Congress in gridlock on the issue. State legislators feel if they don't
act, nobody will."

That last concern has been crucial in the legislature here, noted state Rep.
Russell K. Pearce, a Republican who says he is "fed up" with his own party's
management of the issue in Washington.

"We had high hopes that Congress would do something this year," Pearce said.
"But Washington is ducking its responsibility. Our constituents are outraged
about that. So they are demanding  --  and I mean demanding  --  that we do the
job instead."

With opinion surveys showing intense public concern about immigration this year,
Congress has been sharply divided. The House passed a tough anti-immigration
bill that included stiff criminal measures and costly new efforts in border
control. In the Senate, many lawmakers favor a guest-worker program and finding
a way to allow some illegal immigrants to seek citizenship. So far, however, the
legislation has been mired in committee.

With the two houses seeming to be on divergent paths, state officials are losing
hope for federal immigration initiatives this year. "If Congress were able to
act, there would be much less activity in the state legislatures," Bernstein
said.

The most common approach to immigration at the state level this year, the NCSL
tally shows, is criminal legislation to impose sanctions on employers who
knowingly hire illegal immigrants. More than half the states are considering
employment legislation in various forms, and many bills are expected to pass.

On April 17, Georgia Gov. Sonny Perdue (R) signed a law that imposes fines on
employers of undocumented workers and requires any company with a state contract
to fire any employee who is not a legal resident. The Georgia law also requires
that state offices verify an employee's status before paying unemployment
benefits or  workers' compensation. Similar provisions are found in pending
bills in several other states.

Legislatures in Ohio, South Dakota and Arizona have passed bills this year
requiring that state or local police check the immigration status of everybody
they encounter, and report suspected illegal immigrants to U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. Several other states have similar bills pending.

Many police chiefs and mayors oppose this approach, fearing that immigrants will
be frightened to contact the police when they need help. But proponents say that
the initial police contact is the best time to catch somebody who should not be
here. As Pearce puts it, "Deportation should start with the traffic stop."

More than a dozen states are considering legislation that would require proof of
citizenship or of legal-resident status for anybody seeking a driver's license.
Some would simply deny illegal immigrants the right to drive. Other proposals
are similar to a bill that passed in Utah last year, offering undocumented
applicants only a "driving privilege" certificate that is not supposed to be
treated as legal identification. Virginia requires license applicants to offer
proof of legal status.

There are also bills pending in several state capitols to help undocumented
workers deal with the problems that come with their status. Several states seek
to get tough on "notarios," people without a law degree who sell costly
"consulting" services to immigrants seeking legal-residence status or
citizenship. Some state governments help employers fill out the I-9 form that is
required for immigrant workers under federal law.

Polls show that immigration is considered a bigger problem in Arizona than
gasoline prices. Republican Sen. Jon Kyl and Jim Pederson, his Democratic
challenger, are already saturating the airwaves for the November election  --
and the ads deal mainly with immigration.

So far this year, the Republican-controlled legislature has passed several bills
designed to crack down on illegal immigration; Democratic Gov. Janet Napolitano
has vetoed several of them. Pearce, sponsor of the employer-crackdown
legislation, said the anti-illegal-immigration majority in the legislature plans
to package all the measures into a comprehensive bill. That would set up a new
confrontation with the governor.

The bill that seems most likely to become law here this session is Pearce's
employer-sanction plan. Napolitano said in January that she would sign an
employer-sanction bill. Even business groups concede that approval is likely.

"Our position has been that employment of immigrants is a federal issue, and it
deserves a federal response," said Farrell Quinlan of the Arizona Chamber of
Commerce and Industry. "But if the federal government doesn't act, you're going
to see the states try to fill the void."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              49 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 10, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Arrests Target Use of Illegal Workers

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 403 words


Federal authorities announced the arrests yesterday of four construction
supervisors and 76 illegal immigrants at a Kentucky home-building company,
continuing a promised government crackdown on employers that rely on illegal
labor.

The arrests at Fischer Homes, a leading builder in Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio,
followed the April 19 arrests of seven current and former managers and more than
1,100 workers for Ifco Systems North America Inc., a subsidiary of a Dutch
manufacturer of plastic crates and wooden pallets.

The effort comes as Congress debates plans to overhaul the nation's immigration
laws.

"We will continue to bring criminal actions against employers who are
consistently harboring illegal aliens," said Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff.

The four Fischer Homes managers were charged in a criminal complaint with aiding
and abetting or harboring illegal immigrants for commercial or private financial
gain. They face a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
Calls to company headquarters last night were not returned.

In recent weeks,  Immigration and Customs Enforcement also has charged the owner
of an Indiana stucco company in connection with an illegal employment scheme,
won guilty pleas and the forfeiture of more than $1 million by operators of
three Baltimore restaurants for conspiring to harbor illegal  immigrants, and
indicted two Ohio temporary-employment agencies and nine people on charges of
hiring and harboring illegal immigrants.

The arrests have attracted employers' attention and sparked rumors of sweeps of
illegal workers nationwide. But advocates on both sides of the debate said
recent U.S. practice makes them skeptical that the arrests are more than a
public relations effort.

From 1999 to 2004, the number of criminal employer cases referred for
prosecution by the federal government fell from 182 to four, and the amount of
fines collected dropped from $3.7 million to $212,000, according to a
congressional report.

"These are cosmetic efforts to persuade Congress to pass an amnesty," said Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, an advocate
of stronger workplace enforcement.

He was referring pejoratively to White House-backed Senate legislation that
would create a guest-worker program for foreign nationals, offer a path to
citizenship for illegal residents and toughen border enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              50 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Herndon Stands Up. But for What?

SECTION: Editorial; B08

LENGTH: 1152 words


On May 2, voters in Herndon ousted the mayor and council members who had
supported the creation of a day-laborer center for the town's immigrant workers.
Was this a measure of public opinion on illegal immigration? Here's what the
advocates on both sides say:

History has a penchant for using small towns as a stage for large events. Think
of Gettysburg and Selma. Almost two weeks ago, the history-making town was
Herndon, where voters fired their mayor and like-minded members of the Herndon
Town Council in what can be seen as the first true metric in the national debate
on illegal immigration.

Herndon is an American microcosm: 26 percent Hispanic, 10 percent black, 37
percent foreign-born. Once reliably conservative, these days it trends liberal
and votes Democratic. Herndon's deposed political leaders were deaf to the
widespread opposition among town residents to a taxpayer-funded day-laborer site
that was  created last August.

Those of us who thought that facilitating illegal activities was wrong were
painted as racist, hate-mongering xenophobes. Nearly all the local newspapers,
including The Post, supported the incumbents or their policies and painted
opponents as anti-immigrant, rather than anti-"illegal" immigrant. Those who
profit from the exploitation of illegal immigrant labor endorsed and funded the
mayor and his allies.

Herndon holds a clear warning for Washington and both major political parties:
Stop ignoring the will of the people about illegal immigration, or you will be
checking in at your own day-laborer site  --  on K Street, no doubt.

On May 1 thousands of uninvited illegal immigrants took to the streets with
signs and slogans. But history will recall that on the next day, tiny Herndon
gave deed to the words that they chanted: "¡Sí, se puede!" Yes, it can be done.

And it was  --  in Herndon.

Who's next?

--  William Campenni

is a member of the Herndon Minutemen.

williamcampenni@verizon.net

Project Hope and Harmony led the effort to create a site at which day laborers
could congregate in Herndon. We felt it was a moral imperative to help those who
badly needed help and to solve a community problem with the help of members of
that community. Sadly, opponents of the site say that it serves illegal
immigrants, and they found eager allies for that viewpoint among
anti-immigration groups and self-righteous journalists.

The site has done its intended job; it has ended the chaos on the street corners
where laborers assembled in the heat, cold or rain in the hope of getting a job.
Often, the day laborers were exploited. But apparently it doesn't matter how
well the site works, how much it would cost to expel workers that our economy
needs or how inhumane it would be to close the site: Critics still want the day
laborer site shut down.

Some say the public has spoken through the recent election. Some say the
laborers would be better served by returning home and perhaps trying to come
back as legal immigrants. Some say they don't want the "illegals" to be put on a
path to legalization. But the more I hear these opinions, the more I see them
for what they really are: bigotry.

I once saw a bumper sticker that read, "Hate is not a family value." Apparently,
in Herndon, it is about to become one unless the decent silent majority reclaims
the community.

--  Mukit Hossain

is founder of Project Hope and Harmony.

mhossain@continewtech.com

Should we reward illegal behavior with hard-earned dollars from law-abiding
citizens? The voters in the recent Herndon election answered the question with a
resounding "No." By ousting the mayor and council members who supported using
taxpayer dollars to build a day-laborer center for illegal immigrants to
congregate and find jobs, Herndon voters chose instead to elect officials who
would follow the law.

Legal immigration made this country what it is today. We honor legal immigrants
when we ensure that our laws are followed. I don't believe it is too much to ask
that individuals obey the laws of our society before they take advantage of what
our society has to offer. To reward illegal behavior is to further encourage
that behavior and to demean those who have followed the rules to come to America
legally.

The former elected officials in Herndon sought not to honor legal immigration
but to encourage even more illegal immigration. As it began to become an issue
during last year's governor's race, Herndon officials simply blamed the illegal
immigration issue on the federal government. I agree that our federal government
must give us real and meaningful immigration reform legislation that will be
enforced at all levels of government. Until then, locally elected officials
should not encourage the blatant violation of our laws.

Our nation was founded on the rule of law. Allowing one group to violate those
laws with encouragement from locally elected officials strikes a blow to our
legal system. Do we allow individuals to obey only those laws they feel like
obeying? The voters in Herndon thought not.

--  Jerry Kilgore

was the Republican candidate for Virginia

governor in the 2005 election.

jkilgore@williamsmullen com

On May 2 Herndon citizens elected a new mayor and Town Council in a contest
characterized by some as a referendum on U.S. immigration policy.

Herndon is a small town in Fairfax County, and immigration issues are not the
town's to solve. The agency that does have that mandate  --  U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services  --  has told Herndon that it does not have the
manpower to enforce immigration laws in the town. Yet the town badly needed a
solution to the problem of men gathering on street corners to seek day work.
That is why the Town Council approved a permit for the management of a
temporary, regulated site for day workers. The Supreme Court has ruled that
anti-loitering ordinances in the absence of criminal activity are not
enforceable. It also is clear that an anti-solicitation ordinance without the
existence of a regulated site would have violated federal law.

The regulated worker center does not violate federal, state or local laws.
Rather, it is adherence to such laws that made the center the most workable
solution for the town. Having such a site also allowed Herndon to establish an
anti-solicitation ordinance, which it enacted in September.

Since the center opened, day workers have almost disappeared from Elden Street,
a former problem area. The site also provides an orderly process for the
assembly and employment of day workers. Herndon's incoming mayor and council
members won election based on promises to close the regulated site. They were
elected by a narrow majority with the help and the financial support of outside
interest groups. I wish them and Herndon well.

--  Michael L. O'Reilly

is mayor of Herndon; he was defeated in

the election.

mike.oreilly@herndon-va.gov

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              51 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Backs Fence, Guest-Worker Curbs;
Immigration Bill Gaining Conservative Support

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1118 words


The Senate voted yesterday to build 370 miles of triple-layered fencing along
the U.S.-Mexico border and to block access to a new guest-worker program by
lawbreaking illegal immigrants, even those guilty of misdemeanors or ignoring a
deportation order.

On a 83 to 16 vote, the Senate backed an amendment by Sen. Jeff Sessions
(R-Ala.) to fortify 70 miles of existing fences near San Diego and parts of
Arizona and to build 300 miles of additional fencing through the Arizona desert.
The amendment would also order the immediate construction of 500 miles of
vehicle barriers along frontier lands identified as prime entry points for
smugglers and illegal immigrants.

Senators approved another provision, 50 to 48, declaring that illegal immigrants
seeking a guest-worker permit could not petition for legalization on their own,
and instead must be sponsored by an employer.

The votes on the fence and the guest-worker restrictions gave new momentum to
the Senate bill among conservatives, but they may further strain a coalition of
immigrant rights and civil rights groups that have given Democrats political
cover to back the Senate measure. Until yesterday, a broad bipartisan group of
senators had beaten back conservative amendments, fearing they would upset the
delicate coalition. Yesterday's votes showed how fluid the immigration issue has
become.

"There is concern. People are worried about things," said Sen. Mel Martinez
(R-Fla.), who helped cobble together the bipartisan coalition behind the Senate
bill. "But overall, things are holding together."

The Senate-approved fence is half the length of the barrier approved in December
by the House. Senate Republicans said their amendment merely codifies what
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff had told them the administration
plans to build anyway.

But President Bush had frowned upon a border barrier in March, telling CNN en
Español, "It's impractical to fence off the border." And some Democratic leaders
voiced strong concern.

"What we have here has become a symbol for the right wing in American politics,
a fence between America and Mexico," said Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.). But
Sessions called it a "reasonable proposal" that "sends a signal that open-border
days are over."

"Good fences make good neighbors," Sessions said. "Fences don't make bad
neighbors."

By 66 to 33, the Senate blocked an effort to strip out the path to legalization
for undocumented workers. But conservatives began chipping away at the pool of
undocumented workers who would gain access to that path. Early in the day, the
Senate unanimously accepted a provision by Sens. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) and John
Cornyn (R-Tex.) that would disqualify illegal immigrants guilty of a felony or
three misdemeanors from obtaining a work permit.

Immigrant rights groups had expressed deep concern about the Kyl-Cornyn
amendment, particularly one provision that would deny green cards to illegal
immigrants who had ignored a court-issued deportation order. But the amendment
was softened by allowing the secretary of homeland security to waive the
disqualification if applicants can show they never received notice of a
deportation hearing, if "exceptional circumstances" prevented a court appearance
or if deportation would cause "extreme hardship" to the immigrants' legal family
members.

The final vote of the night struck out an illegal immigrant's ability to
self-petition for legalization. Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M.
Kennedy (D-Mass.) had included that right so that unscrupulous employers would
not control access to the legalization process. But Cornyn and his allies
contended that the right amounted to a loophole for illegal immigrants without
economic prospects.

The day's events helped soften opposition among conservatives, who have
resolutely opposed any border security bill that includes provisions to grant
illegal immigrants new avenues to lawful employment and U.S. citizenship. Still
facing opposition among House Republicans, Bush dispatched Deputy Chief of Staff
Karl Rove to Capitol Hill for a lobbying foray.

But it was the Senate action that seemed to have an impact.

"For the first time since the Senate began debating immigration reform
legislation, there is now a bill that deserves support and has a chance of
gaining passage," said Colin Hanna, president of the conservative border
security group WeNeedAFence.com.

But yesterday's action amplified the grumbling of interest groups including
political asylum advocates, gay rights organizations and the American Civil
Liberties Union, all of which believe aspects of the bill forsake their causes.

Eleanor Acer, director of the asylum program at Human Rights First, said
provisions designed to expedite the removal of illegal immigrants would hit
political asylum seekers hard. Refugees fleeing political persecution could find
themselves deported back to their home countries while their cases are pending
before a federal judge, who would no longer have the power to stay a removal
order.

The Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law in Los Angeles has released a
compendium of criticisms: A provision that blocks legalization for future
undocumented workers using false names and security cards would keep millions of
future immigrants in the shadows; the three-tiered treatment of undocumented
workers would rip families apart by offering legalization to long-term
immigrants while sending recent arrivals home; and the judicial-review
provisions would block access to the court system while permitting the
indefinite detention of some immigrants.

The gay rights group Human Rights Campaign said the bill "fails to address the
second-class nature of same-sex relationships," while the ACLU has come out
strongly against an employment verification system that would require all
Americans  --  native-born and immigrant  --  to submit their names to two huge
federal databases to verify their legal status before taking any new job.

"It's amazing that the provision of the bill that will touch every single
American and will have more impact on their lives than anything else has
received no attention," said Timothy D. Sparapani, the ACLU's legislative
counsel.

Senate Democrats acknowledged the grumbling, but they said that, for now, they
are willing to accept a lot of provisions they do not like, as long as they get
the one measure they must have: a chance at citizenship for an estimated 12
million illegal immigrants.

"I'm not willing to prejudge the final product because of some provisions I
don't like," said Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.). "At the end of the day, the
question will be 'Will there be a pathway to earned citizenship?' "

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              52 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

55 Illegal Immigrants Arrested at Dulles Site;
Raid at Construction Area Is Part of National Effort to Deflect Terrorist
Threats

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard and Paul Duggan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 934 words


Federal authorities arrested 55 illegal immigrants yesterday at a construction
site on Dulles International Airport grounds, the latest in a string of
post-Sept. 11 raids at locations the government considers vulnerable to security
threats.

The workers, all Latin American men employed by two construction companies,
worked in a secured area on airport property, where as many as 2,000 laborers
work each day on building projects that include a planned airport train system
and a new runway, officials said.

The arrests took place early yesterday as the yellow school buses ferrying
workers from a parking lot to the construction site stopped at a security
checkpoint on the edge of airport property. U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agents who were waiting checked their work and immigration
documents, and those whose documents did not hold up were handcuffed and
transported to an Alexandria field office for questioning, ICE spokesman Dean
Boyd said.

The arrests, authorities said, are part of a government campaign to root out
illegal workers at "critical infrastructure" sites nationwide that could be
targeted by terrorists  --  such as airports, shipyards, nuclear plants and
military bases. ICE agents recently arrested 14 illegal workers at the Naval
Surface Warfare Center in Indian Head and 25 others at a Memphis chemical plant.

None of the workers arrested at Dulles or in Indian Head was involved in
terrorist activity, authorities said. But they said all illegal immigrants can
pose security risks.

"Not only are the identities of these individuals in question, but these aliens
are also vulnerable to exploitation by terrorists and other criminals, given
their illegal status in this country," ICE Assistant Secretary Julie L. Myers
said in a statement.

The Dulles effort comes as Congress debates plans to revamp the nation's
immigration laws and authorities step up enforcement against illegal immigrants
and employers. In April, agents arrested seven current and former managers and
more than 1,100 workers for pallet-producer Ifco Systems North America Inc.

Also yesterday, authorities announced a nationwide roundup of nearly 2,200
illegal immigrants, many with histories of criminal violence. More than 800 of
those arrested have been deported, and the rest are awaiting removal from the
country, authorities said. About half have criminal records, including 146 with
convictions for sexually assaulting juveniles. Those include a District man,
identified by authorities as Wilbur Kuk, 24, a Mexican national. ICE officials
said he has a record of arrests on charges of abduction, malicious wounding,
robbery and unlawful use of a firearm.

Observers on both sides of the immigration debate have said the work-site raids
amount to little more than a public relations effort. But the crackdown efforts
have sent fear through immigrant communities and sparked widespread rumors of
additional raids.

Word of the Dulles arrests spread slowly yesterday, in part because
Spanish-language radio, a key source for such information, was focused on the
World Cup soccer tournament. Still, immigrant groups condemned the action.

Authorities said they targeted employees of two companies, whose names they did
not release. But several witnesses and workers at the site yesterday said most
of those arrested were employed by Lane Construction Corp., a Connecticut
company working on the airport train project. A Lane spokesman referred
questions to Jay S. Cruickshank, vice president for legal and safety matters,
who did not return calls.

No managers were arrested yesterday, but Boyd said the investigation will
continue. To charge employers, authorities must prove they knowingly hired
illegal immigrants, he said.

One arrested worker held an airport security badge that grants unescorted access
to the airport tarmac, authorities said. Most were scheduled to be flown last
night to a detention center in El Paso for deportation proceedings, Boyd said.

At midday yesterday, the lot where Dulles workers park their cars was quiet.
Nelson Portillo, 38, and Jorge Martinez, 33, both Lane employees, leaned against
cars and said the arrests made them consider looking for other jobs. Both said
they have green cards, but they make only $11 an hour and get no benefits. And
now that many of their colleagues are gone, they said, work would be harder.

"They were scared," Portillo said of the arrested workers. "They have families
here. They have children. Wives. The children will be left alone."

Across the lot, Brandy Viera Sorto, 17, sat weeping in her husband's car. She
said she last saw Jose Daniel Viera Sorto, 21, an illegal Salvadoran immigrant
whom she married two months ago, at 5 a.m., when he gave her a "hug and kiss
goodbye" at their Winchester home.

A few hours later, he called from his cellphone as authorities whisked him away,
she said. Supervisors with Lane, her husband's employer, had not given her any
information, she said. They only offered her his lunchbox.

"If I can just find out where he is, so I can try to help him . . .," she said,
tears filling her eyes. "If he goes back, I go with him."

Nearby, Lane foreman Carlos Castaneda wandered with a handful of car keys left
on the bus by arrested workers. Once he matched a key to a car, he searched for
car registration or insurance  --  something with an address  --  so he could
contact the workers' families.

He said the arrests had so scared people that many legal workers ditched work.
His crew of six was down to zero, he said.

Staff writer Krissah Williams contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              53 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 24, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Border Patrol;
Will the Immigration Issue Save Republicans?

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 398 words


In a year of bad omens for Republicans, there is at least one potential bright
spot:  immigration.

Most Republicans in the House and many in the Senate are pushing to crack down
on illegal immigration and are vowing to fight anything that could be construed
as amnesty or guest-worker status for undocumented workers already in the United
States. This stance  excites the conservative base at a time when many on the
right  are disenchanted with their party over high spending and other issues.

The point is not that hard-line  sentiment against illegal immigration is
necessarily shared by a majority of the electorate:  A Washington Post-ABC News
poll showed that most voters prefer a middle-ground position. But many
Republican candidates are wagering that those with the most passionate views are
voters against illegal immigration who will show up in large numbers.

What is striking is how dynamic this issue is far from the U.S.-Mexico border.
Eastern Iowa's 1st Congressional District is 92 percent white, with a Hispanic
population of 2  percent. But immigration was a flash point in a recent
three-way Republican primary. Winner Mike Whalen hit the issue hard with calls
for ID cards to ensure that businesses do not  hire illegal immigrants.

Whalen will face  Democrat Bruce Braley, a trial lawyer,  who has cautioned
against using immigration to divide people. The seat is being vacated by
Republican  Jim Nussle, who is running for governor. With a Democratic tilt in
recent presidential elections, Iowa's 1st  is considered among the most likely
districts in the nation to switch parties.

If Iowa is an unlikely testing ground for immigration politics, Arizona is no
surprise. The 8th  District, on the Mexican border, is 18 percent Hispanic, and
it has an open seat, thanks to retiring Republican  Jim Kolbe.  The issue could
also be pivotal in the  Senate race between incumbent Republican Jon Kyl and
Democrat Jim Pederson.

It will play as well in the race for an open House seat in Colorado's 7th
District,  in the Denver suburbs.

In nearly every place where the immigration debate is central, the political
question is the same: Will the more severe  stance of many Republican candidates
increase voter turnout sufficiently to offset any damage done among Hispanic
voters and political independents who prefer a more accommodating approach?

--  Jonathan Weisman

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              54 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 17, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Church Is Sanctuary As Deportation Nears;
Immigrant Activist Defies U.S. Order

BYLINE: Kari Lydersen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO Aug. 16


A 31-year-old illegal immigrant who has become a spokeswoman for undocumented
workers is defying a deportation order and has  taken sanctuary in a church on
this city's West Side.

Elvira Arellano refused to comply with the order directing her to return to her
native Mexico on Tuesday.  She is  camped out in the Adalberto United Methodist
Church in Chicago's Humboldt Park, a predominantly Hispanic neighborhood.

The church's storefront and pulpit are plastered with signs declaring it a holy
sanctuary, invoking the sanctuary movement of the 1980s in which churches
sheltered undocumented refugees from civil wars in El Salvador and Guatemala.

"This is the house of God," Arellano said Wednesday. "What man would enter the
house of God to arrest me?"

In 2002, Arellano was arrested during sweeps at O'Hare International Airport,
where, using a false Social Security number, she had gotten a job   cleaning
planes.  She was ordered deported but obtained an extension to stay to  care for
her American-born son, Saul. Now 7, he suffers from Attention Deficit
Hyperactivity Disorder  and other health problems. The extension was granted
because of private bills introduced by Sen. Richard L.  Durbin and Rep. Luis V.
Gutierrez, both Illinois Democrats.

Arellano has since become a vocal leader of the burgeoning immigrant rights
movement. She has visited Washington to lobby lawmakers, and she spoke with
Mexican President Vicente Fox during a Chicago  area visit in 2004. She founded
an organization of undocumented parents with U.S. citizen children, marched with
thousands in Chicago and Boston, and recently participated in a 24-day hunger
strike to oppose deportations.

Her extension was  denied this year by the Office of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE).

"ICE is required to enforce the nation's laws fairly without any regard for a
person's ability to generate publicity and support," said Gail Montenegro, ICE
spokeswoman  in Chicago.

Montenegro would not say whether agents will  go to the church.

"ICE has the authority to arrest anyone in violation of immigration law anywhere
in the U.S.," she said.

Arellano entered the country  twice illegally. She was deported after her first
attempt, then entered  near Mexicali in 1997. She first worked in Washington
state and gave birth to Saul, then  separated from his father and came to
Chicago in 2000.

Chicago Mayor Richard M. Daley and Gutierrez have sent letters to President Bush
asking that Arellano be allowed to remain in the country. But in a statement,
Durbin appeared to be pulling back on his original support.

Durbin said that since her son's health has improved, Arellano's situation is
now no different from "scores of people." Durbin added:  "We cannot fix the
injustices of this system with private bills; only comprehensive immigration
reform can permanently remedy this situation."

Arellano said she will not be separated from her son, who played with toy trucks
as she talked to reporters. She asked him if he would go back to Mexico with
her, and he didn't want to, so she decided to stay in Chicago despite the
deportation order.

The Rev. Walter "Slim" Coleman, pastor of the church where Arellano is taking
refuge,  believes she has been  targeted because of her activism.

"Before, her extension was renewed as a matter of course, and now the conditions
are the same, but it hasn't been renewed," he said. "That shows they're
hardening" immigration enforcement. "I think it's retribution for her bringing
to the forefront the issue of family unity."

Supporters have been crowding the pews and holding vigils outside the church.

"She is inspiring other people, and we need it because people are being deported
by the minute," said Toribio Barreras, a 34-year-old volunteer firefighter and
college student from Mexico who is also  fighting deportation.

He was among the supporters who slept on the church's second floor with Arellano
so he could be there if immigration agents came. Supporters said they will not
cause trouble if agents come, but they want the world to see images on TV.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              55 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 22, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Cost of Senate Immigration Bill Put at $126 Billion

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 801 words


The Senate's embattled immigration bill would raise government spending by as
much as $126 billion over the next decade, as the government begins paying out
federal benefits to millions of new legal workers and cracks down on the border,
a new Congressional Budget Office analysis concludes.

Law enforcement measures alone would necessitate the hiring of nearly 31,000
federal workers in the next five years, while the building and maintenance of
870 miles of fencing and vehicle barriers would cost $3.3 billion. Newly
legalized immigrants would claim nearly $50 billion in federal benefits such as
the earned income and child tax credits, Medicaid, and Social Security.

The CBO report is the most detailed analysis to date of legislation that has
divided the Republican Party, energized millions of Latinos, and become a focal
point of congressional campaigns from southern Arizona to upstate New York.
Under the legislation, passed this spring by a bipartisan Senate coalition,
tough border security measures would be coupled with a path to legal work and
citizenship for most of the nation's 11 million undocumented workers and a new
guest-worker program for prospective migrants.

President Bush applauded its passage, but House GOP leaders have dug in their
heels against it, favoring a House-passed measure that would make illegal
immigrants felons, build hundreds of miles of fencing on the southern border and
offer no new guest-worker programs.

The nonpartisan CBO analysis is sure to offer fuel for that fight.

"The cost aspect of the Senate plan has never been taken into consideration,"
said Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), the firebrand opponent of illegal immigration
who is leading the resistance to the Senate bill. "When combined with the policy
implementations, this should certainly stick a fork in it."

Supporters of the legislation cautioned that the CBO's total needs to be put
into context. For instance, most of the $78 billion in discretionary spending
that the Senate bill authorizes through 2016 would fund law enforcement measures
that conservatives are pushing for anyway.

The CBO's five-year cost estimates include $800 million to hire 1,000 additional
Border Patrol agents; $2.6 billion to build detention facilities for 20,000;
$3.3 billion to build and maintain 370 miles of border fencing and 500 miles of
vehicle barriers along the U.S.-Mexico frontier; and $1.6 billion to establish a
computerized system to verify the eligibility of applicants for lawful
employment.

"Most people recognize there is going to be a price tag for fixing a broken
immigration system, no question about that," said Ben Johnson, director of the
Immigration Policy Center, which favors the Senate bill. "It still comes down to
the moral question of 'How do we create a new, workable immigration policy?' "

In the long run, tax revenue generated by new workers would ease the baby-boom
generation's burden on Social Security and offset virtually all the additional
spending, said James Horney, a senior fellow at the liberal Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities.

The report "will be problematic," he said. "People who don't like the bill will
jump on the 10-year number. But I hope others will look at the longer term and
realize in the end, the answer is still the same. It's all a wash."

The CBO study, released Friday evening, not only details the Senate bill's cost
but also enumerates the plan's impact on the population. By 2016, CBO
researchers estimate, more than 16 million people would either become legal
permanent residents under the bill or attain some other legal status. That total
includes 4.4 million legalized undocumented workers, 3.3 million guest workers
and 2.6 million family members brought in through the new programs. By 2026, the
addition to the U.S. population would jump to 24.4 million.

That number is far lower than the Heritage Foundation's estimate of 103 million
immigrants legalized by 2026, a calculation that has been widely circulated in
conservative circles. But the CBO estimate is far higher than the 8 million
figure White House officials have pointed to in their rebuttal of the Heritage
study.

The report said legalized immigrants would represent "only a modest increase" in
enrollment for child nutrition programs, food stamps and Medicaid. Caseloads
would be 2 to 3 percent higher by 2016, the CBO said.

But that may understate the political costs of those entitlement claims. Over
the next decade, legalized workers and their families, in addition to guest
workers and theirs, would claim $24.5 billion in tax refunds through the earned
income credit and child credit, $15.4 billion in Medicare and Medicaid, $5.2
billion in Social Security benefits and $3.7 billion in food stamps and child
nutrition programs, the report estimates.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              56 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 23, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

TAXES Private Collectors Dra ...

SECTION: Financial; D02

LENGTH: 763 words


TAXES

As the Internal Revenue Service prepares to implement a new program that will
send private debt-collection agencies after delinquent taxpayers, opponents,
including several lawmakers and the employee union at the Treasury Department,
are gearing up to protest.

Opponents say that the IRS would pay private debt collectors more to do what
government-paid employees could do and that the agency is not doing enough to
let the public know about the new program, set to be launched early next month.
"I think taxpayers will be very offended and appalled that their tax information
is being handed over to" non-IRS tax agents, said National Treasury Employees
Union President Colleen Kelley.

The IRS says the plan will cost more than hiring agents to do the same work but
that Congress has authorized the use of such firms.

LEGAL

Businesses are filing lawsuits accusing competitors of hiring illegal workers to
achieve an unfair advantage. Businesses and groups against illegal immigration
said the legal action was an attempt to deter hiring illegal employees.

In the first of a series of lawsuits, a temporary employment agency that
supplies farm workers sued a grower and two competing firms on Monday. Global
Horizons, of Santa Monica, Calif., said Munger Brothers, a grower, hired illegal
immigrant workers from Ayala Agricultural Services and J&A Contractors. Ayala
manager Javier Rodriguez had not seen the suit but said the company does not
hire undocumented immigrants.

ECONOMY

Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Michael H. Moskow said the central
bank may need to resume raising interest rates to reduce inflation and ensure
expectations for higher prices don't get out of hand. "The risk of inflation
remaining too high is greater than the risk of growth being too low," he told an
Illinois county chamber of commerce. Moskow said the Fed's decision this month
to keep the benchmark lending rate at 5.25 percent allows more time to review
financial conditions, economic growth and the housing market. Moskow isn't a
voting member of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee this year and
has always joined the majority decision when he has a vote.

Atlanta Fed President Jack Guynn stopped short of saying more rate increases may
be needed. "I am comfortable that policy seems to be, at the time of the last
meeting, properly calibrated for my best forecast" of output and inflation, he
told reporters.

AIRLINES

Delta Air Lines, which has been operating under Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection, said it is soliciting proposals for its regional jet service as part
of a restructuring effort to build a more cost-competitive network. The routes
include Delta hub cities such as Atlanta, New York and Cincinnati. Delta said
the request is for 43 70-seat regional jets, up to 50 50-seat regional jets and
up to 50 76-seat aircraft that provide a first-class section.

Northwest Airlines flight attendants offered to send e-mail notices to travelers
about their strike plans, but passengers may not get much warning. The
attendants are threatening random, unannounced strikes after 10:01 p.m. Friday
unless Northwest agrees to negotiate a new contract. Northwest is scheduled to
ask a judge in New York to block any job actions on Friday afternoon.

CONTRACTING

Boeing's work on the newest versions of Global Positioning System satellites
used for military and civilian navigation is over budget and at least 16 months
behind schedule because of management problems, the Air Force said. While the
cost of the work has grown, the Air Force didn't say by how much. "Performance
has deteriorated due to a lack of clear organization lines for accountability"
within Boeing's management chain, the Air Force said. Boeing has taken steps to
improve the process, the Air Forsaid.

Toll Brothers said its third-quarter profit fell by 19 percent compared with the
same period a year ago, to $174.6 million from $215.5 million. Revenue fell 1
percent, to $1.53 billion. The Horsham, Pa., luxury home builder said the
housing market malaise weighed on sales and caused it to abandon some building
locations. Toll Brothers has cut its forecast for fourth-quarter profit as well,
reducing it to $1.33 to $1.53 a share from $1.65 to $1.93 a share.

Medtronic said its fiscal first-quarter profit rose 87 percent, to $599 million.
Revenue rose to $2.89 billion from $2.69 billion. Sales of its biggest product,
implantable heart defibrillators, fell 6 percent.

Compiled from reports by Washington Post staff writers, the Associated Press and
Bloomberg News.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              57 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Key Deadline Looms for Some Salvadorans;
Fewer Have Renewed Protected Status

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C03

LENGTH: 835 words


Salvadoran Embassy officials worked the D.C. United Latin American Festival
yesterday afternoon. Last night, Salvadoran President Elías Antonio Saca
appeared on Univision's long-lived variety show "Sábado Gigante." Today,
Salvadoran consular representatives will open an outpost at a Falls Church bank.

All have the same message for Salvadorans: Renew your temporary protected status
before it is too late.

Similar outreach blitzes have occurred during the previous four renewal periods
for permits offered through temporary protected status, or TPS, a program that
allows some Salvadorans to legally live and work in the United States for
another year.

But this one is more urgent. With only days until Friday's  deadline, about half
of the 225,000 eligible Salvadorans nationwide have not submitted applications
for renewal. They could suddenly become illegal residents, risking the loss of
their jobs and deportation. The delay is unusual. Last year, immigration
officials received half of the applications in the first month of the two-month
renewal period.

Immigrant advocates attributed the low turnout to a raft of reasons: summertime
languor, a culture of putting off tasks, even soccer. Many Salvadorans, they
said, believe a path to permanent residency will soon clear Congress, which
remains deadlocked on immigration legislation.

The numbers are distressing no matter the reason, advocates said.

"We're worried," said Luis Hernandez, a spokesman for the Association of
Salvadorans in Los Angeles, where 40 to 80 immigrants show up each day for help
with applications  --  about half as many as during the previous renewal period.
"Everyone is worrying."

TPS is a U.S. government program that grants work permits and temporary
residency to Salvadorans who were in this country when two earthquakes ravaged
their homeland in 2001. The benefit is crucial to El Salvador, whose economy is
bolstered by about $2.5 billion sent home each year by Salvadorans living
abroad.

About 225,000 Salvadorans are eligible to renew, U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services said. By Thursday, about 116,000 had applied, agency
spokesman Dan Kane said.

The national debate over immigration legislation has confused many immigrants
and given some false hopes, said René A. León, El Salvador's ambassador to the
United States.

"There are people who believe that maybe it is not worthwhile to reregister for
a program that only lasts one year if we're going to have the opportunity to
qualify for a program that's going to last much longer," said León, who has
traveled to more than 80 cities this summer to remind Salvadorans to reapply.

Having this year's renewal period during summer might have played a part, León
said. And not just any summer, he noted  --  a World Cup summer. The quadrennial
soccer tournament might have so occupied the minds and televisions of so many
Salvadorans  --  who are "fanatic about soccer," León said  --  that they waited
to renew. Last year, the deadline was in March.

Others were unconvinced of the World Cup connection.

"That finished . . . one month ago," Hernandez said. "They're supposed to keep
coming in big amounts."

Saul Solorzano, executive director of the Central American Resource Center of
Washington, said he remains hopeful for a last-minute rush.

If the record of Honduran and Nicaraguan TPS beneficiaries is any guide, there
might be reason for optimism. In the final days leading to their renewal
deadline this summer, fewer than half of the estimated 75,000 Honduran and 4,000
Nicaraguans who were eligible had reapplied. In the end, 81,000 Hondurans and
4,000 Nicaraguans filed applications.

Immigrant advocates said Salvadorans in the area have been renewing at a typical
clip. Solorzano said about 50 immigrants come to his center for assistance each
day  --  similar to previous application periods.

But Solorzano has gone on local Spanish-language radio and television to remind
Salvadorans to turn in their applications, even if it means taking loans to pay
the $250 fee. "It's a good investment," he said.

Salvadorans who sought help with applications last week at the consulate in
Woodbridge attributed their delay to something more basic than immigration
rumors or World Cup fever: money.

Esther Arévalo said she had renewed but her husband had not. "There is no
money," said Arévalo, 28.

"I did not have the funds," said Ricardo Molina, 28, a Woodbridge carpenter. Now
that he had saved, he was eager to spend it on TPS. "One has the possibility to
work legally. . . . You will be calm the rest of the year."

Still, most said they hold out hope for legislation that would offer permanent
residency.

"We're all waiting to see if the law changes," said Arévalo's sister Marie
Umaña, 39, an Alexandria housekeeper who was at the consulate to renew.

León said he tells Salvadorans there is little sign that such a change is
imminent.

"The only realistic thing they have on their hands," he said, "is TPS."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              58 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 31, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

More Immigration Demonstrations Planned;
D.C. Rally to Draw From East Coast

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 984 words


After four months of relative quiet, immigration reform advocates are mobilizing
a new round of protests in Washington and other cities to put pressure on a
returning Congress and reinvigorate a Latino movement that awakened in massive
demonstrations this spring.

The events will begin tomorrow in Chicago, where demonstrators plan to set out
on a four-day march to the district offices of House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert
(R) in Batavia, Ill., and will continue with one-day rallies throughout next
week in Phoenix, Washington and Los Angeles.

In the Washington region, activists are distributing leaflets, and
Spanish-language radio is buzzing about a Sept. 7 rally that organizers hope
will be the biggest yet. Organizers say their goal is 1 million protesters from
up and down the East Coast for a rally on the Mall and a march to the White
House.

"We want to make sure that Congress and this administration get a very clear
message that the immigrant community is still paying attention to what's
happening in the immigration debate and that we know that it's election time,"
said Jaime Contreras, chairman of the National Capital Immigration Coalition,
the rally's organizer.

Local organizers said they are improving on spring rallies that were hastily
planned amid a spontaneous groundswell of activism. To avoid a backlash against
foreign flags, they are directing all protesters to carry U.S. flags. They are
starting the rally at 4 p.m. so student demonstrators, who frustrated school
administrators by walking out earlier this year, can participate. And organizers
have nearly tripled their budget for portable toilets.

In media interviews and on fliers, they have simplified their focus to key
demands: legalization for the unauthorized and an end to stepped-up arrests of
illegal immigrants.

"We are learning," said Juan Carlos Ruiz, general coordinator of the regional
coalition.

The return to street protest, a tactic that galvanized millions this spring,
comes after public discord among activists over a May 1 work boycott and a
summer when their focus turned to immigrant voter registration drives. At the
same time, new immigration legislation grew even more elusive in Congress, which
is deadlocked on the issue.

Some believe it could be risky. The spring protests roused supporters but also
stirred fierce hostility, said Steven A. Camarota of the Center for Immigration
Studies, which favors lower levels of immigration. That kind of intensity might
make members of Congress, which is approaching midterm elections, even less
likely to touch the immigration issue.

"They want to energize the community . . . to put the issue on the agenda and
make it clear that look, it's not going away," Camarota said. "By doing all
that, they may also hurt the prospect of the legislation passing."

The immigrant movement is still developing. Regional coalitions are trying to
figure out how to work together nationally, and no clear leader has emerged.
Locally, the National Capital Immigration Coalition  --  a network of about 60
organizations that has existed for four years  --  is just now defining the
qualifications for formal membership.

As for immigrant voter registration, national figures are not yet compiled, said
Germonique R. Jones of the Center for Community Change in the District, but
anecdotal evidence points to success in some areas. She said Phoenix organizers,
for example, are en route to meeting a summer goal of registering 20,000 voters.

Local results have been tepid. Northern Virginia immigrant organizations had no
drives. Groups in the District registered 200 voters, said Kim Propeack,
advocacy director for CASA of Maryland. In Maryland, Korean organizations
registered 350, while CASA of Maryland registered 425 and quadrupled enrollment
in its citizenship workshops, Propeack said.

But organizers say the movement has not lost steam. Immigrants, they said, are
enthusiastic about the coming protests, believing the demonstrations empower
them and weaken support for an enforcement-only House proposal.

"If that's what we accomplished with marches, then let's keep marching," said
Jorge Mujica, a rally organizer in Chicago.

Other observers are uncertain. Carlos Aragon, general manager of Radio Fiesta
(1480 AM), a Woodbridge station that has been broadcasting information about the
Sept. 7 rally, said the event is a hot topic among listeners  --  but they now
sound more cautious.

"Nothing happened in regard to immigration in Congress," Aragon said. "People
are just not sure if it will help."

This week's Chicago march will be followed by protests Sept. 4 in Phoenix and
Sept. 9 in Los Angeles.

Unlike previous rallies that drew people from the Washington region, the Sept. 7
event will include participants from along the East Coast. Organizers said at
least 100 busloads of marchers will roll in.

To encourage local turnout, organizers are intensifying the strategies they used
in the spring. They are playing radio promotional spots each hour on some
Spanish-language stations. Volunteers are distributing fliers at churches,
soccer fields, Metro stations and construction sites.

With the responsibility of having a demonstration for out-of-towners upon them,
local leaders are striving to plan a smoother  --  and savvier  --  event.

On a recent night, organizer Edgar Rivera led a planning meeting at the
Alexandria offices of Tenants and Workers United. He listed all that will be
different about this march: After rallying, demonstrators will proceed to the
White House for the first time, he said.

Organizers will dispatch Spanish-speaking volunteers to Metro stations to direct
demonstrators, Rivera told those gathered. And more high-profile speakers will
be included  --  maybe  Jesse L. Jackson and a Catholic cardinal, he said  --
but fewer politicians.

"It's the community that should be out there," Rivera said.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              59 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 8, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Mexican President-Elect To Press U.S. Reforms;
Mexican Wants Deal During Bush's Term

BYLINE: Will Weissert, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Sept. 7


Mexican President-elect Felipe Calderón said Thursday that he is committed to
winning broad immigration reform in the U.S. Congress before President Bush
leaves office in January 2009.

Calderón, who spoke with Bush by telephone on Wednesday, said he believes the
White House is ready for action. "We will work intensely over the next two years
to arrive at a concrete agreement," he told foreign journalists.

Outgoing President Vicente Fox spent six years trying to obtain legal status for
the 6 million undocumented Mexicans in the United States, and his inability to
secure an accord was among the biggest failures of his term.

Mexican presidents are limited to one six-year term, and Calderón will replace
Fox on Dec. 1. Both are members of the pro-business National Action Party.

Calderón said Mexico has to create more jobs to slow the flow of Mexicans
heading north, noting that "every year, more than 1.2 million Mexican youths
reach working age. Many, facing a lack of alternatives, go looking for
opportunities in the United States."

"We can't ignore it, we can't write a law making it disappear," Calderón said.
"We have to find ways to improve things. That is not only in the interest of
Mexico, but also a U.S. interest."

The runner-up in Mexico's July 2 presidential election, Andrés Manuel López
Obrador, has refused to recognize Calderón's victory and plans to hold a
convention Sept. 16 to create a parallel government.

Thousands of his supporters have set up a protest camp in the heart of Mexico
City, crippling traffic and hurting tourism and local businesses. They claim
that fraud and illicit government spending were responsible for Calderón's
victory by fewer than 234,000 votes out of the nearly 42 million cast.

Fox spokesman Rubén Aguilar said Thursday that the president was inviting López
Obrador's Democratic Revolutionary Party, or PRD, to negotiate a solution to the
political crisis.

Calderón has said he will reach out to the millions who didn't vote for him by
proposing initiatives to reduce poverty, create jobs and combat crime. He also
said he will include opposition party leaders in a coalition-style government.

But a PRD spokesman, Gerardo Fernández, said Calderón would have to resign
before the party would consider talks.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              60 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

School Forms' Immigration-Related Questions Stir Concern

BYLINE: Michelle Garcia, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 688 words

DATELINE: CARTERET, N.J.


A few weeks back, Linda Singh picked up the registration packet from her local
school district. There, at the bottom of the first page, was the question
regarding birthplace, followed by: "If not USA, date entered USA."

It set off alarm bells for Singh, who is of Irish ancestry and married to an
Indian immigrant, with five U.S.-born children. She feared that this was another
school district trying to figure out the immigration status of its students.

She alerted the Sikh temple where her family goes, and they drew up  fliers
notifying parents that they did not have to answer immigration questions. She
called civil liberties advocates. Then, armed with legal citations, she attended
a recent school board meeting and would not back down.

"I feel like it concerns me because this is my town," Singh said. "If I don't
make a stand in my back yard, then what's next?"

Scores of New Jersey school districts are stirring unease among immigrant
parents by asking them to provide immigration-related information when they
register their children for school. Fourteen years ago, the Supreme Court ruled
that cities and towns must provide education for all students, regardless of
immigration status.

The New Jersey chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union conducted a survey
in the past few weeks and found that 57 schools and district offices request
immigration-related information or a student's Social Security number for school
registration.

The advocacy group, which surveyed 224 schools, said such questions violate
federal and state privacy laws and can discourage immigrant families from
registering their children.

"We live in a society that is increasingly encroaching on our privacy," said
Annu Mangat, a spokesman for the New Jersey chapter. "This is a fairly
straightforward thing to remedy. They need to train staff and revise their
forms."

School officials, by and large, insist that they are not asking these questions
out of any desire to ferret out students who are illegal immigrants. They note
that New Jersey is a densely packed state and that all districts  scrutinize
their student body for interlopers. And they say that their districts can
receive  federal funds for immigrants who arrived recently.

"I can assure that it wasn't meant to check immigration status, to determine if
someone has a green card or a red card," said Dennis W. Siddons, assistant
superintendent of the Carteret School District. "I don't work for immigration."

After the school board clarified the intent  behind its question, it saw an
increase in the number of South Asian families registering their children,
Siddons said.

But these immigration questions arise against a backdrop of escalating tensions
over immigration.  Singh thought nothing of it several years ago, when the
school district requested the Social Security numbers of her children, but that
was before towns in New Jersey and Pennsylvania embraced the current wave of
ordinances aimed at restricting jobs and housing for undocumented immigrants.

Add to that the attacks against Sikhs after  Sept. 11, 2001.  Her husband,
Harminder Singh, a charter bus driver, was once asked if he had a bomb on his
bus.

Linda Singh, whose Gaelic features are framed by black hair, has felt the return
of the fighting spirit of her twenties, when she took up the cause of Northern
Irish independence.  "My grandparents are from Belfast," she said. "I care a lot
about civil rights being trampled on."

Michael Hethmon, an attorney for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
a group that seeks to limit immigration, says that the ACLU has interpreted the
court ruling too broadly. He cited a federal regulation that allows schools to
collect immigration information.

Hethmon said the classroom may become the next legal battlefield in the effort
to deny services to people who are here illegally. He said that anti-immigration
ordinances, such as one passed in Hazleton, Pa., which denies housing to some
immigrants, will extend to education.

"Eventually, a Hazleton situation will be created in the school district, and
we'll be there," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              61 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 16, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 428 words


Federal officials say they are closing in on President Bush's goal of processing
immigration applications faster, but that is largely because they no longer
count many stalled applications as part of the backlog.

The Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services' latest report on
applications for such things as legal residency and work permits excludes nearly
1 million not completed because of circumstances the agency says are outside its
control. If all applications were counted, the backlog of applications as of
July 31 would be 1.12 million, down from 3.8 million in January 2004, the agency
said yesterday.

Bush pledged in his first presidential campaign that all immigration
applications would be adjudicated in six months. The Bush administration later
set Oct. 1, 2006, as its deadline for reaching that goal.

A "threatening atmosphere" in Iran is causing a deterioration in the already
restricted religious freedom of nearly all minorities despite repeated
expressions of concern by the United Nations, the State Department said.

In the department's annual report to Congress on religious freedom around the
world, Iran and seven other countries  --  Burma, China, Eritrea, North Korea,
Saudi Arabia, Sudan and Vietnam  --  were cited for particularly severe
violations of religious freedom.

The acting head of the Food and Drug Administration, who is facing new
opposition to his nomination, said he will not tailor agency decisions simply to
silence critics and win Senate confirmation.

Two Republican senators, Jim DeMint (S.C.) and David Vitter (La.), have
announced plans to block a vote on Andrew C. von Eschenbach's nomination to be
the permanent FDA commissioner. Von Eschenbach, a former director of the
National Cancer Institute, has been running the agency on an acting basis since
September 2005.

AARP will launch a $500,000 ad campaign in 14 states tomorrow to push Senate
action on legislation that would let consumers buy U.S.-made prescription drugs
from Canada and other countries.

David Certner, legislative policy director for the advocacy group, said the
campaign will focus on the home states of senators who have shown some openness
to letting people buy U.S.-made medications that have been shipped abroad.

Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.) rested at home yesterday after being hospitalized
overnight because he felt faint, his spokeswoman said.

Reed, 56, was released from George Washington University Hospital after tests
showed that there was nothing abnormal, said spokeswoman Regan Lachapelle.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              62 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 22, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Herndon Police May Join Immigration Enforcement;
Officers' Role Could Include Initiating Deportations

BYLINE: Bill Turque, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 830 words


Herndon officials are considering applying for a federal program that would
train some of the town's police officers to enforce U.S. immigration law,
including the initiation of deportation proceedings.

Police Chief Toussaint E. Summers Jr. asked the Town Council on Tuesday to
contact U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to express interest in
enrolling some of the town's officers in the agency's five-week "287(g)"
program, a provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act. Officers who pass
the course are authorized to question or detain people they believe to be in the
country illegally. They can also collaborate with federal agents on immigration
cases.

The proposal, which the council is expected to discuss Tuesday night, once again
lands the western Fairfax County town of 23,000 in the middle of the national
debate over immigration policy. Herndon has the highest proportion of
foreign-born residents of any locality in the Washington area, according to the
U.S. Census Bureau.

In August 2005, after weeks of bitter community debate, during which the Town
Hall switchboard was paralyzed by a wave of calls prompted by radio talk shows,
the council voted to open a publicly funded center to help the town's burgeoning
population of immigrant day laborers find work.

In May, Herndon voters ousted Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly and two council members
who had supported the center's establishment, replacing them with challengers,
including new Mayor Stephen J. DeBenedittis, all highly critical of the idea.

The 287(g) proposal comes a week after Latino residents expressed dismay over
the council's passage of a pared-down resolution proclaiming Sept.15- Oct. 15
Hispanic Heritage Month.

Resolutions in previous years mentioned the more than three-dozen Hispanic
recipients of the Medal of Honor and the "unique gifts" that those with Spanish
roots bring to the country in science, athletics, education and the arts.

Last week's resolution omitted those items. Town officials told the Herndon
Times this week that there was no overt attempt to devalue Hispanic Heritage
Month and that the resolution went through the standard drafting process.

In an interview yesterday, Summers said his proposal was triggered in part by
new members of the council who had "expressed interest."

The apparent willingness of the council to consider the program represents a
sharp departure from O'Reilly's tenure, when council members clearly stated that
they would leave immigration enforcement to the federal government.

Summers said that federal officials would still lead the way but that Herndon
wanted to help the program root out "criminal aliens" who had committed major
offenses and were a threat to public safety or national security. The Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement is a part of the Department of Homeland
Security.

"Our community wants to help support the country in homeland security," Summers
said. Local officers could "start the paperwork" for deportation of illegal
immigrants, he said, until immigration agents were available to take over the
cases.

Summers's proposal comes during a time when major crime in Herndon has dropped
sharply.

According to his presentation to the council, crimes such as murder, rape and
robbery declined 26 percent between 2002 and 2005.

Council member J. Harlon Reece, who supported the day labor center, said he
found the idea of training local officers in immigration law to be a reasonable
way of "getting the criminal element out of our town and the country."

"If people break our laws, we ought to be able to see if they're here
illegally," Reece said.

Several law enforcement agencies, including the Alabama Department of Public
Safety, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, have put officers through the program, which includes
courses in criminal law, document examination and cross-cultural communication.

But other agencies, including the Virginia State Police, have shied away from
287(g), for fear that it would heighten the reluctance in many immigrant
communities to cooperate with police investigations.

The proposal is drawing sharply critical response from immigration advocates,
who say it will rekindle tensions in a town that needs time to repair racial and
ethnic divisions.

"My personal opinion is that the council is suffering from a widespread disease
called xenophobia. They're allergic to anything that's foreign," said Jorge
Rochac, a Herndon businessman and former police translator who ran an
unsuccessful council campaign in May.

"If the goal is to create bad faith, tension and hostility, then [entering the
program] is a good idea," said Jon Liss, who heads Tenants and Workers United,
an Alexandria group that organizes day laborers.

"This is a broken immigration system," Liss added. "And these piecemeal
community approaches are no way to make immigration policy. Don't touch it with
a 10-foot pole."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              63 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 22, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Town Police May Join Immigration Enforcement

BYLINE: Bill Turque, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 829 words


Herndon officials are considering applying for a federal program that would
train some of the town's police officers to enforce U.S. immigration law,
including the initiation of deportation proceedings.

Police Chief Toussaint E. Summers Jr. asked the Town Council on Tuesday to
contact U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to express interest in
enrolling some of the town's officers in the agency's five-week "287(g)"
program, a provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act. Officers who pass
the course are authorized to question or detain people they believe to be in the
country illegally. They can also collaborate with federal agents on immigration
cases.

The proposal, which the council is expected to discuss Tuesday night, once again
lands the western Fairfax County town of 23,000 in the middle of the national
debate over immigration policy. Herndon has the highest proportion of
foreign-born residents of any locality in the Washington area, according to the
U.S. Census Bureau.

In August 2005, after weeks of bitter community debate, during which the Town
Hall switchboard was paralyzed by a wave of calls prompted by radio talk shows,
the council voted to open a publicly funded center to help the town's burgeoning
population of immigrant day laborers find work.

In May, Herndon voters ousted Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly and two council members
who had supported the center's establishment, replacing them with challengers,
including new Mayor Stephen J. DeBenedittis, all highly critical of the idea.

The 287(g) proposal comes a week after Latino residents expressed dismay over
the council's passage of a pared-down resolution proclaiming Sept.15- Oct. 15
Hispanic Heritage Month.

Resolutions in previous years mentioned the more than three-dozen Hispanic
recipients of the Medal of Honor and the "unique gifts" that those with Spanish
roots bring to the country in science, athletics, education and the arts.

Last week's resolution omitted those items. Town officials told the Herndon
Times this week that there was no overt attempt to devalue Hispanic Heritage
Month and that the resolution went through the standard drafting process.

In an interview yesterday, Summers said his proposal was triggered in part by
new members of the council who had "expressed interest." The apparent
willingness of the council to consider the program represents a sharp departure
from O'Reilly's tenure, when council members clearly stated that they would
leave immigration enforcement to the federal government.

Summers said that federal officials would still lead the way but that Herndon
wanted to help the program root out "criminal aliens" who had committed major
offenses and were a threat to public safety or national security. The Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement is a part of the Department of Homeland
Security.

"Our community wants to help support the country in homeland security," Summers
said. Local officers could "start the paperwork" for deportation of illegal
immigrants, he said, until immigration agents were available to take over the
cases.

Summers's proposal comes during a time when major crime in Herndon has dropped
sharply. According to his presentation to the council, crimes such as murder,
rape and robbery declined 26 percent between 2002 and 2005.

Council member J. Harlon Reece, who supported the day labor center, said he
found the idea of training local officers in immigration law to be a reasonable
way of "getting the criminal element out of our town and the country."

"If people break our laws, we ought to be able to see if they're here
illegally," Reece said.

Several law enforcement agencies, including the Alabama Department of Public
Safety, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, have put officers through the program, which includes
courses in criminal law, document examination and cross-cultural communication.

But other agencies, including the Virginia State Police, have shied away from
287(g), for fear that it would heighten the reluctance in many immigrant
communities to cooperate with police investigations.

The proposal is drawing sharply critical response from immigration advocates,
who say it will rekindle tensions in a town that needs time to repair racial and
ethnic divisions.

"My personal opinion is that the council is suffering from a widespread disease
called xenophobia. They're allergic to anything that's foreign," said Jorge
Rochac, a Herndon businessman and former police translator who ran an
unsuccessful council campaign in May.

"If the goal is to create bad faith, tension and hostility, then [entering the
program] is a good idea," said Jon Liss, who heads Tenants and Workers United,
an Alexandria group that organizes day laborers.

"This is a broken immigration system," Liss added. "And these piecemeal
community approaches are no way to make immigration policy. Don't touch it with
a 10-foot pole."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              64 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 23, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Loudoun Mulls Enforcement Training

BYLINE: Candace Rondeaux and Bill Turque, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 565 words


Loudoun County Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson said yesterday that he is considering
whether to enroll some officers in a federal program that would train them to
enforce U.S. immigration laws.

His department is the second Northern Virginia law enforcement agency to express
interest in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's "287 (g)" program this
week. On Tuesday, Herndon Police Chief Toussaint E. Summers Jr. asked the Town
Council to apply to federal authorities for enrollment; it is scheduled to
discuss the proposal Tuesday.

Those who pass the five-week course are authorized to question or detain people
they believe to be in the country illegally until federal immigration agents can
take control of the case. Officers can also begin paperwork for deportation.

Simpson, who said he was still reviewing details of the program, said he would
like to see members of his gang investigation unit be trained. "It would make a
lot of sense for us and make it easier to start deportation for folks we run
across who are illegal," he said. "With the growth and influx of Hispanic
immigrants to our area, it would be a worthwhile tool for us."

Local law enforcement agencies have traditionally left immigration enforcement
to federal authorities. But several departments, including the Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Department, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the
Alabama Department of Public Safety, have put personnel through the program.

Other jurisdictions and agencies, including Virginia State Police, have passed
on it, afraid that it might foster mistrust of police in immigrant communities.
Yesterday, police in Fairfax, Arlington and Prince Williams counties all said
they had no immediate plans to pursue it.

"The issue of local enforcement of federal immigration laws is complex and poses
difficult circumstances for police departments," Arlington police spokesman John
Lisle said yesterday. He said the department will continue to focus on its
"primary mission of enforcing state and local criminal laws."

In Herndon, some immigrant advocates have denounced the idea, saying it would
deepen the perception that the western Fairfax town is hostile to foreign-born
residents. The police proposal follows the 2005 opening of a hotly disputed
publicly funded center to serve the town's large population of immigrant day
laborers.

Last May's election defeat of Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly and two council members
who supported the center is widely attributed to voter backlash over the matter.
O'Reilly was defeated by a political novice, health club operator Steve J.
DeBenedittis, who was critical of the center.

Summers said this week that he had looked into the immigration program a couple
of times over the past few years but never pushed to apply.

DeBenedittis, who encouraged Summers to reexamine the idea, said yesterday that
it had nothing to do with the day laborers' center or the town's more recent
crackdown on overcrowded worker housing.

He said he wants to hear more from the public about the program Tuesday night
but that he is favorably disposed. "Anything that will help us remove violent
criminals from our community" is worth considering, he said. DeBenedittis said
the citizen response he has received has been almost uniformly favorable.

Staff writers Jamie Stockwell, Karin Brulliard and Theresa Vargas contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              65 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 30, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

With Senate Vote, Congress Passes Border Fence Bill;
Barrier Trumps Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1162 words


The Senate gave final approval last night to legislation authorizing the
construction of 700 miles of double-layered fencing on the U.S.-Mexico border,
shelving President Bush's vision of a comprehensive overhaul of U.S. immigration
laws in favor of a vast barrier.

The measure was pushed hard by House Republican leaders, who badly wanted to
pass a piece of legislation that would make good on their promises to get tough
on illegal immigrants, despite warnings from critics that a multibillion-dollar
fence would do little to address the underlying economic, social and law
enforcement problems, or to prevent others from slipping across the border.
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) surprised many advocates of a more
comprehensive approach to immigration problems when he took up the House bill
last week.

But in Congress's rush to recess last night for the fall political campaigns,
the fence bill passed easily, 80 to 19, with 26 Democrats joining 54 Republicans
in support. One Republican, Sen. Lincoln D. Chafee (R.I.); one independent, Sen.
James M. Jeffords (Vt.); and 17 Democrats opposed the bill. The president has
indicated that he will sign it.

Mexico's foreign affairs secretary, Luis Ernesto Derbez, told reporters in
Mexico City yesterday that his country plans to send a letter strongly
condemning the measure in an effort to dissuade Bush from signing the bill.

If fully constructed, the fence would span a distance equivalent to the distance
between Washington and Jacksonville, Fla.

The Secure Fence Act authorizes the construction of at least two layers of
reinforced fencing around the border town of Tecate, Calif., and a huge expanse
stretching from Calexico, Calif., to Douglas, Ariz.  --  virtually the entire
length of Arizona's border with Mexico. Another expanse would stretch over much
of the southern border of New Mexico, with another section winding through
Texas, from Del Rio to Eagle Pass, and from Laredo to Brownsville.

The Department of Homeland Security would be required to install an intricate
network of surveillance cameras on the Arizona border by May 30, 2007, with the
entire fence set for completion by the end of 2008.

Under the measure, the secretary of homeland security would have 18 months to
achieve "operational control" of the U.S. frontier, using unmanned aerial
vehicles, ground-based sensors, satellites, radar and cameras to prevent all
unlawful U.S. entries. Fortifying those requirements, Congress approved $1.2
billion in a separate homeland security spending bill to bankroll the fence.

That figure, however, is only a down payment and falls far short of the $6
billion the fence is expected to cost. Lawmakers from both parties conceded that
even at 700 miles in length, the barrier would leave nearly 1,300 miles of
border uncovered.

Foes of illegal immigration had clamored for the bill, flooding lawmakers'
phones in the past week and sending lawmakers bricks symbolizing the wall they
want on the southern border. Advocates of the measure called it a landmark step
toward securing the nation's porous borders.

"Fortifying our borders is an integral component of national security," Frist
said. "We can't afford to wait."

But opponents dismissed it as a political stunt, an international disgrace and
an affront to the ideals laid out by Bush earlier this year when he called for
legislation that would couple a border crackdown with new paths to lawful work
and citizenship for foreigners seeking entry and for the nation's estimated 12
million undocumented workers.

"This is not a sign of strength and engagement, but a sign of weakness and fear.
And frankly, speaking as an American, it's an embarrassment," said Kevin
Appleby, director of migration and refugee policy at the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops.

Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) taunted Bush for laying out an
expansive vision of immigration reform, only to cave "to the radical
anti-immigrant right wing of his party."

"It is a shame that after he went on national television to call for
comprehensive reform, even after he went to Mexico this summer and said he was
against fences, he is now willing to settle for this ineffective half-measure,"
Reid said.

Advocates and opponents of the measure said it is not clear that the fence can
be built as the bill envisions. The Arizona branch would have to plunge down
steep ravines and scale craggy mountain peaks. "This is not Iowa farmland," said
Rep. Raul M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.). Construction is "going to be near impossible."

A vast stretch of the Arizona fence would traverse the lands of the Tohono
O'odham Nation, which strongly opposes it and could bring suit, said Rep. Jim
Kolbe (R-Ariz.). Construction crews would have to deal with rivers and streams
running north to south and wildlife migration routes that do not respect the
U.S.-Mexico divide. And the Border Patrol does not have enough agents to stop
smugglers from simply knocking holes in remote stretches.

"It's not feasible," said Kolbe, who is retiring from Congress at the end of the
year. "It's a statement for the election. That's all."

Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Tex.) tried to amend the Senate bill to give the
Department of Homeland Security more flexibility in the placement of the
barriers, but House leaders resisted any changes to the House-passed bill. In
the end, she settled for a letter from GOP leaders promising to revisit the
issue when Congress returns after the elections.

An effort by Sen. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.) to moderate the bill's definition of
"operational control" was also dropped. The bill defines operational control as
preventing all unlawful entries. Martinez suggested dropping the word "all."

Passage of the fence bill culminated a year of sometimes-vicious infighting
among Republicans, who were divided between the get-tough approach of the House
GOP and the more comprehensive vision embraced by Bush and many Senate
Republicans. In December, the House approved legislation to declare illegal
immigrants to be felons, build a border fence, increase penalties for employers
who hire undocumented workers, expedite the detention and removal of illegal
immigrants, and create a vast database of lawful Social Security numbers and
other indicators for employers to use to check the legality of their workers.

The Senate, led by a bipartisan coalition headed by Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.)
and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), followed in May with legislation that coupled
many of the same border security measures with guest-worker programs that would
allow illegal immigrants to find lawful employment and, eventually, citizenship.

But House GOP leaders never moved to negotiate a final compromise. Instead, this
summer, they launched a series of politically freighted immigration field
hearings that entrenched the House's enforcement-only approach. House
Republicans saw the final passage of the fence bill last night as a victory.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              66 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Border Fence Is Approved;
Congress Sets Aside Immigration Overhaul in Favor of 700-Mile Barrier

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 953 words


The Senate gave final approval Friday night to legislation authorizing the
construction of 700 miles of double-layered fencing on the U.S.-Mexico border,
shelving President Bush's vision of a comprehensive overhaul of U.S. immigration
laws in favor of a vast barrier.

The measure was pushed hard by House Republican leaders, who badly wanted to
pass a piece of legislation that would make good on their promises to get tough
on illegal immigrants, despite warnings from critics that a multibillion-dollar
fence would do little to address the underlying economic, social and law
enforcement problems, or to prevent others from slipping across the border.
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) surprised many advocates of a more
comprehensive approach to immigration problems when he took up the House bill
last week.

But in Congress's rush to recess for the fall campaigns, the fence bill passed
easily, 80 to 19, with 26 Democrats joining 54 Republicans in support. One
Republican, Sen. Lincoln D. Chafee (R.I.); one independent, Sen. James M.
Jeffords (Vt.); and 17 Democrats opposed the bill. The president has indicated
that he will sign it.

Mexico's foreign affairs secretary, Luis Ernesto Derbez, told reporters in
Mexico City on Friday that his country plans to send a letter condemning the
bill in a bid to dissuade Bush from signing it.

If fully constructed, the fence would span a distance equivalent to the distance
between Washington and Jacksonville, Fla.

The Secure Fence Act authorizes the construction of at least two layers of
reinforced fencing around the border town of Tecate, Calif., and a huge expanse
stretching from Calexico, Calif., to Douglas, Ariz.  --  virtually the entire
length of Arizona's border with Mexico. Another expanse would stretch over much
of the southern border of New Mexico, with another section winding through
Texas.

The Department of Homeland Security would be required to install an intricate
network of surveillance cameras on the Arizona border by May 30, 2007, with the
entire fence set for completion by the end of 2008.

Under the measure, the secretary of homeland security would have 18 months to
achieve "operational control" of the U.S. frontier, using unmanned aerial
vehicles, ground-based sensors, satellites, radar and cameras to prevent all
unlawful U.S. entries. Fortifying those requirements, Congress approved $1.2
billion in a separate homeland security spending bill to bankroll the fence.

That figure, however, is only a down payment and falls far short of the $6
billion the fence is expected to cost. Lawmakers from both parties conceded that
even at 700 miles in length, the barrier would leave nearly 1,300 miles of
border uncovered.

Foes of illegal immigration had clamored for the bill, flooding lawmakers'
phones in the past week and sending lawmakers bricks symbolizing the wall they
want on the southern border. Advocates of the measure called it a landmark step
toward securing the nation's porous borders. "Fortifying our borders is an
integral component of national security," Frist said. "We can't afford to wait."

But opponents dismissed it as a political stunt, an international disgrace and
an affront to the ideals Bush laid out earlier this year when he called for
legislation that would couple a border crackdown with new paths to lawful work
and citizenship for foreigners seeking entry and for the nation's estimated 12
million undocumented workers.

"This is not a sign of strength and engagement, but a sign of weakness and fear.
And frankly, speaking as an American, it's an embarrassment," said Kevin
Appleby, director of migration and refugee policy at the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops.

Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) taunted Bush for laying out an
expansive vision of immigration reform, only to cave "to the radical
anti-immigrant right wing of his party."

"It is a shame that after he went on national television to call for
comprehensive reform, even after he went to Mexico this summer and said he was
against fences, he is now willing to settle for this ineffective half-measure,"
Reid said.

Advocates and opponents of the measure said it is not clear that the fence can
be built as the bill envisions. The Arizona branch would have to plunge down
steep ravines and scale craggy mountain peaks. "This is not Iowa farmland," said
Rep. Raul M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.). Construction is "going to be near impossible."

A vast stretch of the Arizona fence would traverse the lands of the Tohono
O'odham Nation, which strongly opposes it and could bring suit, said Rep. Jim
Kolbe (R-Ariz.). Construction crews would have to deal with rivers and streams
running north to south and wildlife migration routes that do not respect the
U.S.-Mexico divide. And the Border Patrol does not have enough agents to stop
smugglers from simply knocking holes in remote stretches.

"It's not feasible," said Kolbe, who is retiring from Congress at the end of the
year. "It's a statement for the election. That's all."

Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Tex.) tried to amend the Senate bill to give the
Department of Homeland Security more flexibility in the placement of the
barriers, but House leaders resisted any changes to the House-passed bill. In
the end, she settled for a letter from GOP leaders promising to revisit the
issue when Congress returns after the elections.

Passage of the fence bill culminated a year of sometimes-vicious infighting
among Republicans, who were divided between the get-tough approach of the House
GOP and the more comprehensive vision embraced by Bush and many Senate
Republicans.

House Republicans saw the final passage of the fence bill Friday night as a
victory.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              67 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Justices Hear Case on Immigrant Drug Offenders;
Clarity Sought on Deportation Provision

BYLINE: Charles Lane, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 567 words


The Bush administration urged the Supreme Court to declare that legal immigrants
can be deported for drug offenses that are felonies in some states but only
misdemeanors under federal law, as the court heard its first oral arguments of
the new term yesterday.

At issue are provisions of the 1996 immigration law that require any noncitizen
guilty of an "aggravated felony" to be sent back to his country of origin, with
no chance to ask for leniency. The law defines "aggravated felony" to include
any drug-trafficking offense that is a "felony punishable under" federal drug
laws.

Federal appeals courts, however, have differed as to  that language's precise
meaning. Some have upheld deportations based on state felonies, such as simple
drug possession, that would not be felonies under federal law.

The seemingly technical dispute could have real-world consequences for thousands
of green-card holders. In 2005, the United States deported about 77,000
immigrants  with criminal records, of whom about 9.5 percent had arrests for
drug possession, according to the Justice Department.

A Justice Department lawyer, Edwin S. Kneedler, said the court should read the
statute to require deportation for felony state drug-possession convictions.

"Because the petitioner's underlying conduct here was punishable under [federal
law], and was a felony under state law, they were properly found to have
committed aggravated felonies," he told the justices, according to a transcript
of the argument released yesterday by the court.

It was the first time the court has released same-day transcripts of oral
argument on its Web site, www.supremecourtus.gov, under a  policy announced last
month.

But several justices asked Kneedler whether that was a strained reading of the
statute.

"[I]t must give you pause that your analysis is of a term, 'drug-trafficking
crime' or 'illicit trafficking,' and your theory leads to the conclusion that
simple possession equates with drug trafficking," Chief Justice John G. Roberts
Jr. said.

Kneedler replied that "a lot of state statutes dealing with drugs do not, are
not patterned directly after the federal statute, and there is no reason why
Congress would have insisted that they do so in order for this statute to
operate sensibly."

The case is an appeal by Jose Antonio Lopez, a Mexico native who entered the
United States  illegally 20 years ago to pick tomatoes.  He became a legal
resident in 1990 and later opened two small businesses in South Dakota.

In 1997, state prosecutors there indicted him on charges of cocaine distribution
and of aiding and abetting cocaine possession. He pleaded  guilty to the
possession charge and served 15 months of a five-year sentence. Since his
release from prison, federal authorities have been trying to deport him under
the aggravated-felony law.

Lopez, who has a wife and two U.S.-citizen children, voluntarily left for Mexico
earlier this year. But his case is not moot, because if he wins, he would be
permitted to seek a cancellation of his deportation order and return legally to
the United States.

Lopez's attorney, Robert A. Long Jr., told the court that the administration's
position would undermine the uniformity of national immigration rules, because
"what it is arguing is that states can banish noncitizens and can do so by
enacting drug laws deciding to make a simple possession offense a felony."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              68 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Security First on Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 221 words


Fred Hiatt suggested that Congress pass an immigration reform package that
provides for a path to legalization only after the administration has begun
strengthening border security and enforcement ["How to Save Immigration Reform,"
op-ed, June 26].  I offered  a similarly structured amendment in the Senate six
weeks ago.

My trigger amendment said simply that the secretary of homeland security is
prohibited from granting legal status to anyone who has entered the United
States illegally until the secretary certifies in writing that border security
measures contained in the legislation are fully completed and operational. The
Senate rejected my border-security-first approach by a vote of 55 to 40.

Mr. Hiatt also cited the failure of the 1986 immigration reform, which granted
amnesty to 3 million people but failed to fund border security. The result was
that millions more crossed our borders illegally. You will never secure the
border unless you put your money where your mouth is. You must fund it.

I am hopeful that more members of Congress will experience the same "eye-opener"
that Rep. Jane Harman (D-Calif.) says she did recently in her district.  Ms.
Harman's voters told her what I've been hearing from voters for two years:
Secure the borders immediately.

JOHNNY ISAKSON

U.S. Senator (R-Ga.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              69 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Fearing Backlash, Some Immigration Activists Aren't Backing Boycott

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 450 words


A panel of immigration activists said yesterday that it will not encourage
workers and families to walk off the job and keep their children from school as
part of a May 1 boycott, but will hold voter-recruitment and petition drives
instead.

The announcement by activists from the District, Chicago and Los Angeles at a
news conference in Washington underlined the split among the mostly Latino
activist groups that led huge demonstrations in more than 140 cities in recent
weeks, and shows that the grass-roots movement is operating at cross purposes
toward the same end  --  immigration reform and legal status for illegal
immigrants.

"We are going to have several meetings; we are going to have thousands and
thousands of people sign petitions. . . . We will register people to vote and
send thousands of e-mails to legislators," said Gustavo Torres, executive
director of Casa de Maryland in Silver Spring.

Torres was joined on the panel by representatives from several immigration
organizations, including the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights and the
National Korean American Service and Education Consortium, both based in Los
Angeles, and the National Capital Immigration Coalition in the District.

Their plan for civil action is a far cry from the boycotts planned by groups in
Los Angeles, Dallas and Chicago, where the largest demonstrations have occurred
and where Spanish-speaking disc jockeys were instrumental in turning out crowds.

The panelists stressed that they were not discouraging others from boycotting.
But later they said that they do not support the boycott because it could
result in people being fired, cause students to miss school and create a climate
of disgust that could lead to a backlash by Americans who are not immigrants.

Although the panelists said they spoke for a national constituency, no boycott
supporters were present.

"I don't know who they are," said Jaime Contreras, president of the National
Capital Immigration Coalition. "I've never seen them."

But boycott supporters were in town yesterday, visiting Washington and walking
around Mount Pleasant, the heart of one of the areas Contreras's group
represents, trying to enlist support for the boycott.

They included Gloria Saucedo of Hermandad Mexicana Latinoamericana and Jesse
Diaz Jr., both of Los Angeles. "Yes, we know about the press conference," Diaz
said. "We weren't invited."

He said some groups represented at the news conference had split off from their
cause and were now against it. Regardless, he said, the boycott has enormous
support and will go on.

"Do you know how I can get in touch with the Spanish radio stations here?" Diaz
asked. "That's how we get the word out."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              70 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 22, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

How the GOP Lost Its Way

BYLINE: Craig Shirley

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 844 words


The immigration reform debate has highlighted a long-standing fissure in the GOP
between the elitist Rockefeller business wing and the party's conservative
populist base. Whether the two groups can continue to coexist and preserve the
Republican majority is increasingly doubtful as conservatives begin to consider
--  and in some cases cheer  --  the possibility that the GOP may lose control
of Congress this fall.

The two camps are deeply divided. The business elites are interested in a large
supply of cheap labor and support unfettered immigration and open borders. The
populist base supports legal immigration but is concerned about lawlessness on
our border, national sovereignty and the real security threat posed by porous
borders.

There is nothing new about this division. It is a 40-year-old fight that has its
roots in the cultural, economic, regional and ideological differences between
the two  camps. Still, most conservatives felt that after the victory of Ronald
Reagan and the Republican Revolution of 1994 their point was made and the
country-clubbers would know their place. They were wrong. The Rockefeller wing
is now attempting to reassert its control over the party and is openly hostile
toward the Reagan populists who created the Republican majority in the first
place.

Major Republicans have taken to attacking others within their own party as
unsophisticated nativists. In a recent Wall Street Journal column, former
Republican National Committee chairman Ed Gillespie warned populists to cease
and desist from promoting "border enforcement first" legislation.
"Anti-immigration rhetoric is a political siren song, and Republicans must
resist its lure," he said. And in a recent editorial,  the Weekly Standard's
Bill Kristol attacked populist Republicans for not recognizing the danger of
"turning the GOP into an anti-immigration, Know-Nothing party."

Conservatives see this kind of rhetoric as inflammatory, anti-intellectual and
offensive. Far from being driven by xenophobia and intolerance, conservative
populists are motivated by a profound respect for the rule of law and by a
patriotic regard for America's sovereignty and national security. Upholding the
rule of law and protecting our country's borders is important to conservative
populists and to most Americans.

To make their argument, some establishment Republicans are invoking Ronald
Reagan's name. In fact, Reagan argued that it was our government's duty to
"humanely regain control of our borders and thereby preserve the value of one of
the most sacred possessions of our people: American citizenship." Reagan was
pro-legal immigration, pro-patriotic assimilation and in step with   other
populist conservatives.

The Republican Party is now unraveling. Sept. 11, 2001, and the  war on
terrorism stanched a lot of wounds inside the party, but resentment is growing
over steel tariffs, prescription drug benefits, a League of Nations mentality,
the growth of government and harebrained spending, the McCain-Feingold campaign
finance law, the increasing regulation of political speech in the United States
and endemic corruption. On top of all the scandals, it has just come to light
that the RNC paid millions in legal bills to defend operative James Tobin, who
was convicted with associates in an illegal phone-jamming scheme aimed at
preventing New Hampshire Democrats from voting. In doing so, the GOP appears to
sanction and institutionalize corruption within the party.

The elites in the GOP have never understood conservatives or Reagan; they've
found both to be a bit tacky. They have always found the populists' commitment
to values unsettling. To them, adherence to conservative principles was always
less important than wealth and power.

Unfortunately, the GOP has lost its motivating ideals. The revolution of 1994
has been killed not by zeal but by a loss of faith in its own principles. The
tragedy is not that we are faced with another fight for the soul of the
Republican Party but that we have missed an opportunity to bring a  new
generation of Americans over to our point of view.

All agree that the Democrats are feckless and without a plan or agenda. But most
Americans are now presented with a choice between two parties that are both
addicted to power  --  the Democrats to government power and Republicans to
corporate and governmental power. Who speaks for Main Street Reaganism?

It was the populists under Reagan, and later under Newt Gingrich, who energized
the party, gave voice to a maturing conservative ideology and swept Republicans
into power. We would be imprudent and forgetful to disregard this. But it may be
too late, because conservatives don't want to be part of the looming train
wreck. They know that this is no longer Ronald Reagan's party.

Craig Shirley, of Shirley & Banister Public Affairs, is the author of "Reagan's
Revolution," a book about the 1976 campaign, and is now writing "Rendezvous With
Destiny" about the successful 1980 campaign. His firm has clients concerned with
immigration issues.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              71 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 24, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

THIS WEEK

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 364 words


President Bush today  tries to revive prospects for immigration legislation in
Congress, which has failed to come up with an agreement amid complaints that the
White House has been absent from the debate.

In Irvine, Calif., Bush gives a speech on "Comprehensive Immigration Reform," a
package that goes beyond the solely punitive bill passed by the House and toward
what foes brand as "amnesty" for illegal immigrants.

From there, Bush flies to Las Vegas, where he hosts a campaign event for Rep.
Jon Porter (R-Nev.), who not only voted for the punishment-only House
legislation but also opposed an effort to soften the bill by making immigration
violations misdemeanors rather than felonies.

While the president delivers his messages, the Senate Judiciary Committee tries
again to craft a deal.

HIDE YOUR HUSBAND: Embattled House GOP moderates Christopher Shays, Nancy L.
Johnson and Rob Simmons, all of Connecticut, would probably rather contract
avian flu than be seen with Bush, who is deeply unpopular in the state of his
birth. Solution: Send Laura Bush, who is far less polarizing. The first lady
will appear this evening with the three lawmakers at a reception in Stamford.

NATURE LOVES A VACUUM: NASA holds a conference call this afternoon "to announce
that black holes have been found to be 'green.' "

MORE FUN WITH RUMMY: The Senate begins debate tomorrow on a $106.5 billion
"emergency" spending bill for operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and recovery in
the Gulf Coast. Such bills always pass. The week's fireworks could be the Senate
Democrats' effort to push a no-confidence vote on Defense Secretary Donald H.
Rumsfeld.

THIS WON'T HURT A BIT: The House is scheduled Thursday to vote on its
watered-down reform measure, the "Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act
of 2006." Democrats are pushing for unrestricted debate on more stringent
measures, such as broader restrictions on gifts, travel and lobbying by former
lawmakers. Don't count on it. In fact, just before the debate the House holds
"Former Members Day," another chance to celebrate the many lawmakers who have
gone on to lucrative careers lobbying their former colleagues.

--  Dana Milbank

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              72 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Divided On Boycott;
Some Leaders Oppose 1-Day Work Stoppage

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard and Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 986 words


Disagreement over whether immigrants should walk off the job and boycott
businesses Monday appeared to deepen yesterday as one immigrant group mustered
support for the protest while another group cautioned immigrants that it might
put their jobs at risk.

The controversy over what has been called "a day without immigrants" has exposed
a rift in the immigration reform movement over the best course of action after
successful demonstrations April 10 in cities across the nation.

Although groups in Dallas and Los Angeles say momentum is building for a major
May 1 boycott, the coalition that organized the recent rally on the Mall has
discouraged participation for fear it could lead to firings and create a
negative climate as Congress debates immigration legislation.

"We don't want to be the ones telling people to risk your job, risk your
well-being," said Maryland Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Wheaton), who was joined
yesterday by other Latino officials at a news conference.

Rather than protest, the officials said, workers who are excused from their jobs
Monday should engage in such civic activities as cleaning parks and supporting
voter registration efforts.

An opposing vision for the day was presented at a second news conference called
by a group that was part of the April 10 effort  --  Mexicans Without Borders
--  and several smaller immigrant groups. They said a walkout and business
boycott would up the ante in response to a congressional deadlock on immigration
reform and multi-state raids in which 1,000 illegal immigrants were arrested
last week.

"We want to show that our absence will leave an emptiness that cannot be
filled," said Ricardo Juarez, coordinator of Mexicans Without Borders.

Speakers at both events emphasized that although they disagree over the boycott,
they remain unified in their quest for legal status for immigrants who entered
the country illegally.

"Not even in the civil rights movement did you have just one strategy," said
Mario Cristaldo, the general coordinator for Voting Rights for DC Coalition, one
of the groups that advocated a boycott yesterday. "This is a democratic system,
and people agree and disagree."

That thought was echoed by Gutierrez, who was joined by Arlington County Board
member Walter Tejada (D), Prince George's County Council member William A.
Campos (D-Hyattsville), Montgomery County Council member Tom Perez (D-Silver
Spring) and officials from two Prince George's municipalities.

"I don't know why there is the expectation that all of the Hispanic community
would be on the same page or act monolithically," Gutierrez said. "We are not as
organized as groups on the West Coast. There is not going to be a single leader
or a single organization telling people what to do. This is coming from the
bottom up."

The six groups backing the boycott  --  including the National Association of
Indigenous Salvadorans and the Latino Media Collective  --  said they think the
immigrant community supports the idea. Juarez said a recent survey by his group
of more than 2,000 immigrants in the Washington region found that 97 percent
said they would participate in the boycott even if it meant losing their jobs.

"For us, this poll was the voice of the people," Juarez said. "We are with the
people and the voice of the people."

But most unions, chambers of commerce, churches and immigrant groups in the
Washington area have been lukewarm to the idea of a boycott. The National
Capital Immigration Coalition, the April 10 umbrella group, is planning Monday
gatherings in the District, Baltimore and Prince George's County in the late
afternoon and evening so people can attend after work or school. In Virginia,
activists will stand on the corners of major intersections in Herndon,
Alexandria and Baileys Crossroads, waving large banners advocating immigration
reform.

"We have been trying to come out to educate the American community that we are
immigrants who come just to work. . . . That has been very successful for us so
far," said Juan Carlos Ruiz, a coordinator with the coalition. "We believe that
if there is a need for a strike, we should use it, but we don't think it should
be done right now."

Jorge Ribas, president of the Western Maryland Hispanic Chamber of Commerce,
said that his group has taken no official position on the issue but that he does
not believe many Hispanic business owners will participate.

"Hispanics are too pragmatic. They are not going to shut down just for that," he
said. "Most are start-up businesses, and the owner is the sole employee."

The AFL-CIO, the Service Employees International Union and other unions that
supported the April marches for immigrant rights do not support the boycott.
Unions said authorizing what amounts to a strike for a day could be considered a
breach of their contract agreements.

The support of mainstream business groups for immigration reform also influences
those who oppose the boycott.

"Business is on our side. I'm thinking, why hurt business?" said Manuel Hidalgo,
executive director of the Latino Economic Development Corp. in Washington and a
member of the immigration coalition.

Some observers said immigrants seem unsure what to do about the boycott.
Giovanna Tassi, manager of Radio Latina (950 AM), said that May 1 is a constant
topic of discussion on the station's morning talk shows and that many callers
express enthusiasm for the idea  --  until, she said, she explains that most
local immigrant advocates are not behind it.

The Rev. Jose E. Hoyos, director of the Arlington Catholic Diocese's Spanish
Apostolate, said he has been bombarded with calls from immigrants asking
questions and seeking advice. He has told them to continue with business as
usual and attend community events in the evening, he said.

"That's like we are against the system," Hoyos said of a work stoppage. "We want
to be part of the system."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              73 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

After Rallies, Planners Look Ahead;
Organizers Hope to Unite Factions, Push for Political Change

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard and Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 662 words


In the aftermath of May 1 boycotts and rallies that exposed a schism in the
immigrant rights movement, local organizers said yesterday that they were
turning their attention to creating a more unified front to help propel their
demands toward political success.

Pushing for comprehensive immigration reform that does not criminalize illegal
immigrants remains the primary goal, they said. But after public discord over
whether striking and boycotting would help or harm the burgeoning movement, some
activists said they would look beyond their regions to coordinate with
organizers across the country.

Jaime Contreras, president of the National Capital Immigration Coalition, which
discouraged the boycott, said organizers have discussed creating a national
coalition of immigrant organizations that have the same goals. He said he has
talked strategy recently with Nativo Lopez, president of California-based
Hermandad Mexicana, which called for a "day without immigrants."

"We were like, 'What happened? We have not been communicating,' " Contreras
said, referring to his conversations with Lopez. "For us locally, [the goal is]
to step back a little and figure out next steps for the coalition but also
figure out how we coordinate with the coalitions across the country so it
doesn't give the impression that we are divided when we are not."

Yet amid the calls to unite, it was clear that differences remain.

In Washington, both boycott endorsers and opponents called Monday's events
successful. Contreras said about 25,000 people attended seven
coalition-sponsored events  --  and said most took part after work or school.
But Juarez said the participation  --  and anecdotal evidence that several
businesses closed Monday  --  indicated that efforts to discourage the boycott
resulted in "great failure."

The supporters and opponents of the boycott agreed, however, that the day gave
immigrants and their allies another venue to show that they will not back down,
even as Congress remains at a standstill over immigration.

"I think we accomplished our goal, which was to send a strong, positive message,
which is that our community is going to stay active," Contreras said.

Contreras said about 5,000 people attended a rally in Meridian Hill Park in the
District. In Alexandria, hundreds of marchers took to Route 1 about 3 p.m.; that
mass eventually swelled to about 1,000 people, said Jon Liss, director of
Alexandria-based Tenants and Workers United. About 600 immigrants and supporters
marched in the Culmore neighborhood of Fairfax County, and about 600 more
rallied in Herndon, he said.

The Virginia rallies were especially energetic, Liss said  --  a pulse he
attributed to the "visceral" anger in the immigrant community about recent
reports of illegal immigrants being stopped and arrested at work and at random.

"It was rocking and rolling," Liss said.

Organizers were assessing the impact of the rallies and strikes yesterday. The
regional immigrant coalition has not tallied the numbers of petitions and voter
registration cards signed, Contreras said. Juarez said about 1,000 people at
Meridian Hill Park signed petitions asking Congress to pass immigration
legislation free of criminal penalties against those in the country illegally.

No early reports were made of firings or other reprisals against boycott
participants, according to organizers and several union leaders who were
gathering reports yesterday.

"It's too soon to know. People are collecting information," said Carole Florman,
spokeswoman for Change to Win, a federation of seven unions that represent 6
million workers.

Many employers with large numbers of immigrant workers said their interests are
aligned with their employees'. A few businesses closed Monday as a show of
support. More coped by changing their work schedules or allowing liberal leave
for employees who wanted to attend rallies.

Staff writers Michelle Garcia and Sonya Geis contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              74 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Seeing Vote's Effects Far Beyond Herndon;
Immigration Opponents Cheer Election

BYLINE: Bill Turque and Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 938 words


National anti-immigration groups warned politicians yesterday that Tuesday's
election in Herndon was the beginning of a voter backlash against local and
federal immigration policy.

"Politicians across the country should take note of the results of this
election," said Chris Simcox, president of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, an
organization that patrols the U.S.-Mexico border. The group's Herndon allies
videotaped hiring activity at a day labor center created to help immigrant
workers find employment.

Voters unseated one-term Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly and two Town Council members
who supported creation of the day labor center. They replaced them with
challengers who want to bar the use of taxpayer money for the facility and limit
access to legal immigrants. Fewer than 2,600 people voted.

But immigrant rights organizations called it a small election in a small town,
carrying no larger message. And for many residents of the community of 23,000 in
western Fairfax County, the result was a stunner.

"I was very disappointed in how it worked out," said Tricia Mussante of Herndon,
who said she had favored establishing a day laborer center from the start. "I
felt the Town Council did a good job. The other side felt they weren't listened
to. It wasn't like they [council members] weren't listening. They took the
higher road."

"This is ultimately about the rule of law, what ties a diverse society
together," said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which advocates strict controls on immigration. "Politicians
have been flagrantly ignoring what people feel in their gut."

"It's clearly a local issue," said Flavia Jimenez, a policy analyst with the
National Council of La Raza, a civil rights group. "It is just one community
that is facing a situation of laborers looking for work and trying to find a
solution."

In Herndon yesterday, people on both sides of the issue agreed that the larger
national events of the last several weeks  --  dramatic marches, Monday's Day
Without Immigrants and the release of a Spanish-language edition of the national
anthem  --  inflamed a segment of the electorate already alienated by the
opening of the labor center  in the town's former police station on the
Herndon-Loudoun County line.

Aubrey Stokes, a member of Help Save Herndon, a group opposed to the center,
said the outcome was "in part due to outrage over events that have happened in
the last 10 days." Those events included, Stokes said, a Monday rally of
immigrants at a supermarket parking lot in Herndon, where Salvadoran flags were
displayed.

Even some of the town's immigrant day laborers conceded that the charged
political environment of recent days hurt their cause. "The marches made it
worse," said Francisco Bacila, 35, a Herndon resident for five years. "There is
more fear in the North Americans because they know we are here."

Others said old-fashioned scare tactics helped turn voters against the mayor and
council. In the last weeks of the campaign, at least two editions of a new
newspaper, the Herndon Compass, were widely distributed in residential
neighborhoods. The masthead and bylines include the names of prominent opponents
of the labor center, including Susan Powell, a signatory to the lawsuit brought
against the town by conservative group Judicial Watch. One story, under the
headline "Herndon Serious Crime Up 45%  --  Or More," was called inaccurate by
Herndon police.

"It was meant to confuse people," said council member Carol A. Bruce, who was
defeated Tuesday.

Fairfax County Board of Supervisors Chairman Gerald E. Connolly (D) said the
election was less about immigration policy than about weariness with the
national spotlight. "It was notoriety fatigue," he said. "People wanted their
town back."

At the worker center yesterday morning, about 50 laborers sat at picnic tables,
relaxing in the warm spring air as they waited for work. Though hiring center
officials had given them a rundown on the vote, many did not know about the
results or even that there had been an election.

Though they were unsure what to make of the vote, they were unanimous about one
thing: The job center, with its English classes, toilets and regulated hiring
methods, is, as Ruben Perez put it, "magnificent." Without it, they said, they
would be back in the parking lot of the 7-Eleven or the Giant Food or the
Shoppers Food Warehouse.

"Here, there is order," said Roger Espinal, 21, waving his hand to show off the
parking lot.

Martin Rios, the center's project manager, said he hoped the center would
survive under the new mayor, Steve J. DeBenedittis, and the council. But his
eyes betrayed worry.

"It is a shame," he said. "The people really didn't understand how much of a
help this was to the town. It represented a lack of information, not just about
day labor but about the immigrant population."

The vote, he said, "is a big stone in the way."

The center's long-term future remains unclear at best. Its town permit comes up
for renewal in fall 2007. Reston Interfaith, a nonprofit group, operates the
center under a $175,000 contract with Fairfax County that expires in mid-2007.
Some candidates who won Tuesday night said little is likely to happen until the
agreements expire.

But Bill Tirrell, a former council member who was returned to office, said he
would push to place the center under greater scrutiny by town government. If it
is found to be violating conditions of the local use permit, the new mayor and
council could move to close it.

Staff writers Tom Jackman and Lisa Rein contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              75 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Vote Fuels Immigration Debate;
Day Labor Center's Opponents Call Election a Key Victory

BYLINE: Bill Turque and Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 938 words


National anti-immigration groups warned politicians yesterday that Tuesday's
election in Herndon was the beginning of a voter backlash against local and
federal immigration policy.

"Politicians across the country should take note of the results of this
election," said Chris Simcox, president of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, an
organization that patrols the U.S.-Mexico border. The group's Herndon allies
videotaped hiring activity at a day labor center created to help immigrant
workers find employment.

Voters unseated one-term Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly and two Town Council members
who supported creation of the day labor center. They replaced them with
challengers who want to bar the use of taxpayer money for the facility and limit
access to legal immigrants. Fewer than 2,600 people voted.

But immigrant rights organizations called it a small election in a small town,
carrying no larger message. And for many residents of the community of 23,000 in
western Fairfax County, the result was a stunner.

"I was very disappointed in how it worked out," said Tricia Mussante of Herndon,
who said she had favored establishing a day laborer center from the start. "I
felt the Town Council did a good job. The other side felt they weren't listened
to. It wasn't like they [council members] weren't listening. They took the
higher road."

"This is ultimately about the rule of law, what ties a diverse society
together," said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which advocates strict controls on immigration. "Politicians
have been flagrantly ignoring what people feel in their gut."

"It's clearly a local issue," said Flavia Jimenez, a policy analyst with the
National Council of La Raza, a civil rights group. "It is just one community
that is facing a situation of laborers looking for work and trying to find a
solution."

In Herndon yesterday, people on both sides of the issue agreed that the larger
national events of the last several weeks  --  dramatic marches, Monday's Day
Without Immigrants and the release of a Spanish-language edition of the national
anthem  --  inflamed a segment of the electorate already alienated by the
opening of the labor center  in the town's former police station on the
Herndon-Loudoun County line.

Aubrey Stokes, a member of Help Save Herndon, a group opposed to the center,
said the outcome was "in part due to outrage over events that have happened in
the last 10 days." Those events included, Stokes said, a Monday rally of
immigrants at a supermarket parking lot in Herndon, where Salvadoran flags were
displayed.

Even some of the town's immigrant day laborers conceded that the charged
political environment of recent days hurt their cause. "The marches made it
worse," said Francisco Bacila, 35, a Herndon resident for five years. "There is
more fear in the North Americans because they know we are here."

Others said old-fashioned scare tactics helped turn voters against the mayor and
council. In the last weeks of the campaign, at least two editions of a new
newspaper, the Herndon Compass, were widely distributed in residential
neighborhoods. The masthead and bylines include the names of prominent opponents
of the labor center, including Susan Powell, a signatory to the lawsuit brought
against the town by conservative group Judicial Watch. One story, under the
headline "Herndon Serious Crime Up 45%  --  Or More," was called inaccurate by
Herndon police.

"It was meant to confuse people," said council member Carol A. Bruce, who was
defeated Tuesday.

Fairfax County Board of Supervisors Chairman Gerald E. Connolly (D) said the
election was less about immigration policy than about weariness with the
national spotlight. "It was notoriety fatigue," he said. "People wanted their
town back."

At the worker center yesterday morning, about 50 laborers sat at picnic tables,
relaxing in the warm spring air as they waited for work. Though hiring center
officials had given them a rundown on the vote, many did not know about the
results or even that there had been an election.

Though they were unsure what to make of the vote, they were unanimous about one
thing: The job center, with its English classes, toilets and regulated hiring
methods, is, as Ruben Perez put it, "magnificent." Without it, they said, they
would be back in the parking lot of the 7-Eleven or the Giant Food or the
Shoppers Food Warehouse.

"Here, there is order," said Roger Espinal, 21, waving his hand to show off the
parking lot.

Martin Rios, the center's project manager, said he hoped the center would
survive under the new mayor, Steve J. DeBenedittis, and the council. But his
eyes betrayed worry.

"It is a shame," he said. "The people really didn't understand how much of a
help this was to the town. It represented a lack of information, not just about
day labor but about the immigrant population."

The vote, he said, "is a big stone in the way."

The center's long-term future remains unclear at best. Its town permit comes up
for renewal in fall 2007. Reston Interfaith, a nonprofit group, operates the
center under a $175,000 contract with Fairfax County that expires in mid-2007.
Some candidates who won Tuesday night said little is likely to happen until the
agreements expire.

But Bill Tirrell, a former council member who was returned to office, said he
would push to place the center under greater scrutiny by town government. If it
is found to be violating conditions of the local use permit, the new mayor and
council could move to close it.

Staff writers Tom Jackman and Lisa Rein contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              76 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 5, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Waiver Granted to Refugees;
Some Burmese Lose Pro-Terrorism Label

BYLINE: Bradley Graham, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 682 words


In the first move of its kind, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has granted
an immigration law waiver so that many of the 9,300 Burmese refugees at a camp
in Thailand will no longer be viewed as supporters of terrorism and can be
considered for resettlement in the United States, officials said yesterday.

The waiver, which Rice signed Wednesday, followed months of internal argument
among the departments of State, Justice and Homeland Security. The argument has
pitted concerns about combating terrorism against worries that people with
legitimate claims to asylum were being blocked from immigrating to the United
States. At issue have been broad definitions, in recently passed immigration
legislation, of what constitutes a terrorist group and what qualifies as
"material support" for terrorism.

The lack of specificity in the law has created problems for groups as varied as
Colombian refugees fleeing the terrorism of leftist insurgents and Liberian
women raped and forced into servitude by rebels. Its restrictiveness is
affecting even groups whose causes the Bush administration supports, such as
some in Afghanistan who aided the Northern Alliance against the Taliban.

Lawmakers and human rights activists who had pushed for the waiver applauded it
as a first step. But they appealed for further action to alleviate the
inadvertent impact of the counterterrorism provisions on thousands of other
refugees seeking entry into the United States.

"We had been urging them  --  and the State Department itself had been pressing
--  to use this waiver authority for many months, and they had been blocked by
the departments of Justice and Homeland Security," said Tim Rieser, an aide to
Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.).

State Department officials said there are no plans to grant additional waivers
in the near future. They characterized the Burmese situation as a test case, the
results of which will need to be assessed before more waivers are issued. The
case was chosen, they said, because it involves the largest group of refugees
affected by the provisions in question.

The provisions, which draw on the USA Patriot Act of 2001, were enacted last
year as part of the Real ID Act and incorporated into U.S. immigration law. One
involves a catchall definition of "terrorist organization," said to be any group
of two or more people who bear arms with the intent to endanger the safety of
any individual.

The other controversial provision bars the admission of anyone who has provided
"material support" to any armed group. The problem with this language, critics
say, is that it makes no distinction between support given willingly and support
compelled by force, nor does it distinguish among armed groups. Many of the
Burmese refugees living in camps in Thailand, for instance, provided water and
rice to U.S.-backed pro-democracy groups operating along the border.

"The bar has affected thousands of refugees fleeing religious persecution in
Malaysia and Sierra Leone, and political persecution in Colombia, Cuba, Liberia
and Sri Lanka," said Robert D. Evans of the American Bar Association, in a
letter to Congress last month urging a revision. "The bar's language is so broad
that it would have excluded people who fought for freedom from apartheid in
South Africa, Jews who resisted persecution in Nazi Germany and Vietnamese and
Hmong who aided United States forces during the Vietnam War."

In an attempt to add specificity to the law and allow for the exercise of
greater discretion, Leahy and Sen. Norm Coleman (R-Minn.) tried to attach an
amendment to the emergency supplemental spending bill last month. But the
measure was deemed not germane.

The Burmese refugees affected by the State Department waiver are supporters of
the Karen National Union who have opposed the Burmese military junta and now
reside at the Tham Hin camp in Thailand. But the waiver is not a total remedy
for the camp, said Jennifer Daskal of Human Rights Watch. It applies only to
Karen backers, not members. And it does nothing for the Burmese in other camps
in Thailand or Malaysia.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              77 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Dissonant Voices Inside the Border;
Some Established Immigrants Want to Restrict Newcomers

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1254 words


Under Yeh Ling-Ling's proposal for immigration reform, even she wouldn't be
allowed into the country.

In 1980, Yeh arrived on U.S. shores on a visa sponsored by her sister. She went
to work as a paralegal for an immigration law firm, helping file petitions for
fellow foreigners to enter the United States. But then she started to notice the
effects of immigration and population growth on the San Francisco Bay area.

"When I found out the cost of infrastructure, the cost of educating kids in
America, I was shocked," said Yeh, executive director of the Oakland-based
Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable America, a nonprofit organization that
wants to reduce immigration. "There would be a tremendous drain on America. . .
. Isn't it clear that immigration is not needed to boost the U.S. economy?"

Her view complicates a debate often framed in racial terms, with immigrants on
one side and native-born, white Americans on the other. Yeh is ethnically
Chinese, was born in Vietnam, raised in Cambodia, educated in Taiwan and France,
became a U.S. citizen, and considers herself 100 percent American. As the
latter, she says she owes it to her fellow Americans to tighten and secure U.S.
borders so immigrants  --  even ones like her  --  can no longer come.

In the camp to severely restrict immigration, there are many like Yeh. Last
week, as thousands of mostly Hispanic protesters boycotted work and economic
activity, a smaller number staged a news conference in Washington to deride
their fellow immigrants under the newly named group "You Don't Speak for Me."
And on Internet message boards, Asian computer programmers are speaking out
against the temporary visas that made their very passage to the United States
possible.

Analysts note that previous waves of immigrants have wanted to limit newer
arrivals, often to avoid competition for jobs and housing. More than a century
ago, Northern and Western Europeans, such as the Irish and Germans, decried the
admission of Southern and Eastern Europeans. With the passage of the 1965
Immigration and Nationality Act, those later groups had tense relations with
Asian and Latino newcomers. Now in a more heterogeneous United States, divisions
don't necessarily break down by region of origin but by class and legal status,
according to Louis DeSipio, a University of California at Irvine professor who
has studied Latino movements.

"There is some thinking that the older immigrants went through some very
difficult standards, and new, unauthorized immigrants are not doing that,"
DeSipio said. "The newest immigrants tend to live and work around those who have
immigrated in the recent past. They see the effects of immigration on
neighborhoods and workplaces more than the average American."

According to a survey conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center last year, 23 percent
of the 1,200 Hispanics surveyed thought unauthorized migration was hurting the
U.S. economy and driving down wages. The center concluded the 23 percent was "a
significant minority, concentrated among native-born Latinos."

A more recent poll of 800 legal immigrants, conducted by Bendixen & Associates
of Miami and sponsored by New America Media, found that 23 percent thought
undocumented immigrants should be deported. In an interview, pollster Sergio
Bendixen still concluded that most immigrants have a positive view of
immigration but said that African, Asian and European immigrants seemed less
enthusiastic than Latinos.

And a Pew Research Center poll found that immigrants still have a more positive
attitude toward migration than the country overall; 52 percent of the U.S.
population said immigrants take away jobs, housing and health care, while 41
percent said they strengthen the country.

Beyond the economic impact, though, some immigrants accuse more recent waves of
not properly assimilating.

Eight years ago, Claudia Garcia left Mexico to join her husband in California;
they had met through a personal ad and married in Mexico. She adopted his last
name, Spencer, learned his language, English, and eventually became a U.S.
citizen.

"I realized that America had freedom, honesty," she said. "All these people,
these illegals, are abusing this. Americans are giving them everything and they
are incapable of saying, 'I broke the law.' Instead they are saying, 'I came to
your country illegally and I want to wave my Mexican flag.' "

This year, the Spencers attended a city council meeting to oppose a day-laborer
site. Copies of Claudia Spencer's speech circulated on the Internet, and an
official with the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which wants to
curb immigration, called her. She joined the local chapter of the Minuteman
Project, a volunteer patrol along the U.S.-Mexican border. She started fielding
calls and e-mails from fellow Hispanics who felt the way she did. Others called
her a traitor.

"People sending me their messages, they are telling me that I am discriminating
against my own people," she said. "No. If I love America, I have to assimilate.
If you don't love America, you shouldn't be here."

On May 1, a day marked by protests nationwide, Spencer joined other immigrants
at the National Press Club to send a message to the boycotters: "You don't speak
for me."

Her solution to illegal immigration would criminalize employers who hire people
unauthorized to work in the United States. "Once they don't have anyone to hire
them, they are going back to their countries themselves," she said.

At the Diversity Alliance, Yeh said that only exceptional immigrants or the
spouses of U.S. citizens and their minor children should be allowed to
immigrate. She said black Americans are often the first displaced by immigrants.
True to its name, the advisers and board of the group are a diverse lot,
including immigrants, American Indians and black Americans, namely the former
director of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, Frank Morris.

In a debate often described as emotional, some critics of current immigration
levels say they try to keep their ethnicities and countries of origin out of the
discussion. George J. Borjas, a Harvard University economist, has been quoted
more than 100 times in the past three months alone, usually in articles citing
his research showing that immigrants depress wages for competing American
workers. Less often mentioned is that Borjas was born in Cuba and came to the
United States as a young boy.

"I'm an academic. I'm an economist," he said simply. "The reason I am working on
this issue is not because of where I came from."

While the children of immigrants have staged rallies and walked out of class to
defend immigrant rights, there are children of immigrants on the other side.

Caroline Espinosa works as the media coordinator for NumbersUSA, an Arlington
organization that wants to reduce immigration. While stationed in the
Philippines, her American father met and married her Filipina mother. Espinosa,
whose husband is Mexican American, says she considers her diverse, multiracial
family an example of the melting pot that America is supposed to be.

"My mother was very good about teaching us culture, and we went to the
Philippines for visits all the time. She gave us what she considered Filipino
values, but you can do that and still assimilate in the United States very
easily," Espinosa said. "What you're seeing today is that there's less melting
going on."

Staff writer S. Mitra Kalita will discuss this report at 11 a.m. at
washingtonpost.com/business.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              78 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 15, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Prime-Time Immigration

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 405 words


President Bush joins the immigration debate  when he lays out his vision for the
nation's immigration laws tonight at 8 on national television. The Senate, after
weeks of haggling, finally gets back to work on a bill that could grant
citizenship to millions of illegal immigrants.

The Senate got back on track last week after Republican and Democratic leaders
worked out a few parliamentary disputes, but big hurdles remain. Senators will
be able to add a "considerable" number of amendments to the bill when the debate
starts today. And there is a desert-size gulf between the approach of the Senate
and that of the House, which has passed an enforcement-only bill that could lead
to illegal immigrants being charged with felonies and deported.

ASSURANCE POLICY: Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove, who very publicly lost his
policy management duties at the White House last month, apparently hopes to
remind people he still has some say in administration policy. He addresses the
conservative American Enterprise Institute this morning in what is billed as "a
major policy address." No early word on what his major policy du jour would be.

VIEW FROM DOWN UNDER: Australian Prime Minister John Howard, who has kept troops
in Iraq even as other countries have pulled out, will pay Bush a visit
tomorrow, when they will talk about China and the looming Iran crisis. Then,
moving to the domestic front Wednesday, Bush will sign into law a bill that
extends tax breaks on capital gains and dividends through 2010 and includes
fewer middle-class taxpayers in the alternative minimum tax.

LISTEN IN ON THIS: The Senate intelligence committee is scheduled  Thursday to
hold open and closed hearings on the nomination of Gen. Michael V. Hayden as CIA
director. Senators are expected to use the hearings to grill Hayden on his time
at the National Security Agency, where he oversaw the controversial secret
wiretap program and the newly disclosed database of domestic phone records.

WEATHER THE STORM? New Orleans Mayor C. Ray Nagin didn't escape Hurricane
Katrina without prompting criticism for his handling of the crisis, and his
comments about New Orleans being a "chocolate city" afterward invited even more
controversy.  On Saturday, NoLa residents will decide whether Nagin  keeps his
job when they vote in a runoff that pits the mayor against Louisiana Lt. Gov.
Mitch Landrieu, a fellow Democrat.

--  Zachary A. Goldfarb

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              79 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

DISTRICT BRIEFING

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 314 words


IMMIGRATION REFORM

A group of demonstrators seeking immigration reform has scheduled a rally for
today at the Mall that is to be followed by a march toward the U.S. Capitol.
Organizers said they plan to push for legalization of immigrants in the United
States.

Plans call for the march to start about 6 p.m. from the Mall area between 12th
and 14th streets NW. The demonstrators will move along Constitution Avenue to
Upper Senate Park, officials said. Police said that the march could affect
rush-hour traffic because intersecting streets will be closed for the
demonstrators as they pass.

The demonstration is being organized by the International May 1 Coalition, the
National Capital Immigration Coalition and others.

SUDANESE EMBASSY

Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) was arrested yesterday at the Sudanese
Embassy, where she and other members of the Congressional Black Caucus blocked
an entrance in order to hold a news conference condemning the bloodshed in the
Darfur region.

U.S. Secret Service spokesman Eric Zahren said Norton and six other legislators
were charged with disorderly conduct and released after they paid a fine.

"They were blocking an ingress or egress route," he said.

The Bush administration has accused Sudan and a government-backed militia in
that country of committing genocide in Darfur.

--  Mary Beth Sheridan

MISSING TEEN

D.C. police are seeking the public's help in locating a 13-year-old girl who
went missing Monday morning in Southeast Washington.

Shalonda Flegler was last seen about 8:15 a.m. Monday in the 4600 block of
Livingston Road SE, police said.

Shalonda is black, about 5 feet 2 inches tall and about 150 pounds. She has
brown eyes and black hair and was last seen wearing a black sweater, blue jeans
and a white T-shirt.

Authorities urge anyone with information to call police at 202-727-9099.

--  Del Quentin Wilber

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              80 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Advocates Take Their Case to Capitol Hill;
Activists Lobby Members of Congress, Aides on Legislation

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard and Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 817 words


Trading placards for handshakes and T-shirts for ties, immigrant rights
activists who have recently staged huge rallies across the country took their
campaign to the halls of Congress yesterday as hundreds of people met with
elected officials or their aides to lobby for immigration reform.

About 400 church, union and civic leaders from 20 states swarmed the U.S.
Capitol to press for legalization of all immigrants and express opposition to
current proposals, including President Bush's plan to use the National Guard to
shield the nation's southern border, according to organizers.

"For us, no law is better than a bad law," Jaime Contreras, chairman of the
National Capital Immigration Coalition, said in Spanish to Alejandro Perez, an
aide to Rep. Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.), during a meeting that was held in a hallway
because the lobbying contingent  --  more than 30 activists from Maryland and
the District  --  could not fit in the congressman's office.

Washington area advocates met in person with five members of Congress from
Maryland  --  all Democrats considered sympathetic to the immigrant rights
campaign, including Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes. But in many
cases, activists made their cases to congressional staffers. Most meetings were
held behind closed doors, and many aides referred questions to their offices'
press secretaries.

A group of about 10 Virginia- and D.C.-based activists, for example, met with an
aide to Sen. George Allen (R-Va.). When they emerged, the group's members said
they were instructed not to share any of the aide's comments or even to
characterize them. They said only that each side listened to the other.

"It was off the record," said Hugo Carballo, a leader of a Northern Virginia
construction workers union.

At the time of the meeting, press secretary David D. Snepp said, Allen was on
the floor of the Senate, which yesterday voted to require construction of 370
miles of fencing on the U.S.-Mexico border and passed a provision that blocks
convicted felons and certain other illegal immigrant offenders from becoming
legal residents under a pending bill. Senators rejected a proposal that would
have stripped the bill of provisions that allow illegal immigrants who have been
in the country for more than two years to get on a path to U.S. citizenship.

"Senator Allen's staff was glad to receive the input and feedback they got from
this group," Snepp said, adding that Allen's position on immigration reform had
not changed: "He has said first and foremost that he wants to secure our
borders, and all other issues are second."

Later, a Baltimore group met with Robert L. Harbaugh, a legislative assistant to
Rep. Wayne T. Gilchrest (R-Md.), who voted in December for an enforcement-only
House bill that immigration activists have sought for months to kill. Harbaugh
took notes as the visitors spoke of families divided by the immigration system
and the need for protection of immigrant workers.

Harbaugh responded that Gilchrest wants a realistic and comprehensive bill but
is waiting for Senate action before taking a stance.

"The big question now is, what do we do with the people already here?" asked
Elizabeth Alex, an organizer for CASA of Maryland, referring to the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants in the United States. Harbaugh was noncommittal. But
he had his own question: What did they think of Bush's plan for the National
Guard? Alex referred to it as a "band-aid."

The delegations included 35 California clergy members, a busload of Illinois
activists and scores more who traveled from Florida, New York and beyond.

"There are so many people who are lobbying for the first time today, and it has
been an empowering experience for them to tell their stories and be part of this
legislative process," said Kate Shaughnessy, spokeswoman for the New American
Opportunity Campaign, an organizer of the lobbying day.

Standing out among the mostly Latino activists were members of the Irish Lobby
for Immigration Reform, who came on behalf of the more than 50,000 illegal Irish
immigrants, most of whom have overstayed the visas that allowed them into the
country, said Ciaran Staunton, the group's vice chairman.

"We're optimistic  --  we're Irish!" Staunton said.

Yesterday afternoon, activists gathered for a rally on the Mall, where they
listened to speeches by Maryland Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery) and U.S.
Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.). Several activists  --  including a group from
California that said it delivered to its senators thousands of letters demanding
legal status for illegal immigrants  --  pronounced the day successful.

Jose Rodriguez of Wilmington, Del., was not so sure about the lobbying day's
impact.

"They say whatever they want," Rodriguez, 27, said of the elected officials and
their staff members. "And I don't know what they're going to do."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              81 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

The Effects of Episodic Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 160 words


Staff writer Michael Powell's May 8 front-page story about the parallel between
high immigration in the early 20th and early 21st centuries failed to consider
that mass immigration led to expanding ghettos, an immigrant underclass, low
wages and festering unemployment. In 1924 the circumstances were so deplorable
that Congress essentially halted immigration. Only then was our underprivileged
class able to progress economically.

The unfortunate circumstances leading to the Immigration Act of 1924 could have
been avoided had there been more foresight. If Mr. Powell wants to consider the
blessings of mass immigration in the early 21st century, he also should evaluate
how the 1924 act enabled immigrants to escape poverty's grip.

JOHN F. ROHE

Petoskey, Mich.

The writer is on the board of directors of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which seeks to improve border security, stop illegal
immigration and promote lower immigration rates.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              82 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Debate on How to Reshape Law Has Divided Republicans

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman and Jim VandeHei, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1172 words


While President Bush was on the U.S.-Mexican border Thursday promoting an
overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, Senate conservatives were persuading
a team of White House aides to deny 200,000 low-skilled immigrants citizenship.

In a series of private meetings, the conservatives thought they had convinced
the Bush team that as many as 200,000 low-skilled workers who enter the United
States under special work visas should not be allowed to stay forever. The plan
thrilled conservatives  --  but also threatened to rip apart a fragile coalition
supporting Bush's call for a comprehensive, and compassionate, immigration
solution.

Just as conservatives were declaring White House support for the controversial
amendment, Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) stormed to the Senate floor to announce
that new White House Chief of Staff Joshua B. Bolten had assured him that the
president now opposed the measure in the name of preserving bipartisan backing.
The plan was promptly defeated, and the delicate pro-reform coalition held. For
now.

This late-night White House about-face  --  as described by senators, House
lawmakers and presidential aides  --  illustrates the difficulties Bush will
confront in the months ahead as he seeks what he calls "the rational middle
ground" in the emotional immigration debate. Lately, the issue has seemed to
operate by a political version of Newton's third law: For every action Bush
takes to reassure skeptics in his own party, there is likely to be an equal
reaction by supporters of a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

Congress, like the public, is deeply divided over the fairest and safest way to
crack down on illegal immigration while dealing with the estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants living in the United States with no plans to leave.

The sharpest divide is the one cleaving Bush's party. On one side are
Republicans such as Hagel who support a solution that tightens the borders,
toughens enforcement of current laws and provides millions of illegal immigrants
a chance at citizenship. On the other is a large group of conservatives, such as
powerful House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.),
who want to lock down the borders and deny illegal immigrants a path to
citizenship.

Bush is trying to thread the needle by pushing the Senate to back enough
get-tough measures to placate deeply skeptical conservatives in the House, aides
said. The strategy is predicated on first getting the Senate to pass with the
widest possible margin a bipartisan bill that would tighten border security and
would provide millions of illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship. Then the
president and his aides plan to shift their attention to the House.

A senior Bush adviser noted that House conservatives are themselves divided,
pointing to Thursday's trip to Arizona as an illustration. Aboard Air Force One,
conservative Reps. Jeff Flake (Ariz.) and John Shadegg (Ariz.) suggested to Bush
that they are prepared to back a plan that would offer many illegal immigrants a
new route to citizenship, according to the official. But Bush's biggest obstacle
is the House GOP leadership team, including Majority Leader John A. Boehner
(Ohio) and Whip Roy Blunt (Mo.), who are cool to the Bush plan. "The ice ain't
going to break overnight, we know," the Bush adviser said.

To win members over, Bush has inserted himself into the debate as never before.
The White House took the unusual step last week of publicly and privately
backing specific amendments, including one to erect a 370-mile border fence and
another to make English the national language. This came after White House
spokesman Tony Snow said earlier in the week that Bush is not in the business of
endorsing amendments. The flip underscores White House concern about losing the
debate.

The dilemma played out publicly Thursday night, when Sens. John Cornyn (R-Tex.)
and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) tried to amend the bill to stipulate that the 200,000
low-skilled immigrants allowed to enter the country under a new temporary-worker
visa would have to leave when the visa expired. With Bush and his top political
aides in Arizona, conservative Republican aides persuaded lower-level White
House staff members to back the amendment, reasoning that Bush has always said
he backs a "temporary worker program," not a permanent funnel of immigrants to
the United States.

"It was a matter of truth in advertising," Cornyn said.

When word reached the backers of the compromise, they were furious, according to
a senior Republican Senate aide involved in the events. Immigrant groups such as
the National Council of La Raza and the National Immigration Forum had said they
would withdraw their support for the Senate bill if the amendment passed. With
no prospects for equality under the law, temporary workers would become a
permanent underclass, like immigrant laborers in France, they reasoned. And if
temporary workers were not offered a path to citizenship, they would simply go
underground when their visas expired, re-creating the problem of illegal
immigration.

"It just sucks the life out of a viable reform package," said Angela Kelley,
deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, the umbrella immigrants'
rights group backing the Senate compromise.

But the Republican players were unavailable. Sen. Mel Martinez (Fla.) was on his
way to his son's wedding. Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.) had left Washington for
commencement ceremonies. Hagel was in secret hearings with Gen. Michael V.
Hayden, the president's nominee to direct the CIA.

Calls from aides to White House Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove went unanswered
because he was at a dinner. Finally, after nightfall, first Hagel, then Graham
and Martinez reached Bolten from the road, telling him passage of the amendment
would destroy the coalition and scuttle the legislation. They pleaded with him
to call off the White House lobbyists.

After 8 p.m., a succession of conservatives went to the Senate floor to declare
Bush's support for their amendment to ensure that temporary work visas really
would be temporary.

Then Hagel walked onto the floor, announcing that he and his allies had just
gotten off the phone with the White House chief of staff, who had assured them
that Bush opposed the amendment.

"The American people have a very low opinion of you, of me, of the Congress, of
the president. Read the latest polls," Hagel thundered. "Why are the American
people upset with us? Because we are not doing our job. We talk about, 'Let's
run to the base. Let's run to the political lowest common denominator.' That is
not governing. That is cheap, transparent politics."

Cornyn fired back, "I recognize this is what some have called a 'fragile
compromise'  --  that if we tinker with it, all of a sudden it implodes and
nothing is going to happen." But if compromise supporters "think that they have
found some adversaries" in the Senate, he warned, "just wait until they get to
the conference with members of the House."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              83 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Next Step on Immigration;
Any agreement between the House and Senate needs to address some bureaucratic
essentials.

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 548 words


NOW THAT the Senate has passed its comprehensive immigration legislation, the
real battle begins. Just months ago, House leaders dismissed the idea of a
compromise between their own legislation, which provides for immigration
enforcement but nothing else, and the Senate's bill, which not only enhances
enforcement but also creates a path to legalization for illegal immigrants as
well as new temporary visa programs for future workers. Since the issue has
gained new prominence, House leaders face a real dilemma: Is it better to find a
compromise or to go into the fall  elections with no bill at all? We believe
Congress would be foolish to leave this issue too long: With every passing year,
fixing the situation becomes more difficult.

We're also worried about one unglamorous facet of the reform. While senators
(and the media) covered much emotionally charged ground over the past few weeks
--  the status of English, the meaning of citizenship  --  insufficient
attention has been paid to the bureaucratic procedures as well as to the
bureaucrats who will process millions of new visa and residency applications for
legal immigrants if some version of the Senate bill passes. According to a
report from the National Foundation for American Policy, qualified skilled
workers and professionals can wait more than five years to receive green cards.
Potential immigrants wanting to join family members in the United States can
wait six to 12 years in India, or as many as 14 years in the Philippines.

Some of this delay is due to the processing backlog, a problem that can be
solved with extra funding and hiring. Over time, the Congressional Budget Office
predicts, the collection of visa fees and fines will pay for this expansion, but
an initial outlay will be necessary  --  one that Congress should be prepared to
make. Congress should also allow the Department of Homeland Security to regulate
the technical details of the process, such as what will be acceptable as proof
of residency. The simpler the procedures and fewer the documents, the easier it
will be to process millions of applications.

But even before applicants get to the processing stage, they must confront the
fact that annual numbers of green cards and other kinds of visas are limited by
law. This, too, requires Congress to be realistic. It's all very well to design
a new guest-worker visa or declare that former illegal immigrants may someday be
eligible for green cards. But if the allowed number of visas is still too low,
and if green cards are in practice unavailable, then illegal immigrants will
stay in the shadows and there will still be a huge pool of resident noncitizens
in the United States.

At the moment, the Senate bill does raise the number of skilled-worker visas,
from 65,000 to 115,000 annually, and temporarily triples green-card quotas for
family-sponsored and employer-sponsored immigrants until the backlog is gone.
But the number of guest-worker visas was reduced during debate from 350,000 to
200,000, and the number of employment-based green cards to be issued was
limited, too  --  a bad omen of things to come. These quotas cannot become an
element of political horse-trading. If they are not raised substantially, then
there is no point in passing a reform bill at all.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              84 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Next Step on Immigration;
Any agreement between the House and Senate needs to address some bureaucratic
essentials.

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 548 words


NOW THAT the Senate has passed its comprehensive immigration legislation, the
real battle begins. Just months ago, House leaders dismissed the idea of a
compromise between their own legislation, which provides for immigration
enforcement but nothing else, and the Senate's bill, which not only enhances
enforcement but also creates a path to legalization for illegal immigrants as
well as new temporary visa programs for future workers. Since the issue has
gained new prominence, House leaders face a real dilemma: Is it better to find a
compromise or to go into the fall  elections with no bill at all? We believe
Congress would be foolish to leave this issue too long: With every passing year,
fixing the situation becomes more difficult.

We're also worried about one unglamorous facet of the reform. While senators
(and the media) covered much emotionally charged ground over the past few weeks
--  the status of English, the meaning of citizenship  --  insufficient
attention has been paid to the bureaucratic procedures as well as to the
bureaucrats who will process millions of new visa and residency applications for
legal immigrants if some version of the Senate bill passes. According to a
report from the National Foundation for American Policy, qualified skilled
workers and professionals can wait more than five years to receive green cards.
Potential immigrants wanting to join family members in the United States can
wait six to 12 years in India, or as many as 14 years in the Philippines.

Some of this delay is due to the processing backlog, a problem that can be
solved with extra funding and hiring. Over time, the Congressional Budget Office
predicts, the collection of visa fees and fines will pay for this expansion, but
an initial outlay will be necessary  --  one that Congress should be prepared to
make. Congress should also allow the Department of Homeland Security to regulate
the technical details of the process, such as what will be acceptable as proof
of residency. The simpler the procedures and fewer the documents, the easier it
will be to process millions of applications.

But even before applicants get to the processing stage, they must confront the
fact that annual numbers of green cards and other kinds of visas are limited by
law. This, too, requires Congress to be realistic. It's all very well to design
a new guest-worker visa or declare that former illegal immigrants may someday be
eligible for green cards. But if the allowed number of visas is still too low,
and if green cards are in practice unavailable, then illegal immigrants will
stay in the shadows and there will still be a huge pool of resident noncitizens
in the United States.

At the moment, the Senate bill does raise the number of skilled-worker visas,
from 65,000 to 115,000 annually, and temporarily triples green-card quotas for
family-sponsored and employer-sponsored immigrants until the backlog is gone.
But the number of guest-worker visas was reduced during debate from 350,000 to
200,000, and the number of employment-based green cards to be issued was
limited, too  --  a bad omen of things to come. These quotas cannot become an
element of political horse-trading. If they are not raised substantially, then
there is no point in passing a reform bill at all.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              85 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 31, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

What You Don't Know About the Immigration Bill

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 931 words


The Senate passed legislation last week that Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.)
hailed as "the most far-reaching immigration reform in our history." You might
think that the first question anyone would ask is how much it would actually
increase or decrease legal immigration. But no. After the Senate approved the
bill by 62 to 36, you could not find the answer in the news columns of The Post,
the New York Times or the Wall Street Journal. Yet the estimates do exist and
are fairly startling. By rough projections, the Senate bill would double the
legal immigration that would occur during the next two decades from about 20
million (under present law) to about 40 million.

One job of journalism is to inform the public about what our political leaders
are doing. In this case, we failed. The Senate bill's sponsors didn't publicize
its full impact on legal immigration, and we didn't fill the void. It's safe to
say that few Americans know what the bill would do because no one has told them.
Indeed, I suspect that many senators who voted for the legislation don't have a
clue as to the potential overall increase in immigration.

Democracy doesn't work well without good information. Here is a classic case. It
is interesting to contrast these immigration projections with a recent survey
done by the Pew Research Center. The poll asked whether the present level of
legal immigration should be changed. The response: 40 percent favored a
decrease, 37 percent would hold it steady and 17 percent wanted an increase.
There seems to be scant support for a doubling. If the large immigration
projections had been in the news, would the Senate have done what it did?
Possibly, though I doubt it.

But if it had, senators would have had to defend what they were doing as sound
public policy. That's the real point. They would have had to debate whether such
high levels of immigration are good or bad for the country rather than adopting
a measure whose largest consequences are unintended or not understood. What
arguments would they have used?

No one can contend that the United States needs expanded immigration to prevent
the population from shrinking. Our population is aging but not shrinking. With
present immigration policies, the Census Bureau projects a U.S. population of
420 million in 2050, up from 296 million in 2005. Under the Senate bill, the
figure for 2050 would expand by many millions. Another dubious argument is that
much higher immigration would dramatically improve economic growth. From 2007 to
2016, the Senate bill might increase the economy's growth rate by about 0.1
percentage point annually,  the Congressional Budget Office estimates. That's
tiny; it's a rounding error.

The doubling of legal immigration under the Senate bill that I cited at the
outset comes from a previously unreported estimate made by White House
economists. Because the president praised the Senate bill, the administration
implicitly favors a big immigration expansion. The White House estimate could be
low. Robert Rector of the conservative Heritage Foundation has a higher figure.
The CBO has a projection that the White House describes as close to its own. But
all the forecasts envision huge increases, diverging only because they make
different assumptions of how the Senate bill would operate in practice.

Our immigration laws involve a bewildering array of categories by which people
can get a "green card"  --  the right to stay permanently. The Senate bill
dramatically expands many of these categories and creates a large new one:
"guest workers." The term is really a misnomer, because most guest workers would
receive an automatic right to apply for a green card and remain. The Senate bill
authorizes 200,000 guest workers annually, plus their spouses and minor
children.

One obvious question is why most of the news media missed the larger immigration
story. On May 15 Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama held a news conference
with Heritage's Rector to announce their immigration projections and the
estimated impact on the federal budget. Most national media didn't report the
news conference. The next day the CBO released its budget and immigration
estimates. These, too, were largely unreported, though the Wall Street Journal
later discussed the figures in a story on the bill's possible budget costs.

Rector's explanation is that the media's "liberal" bias creates a
pro-immigration slant. I think it's more complicated. Stories generally mirror
the prevailing political debate, which has concentrated on "amnesty" for
existing illegal immigrants and the guest-worker program. Increases in other
immigration categories were largely ignored. Reporters also cover legislative
stories as sports contests  --  who's winning, who's losing  --  rather than
delve into dreary matters of substance. We've had endless stories on how
immigration might affect congressional elections and whether there will be a
House-Senate "deal."

But note the irony: The White House's projected increases of legal immigration
(20 million) are about twice the level of existing illegal immigrants (estimated
between 10 million and 12 million). Yet, coverage overlooks the former. Here, I
think, Rector has a point. Whether or not the bias is "liberal," groupthink is a
powerful force in journalism. Immigration is considered noble. People who
critically examine its value or worry about its social effects are subtly
considered small-minded, stupid or bigoted. The result is selective journalism
that reflects poorly on our craft and detracts from democratic dialogue.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              86 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 9, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Applications for U.S. Citizenship Surge;
Immigrants Nationwide Responding to Threat of Congressional Crackdown

BYLINE: Sudarsan Raghavan and Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 929 words


Driven by the fierce congressional debate over immigration, immigrants
nationwide are applying for U.S. citizenship in record numbers or seeking to
solidify their legal status in a move to protect themselves at a time of
political uncertainty.

Many fear that laws could toughen, preventing them from becoming naturalized or
from bringing relatives into the United States; others appear to be motivated by
the chance to obtain more rights and boost their political clout through voting.

Between January and April, immigrants filed 251,385 applications, an 18 percent
increase from the same period last year, immigration officials said yesterday.
They also report a record surge in petitions to sponsor relatives for residency,
also up 18 percent for the time period.

Last month, the number of visits to the agency's Web site soared to 6.3 million,
up 12 percent from May of last year. Visitors downloaded 140,000 citizenship
applications, nearly twice as many as a year before. Green card applications
downloaded also rose significantly from May 2005.

"We saw a dramatically higher upswing than we have ever seen before," said Chris
Bentley, a spokesman with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is
part of the Department of Homeland Security.

The surge, say immigration advocates, reflects widespread ambiguity over the
direction of immigration legislation being debated in Congress. Although the
political tussle centers on illegal immigrants, many noncitizens residing in
this country legally are concerned that they and their families, here and in
their homelands, could be affected.

"People get worried that they will change the rules, and the changing of the
rules will impact them personally, in terms of their status," said Rep. Luis V.
Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who chairs the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration
Task Force.

"Immigration policy is complicated enough," he said. "If you're a recent
immigrant, legally here, the debate here is scary."

In January, about 50 people attended a "citizenship workshop" at Hogar Hispano,
an immigrant services program of Catholic Charities in Arlington. At the
workshop, volunteers helped eligible permanent residents  --  those who have
held green cards for at least five years  --  fill out naturalization forms.

In March, 88 people showed up. And last month, there were 92  --  the largest
turnout coordinator Esmael Hussieni has seen in the nine years he has overseen
the workshops. He said good weather and better marketing efforts played a role
in the rise. So did fear.

"Even lately, with the green card, people don't think it's going to be safe," he
said.

In other parts of the country, groups working with immigrants say they are
seeing similar jumps in applicants. In Chicago, more than a 1,000 people showed
up for a citizenship workshop April 29, said Gutierrez, who helped promote the
event. They were expecting about 300 to 400 applicants, he said.

The number of applicants had been rising steadily in recent years. The reasons
include more nations permitting their citizens to hold dual nationality and U.S.
government cutbacks in social services and other benefits for noncitizens.

In the past, fear has spurred surges in citizenship applications. After a 1994
California ballot initiative that was intended to cut services to undocumented
immigrants, applications soared. The same happened after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, as many immigrants wanted to show solidarity with their
adopted homeland or wanted not to be targeted by a backlash.

This time, the surge can be traced back to mid-December, when the House of
Representatives passed tough legislation to tighten border security and force
employers to verify their employees status, while rejecting an immigrant
guest-worker plan.

"It sent a jolt of fear through many immigrant communities," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant advocacy
group. "It was so draconian that people eligible to naturalize said, 'We'd
better take citizenship before they take that away from us.' "

Last month, the Senate passed legislation that offers a path to citizenship for
many longtime illegal immigrants, if they pay back taxes, learn English and have
committed no serious crimes. But the bill faces stiff opposition in the House.

"It's a very unstable atmosphere now," Sharry said.

Immigrant advocates are trying to use the fear and uncertainty to galvanize a
future army of voters. By some estimates, as many as 8 million immigrants are
eligible to become naturalized citizens. It's unknown how many are in the
Washington area. A 2003 study by the Urban Institute found 196,000 legal
permanent residents eligible for naturalization in the District, Virginia and
Maryland.

Those applying for citizenship now will most likely not be able to vote in the
November elections. Still, advocacy groups nationwide are joining hands to
persuade more legal residents to become citizens, seeing this as the next step
in a national movement to secure rights for immigrants.

On Wednesday, Gutierrez and other Hispanic American politicians and immigration
advocates announced that National Citizenship Day would be observed July 1 and
that scores of citizenship workshops are planned across the nation.

"We have shown our strength in numbers. We have shown our strength in economic
power," Jaime Contreras, chairman of the National Capital Immigration Coalition,
a leading advocacy group, told reporters. "Now we have to show our strength at
the voting booth. And we know we have it."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              87 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 23, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Stalling Immigration;
Procrastination won't make reform easier.

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 407 words


THE REPUBLICAN Party controls the White House, the Senate and the House of
Representatives. All three bodies support some version of immigration reform,
and bills have passed both chambers of Congress. But House Republican leaders
have refused to open talks to bridge the gaps between the two versions; they
have decided that ironing out the differences within their own party is too
onerous. Instead,  House leaders have branded the Senate package as a liberal
"Kennedy bill" and promised to run against it in the coming midterm elections.
Despite the fact that Congress has already held  hearings on immigration for two
years,  lawmakers plan to hold yet more hearings around the country  --
especially in the Southern border states where the House's draconian enforcement
approach is electorally potent.

This is irresponsible. About 400,000 Mexicans move to the United States  each
year, so delay is costly. Moreover, that flow may well increase given trends in
the Mexican economy. As Hale Advisers, a financial consultancy, points out,
Mexico is losing out to China in the fight for the U.S. market: Most of Mexico's
shoe industry has shifted to China, and firms such as Sony, NEC and Kodak have
moved their Mexican operations to China also. Despite the strong U.S. economy,
Mexico has only 6 percent more jobs today than it had in 2000. Previous economic
recoveries typically produced employment growth of 30 percent or so, according
to Hale Advisers.

Mexico might be able to compete better against China, and so stanch migration
pressure, if China revalued its currency or if Mexico reformed its economy. But
China's leadership has so far resisted U.S. pressure to take more than baby
steps toward revaluation, and Mexico's political system has failed to deliver
the needed deregulation of its labor market. Moreover, the business climate in
Mexico may be about to get worse. The country's pro-market president, Vicente
Fox, leaves office this year. His successor will be chosen in an election  July
2. The leftist Andrés Manuel López Obrador is a strong contender.

If Mr. López Obrador wins and pursues the populist economic policies he's been
associated with in the past, the flow of Mexican arrivals in the United States
could accelerate. The consequences in Congress would not be pretty. The passions
around immigration would grow fiercer than ever  --  and the prospects for
balanced legislation would get worse, not better.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              88 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Congressional Immigration Stunts

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 727 words


After we reform immigration policy, let's do something really useful. Like
reform Congress. Apparently, the august institution is more broken than the
U.S.-Mexican border.

Just how broken became evident last week after two really strange occurrences,
each showing that members of Congress will duck their responsibility to solve
tough problems if so doing gives them a weapon with which to bludgeon opponents
or even members of their own party with whom they disagree.

First House Speaker Dennis Hastert announced his intent to hold, in August, what
is sure to be a series of heated public hearings on the Senate immigration bill.
Obviously the idea is to poke holes in the legislation and make it easier to
defeat.

House Republicans have their own bill, which bears little resemblance to what
their colleagues in the upper chamber have in mind. The Senate bill offers a
concrete plan for what to do with 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants
already in the country. The House bill offers little more than chest-thumping
and tough enforcement measures, such as making unauthorized presence in the
United States a felony, from which the Republican leadership has already started
to back away.

This certainly constitutes a new way of doing business. It's unusual, to say the
least, for one chamber to hold public hearings on the work of another. Besides,
if you want to hold town hall-style meetings, why not hold them before bills are
passed in the first place? Maybe because August is close enough to November so
that hearings could affect the midterm elections.

The stunt gives Republicans a mallet that they can use to beat Democrats over
the head. The House leaders have already dubbed the Senate legislation "the
Kennedy bill"  --  in reference to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), a
co-sponsor. Never mind that the bill's other co-sponsor is a Republican  --
Sen. John McCain of Arizona  --  or that nearly two dozen Republicans voted for
the bill. Never mind that the Senate bill was passed by, well, the Senate, and
so it seems silly for House leaders to try to use it to gain an election-year
advantage over Democrats in the House.

As a bonus, the hearings also provide political cover for House Republicans
eager to kill the Senate bill. They can come back to Washington and claim that
they were all set to do something about the problem of illegal immigration but
then they heard from constituents who have cultural concerns  --  that they
shouldn't have to "press 1 for English" or that taco trucks are invading their
neighborhoods, etc.  --  and they're sure that legalizing the undocumented will
only make it all worse. And so now, reluctantly, they have to take a pass and do
nothing at all.

Meanwhile, Bush has said that an enforcement-only approach won't work and that
he supports the comprehensive immigration reform that the Senate bill would
deliver. And so he's sure to be furious over this act of betrayal by members of
his own party. Which may explain why House leaders waited until Bush left for
Europe before making the announcement.

What cowards. If House Republican leaders want to oppose the Senate bill because
it offers some illegal immigrants a path to citizenship, then let them say so
now. Why play games? They don't have the guts to pass comprehensive reform, nor
do they have the guts to kill it. And they don't have the guts to stand with
President Bush in trying to fix a broken system.

All that happened in Act One. Act Two was when Senate Judiciary Committee
Chairman Arlen Specter apparently took offense at House leaders' back-door
assault on a bill that he was instrumental in putting together and that he
helped get through the Senate. So now Specter is threatening public hearings of
his own  --  on the House bill  --  and to do so in July, before the House
leaders get their show on the road.

Think about that for a second. What does it mean when legislators use
transparency and public forums as a weapon against one another? And why is it
thought to be such an effective weapon? "Tick me off, and I'll hold hearings
into the bill you passed." It makes you wonder what they're hiding and what
they're doing in Washington when we're not looking. And it makes you shudder.

Had enough? This may have started out being about road shows. But now it's a
sideshow.

ruben.navarrette@uniontrib.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              89 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 26, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

How to Save Immigration Reform

BYLINE: Fred Hiatt

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 694 words


Is immigration reform dead for this year, and this Congress? It's too soon for
such a pronouncement, but things aren't looking good. Here's one idea that might
revive the project.

Just about everyone agrees that reform is needed, but not everyone agrees on
what "reform" means. To the House it means tougher enforcement. To the Senate it
means enforcement plus a path to legalization for millions of undocumented
immigrants and a guest-worker program for future arrivals. Any bill
"comprehensive" enough to satisfy the Senate is unlikely to pass muster in the
House; anything draconian enough for the House can't win 60 votes in the Senate.

The dilemma was sharpened last week when House Republicans announced that,
rather than trying to work out a compromise, they would hold a series of public
hearings during their August recess. Since all essential facts have long since
been gathered, the hearings seem intended to intensify opposition to the Senate
view.

It would be easy for supporters of comprehensive reform (like me) simply to
blame xenophobes, racists and right-wing radio talk-show hosts for this state of
affairs. It's true, after all, that many polls show that a majority of Americans
want more than enforcement. It's possible therefore that August hearings will
boomerang against House Republicans, who will come back in September ready to
deal.

But what's striking is how universally candidates on the stump  the past few
weeks have reported that constituents are stirred up about immigration  --  and
that what they want is better border security. That's been the experience of
Democratic candidates I've talked to in Maryland and Virginia; Rep. Jane Harman
(D-Calif.) says it was her experience as she recently campaigned (successfully)
against a primary challenger in her Los Angeles area district.

All voters wanted to talk about, Harman said, was building fences, strengthening
the border and keeping people out. "And these were Democrats," she said. "It was
an eye-opener. I was really surprised."

It is not only right-wing Republicans, in other words, and certainly not only
xenophobes, who want enforcement first. Many people remember the last reform, in
1986, as an effort that led to amnesty without improved enforcement, and so
without providing any lasting solution. They're skeptical that employers of
undocumented workers will be judged any more harshly this time or that the
border will become less porous.

For at least some Republican legislators, that's the main argument for
enforcement-first. In response, advocates of comprehensive reform worry, fairly
enough, that enforcement-first would end up meaning enforcement-only. And
enforcement-only has no chance of working.

But what if Congress passed enforcement-first as part of a package  --  what you
might call comprehensive-plus-sequencing? Tell the administration to build more
fences, hire more border guards, develop the capability to issue tamper-proof ID
cards  --  and then open the path to legalization and jack up the number of
green cards.

The trigger (in a year, say, or 18 months) would have to be input, not output
--  administration effort, not some standard of decreased immigration flow that
would be both impossible to achieve and impossible to measure. As a price for
delay, advocates of comprehensive reform could insist on a large enough number
of green cards, and a wide enough path to legalization, to be meaningful.

Advocates of comprehensive reform understandably will resist,  because they see
all strands of reform as inextricably linked and because delay always carries
risk. Many advocates of enforcement-only will resist, too, in some cases because
they oppose any increase in legal immigration.

But politics could drive both sides to reconsider. House Republicans may come to
realize that they are at risk if Congress fails to pass anything. And senators
who favor comprehensive reform may decide that a sequenced bill, which could be
overturned only by affirmative votes of future Congresses, would be less risky
--  and more helpful to more people  --  than ending the year with no reform at
all.

fredhiatt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              90 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 30, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Deadlock Revisited;
Fear of Voter Backlash Prompts GOP Senators to Consider House's Tougher Bill

BYLINE: Shailagh Murray and Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 642 words


Republican Senate leaders are considering how to revive immigration legislation
and cut a deal with the more hard-line House, a sign of increasing GOP concern
that inaction on the emotionally charged issue could hurt the party with voters
in November.

For months, House and Senate Republicans have steadfastly defended their
respective positions. The House has insisted on tougher border and deportation
provisions only. The Senate, allied with President Bush, has demanded that a
crackdown be coupled with an overhaul of immigration laws, including a broader
guest worker program and a pathway to legal status for the estimated 12 million
people who live in the United States illegally.

House leaders appeared to be winning the standoff. They announced this month
that they would hold field hearings on immigration throughout the summer, all
but guaranteeing that a bill could not be completed until after the election.

But in recent days, senators and the White House have dropped hints that they
are willing to move closer to the House's position  --  perhaps by agreeing to a
two-phase plan that would begin with construction of triple-layer walls,
deployment of surveillance aircraft and other means of tightening the border
with Mexico.

When those measures are fully funded and operational  --  a process that could
take  as much as two years  --  debate on some version of the Senate's broader
proposals would begin.

Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), a leader of the Senate's
immigration efforts, told CNN this week: "I think everybody agrees that securing
the border is number one. . . . We're prepared to commit to secure borders. We
have got to have a timetable on the rest of it, as well."

The House yesterday announced that its first two field hearings on immigration
will be held on Wednesday in San Diego and on Friday in Laredo, Tex. Specter,
meanwhile, scheduled his own field hearing, in Philadelphia, on Wednesday. He
invited Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.), one of the chief Democratic sponsors of the
Senate approach, to join him.

House GOP leaders interpreted the Senate overtures as vindication of their
tougher stance.

"I've really been rather encouraged about what's happened over the last several
days with regard to the issue of immigration," said House Majority Leader John
A. Boehner (R-Ohio).

Also this week, Rep. Mike Pence (R-Ind.) met with Bush and Vice President Cheney
to discuss his proposal for a guest worker program that would roll out only
after the government certifies that the border is secure. "The president
listened intently," Pence told reporters. "He told me that he was intrigued with
my proposal."

Democrats are increasingly confident that immigration will be a winning issue
for them at the polls, as an illustration of their argument that Bush and the
GOP congressional leadership are incompetent.

Sen. Charles E. Schumer (N.Y.) and Rep. Rahm Emanuel (Ill.), the chairmen of the
Senate and House Democratic campaign committees, respectively, said Democratic
challengers  will launch a coordinated effort to blame the Republican leadership
for creating the immigration problems that the GOP now confronts. "They're in
the majority,"  Emanuel said. "When you fail, that failure is wrapped around
your neck."

For instance, according to statistics cited by the Democrats, the number of
border apprehensions has declined by 31 percent since Bush took office, to an
average of 1.05 million cases per year between 2001 and 2004, from an average
1.52 million cases per year during the late 1990s. The number of illegal
immigrants caught each year inside the United States also declined by about a
third, to about 25,901 on average between 2001 and 2004, from an annual average
of 40,193 in the late 1990s.

"That is a joke,"  Schumer said. "It's also a political billboard."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              91 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 30, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Citizenship Supervisor Is Accused Of Fraud

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 681 words


A Department of Homeland Security supervisor has been charged with falsifying
immigration documents to help Asian immigrants obtain U.S. citizenship,
officials said yesterday.

Robert T. Schofield was arrested Wednesday afternoon at his Fairfax County
office, where he is a supervisor for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
which processes immigration applications.

Over the past decade, the government investigated "numerous allegations of
bribery involving Schofield and Asian immigration applicants" when he worked at
the former Immigration and Naturalization Service, according to court documents
unsealed yesterday. Schofield was demoted at one point for "conduct unbecoming a
government employee,'' the documents say, and had an "inappropriate
relationship" with a woman connected to an INS criminal probe.

When confronted about that relationship by INS officials, Schofield fled to East
Asia, where he made $36,000 worth of unauthorized purchases on his
government-issued credit card, according to court documents.

It was unclear when Schofield returned to the United States, how the previous
investigations ended and how Schofield became a supervisor when the new
Department of Homeland Security took over INS's functions in 2003. Homeland
Security spokesman Jarrod Agen would not comment on Schofield's employment
history.

"DHS takes any allegations of fraud or misconduct waged against our employees
very seriously," said Agen, who said the department is cooperating with the
latest investigation of Schofield.

Schofield, of Fairfax County, appeared briefly yesterday in U.S. District Court
in Alexandria, where a judge sent him back to jail and set a bond hearing for
today. He said he is trying to retain an attorney. Also charged was Qiming Ye, a
Chinese citizen who federal officials said acted as an immigration broker,
assisting Schofield with the fraud. Both men face one count of fraudulently
issuing documents to immigrants.

Immigration experts said the charges could undermine public confidence in DHS
and its ability to protect the country's borders when debate is swirling in
Washington about immigration reform. The agency is cracking down on corruption
and fraud, and DHS's inspector general's office, along with the FBI,
investigated Schofield on the criminal charges.

"How come they've never tracked this guy down before? And they're supposed to be
protecting us from terrorists? Hello!" said Jeanne Butterfield, executive
director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington. "One
would think that if one were a supervisor, he would have an unblemished record
and that previous allegations and demotions would send up red flags."

DHS officials would not say how many employees Schofield supervises at the
Fairfax-based Washington district office of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, where he is responsible for everything from performance reviews to
hearing appeals from immigration applicants. Experts on immigration law
described him as the equivalent of "middle management."

Court documents said the investigation began last year when an official in
Schofield's office filed a complaint about him with the inspector general. The
complaint said that Schofield had personally processed and approved an
application from an immigrant not entitled to receive citizenship.

The probe expanded when several other immigrants, in San Francisco and New York,
tried to gain entry to the United States using stamps on their passports
indicating that they had permanent legal residence or held a green card.
Investigators traced the stamps, which were fraudulently issued, back to
Schofield, according to documents.

Using a cooperating witness and searching immigration application files,
authorities determined that Schofield issued hand-typed naturalization
certificates to at least 23 immigrants not entitled to receive them, the
documents say, adding that Ye, the alleged broker, received nearly $30,000 from
one immigrant the pair helped. The documents do not state whether Schofield made
money from the alleged arrangement.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              92 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 30, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Fairfax Man Accused of Illegally Helping Immigrants

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 681 words


A Department of Homeland Security supervisor has been charged with falsifying
immigration documents to help Asian immigrants obtain U.S. citizenship,
officials said yesterday.

Robert T. Schofield was arrested Wednesday afternoon at his Fairfax County
office, where he is a supervisor for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
which processes immigration applications.

Over the past decade, the government investigated "numerous allegations of
bribery involving Schofield and Asian immigration applicants" when he worked at
the former Immigration and Naturalization Service, according to court documents
unsealed yesterday. Schofield was demoted at one point for "conduct unbecoming a
government employee,'' the documents say, and had an "inappropriate
relationship" with a woman connected to an INS criminal probe.

When confronted about that relationship by INS officials, Schofield fled to East
Asia, where he made $36,000 worth of unauthorized purchases on his
government-issued credit card, according to court documents.

It was unclear when Schofield returned to the United States, how the previous
investigations ended and how Schofield became a supervisor when the new
Department of Homeland Security took over INS's functions in 2003. Homeland
Security spokesman Jarrod Agen would not comment on Schofield's employment
history.

"DHS takes any allegations of fraud or misconduct waged against our employees
very seriously," said Agen, who said the department is cooperating with the
latest investigation of Schofield.

Schofield, of Fairfax County, appeared briefly yesterday in U.S. District Court
in Alexandria, where a judge sent him back to jail and set a bond hearing for
today. He said he is trying to retain an attorney. Also charged was Qiming Ye, a
Chinese citizen who federal officials said acted as an immigration broker,
assisting Schofield with the fraud. Both men face one count of fraudulently
issuing documents to immigrants.

Immigration experts said the charges could undermine public confidence in DHS
and its ability to protect the country's borders when debate is swirling in
Washington about immigration reform. The agency is cracking down on corruption
and fraud, and DHS's inspector general's office, along with the FBI,
investigated Schofield on the criminal charges.

"How come they've never tracked this guy down before? And they're supposed to be
protecting us from terrorists? Hello!" said Jeanne Butterfield, executive
director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington. "One
would think that if one were a supervisor, he would have an unblemished record
and that previous allegations and demotions would send up red flags."

DHS officials would not say how many employees Schofield supervises at the
Fairfax-based Washington district office of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, where he is responsible for everything from performance reviews to
hearing appeals from immigration applicants. Experts on immigration law
described him as the equivalent of "middle management."

Court documents said the investigation began last year when an official in
Schofield's office filed a complaint about him with the inspector general. The
complaint said that Schofield had personally processed and approved an
application from an immigrant not entitled to receive citizenship.

The probe expanded when several other immigrants, in San Francisco and New York,
tried to gain entry to the United States using stamps on their passports
indicating that they had permanent legal residence or held a green card.
Investigators traced the stamps, which were fraudulently issued, back to
Schofield, according to documents.

Using a cooperating witness and searching immigration application files,
authorities determined that Schofield issued hand-typed naturalization
certificates to at least 23 immigrants not entitled to receive them, the
documents say, adding that Ye, the alleged broker, received nearly $30,000 from
one immigrant the pair helped. The documents do not state whether Schofield made
money from the alleged arrangement.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              93 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 3, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

THIS WEEK

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 410 words


This Independence week, with all  its focus on patriots, Congress kicks off a
summer of field hearings on the nation's immigration policy. The hearings won't
come without their biases  --  or their symbolism.

At 10 a.m. Wednesday, at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia,
elected officials and business  types at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing
will discuss that chamber's immigration approach  --  which posits that the
American  dream requires the nation to offer a path to citizenship and legal
employment for some illegal immigrants.

Two hours later, at a panel at a border patrol station in San Diego, local
authorities and border officials will speak at a House International Relations
subcommittee hearing on that chamber's immigration strategy  --  which suggests
the nation must first expend all efforts to shut the border, or risk undermining
the American  dream for people legally here. A second panel will  convene
Friday in Laredo, Tex.

NOT FREE FROM FIREWORKS: While one of the nation's most politically explosive
issues moves out of Washington, the capital city will celebrate the nation's
230th year of independence  tomorrow with fireworks and other festivities. At 10
a.m., the National Archives hosts a dramatic reading of the Declaration of
Independence. President Bush will  eat lunch with the troops at  Fort Bragg,
N.C., before returning to Washington for the fireworks, which will start at 9:10
p.m., after several hours of music on the Mall.

PRESENTS FOR A PRESIDENT: It's unknown whether he'll be bringing some of those
low-cost meds as a gift to the aging president, but Canadian Prime Minister
Stephen Harper will be paying Bush a visit Thursday  --  his 60th birthday. The
friendly neighbor is worried about some of the ideas being discussed to secure
the northern border  --  such as having to display a special  identification
card or passport. They'll also talk about energy, the environment and other
issues. (Bush will celebrate his birthday with his family  tomorrow at the White
House, before the fireworks.)

CONNECTICUT COMBAT: One of the most anticipated political fights of the summer
will come Thursday when Sen.  Joseph I. Lieberman (D-Conn.) and businessman Ned
Lamont have their first debate ahead of the Aug. 8 Democratic primary. Lamont
has been gaining traction on Lieberman, who has angered much of the party's
antiwar left with his general support for the Iraq war.

--  Zachary A. Goldfarb

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              94 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

On Immigration, Liberalize to Crack Down

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 902 words


The first House "field hearings" on immigration legislation have at times seemed
more like talk show free-for-alls than serious contributions to the legislative
process. Certainly this was true at the session I attended in Laredo, Tex.,
where Republicans fanned voters' fears by portraying the border as a "war zone"
overrun by terrorists while equally partisan Democrats gleefully bashed the GOP
members for indulging in such political theater  --  and the audience responded
in kind with alternating bursts of cheers and boos. The Senate hearings, in
contrast, have been relatively dignified.

Even so, no one would seriously claim that the central issues in the immigration
debate  --  the critical issues that divide the House and Senate  --  are being
addressed, at least not yet. Most obviously lost in the shuffle has been any
real answer to the central question posed at the first two House hearings: How
do we effectively secure our borders against terrorists and other criminals?

The House approach has been to stick to diagnosis  --  mostly exaggerated
diagnosis of cross-border drug wars, gang violence and al-Qaeda infiltration  --
apparently in the hope that a remedy would suggest itself to voters: sealing the
border. The Senate, meanwhile, tried to change the subject, focusing  --  not
wrongly but not quite aptly either  --  on the contributions of immigrants to
the economy and the U.S. military. If the public didn't know better, voters
might think we faced a choice: border security or economic well-being  --  with
no possibility of both.

But in fact that's not the choice at all: We can  --  we must  --  have both.
And the only way to get there  --  the only way to gain control of the border
--  is through reform of the kind championed by President Bush and the Senate
that liberalizes our immigration law.

Liberalize to get control? No, it doesn't make sense at first blush. But this is
the paradox at the heart of immigration reform. Yes, our existing law is
inadequately enforced, both on the border and in the workplace. But one of the
main reasons for this endemic failure is that the law itself is so
unrealistically strict, so out of sync with our labor needs as to be  --  like
all unrealistic law  --  practically unenforceable.

The best analogy is Prohibition: No matter what enforcement resources we threw
at that unrealistic ban, we couldn't make it stick. But realistic regulation of
alcohol use is another matter entirely  --  easily achieved with modest means,
such as liquor licenses and import duties.

So, too, with immigration. As the law stands now, we admit only about two-thirds
of the labor we need to keep our economy growing, and the additional third  --
some 400,000 to 500,000 workers a year  --  must get here some other way,
illegally. No wonder the Border Patrol is overwhelmed.

The logic behind reform is that if you create a legal way for these now-illegal
workers to come into the country you'll take the pressure off the border. After
all, once we've filled every available job  --  every job for which an employer
can't find an American worker  --  with an authorized immigrant, there should be
little incentive for other foreigners to risk their lives making the trip. The
bulk of those now coming illegally would enter lawfully and be processed on the
way in, while the illegal traffic would slow to a trickle, far more easily
turned back by the Border Patrol.

This isn't a new idea. The president rarely speaks about immigration without
talking about "taking the pressure off the border." But nobody at those House
hearings has seemed to remember the lesson  --  or the security dividend.

The person who first explained that dividend to me was a veteran border agent in
Arizona. "What if another 9/11 happens," he asked, "and it happens on my watch?
What if the bastards come across here in Arizona and I don't catch them because
I'm so busy chasing your next busboy or my next gardener that I don't have time
to do my job  --  my real job  --  catching terrorists? I don't know how I'll
live with myself."

The point is obvious enough: We need to take the busboys out of the equation (by
means of a temporary worker program) so that Border Patrol can focus on the
smugglers and terrorists who pose a genuine threat. And, just as urgent, we need
to find a way to bring the 12 million illegal immigrants already in the country
onto the right side of the law, creating incentives for them to come forward,
then registering, screening and, as long as they stay here, keeping track of
them.

The witnesses at the House hearings in Laredo weren't wrong: the criminal
"infrastructure" that has grown up to facilitate illegal immigration is
undermining our security, both on the border and throughout the country,
wherever these unauthorized workers and the forgers who cater to them have
settled. But the answer isn't just to crack down harder. It's to make the law
more realistic and enforceable by combining new toughness with legalization and
more visas for workers  --  precisely as the Senate proposes to do.

If only this summer's hearings would point policymakers in that direction  --
if only House Republicans would go beyond exaggerated diagnoses to solutions  --
the political theater in Laredo and elsewhere might seem in retrospect to have
been worthwhile.

The writer is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              95 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 28, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Legal Residents Face Fingerprinting at Ports;
Program Requires More Proof of Identity

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 698 words


Millions of legal permanent residents will soon have to be fingerprinted and
photographed before reentering the United States by sea or air, in a significant
expansion of a long-stalled border security program, officials announced
yesterday.

Those requirements of the US-VISIT program will be applied around the end of the
year to the more than 11 million holders of green cards, as well as all
immigrants, refugees, asylum seekers, people paroled to the United States and
travelers under the Guam Visa Waiver Program, said Robert A. Mocny, acting
director of US-VISIT. Certain Canadians entering for extended business or
employment also will be subject to the new rule.

The changes will apply to more than 1.4 million travelers a year, he said. The
changes will be open to public comment until Aug. 28.

Congress required immigration officials to develop biometric identifiers for all
noncitizens issued official documents, Mocny said. The program now covers about
32 million  visitors annually, exempting only some Canadians and Mexicans.

Crystal Williams, deputy director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, questioned why the  United States is extending fingerprinting to
more travelers when the program does not work as intended.

First proposed by Congress in 1996 and launched in 2004, US-VISIT is designed to
automate tracking of visitors when they enter and exit the United States, to
help find criminals, potential terrorists and visitors who illegally overstay
their visas.

It has recorded 61 million people entering the country through 115 airports, 15
seaports and 154 land ports. Customs agents may fingerprint and photograph
green-card holders at land ports at their discretion. But because of technical
and policy hurdles, pilot projects have recorded only about 4 million people
leaving the country.

"They've only got one half of the US-VISIT program working at all. You would
have thought they would be concentrating on a viable exit solution," Williams
said. Green-card holders will face longer lines at airports if they can no
longer enter through areas set up for U.S. citizens, she said.

Barry Steinhardt, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Technology
and Liberty Project, said the Department of Homeland Security, which administers
US-VISIT, is "overreaching" by including green-card holders, whom he said
Congress exempted from requirements for foreign nationals.

Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center,
warned that fingerprinting could soon expand to U.S. citizens inside the
borders. He cited the Real ID Act, which requires states to set more stringent
standards of proof for driver's licenses and include two biometric measures by
May 2008. He expects that this fall  the Homeland Security Department  will
propose that those be a photograph and, most likely, fingerprints.

At a news conference, Mocny said US-VISIT is improving immigration controls and
the security of citizens and visitors by adding green-card holders and other
groups to the list of people who must be fingerprinted. The use of biometric
identifiers has been endorsed by the commission that investigated the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks. The panel warned that the nation's immigration and identity
document systems are readily evaded.

US-VISIT has captured 1,100 criminals using false documents, Mocny said, and
detected one Iraqi detainee who had been released by U.S. forces  in Iraq and
later tried to apply for a visa under a false name.

The  Homeland Security system now collects two fingerprints from each person,
but officials hope to pilot a 10-print system next year and deploy it in 2008 or
2009. The smaller system cannot tap into an FBI fingerprint database or include
enough data to accurately identify individuals in the entire population, Mocny
said. The European Union, Britain and Japan now are looking at fingerprint
requirements for their border systems.

"The world is moving to biometrically enabled border control processes," Mocny
said. "That is going to become the standard. Ten-finger scans is the standard
now for identifying people."

Researcher Meg Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              96 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 1, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Seeking Asylum in the U.S.? Choose Your Judge Carefully

SECTION: A Section; A15

LENGTH: 453 words


Immigration judges vary sharply in their willingness to grant asylum to
foreigners seeking to live in the United States  --  with denial rates ranging
from 10 percent to more than 98 percent, according to a review of federal
figures.

From fiscal 2000 through the first months of fiscal 2005, Judge Mahlon F. Hanson
in Miami had the highest proportion of denials, rejecting 96.7 percent of
petitioners in 1,118 cases in which the asylum seeker had a lawyer.

The study, which was released yesterday, is based on data from the Justice
Department's Executive Office for Immigration Review, which oversees immigration
courts, for 1994-99 and 2000-05. The report was done by the Transactional
Records Access Clearinghouse, which collects and analyzes federal government
data.

New York Judge Margaret McManus rejected just 0.8 percent of her 1,638 cases in
which the asylum seeker had a lawyer. The median denial rate was 65 percent.

She and Hanson have contrasting backgrounds: Hanson had worked for the
now-defunct Immigration and Naturalization Service. McManus was a staff lawyer
with the Legal Aid Society's immigration unit.

"The goal of any court system is evenhanded justice," said Susan Long, a
Syracuse University professor and co-director of the clearinghouse. "The results
certainly raise questions about whether that goal is being achieved."

Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales began a review of the immigration courts in
January after chastising some of the immigration judges for "intemperate or even
abusive" conduct toward asylum seekers. Department spokesman Charles Miller said
the review is continuing.

The study said the court data "document that this problem has existed for at
least a decade and that it persists even when the applicants being compared
appear to be quite similar."

The United States grants asylum to people who could be persecuted in their
countries because of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular
social group or political opinion. Asylum was granted to 13,520 people in 2005,
according to Citizenship and Immigration Services statistics.

Rates were worse for asylum seekers without lawyers: 93 percent lost their cases
compared with 64 percent for those with a lawyer. The denial rate for all asylum
seekers was 69 percent.

People from El Salvador, Haiti and Mexico were denied asylum 80 percent of the
time; asylum seekers from Afghanistan and Burma were denied asylum 30 percent of
the time.

Previous studies have shown similar disparities suggesting a lack of standards
for judges, said Gideon Aronoff, president of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society.
He said success in asylum claims is a matter of "luck of the draw."

--  Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              97 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Might Relax Immigration Rules For Some Cubans

BYLINE: Lara Jakes Jordan, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 347 words


Bolstered by Fidel Castro's  surprising handoff of power, the Bush
administration is preparing to ease  immigration rules for Cubans who want to
live in the United States, focusing largely on reuniting families now separated
by politics and the sea.

The draft plans, still under debate, seek to discourage a mass migration from
Cuba over  Caribbean waters. But administration officials said they also hope
the relaxed rules will prompt Cubans to push the Castro  government for
permission to head to the United States.

Stressing that any policy shift  is not  final, administration officials said
the changes could be announced  this week.

"Taken together, they promote safe, legal and orderly migration, while they also
support the Cuban people in their aspirations for a free and prosperous
society,"  said a draft copy of Homeland Security Department talking points
obtained Monday by the Associated Press. The department oversees U.S.
immigration policy.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), a potential  presidential
candidate, yesterday praised the  plans as a "great change."

The policy shift would help "create a wave of change for the Cuban people
currently living under the yoke of despotism to rise up and demand their
freedom,"  Frist said.  "I encourage the administration to continue to show
leadership at a time when the Cuban people need it most."

The new rules are being considered three months before elections in which
Florida's governorship and at least one U.S. House seat in Florida are
considered  in play. Many Cuban immigrants live in the state.

The administration has been tight-lipped about  changes since an ailing Castro
temporarily ceded power a week ago to his brother, Raul, so that he could
undergo intestinal surgery.

To discourage Cubans from  heading to the United States by boat or raft, the
administration is considering plans to cancel or reject visa applications from
those  caught trying to sneak in. Currently, Cubans stopped at sea and returned
to the island do not face  penalties if they apply for visas in the future.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              98 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 11, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Study Finds Immigrants Don't Hurt U.S. Jobs;
Pew Detects No Link To Unemployment

BYLINE: Kim Hart, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 888 words


High levels of immigration in the past 15 years do not appear to have hurt
employment opportunities for American workers, according to a new report.

The Pew Hispanic Center analyzed immigration state by state using U.S. Census
data, evaluating it against unemployment levels. No clear correlation between
the two could be found.

Other factors, such as economic growth, have likely played a larger role in
influencing the American job market, said Rakesh Kochhar, principal author of
the report and an economist at the Pew Hispanic Center in the District.

"We are simply looking for a pattern across 50 states, and we did not find one,"
Kochhar said. "We cannot say with certainty that growth in the foreign
population has hurt or helped American jobs."

Immigration policy is a central issue in this fall's congressional elections.
The report's findings appear to refute the idea  --  often voiced by supporters
of stricter immigration laws  --  that foreign workers depress wages and take
jobs from American workers, especially those with less education and fewer
skills.

In the 10 states with the top employment rates from 2000 to 2004, for example,
five states showed a high influx of immigrants while the other five showed
little growth in the foreign-born population. "Even in relatively slow economic
times, a relationship fails to reveal itself," Kochhar said.

The Pew Hispanic Center is one of several research groups funded by the Pew
Charitable Trusts to develop and distribute unbiased information on
controversial topics, such as climate change and genetic engineering. The Pew
Hispanic Center has published respected polls and reports on the role of
Hispanics in the United States.

The study used Census Bureau data to compare the influx of immigrants and
unemployment rates in each state between 1990 and 2000, a period of robust
economic growth, and between 2000 and 2004, a period of slower growth.

Some economists expressed reservations about the technique yesterday, arguing
that such broad statewide data do not give an accurate picture of immigration's
effects on the labor market.

"There's an age, gender and educational component to this story that this report
does not address," said Andrew Sum, director of the Center for Labor Market
Studies at Northeastern University.

Between 1990 and 2000, he said, immigrant workers did not take jobs away from
American workers "because the strong economy was creating enough jobs to employ
everyone who was looking for work." But in the past five years, a subset of the
workforce  --  native-born men age 16 to 24 with high-school diplomas  --  have
in fact been displaced by immigrants, he said.

"We argue that immigrant labor has changed the nature of work in a very negative
way," Sum said.

The Pew report found that nearly 25 percent of native-born workers live in
states where rapid growth of the immigrant population occurred at the same time
as above-average employment prospects. Only 15 percent of American workers live
in high-immigration states with below-average employment prospects, the report
found.

And the 60 percent of American workers living in states with slower immigrant
growth did not consistently enjoy higher employment levels, the report showed.

Locally, the lack of any consistent relationship between the inflow of
immigrants and native-born employment was apparent.

In the District, both the growth in the foreign-born workforce and the
employment rate for native-born workers were below average in 2000 and 2004.

In 2000, Maryland and Virginia had below-average growth in the foreign-born
population and above-average employment rates for native-born workers. In 2004,
both states experienced above-average growth of both the foreign-born workforce
and native-born employment rates.

On the local level, too, some experts disputed the findings of the Pew report.
While educated workers with specialized skills are not likely to be displaced by
foreign-born workers, young unskilled laborers have felt the pinch in recent
years, said Steven A. Camarota, director of research for the Center for
Immigration Studies in the District.

A recent study done by the center shows that the immigrant share of the young
workforce in Maryland and Virginia nearly doubled in the past five years,
peaking at 22 percent and 15 percent, respectively, in 2005.

"Native workers who have little education in Maryland and Virginia are dropping
out of the labor markets in droves" as the number of immigrants grows, he said.
"Unskilled workers only account for a fraction of the total economic output, but
if immigration plays a role in even a part of [the trend], that's something we
should be concerned about."

Census data and estimates show the United States had 28 million immigrants  --
legal and illegal  --  age 16 and older in 2000, an increase of 61 percent from
1990. By 2004, there were 32 million. The majority are Latinos,  followed by
Asians. The Pew study did not distinguish between legal and illegal immigrants.

The report pointed out that immigrants typically move to booming areas of the
country with low unemployment rates.

"It's unclear as to whether immigrant workers help to cause that boom, but they
certainly haven't detracted from it," said Randy Capps, a senior research
associate at the Urban Institute.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2006



CORRECTION: The headline and opening paragraph of an Aug. 11 Business article
oversimplified the results of a report by the Pew Hispanic Center on the effect
of immigrants on the U.S. job market. The report found that states with high
numbers of immigrants did not seem to have higher unemployment than other
states. Some experts discounted the methodology, however, saying it did not
consider the effect of immigrants on specific industries or on wages

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              99 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 14, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Hope for Immigration Reform?;
A new Republican proposal deserves a look.

SECTION: Editorial; A12

LENGTH: 530 words


PERHAPS IT WAS to be expected of an emotional issue in an election year, but the
debate over immigration reform descended this summer to ever-lower levels. The
one-sided "hearings" staged by House Republicans to trash the bipartisan Senate
immigration measure have been particularly odious  --  aimed mostly at scoring
points. Into this poisonous environment, two conservatives  --  Rep. Mike Pence
(R-Ind.) and Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Tex.)  --  have introduced an
intriguing, if imperfect, proposal that may offer the last, best hope for
achieving immigration reform this year. It would begin with beefed-up
enforcement  --  but as part of a comprehensive package that would also put the
millions now living in the United States illegally on a path to legal status and
eventual citizenship.

We are not endorsing Pence-Hutchison; that would be impossible given that no
actual legislation has been introduced. We do, though, applaud its authors for
seeking to refocus the immigration discussion in a positive way. One plus is
that their brand of enforcement-first is not tied to achieving an unrealistic
--  and unattainable without other reforms  --  degree of border control.
Rather, Pence-Hutchison concentrates on benchmarks tied to resources and
capabilities: hiring more agents, increasing detention capacity and making
certain that employers poised to hire immigrant workers have a reliable system
(secure identification cards, accurate databases) to verify eligibility.
Postponing the rest of reform for two years while these goals are met isn't
ideal, but it's a reasonable compromise.

On the legalization side, Pence-Hutchison would provide a path to citizenship
--  albeit an overly lengthy and arduous one, 17 years in all, plus
"self-deportation" to privately run "Ellis Island Centers" in their home
countries  --  for most of the 11 million or more people now in the United
States illegally. It would also create a new category of temporary worker visas
whose holders could  --  again, after a long wait  --  obtain citizenship. This
framework, at least in theory, could avoid the perpetuation and expansion of a
permanent underclass of foreign-born workers.

There are many unanswered questions and potential pitfalls. Among them: Only
illegal immigrants from countries that are part of the North American and
Central American free-trade agreements would be eligible for citizenship. How
would other illegal immigrants be dealt with? What about a mechanism to reunify
families? Are the requirements for ultimately obtaining citizenship so
cumbersome that many people will be unable to comply  --  and be forced back
into the shadows? Will there be protections to ensure that new temporary workers
wouldn't exploited by the employers who would sponsor their visas?

Still, the proposal is the most promising development in months and, however
long a shot, deserves attention. House Republicans have spent months fanning the
flames of outrage over illegal immigration. When they return in September, they
ought to ask themselves: If they fail to come up with a realistic solution by
election time, won't voters blame the folks who have been in charge?

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              100 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 31, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Kenneth S. Brown Age: 38 Res ...

SECTION: Prince George's Extra; T30

LENGTH: 428 words


Age:  38

Residence: Clinton.

Education: BA, criminal justice, Louisiana State University; JD, Georgetown
University.

Occupation: President and chief executive officer, Unique Sports &
Entertainment.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, Prince George's County Republican
Central Committee; charter member, Prince George's County Republican Black
Caucus; board of trustees, Ebenezer AME Church; chairman, Summit Creek
Neighborhood Advisory Committee; two-time past president, Summit Creek Home
Owners Association; past high priest, Masonic Order (PHA).

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Failing schools, which contribute to juvenile crime. Charter schools will go a
long way in addressing this very critical problem."

Why should voters elect you?

"I am the person who can be an instrument for change. The most effective,
responsible and responsive delegate is the delegate closest to the people."

Web site:

None given.

E-mail address:

kbrown4delegate@aol.com

Age:  52

Residence: Croom/Upper Marlboro.

Education: BA, Near Eastern studies, UCLA; MA, international management,
Thunderbird Graduate School; JD, University of Maryland.

Occupation: General counsel, Immigration Reform Law Institute.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, Steering Committee of Friends of
Croom, Prince George's County; member, Trinity Community Church, Mitchellville;
witness, U.S. House of Representatives hearing on alien gang removal; advocate,
state or local immigration control legislation in 21 states.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"For a safe and sustainable Maryland, our state legislature must manage growth
and fight corruption. After 31 wasted years in office, the incumbents offer the
public nothing but more special-interest deals. Real reform means controlling
sprawl through strong adequate public facilities laws. It means protecting our
jobs and safety net by ending driver's licenses and welfare for illegal aliens
and penalizing sleazy employers who hire them. Reform means an urgent energy
emergency plan for the coming electricity and gas crisis, not partisan nonsense.
Maryland urgently requires an ethical defense of traditional marriage and
religious freedom against radical judges."

Why should voters elect you?

"I've successfully created legislation to control illegal immigration throughout
America and fought sprawl and powerful developers in Prince George's County. I
hate corruption and waste."

Web site:

www.mikehethmon.com

E-mail address:

hethmon4delegate@prodigy.net

Did not respond.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              101 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A Road Less Traveled;
With Nothing to Lose and a Future to Gain, a Young Orphan From El Salvador
Pursues His American Dream. Legally.

BYLINE: Brigid Schulte, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 2345 words


Julio Argueta was a dime a dozen. One more kid from a miserable place with a
dead-end future slipping across the border for a better life and getting caught.

Karla Harr, his no-nonsense immigration attorney, remembers standing in the
Arlington County courtroom at his deportation hearing that October and thinking
that the scene was all too familiar: Julio's godmother silently weeping; Julio,
then 16, looking confused.

She studied Julio's arms and shoulders, sturdy and broad from years of cutting
corn and laying bricks in El Salvador. She caught herself musing, "If only he
were a little girl . . ."

The most she could do for him, she thought, was to ask for a voluntary departure
order and send him back.

That way, if Congress ever changed the laws, if the mood of the country ever
softened, he could try to come again, she reasoned. If he went underground and
was caught, he'd be barred from returning for 10 years or face prison if he
tried to come illegally again.

Julio had crossed the border alone, yet another "unaccompanied juvenile" walking
north carrying a plastic bag of clothes. He swam the Rio Grande in full view of
a bridge and, minutes later, resting on a rock, got busted. The Border Patrol
caught 7,000 kids like Julio last year, mostly teenage boys. Who knows how many
more make it through undetected.

The immigration judge asked Harr what she planned to do.

Julio looked up at Harr with terrified eyes. He was so innocent, she thought. A
child, really.

In that instant, she decided to try to help him stay.

The tide of unaccompanied juveniles washing into this country is growing, and
with it the backlash. Anti-illegal immigration groups are raising an alarm, for
most of the juveniles are released to relatives, then disappear into the
underground economy, attending school, mowing lawns or joining gangs.

Julio chose to go legal. It's a choice against almost insurmountable odds.

These days, you have slim to no chance unless you are closely related to a U.S.
citizen, have a special skill, fit a unique profile or are from a country with
historically low rates of immigration to the United States, say, Armenia or
Burundi, and win a lottery slot. Legal residents can bring their children in,
but the wait can last seven years; for a brother or sister, twice that.

None of that applied to Julio: He was an orphan.

He had landed in Virginia because his godmother, who is his cousin and closest
relative, lives in Springfield. A cousin doesn't count.

But Julio made it.

Julio's immigration case file is mostly death certificates. His father, a
farmer, died at 7:15 a.m. Oct. 20, 1989, shot by a wealthy landowner. Julio was
a year old. His mother died at 7:30 a.m. June 11, 1998, "a consecuencia de
fiebre sin asistencia medica"  --  of fever without medical care. Julio was 8.
Then his grandfather died. Then his Aunt Rufina. She died at 11 a.m. Dec. 11,
2003. The only explanation is "shock."

He doesn't remember his father. All he remembers of his mother is that she
taught him to fetch firewood, cook fried eggs and tortillas, and chase chickens
out of the house.

Once she died, Aunt Rufina became like his mother. She sent him to school, but
after two years, he quit to earn $1 and $2 a day in the fields.

After she died, when Julio was 15, "I wanted to die, too," he recalls, in
Spanish.

Distant relatives took his younger sister to their home in the country. She
could work for them. "They said they felt bad, but there was no room for me," he
said. He has not heard from her since.

Julio was alone. The rest of his family had long before moved to Springfield and
Alexandria.

When Rufina died, her daughter  --  Julio's cousin and godmother in Springfield
--  came to the small town of Corinto for the funeral. The cousin, Vilma Rivera,
took Julio to the doctor and got him tranquilizers. She wanted to help him, but
she didn't know how.

She considered adopting him, but he was too old. Under U.S. immigration law, all
adoption paperwork must be completed before a child's 16th birthday. For Julio,
that was just three months away. Paying someone to smuggle him in  --  coyotes
charge up to $6,000  --  is a felony.

Vilma flew home.

A few weeks later, on March 12, 2004, his 16th birthday, he decided to follow
her on his own.

When he was caught, he was sent to a detention facility in Texas, where
caseworkers searched for relatives.

A few years ago, Julio's surroundings might have resembled a jail. But a lawsuit
over substandard conditions, long stays and housing children with criminals
prompted federal legislation. Now children are released to relatives, regardless
of the relatives' legal status, and "strongly encouraged" to appear at their
deportation hearings. Most don't.

One Department of Justice study in 2001 found that as many as 68 percent of
unaccompanied juveniles do not show up for the hearings. The same study found
that of 173 who did, most of whom had no attorney, only two were granted legal
status.

Now anti-immigration groups argue that lenient policies encourage more teenagers
to make the illegal crossing.

The numbers are growing. But immigration advocates have a different explanation:
They say these are the children whose parents came to the States years ago and
are working illegally or have a temporary legal status that prohibits them from
bringing their children into the country legally. Many could be legal, but they
have been waiting for years on the bureaucracy. For these families, advocates
argue, the desire to be together outweighs the risks of an illegal, dangerous
crossing.

In June 2004, after a two-month detention, Julio arrived at Vilma Rivera's
doorstep, a tidy brick ranch house with cornstalks and radishes growing in the
back yard in the shadow of the Mixing Bowl.

Vilma was 15 when she set out for the United States, just months after she held
Julio in her arms at his christening. She crossed the border the same way. So
did her husband, Jose Ramon. So did his eight brothers and sisters. And her
seven.

But they came in the 1980s, when the brutal 12-year civil war was tearing El
Salvador apart and hundreds of thousands fled. In 1991, the United States
granted them Temporary Protected Status. Both Vilma and Jose Ramon are now U.S.
citizens. She works two jobs, running a licensed home day care by day and
cleaning office buildings by night. He works in construction.

The immigration laws changed in 1996. After 9/11, so did the times.

"This is your home now," Vilma told Julio.

That night, in the tiny half-attic room where he sleeps with Vilma's 11-year-old
son, Julio began to pray.

"I just kept saying: 'Please, God, don't send me back. Don't send me back.' "

Vilma found Harr, the immigration lawyer, in a Spanish phone book.

Harr told them that most unaccompanied juveniles have two, maybe three slim
chances to keep from being deported:

*  Get Immigration and Customs Enforcement to "administratively close" a case
because a child is underage, which buys time. ICE refused Harr's request without
saying why. She suspected it was because he was a teenage boy, too old to be a
helpless child.

*  Ask for asylum. Children rarely win that, immigration lawyers say.

*  Apply for a Special Immigrant Juvenile visa, awarded to children who prove
they've been "abused, abandoned or neglected." Fewer than 500 are granted each
year. The visa requires a ruling from state family courts that a child is
"eligible for long-term foster care"; many state judges have been reluctant to
further burden that system.

She worried that Julio was too shy to tell his story well to a judge. Convincing
a judge that he deserved to stay required that he dredge up his past, and
whenever the subject came up, Julio shut down.

In the meantime, Julio was beginning to feel at home. He saw the ocean for the
first time and took a carnival ride on a family trip to Ocean City. He
discovered pretzels at 7-Eleven and the miracle of a wave pool, bobbing on an
inner tube and learning how to swim.

He went to school every day at Robert E. Lee High, mastering slang like "in your
dreams."

His ESOL teachers said he was always the first to come to class, never missed a
day and was quick to shout, "English only!" when classmates began speaking their
home languages.

He kept his story to himself. His teachers just assumed Vilma and Jose were his
parents. At Lee, like any other high school with many immigrant students, ESOL
counselors explained, there is a hierarchy: U.S.-born children of immigrants at
the top, immigrants with legal status next, undocumented students last. Best to
keep your head low and off the radar of the gang recruiters who seek out the
vulnerable in virtually every high school in the area.

Vilma started calling Julio her son.

Still, the wall on his side of the small room he shared with Vilma's son, Noel,
was bare, his closet neat and nearly empty, as if he were trying not to take up
too much space. Noel slept under a comfortable rumple of clothes, glossy posters
and family photos.

Julio addressed Vilma and Jose Ramon in Spanish with the formal "usted"  --  out
of respect, he said, and to keep his distance in case he must wake up from this
American dream.

By March last year, Harr felt like more than Julio's immigration attorney. She
had become protective, worrying that he was too naive to thrive in a U.S. high
school, worrying that junk food was making his face break out. She would no
longer accept payment. She worried about losing his case, about how he would
become easy prey for the gangs in El Salvador if he went back.

And that gave her an idea. She decided to gamble and file an asylum application
for Julio based on fear of gang violence. Not here. But back in El Salvador.

Gangs operate throughout El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. One judge there
testified that 30,000 gang members operate in the country, pitted against only
17,000 police officers.

Fear of gang persecution is a new kind of asylum claim. Only a handful have been
granted, and Harr had never filed one.

To win any asylum claim, attorneys must prove that immigrants have a
well-founded fear of persecution because of a political opinion, religious
belief, nationality, ethnic origin or membership in a social group. To win a
gang asylum case, an attorney must prove that teenage boys in El Salvador
unwilling to join a gang constitute a social group.

In two virtually identical cases, two teenage boys were harassed at gunpoint or
beaten and shot for refusing to join gangs and fled to the United States. One
was granted asylum in San Antonio. The other was denied  --  in Arlington by
Judge Wayne R. Iskra, the same judge who had Julio's deportation case.

The pressure was on. The only option left was the Special Immigrant Juvenile
visa. Harr needed to secure it before Julio turned 18, and the system was
notoriously slow. So slow some children "aged out."

The first hurdle was family court in Fairfax.

Julio was an orphan, so proving he'd been "abandoned or neglected" shouldn't be
difficult. The catch was getting the judge to declare him eligible for long-term
foster care: He didn't need it  --  Vilma and Jose Ramon already had legal
custody  --  but the paperwork would never go through without it.

Last August, Harr assembled a team to present the case.

It didn't go well.

The Fairfax judge's reaction: "I don't know what you're doing here."

Julio drove with Vilma and Jose Ramon back to Springfield. "Don't cry," Vilma,
32, hushed her godson. "Boys don't cry."

She mixed flour and water and began patting perfectly round tortillas for
dinner. "If it is illegal for me to help him, then put me in jail," she sighed
to the ceiling.

They went back in September. Harr's friend, family court lawyer Mina Ketchie,
and a court-appointed guardian ad litem, Nader Hasan, pleaded Julio's case,
encouraging the judge "to override legal technicalities."

The judge agreed.

In December, Julio made it to the next step: He was granted an interview with
the Citizenship and Immigration Service. Harr was stunned. She has had other
clients waiting since 2000 just to get this interview. "This was a fluke," Harr
said.

Julio then was fingerprinted, vaccinated and had a physical exam.

One day in January, his visa arrived, unheralded, in the mail.

It was time to go back to immigration court, to get the deportation order
dropped and his illegal status "adjusted."

On Feb. 27, with his 18th birthday barely two weeks away, Julio walked home from
school and changed into the first formal clothes he'd worn in his life. Vilma
Rivera bought them for his first Holy Communion, which he'll receive next month.

Vilma put on her best suit. They passed the Supermercado on Backlick Road and
the Korean Church on Columbia Pike on their way to immigration court in
Arlington.

Harr rushed in. By this time, she had six other juvenile clients with stories
like Julio's  --  one a 16-year-old Guatemalan who'd come north to work for his
family because his father was ill, and the rest youths younger than 16 whose
parents have had Temporary Protected Status since 1999 and no way of bringing
them into the United States legally.

But they didn't have the one thing that wound up making Julio legal. "They're
not orphans," Harr said. "They were coming north to reunite with their parents."
All, she said, most likely will be deported.

In the small immigration courtroom, adorned with posters of the Statue of
Liberty and Ellis Island, Julio took the stand. He dutifully recounted the
deaths in his life.

Then the government attorney, Rafael Choi, asked whether he liked school. "Very
much so."

He asked what Julio would like to do with his life. "My dream is to finish high
school, go to a university and have a career."

The attorney paused. Julio, his ears red, his face hopeful, hunched on the
stand.

"Feel free to dream, sir," Choi said finally. "I have no further questions."

In 2011, Julio Argueta may apply for U.S. citizenship.

Staff writer Lila de Tantillo and staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              102 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The Road Less Traveled By;
With Nothing to Lose and a Home to Gain, a Young Orphan From El Salvador Pursues
His American Dream. Legally.

BYLINE: Brigid Schulte, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 2340 words


Julio Argueta was a dime a dozen. One more kid from a miserable place with a
dead-end future slipping across the border for a better life and getting caught.

Karla Harr, his no-nonsense immigration attorney, remembers standing in the
Arlington County courtroom at his deportation hearing that October and thinking
that the scene was all too familiar: Julio's godmother silently weeping; Julio,
then 16, looking confused.

She studied Julio's arms and shoulders, sturdy and broad from years of cutting
corn and laying bricks in El Salvador. She caught herself musing, "If only he
were a little girl . . . "

The most she could do for him, she thought, was to ask for a voluntary departure
order and send him back.

That way, if Congress ever changed the laws, if the mood of the country ever
softened, he could try to come again, she reasoned. If he went underground and
was caught, he'd be barred from returning for 10 years or face prison if he
tried to come illegally again.

Julio had crossed the border alone, yet another "unaccompanied juvenile" walking
north carrying a plastic bag of clothes. He swam the Rio Grande in full view of
a bridge and, minutes later, resting on a rock, got busted. The Border Patrol
caught 7,000 kids like Julio last year, mostly teenage boys. Who knows how many
more make it through undetected.

The immigration judge asked Harr what she planned to do.

Julio looked up at Harr with terrified eyes. He was so innocent, she thought. A
child, really.

In that instant, she decided to try.

The tide of unaccompanied juveniles washing into the United States is growing,
and with it the backlash. Anti-illegal immigration groups are raising an alarm,
for most are released to relatives, then disappear into the underground economy,
attending school, mowing lawns or joining gangs.

Julio chose to go legal. It's a choice against almost insurmountable odds.

These days, you have slim to no chance unless you are closely related to a U.S.
citizen, have a special skill, fit a unique profile or are from a country with
historically low rates of immigration to the United States, say, Armenia or
Burundi, and win a lottery slot. Legal residents can bring their children in,
but the wait can last seven years; for a brother or sister, twice that.

None of that applied to Julio: He was an orphan.

He had landed in Virginia because his godmother, who is his cousin and closest
relative, lives in Springfield. A cousin doesn't count.

But Julio made it.

Julio's immigration case file is mostly death certificates. His father, a
farmer, died at 7:15 a.m. Oct. 20, 1989, shot by a wealthy landowner. Julio was
a year old. His mother died at 7:30 a.m. June 11, 1998, "a consecuencia de
fiebre sin asistencia medica"  --  of fever without medical care. Julio was 8.
Then his grandfather died. Then his Aunt Rufina. She died at 11 a.m. Dec. 11,
2003. The only explanation is "shock."

He doesn't remember his father. All he remembers of his mother is that she
taught him to fetch firewood, cook fried eggs and tortillas, and chase chickens
out of the house.

Once she died, Aunt Rufina became like his mother. She sent him to school, but
after two years, he quit to earn $1 and $2 a day in the fields.

After she died, when Julio was 15, "I wanted to die, too," he recalls, in
Spanish.

Distant relatives took his younger sister to their home in the country. She
could work for them. "They said they felt bad, but there was no room for me," he
said. He has not heard from her since.

Julio was alone. The rest of his family had long before moved to Springfield and
Alexandria.

When Rufina died, her daughter  --  Julio's cousin and godmother in Springfield
--  came to the small town of Corinto for the funeral. The cousin, Vilma Rivera,
took Julio to the doctor and got him tranquilizers. She wanted to help him, but
she didn't know how.

She considered adopting him, but he was too old. Under U.S. immigration law, all
adoption paperwork must be completed before a child's 16th birthday. For Julio,
that was just three months away. Paying someone to smuggle him in  --  coyotes
charge up to $6,000  --  is a felony.

Vilma flew home.

A few weeks later, on March 12, 2004, his 16th birthday, he decided to follow
her on his own.

When he was caught, he was sent to a detention facility in Texas, where
caseworkers searched for relatives.

A few years ago, Julio's surroundings might have resembled a jail. But a lawsuit
over substandard conditions, long stays and housing children with criminals
prompted federal legislation. Now children are released to relatives, regardless
of the relatives' legal status, and "strongly encouraged" to appear at their
deportation hearings. Most don't.

One Department of Justice study in 2001 found that as many as 68 percent of
unaccompanied juveniles do not show up for the hearings. The same study found
that of 173 who did, most of whom had no attorney, only two were granted legal
status.

Now anti-immigration groups argue that lenient policies encourage more teenagers
to make the illegal crossing.

The numbers are growing. But immigration advocates have a different explanation:
They say these are the children whose parents came to the States years ago and
are working illegally or have a temporary legal status that prohibits them from
bringing their children into the country legally. Many could be legal, but they
have been waiting for years on the bureaucracy. For these families, advocates
argue, the desire to be together outweighs the risks of an illegal, dangerous
crossing.

In June 2004, after a two-month detention, Julio arrived at Vilma Rivera's
doorstep, a tidy brick ranch house with cornstalks and radishes growing in the
back yard in the shadow of the Mixing Bowl.

Vilma was 15 when she set out for the United States, just months after she held
Julio in her arms at his christening. She crossed the border the same way. So
did her husband, Jose Ramon. So did his eight brothers and sisters. And her
seven.

But they came in the 1980s, when the brutal 12-year civil war was tearing El
Salvador apart and hundreds of thousands fled. In 1991, the United States
granted them Temporary Protected Status. Both Vilma and Jose Ramon are now U.S.
citizens. She works two jobs, running a licensed home day care by day and
cleaning office buildings by night. He works in construction.

The immigration laws changed in 1996. After 9/11, so did the times.

"This is your home now," Vilma told Julio.

That night, in the tiny half-attic room where he sleeps with Vilma's 11-year-old
son, Julio began to pray.

"I just kept saying: 'Please, God, don't send me back. Don't send me back.' "

Vilma found Harr, the immigration lawyer, in a Spanish phone book.

Harr told them that most unaccompanied juveniles have two, maybe three slim
chances to keep from being deported:

*  Get Immigration and Customs Enforcement to "administratively close" a case
because a child is underage, which buys time. ICE refused Harr's request without
saying why. She suspected it was because he was a teenage boy, too old to be a
helpless child.

*  Ask for asylum. Children rarely win that, immigration lawyers say.

*  Apply for a Special Immigrant Juvenile visa, awarded to children who prove
they've been "abused, abandoned or neglected." Fewer than 500 are granted each
year. The visa requires a ruling from state family courts that a child is
"eligible for long-term foster care"; many state judges have been reluctant to
further burden that system.

She worried that Julio was too shy to tell his story well to a judge. Convincing
a judge that he deserved to stay required that he dredge up his past, and
whenever the subject came up, Julio shut down.

In the meantime, Julio was beginning to feel at home. He saw the ocean for the
first time and took a carnival ride on a family trip to Ocean City. He
discovered pretzels at 7-Eleven and the miracle of a wave pool, bobbing on an
inner tube and learning how to swim.

He went to school every day at Robert E. Lee High, mastering slang like "in your
dreams."

His ESOL teachers said he was always the first to come to class, never missed a
day and was quick to shout, "English only!" when classmates began speaking their
home languages.

He kept his story to himself. His teachers just assumed Vilma and Jose were his
parents. At Lee, like any other high school with many immigrant students, ESOL
counselors explained, there is a hierarchy: U.S.-born children of immigrants at
the top, immigrants with legal status next, undocumented students last. Best to
keep your head low and off the radar of the gang recruiters who seek out the
vulnerable in virtually every high school in the area.

Vilma started calling Julio her son.

Still, the wall on his side of the small room he shared with Vilma's son, Noel,
was bare, his closet neat and nearly empty, as if he were trying not to take up
too much space. Noel slept under a comfortable rumple of clothes, glossy posters
and family photos.

Julio addressed Vilma and Jose Ramon in Spanish with the formal "usted"  --  out
of respect, he said, and to keep his distance in case he must wake up from this
American dream.

By March last year, Harr felt like more than Julio's immigration attorney. She
had become protective, worrying that he was too naive to thrive in a U.S. high
school, worrying that junk food was making his face break out. She would no
longer accept payment. She worried about losing his case, about how he would
become easy prey for the gangs in El Salvador if he went back.

And that gave her an idea. She decided to gamble and file an asylum application
for Julio based on fear of gang violence. Not here. But back in El Salvador.

Gangs operate throughout El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. One judge there
testified that 30,000 gang members operate in the country, pitted against only
17,000 police officers.

Fear of gang persecution is a new kind of asylum claim. Only a handful have been
granted, and Harr had never filed one.

To win any asylum claim, attorneys must prove that immigrants have a
well-founded fear of persecution because of a political opinion, religious
belief, nationality, ethnic origin or membership in a social group. To win a
gang asylum case, an attorney must prove that teenage boys in El Salvador
unwilling to join a gang constitute a social group.

In two virtually identical cases, two teenage boys were harassed at gunpoint or
beaten and shot for refusing to join gangs and fled to the United States. One
was granted asylum in San Antonio. The other was denied  --  in Arlington by
Judge Wayne R. Iskra, the same judge who had Julio's deportation case.

The pressure was on. The only option left was the Special Immigrant Juvenile
visa. Harr needed to secure it before Julio turned 18, and the system was
notoriously slow. So slow some children "aged out."

The first hurdle was family court in Fairfax.

Julio was an orphan, so proving he'd been "abandoned or neglected" shouldn't be
difficult. The catch was getting the judge to declare him eligible for long-term
foster care: He didn't need it  --  Vilma and Jose Ramon already had legal
custody  --  but the paperwork would never go through without it.

Last August, Harr assembled a team to present the case.

It didn't go well.

The Fairfax judge's reaction: "I don't know what you're doing here."

Julio drove with Vilma and Jose Ramon back to Springfield. "Don't cry," Vilma,
32, hushed her godson. "Boys don't cry."

She mixed flour and water and began patting perfectly round tortillas for
dinner. "If it is illegal for me to help him, then put me in jail," she sighed
to the ceiling.

They went back in September. Harr's friend, family court lawyer Mina Ketchie,
and a court-appointed guardian ad litem, Nader Hasan, pleaded Julio's case,
encouraging the judge "to override legal technicalities."

The judge agreed.

In December, Julio made it to the next step: He was granted an interview with
the Citizenship and Immigration Service. Harr was stunned. She has had other
clients waiting since 2000 just to get this interview. "This was a fluke," Harr
said.

Julio then was fingerprinted, vaccinated and had a physical exam.

One day in January, his visa arrived, unheralded, in the mail.

It was time to go back to immigration court, to get the deportation order
dropped and his illegal status "adjusted."

On Feb. 27, with his 18th birthday barely two weeks away, Julio walked home from
school and changed into the first formal clothes he'd worn in his life. Vilma
Rivera bought them for his first Holy Communion, which he'll receive next month.

Vilma put on her best suit. They passed the Supermercado on Backlick Road and
the Korean Church on Columbia Pike on their way to immigration court in
Arlington.

Harr rushed in. By this time, she had six other juvenile clients with stories
like Julio's  --  one a 16-year-old Guatemalan who'd come north to work for his
family because his father was ill, and the rest youths younger than 16 whose
parents have had Temporary Protected Status since 1999 and no way of bringing
them into the United States legally.

But they didn't have the one thing that wound up making Julio legal. "They're
not orphans," Harr said. "They were coming north to reunite with their parents."
All, she said, most likely will be deported.

In the small immigration courtroom, adorned with posters of the Statue of
Liberty and Ellis Island, Julio took the stand. He dutifully recounted the
deaths in his life.

Then the government attorney, Rafael Choi, asked whether he liked school. "Very
much so."

He asked what Julio would like to do with his life. "My dream is to finish high
school, go to a university and have a career."

The attorney paused. Julio, his ears red, his face hopeful, hunched on the
stand.

"Feel free to dream, sir," Choi said finally. "I have no further questions."

In 2011, Julio Argueta may apply for U.S. citizenship.

Staff writer Lila de Tantillo and staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              103 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 28, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

An Anthem's Discordant Notes;
Spanish Version of 'Star-Spangled Banner' Draws Strong Reactions

BYLINE: David Montgomery, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1528 words


Oh say can you see  --  a la luz de la aurora?

The national anthem that once endured the radical transformation administered by
Jimi Hendrix's fuzzed and frantic Stratocaster now faces an artistic dare at
least as extreme: translation into Spanish.

The new take is scheduled to hit the airwaves today. It's called "Nuestro Himno"
--  "Our Anthem"  --  and it was recorded over the past week by Latin pop stars
including Ivy Queen, Gloria Trevi, Carlos Ponce, Tito "El Bambino," Olga Tañon
and the group Aventura. Joining and singing in Spanish is Haitian American
artist Wyclef Jean.

The different voices contribute lines the way  1985's "We Are the World" was put
together by an ensemble of stars. The national anthem's familiar melody and
structure are preserved, while the rhythms and instrumentation come straight out
of Latin pop.

Can "The Star-Spangled Banner," and the republic for which it stands, survive?
Outrage over what's being called "The Illegal Alien Anthem" is already building
in the blogosphere and among conservative commentators.

Timed to debut the week Congress returned to debate immigration reform, with the
country riven by the issue, "Nuestro Himno" is intended to be an anthem of
solidarity for the movement that has drawn hundreds of thousands of people to
march peacefully for immigrant rights in Washington and cities across the
country, says Adam Kidron, president of Urban Box Office, the New York-based
entertainment company that launched the project.

"It's the one thing everybody has in common, the aspiration to have a
relationship with the United States . . . and also to express gratitude and
patriotism to the United States for providing the opportunity," says Kidron.

The song was being prepared for e-mailing as MP3 packages to scores of Latino
radio stations and other media last night, and Kidron was calling for stations
to play the song simultaneously at 7 Eastern time this evening.

However, the same advance buzz that drew singers to scramble for inclusion in
the recording sessions this week in New York, Miami, Texas, Mexico, Puerto Rico
and the Dominican Republic has also spurred critics who say rendering the song
in Spanish is a rejection of assimilation into the United States.

Even some movement supporters are puzzled by the use of Spanish.

"Even our Spanish media are saying, 'Why are we doing this, what are you trying
to do?' " said Pedro Biaggi, the morning host with El Zol (99.1 FM), the most
popular Hispanic radio station in the Washington area. "It's not for us to be
going around singing the national anthem in Spanish. . . . We don't want to
impose, we don't own the place. . . . We want to be accepted."

Still, Biaggi says he will play "Nuestro Himno" this morning if the song reaches
the station in time. But he will talk about the language issue on the air and
solicit listeners' views. He says he accepts the producers' explanation that the
purpose is to spread the values of the anthem to a wider audience. He adds he
will also play a version of "The Star-Spangled Banner" in English  --  as he
aired the Whitney Houston version earlier this week, when the controversy was
beginning to brew.

In the Spanish version, the translation of the first stanza is relatively
faithful to the spirit of the original, though Kidron says the producers wanted
to avoid references to bombs and rockets. Instead, there is "fierce combat." The
translation of the more obscure second stanza is almost a rewrite, with phrases
such as "we are equal, we are brothers."

An alternate version to be released next month includes a rap in English that
never occurred to Francis Scott Key:

Let's not start a war

With all these hard workers

They can't help where they were born

"Nuestro Himno" is as fraught with controversial cultural messages as the
psychedelic "Banner" Hendrix delivered at the height of the Vietnam War.

Pressed on what he was trying to say with his Woodstock performance in 1969,
Hendrix replied (according to biographer Charles Cross), "We're all Americans. .
. . It was like 'Go America!' . . . We play it the way the air is in America
today."

Now the national anthem is being remade again according to the way the air is in
America, and the people behind "Nuestro Himno" say the message once more is:
We're all Americans. It will be the lead track on an album about the immigrant
experience called "Somos Americanos," due for release May 16. One dollar from
each sale will go to immigrant rights groups, including the National Capital
Immigration Coalition, which organized the march on the Mall on April 10.

But critics including columnist Michelle Malkin, who coined  "The Illegal Alien
Anthem" nickname, say the rendition crosses a line that Hendrix never stepped
over with his instrumental version. Transforming the musical idiom of "The
Star-Spangled Banner" is one thing, argue the skeptics, but translating the
words sends the opposite message: We are not Americans.

"I'm really appalled. . . . We are not a bilingual nation," said George Taplin,
director of the Virginia Chapter of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, part of a
national countermovement that emphasizes border control and tougher enforcement,
and objects to public funding for day-laborer sites. "When people are talking
about becoming a part of this country, they should assimilate to the norm that's
already here," Taplin said. "What we're talking about here is a sovereign nation
with our ideals and our national identity, and that [anthem] is one of the icons
of our nation's identity. I believe it should be in English as it was penned."

Yet, even in English, 61 percent of adults don't know all the words, a recent
Harris poll found.

Appealing to such symbols of national identity to plug into their profound
potency is how new movements compete for space within that identity. During the
rally on the Mall, the immigrants and their supporters also waved thousands of
American flags and recited the Pledge of Allegiance. But they didn't translate
the pledge into Spanish. They said it in English.

Juan Carlos Ruiz, the general coordinator of the National Capital Immigration
Coalition, said there's not a contradiction. The pledge was printed phonetically
for Spanish speakers, and many reciting the sounds may not have understood the
meaning. Putting the anthem in Spanish is a way to relay the meaning to people
who haven't learned English yet, Ruiz said.

"It's part of the process to learn English," not a rejection of English, he
said.

While critics sketch a nightmare scenario of a Canada-like land with an anthem
sung in two languages, immigrant rights advocates say they agree learning
English is essential. Studies of immigrant families suggest the process is
inevitable: Eighty-two percent to 90 percent of the children of immigrants
prefer English.

"The first step to understanding something is to understand it in the language
you understand, and then you can understand it in another language," said Leo
Chavez, director of Chicano/Latino Studies at the University of California at
Irvine. "What this song represents at this moment is a communal shout, that the
dream of America, which is represented by the song, is their dream, too."

Since its origins as the melody to an English drinking song called "To Anacreon
in Heaven," circa 1780, "The Star-Spangled Banner" has had a long, strange trip.
Key wrote the poem after watching the bombardment of Fort McHenry in 1814. It
became the national anthem in 1931.

At least 389 versions have been recorded, according to Allmusic.com, a quick
reference used by musicologists to get a sense of what's on the market. Now that
Hendrix's "Banner" has mellowed into classic rock, it's hard to imagine that
once some considered it disrespectful. The other recordings embrace a vast
musical universe: from Duke Ellington to Dolly Parton to Tiny Tim. But
musicologists cannot name another foreign-language version.

"America is a pluralistic society, but the anthem is a way that we can express
our unity. If that's done in a different language, that doesn't seem to me
personally to be a bad thing," said Michael Blakeslee, deputy executive director
of the National Association for Music Education, which is leading a National
Anthem Project to highlight the song and the school bands that play it in every
style, from mariachi to steel drum.

"I assume the intent is one of making a statement about 'we are a part of this
nation,' and those are wonderful sentiments and a noble intent," said Dan
Sheehy, director of Smithsonian Folkways Recordings.

Benigno "Benny" Layton wonders. He's the leader of Los Hermanos Layton, a band
of conjunto- and Tejano-style musicians in Elsa, Tex., 22 miles from Mexico.
After the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, he recorded a traditional conjunto version of
"The Star-Spangled Banner." It was instrumental.

"I'm a second-generation American," Layton said. "I love my country, and I love
my [Mexican musical] heritage, and I try to keep it alive. But some things are
sacred that you don't do. And translating the national anthem is one of them."

Staff writer Richard Harrington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              104 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Ruling Awaited on Children's Benefits;
Cuts in Program for Legal Immigrants at Issue Before State's Highest Court

BYLINE: Mary Otto, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 533 words


Attorneys for a group of immigrant children dropped from the state's medical
assistance program because of budget cuts asked Maryland's highest court
yesterday to restore the benefits.

But an attorney for the state said that courts do not have the authority to
override budget decisions made by lawmakers and that Maryland was justified in
cutting a state-funded medical assistance program for recent legal immigrants.

Last year, Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) decided to cut $7 million from the
program that provided heath care for about 4,000 pregnant women and children
classified as permanent legal residents for less than five years.

In response, attorneys for 13 sick children  --  ranging in age from 2 to 17 and
suffering from a variety of health problems, including asthma, West Nile virus,
a crippling hip disorder and a rare blood disease  --  sued the state, asking
that benefits be restored.

In January, a Montgomery County Circuit Court judge granted a preliminary
injunction, opening the way to reinstate the children's health-care benefits.
The state, however, was granted a stay, pending appeal, from the Court of
Special Appeals. The matter was then taken up by the state's highest court, the
Court of Appeals of Maryland. The seven-judge panel heard arguments yesterday
and will issue a written decision.

Douglas M. Bregman, one of the children's attorneys, told the court that the
state acted in a discriminatory way in singling out poor legal immigrant
children for cuts.

"The fact is, a group has been denied equal protection in the state when the
money was taken away," Bregman said.

Assistant Attorney General Margaret Ann Nolan defended the Ehrlich
administration, saying the state was entitled to follow the direction of the
federal government in cutting off medical assistance to recent immigrants. With
the federal Welfare Reform Act of 1996, Congress made most legal immigrants
ineligible for federal programs such as Medicaid in their first five years in
the United States.

"Aliens in the country for more than five years are entitled to benefits," Nolan
said.

Since federal funds were cut off, more than 20 governments, including those of
Maryland, Virginia and the District, have used their own money to continue to
provide at least some coverage to recent immigrants. When administration
officials decided last year to discontinue Maryland's funding, they said the cut
was necessary to contain the ballooning costs of Medicaid while balancing the
needs of many vulnerable groups.

Detractors of the decision called the move unfair at a time when the state had a
$1 billion surplus.

The governor later restored money for pregnant women already in the program.

In funding for fiscal 2007, Ehrlich included $3 million for public health
programs in counties hit hardest by the cuts, such as Montgomery and Prince
George's. And in May, the governor signed legislation that would earmark at
least $3 million for health care for legal immigrant children and women in
fiscal 2008.

But advocates for immigrants say the public health money does not replace the
comprehensive care that patients received under the state-funded medical
assistance program.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              105 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 30, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Taking the Cause to the Big Screen;
Conservative Advocate David Bossie Turns to Filmmaking After Looking to Counter
'Fahrenheit 9/11'

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A17

LENGTH: 1009 words


David N. Bossie earned a reputation as a relentless sleuth  --  or right-wing
hit man, depending on one's political persuasion  --  during his years as a
high-profile Republican congressional investigator and conservative activist.

Through the 1990s, Bossie spent much of his time assembling caches of documents
to push his admittedly ideological agenda. He was a ready promoter of stories
about President Bill Clinton's sexual and ethical lapses,  proved and otherwise.

Bossie was fired as an investigator for the House Government Reform and
Oversight Committee after overseeing the release of recordings of Hillary Rodham
Clinton's phone conversations with Whitewater figure Webster L. Hubbell. The
tapes were edited to create the impression that Clinton was involved in billing
irregularities at the Arkansas law firm where she and Hubbell worked.

No longer content to merely unearth documents, Bossie, president of Citizens
United, a conservative advocacy group, has turned to documentary-style films to
push his causes. His latest contribution to the national political debate is
"Border War," a film he co-produced that makes the case for a serious crackdown
on illegal immigration.

The movie, which makes its national premiere in Los Angeles tomorrow, in
Washington on Sept. 13 and on DVD in October, tells the story of illegal
immigration  --  with Bossie's unmistakable point of view. "It shows what
illegal immigration means to your average person," he said.

"Border War" does not portray illegal immigrants as economically desperate
people who break the law by sneaking across the border then often go on to renew
the American dream with their thrift, enterprise and hustle while filling
back-breaking jobs that few citizens want.

Instead, the film makes the case for tougher border enforcement by focusing on
the most unsettling aspects of the nation's huge illegal immigration problem:
the cold-hearted coyotes who guide illegal migrants across the border, sometimes
abandoning them in the desert at the first sign of trouble. The illegal
immigrants who proposition and even molest young girls in safe houses. Violent
criminals who cross the border with impunity. And immigration activists who
believe the border has no legitimacy to begin with, because much of the
southwestern United States was Mexican territory more than 150 years ago.

"We never really crossed the border,"  one says. "The border crossed us."

The documentary, shot over six months, weaves this  tale by following the lives
of five people who embody different aspects of the difficult issue: the widow of
a Los Angles County deputy sheriff killed by an illegal immigrant; an open
border advocate who helps immigrants making the perilous trek into the United
States;  a Latina whose father helped smuggle illegal immigrants into the
country but now voluntarily patrols the border with the Minutemen; an undercover
Border Patrol agent; and Rep. J.D. Hayworth (R-Ariz.), a leading advocate of
cracking down on illegal immigration.

"It is an exciting way to educate people about issues," Bossie said of his film.
"I love any new form of communication to deliver a political message."

Bossie, who has no formal film training, calls himself an accidental moviemaker.
In the years after leaving his congressional post, he wrote or co-wrote three
books:  one slamming former vice president Al Gore, another attacking Sen. John
F. Kerry (D-Mass.) and third making a case for how President Clinton's foreign
policy set the table for the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

When Michael Moore's 2004 documentary "Fahrenheit 9/11" proved to be a hit
that rallied partisans on the left against President Bush, Bossie said he was
surprised and then got on the phone looking for someone to craft a right-wing
response. When he got no answer, he reached into Citizens United's deep pockets,
put up about $1 million and hired Hollywood stalwarts Lionel Chetwynd, Kevin
Knoblock and Ted Steinberg to help him make "Celsius 41.11."

"The contrasts are startling. 'Fahrenheit' Bush was a deer in the headlights;
'Celsius' Bush is a deer hunter," read a review in the Cleveland Plain Dealer.
". . . 'Fahrenheit' Bush barely could speak in complete sentences; 'Celsius'
Bush delivers confident speeches. And so on."

The movie may not have created the buzz that "Fahrenheit 9/11" did, but it did
go on to be shown in 125 theatres and to be reproduced on 200,000 DVDs, many of
which were given to Citizens United supporters. "One thing I learned is you can
have impact with that medium," Bossie said. "I also learned that I can make
films. And you don't have to make them in Hollywood."

He had editing equipment installed in the basement of Citizens United's Capitol
Hill headquarters and has gone on to make a film excoriating the United Nations,
before shooting "Border War."

Films have long been used as propaganda. Frank Capra's "Why We Fight" series was
commissioned to explain U.S. policy during World War II and to answer the German
1935 film, "Triumph of the Will," which glorified Adolf Hitler and the Nazi
cause.

But the use of films as weapons in the political and ideological battles in
Washington is a relatively new development aided by advances in digital
technology, which makes editing and distribution cheap and easy. It also is
being helped along by Moore's success.

"This is just an obvious outcome of the polarization that is happening in this
country," said Malcolm Spaull, chairman of the film school at the Rochester
Institute of Technology. "In this case, it is through the media. I only see this
growing."

Bossie says he has two more film projects in the pipeline. One, about the
American Civil Liberties Union, is scheduled for a fall release. The other is
about Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.), who is widely believed to be
positioning herself for a 2008 presidential run. Bossie said he is teaming with
Dick Morris, the former Clinton media adviser, on that one.

Asked when it will be released, Bossie said, "At the right time."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              106 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 31, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Dee Hodges Photo not available ...

SECTION: Anne Arundel Extra; T17

LENGTH: 586 words


Photo not available.

Age:  63

Residence: Parkville.

Education: AB, history, University of Illinois; MS, finance, University of
Baltimore.

Occupation: Mortgage consultant, Wachovia Mortgage Corp.

Elected offices/civic activities: President, Maryland Taxpayers Association.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Enforce our immigration laws: Problems surrounding illegal immigration also
cover security concerning the war on terror, criminal activities, spending
issues including education, medical, police, property rights and cultural
issues. Illegals tend not to assimilate or learn English, live in shadows.
Tolerating lack of enforcement will result in eventual huge demographic and
welfare problem similar to Europe. Enforcement would send message that jobs are
not easily available, minimize illegals coming in, and many would leave country
of own accord. Americans do not trust government to enforce the laws because it
has not. Government must reform its actions or lack thereof."

Why should voters elect you?

"I would limit terms to six years, would be citizen representative. I am a
Reagan conservative, as incumbent is not."

Web site:

deehodgesforcongress.org

E-mail address:

deehodgesforcongress@comcast.net

Photo not available.

Age:  28

Residence: Cockeysville.

Education: Towson Catholic High School.

Occupation: President, Mathis Productions Inc.

Elected offices/civic activities: None given.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Some issues are Social Security, immigration, border security and our
dependence on foreign countries for energy. Our citizens need to feel safe in
their homeland. Americans deserve a guarantee they will receive every penny they
contribute into Social Security. I believe in private accounts so Americans know
they will have a nest egg when they retire. We need to put the issue of amnesty
behind us and develop a real solution regarding illegal immigrants."

Why should voters elect you?

"I will represent the hardworking, middle-class American, offering a change from
career politicians that do not have the common American's interest at heart."

Web site:

jimmymathis.org

E-mail address:

jimmymathis@verizon.net

Age:  31

Residence: Essex-Middle River.

Education: BA, political science, Drew University; MBA, Johns Hopkins
University.

Occupation: Project manager, Lucent Technologies.

Elected offices/civic activities: Local board member, Selective Service System;
past district chairman, Baltimore Area Council, Boy Scouts of America; member,
Knights of Columbus, Sons of the American Legion, National Eagle Scout
Association.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"The failure of Maryland's representatives in Congress to bring home our fair
share of federal tax dollars must be the central issue of this election. Every
other issue becomes secondary without adequate funding. Maryland ranks 37th in
per capita federal aid given to state and local governments. There's no denying
that a Republican would be more effective in bringing federal dollars back home
to Maryland. My number one priority would be to see that we receive the support
we need to fix our schools, secure our ports, improve our roads and restore the
Chesapeake Bay."

Why should voters elect you?

"Maryland needs balanced representation in Congress. I'll be a voice of the
people in Washington and represent Maryland's interests within the majority
party."

Web site:

www.jd4md.org

E-mail address:

jd@jd4md.org

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              107 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 3, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Overshadowed by Immigration Debate, Drug War Rages On

BYLINE: Kevin G. Hall, McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 928 words

DATELINE: RIO GRANDE CITY, Tex.


--  At a Circle K convenience store in this desolate border town, where drugs
and illicit earnings flow back and forth almost freely, a man parks his black
Ford pickup with tinted windows and begins hawking a live zebra.

The animal, bleeding and abused, is usually found on the Serengeti, in Tanzania.
But in this poor town in one of the poorest counties in the United States, the
asking price is $6,000 cash  --  no questions asked.

Welcome to the U.S.-Mexico border, where just about anything can and does
happen. The zebra salesman is a grim  example of the  atmosphere that prevails
along much of the 2,000-mile border, where drugs,  immigrants and money are
smuggled.

Before the arrest last week of Javier Arellano Felix, the alleged leader of
Mexico's ruthless Tijuana drug cartel, the national debate over illegal
immigrants crossing the border drove the drug war off the front pages.

But  America's drug war rages on. Here in the Rio Grande Valley sector, cocaine
seizures by Border Patrol agents have more than doubled so far this fiscal year
and now account for more than half of all Border Patrol seizures along the
southern border.

Halting the flow of illicit drugs here, much like the flow of illegal
immigrants, is nearly impossible. There are about 1,400 Border Patrol agents
assigned to monitor an area that covers 18,584 square miles, including along the
Rio Grande and the Gulf of Mexico. That's about one agent for every 13.2 square
miles.

On any given day, traffickers smuggle cocaine into and around border towns such
as Roma and Rio Grande City, where 60 percent of the children live in poverty
and  6 percent of the population has attended college.

Go west of McAllen, and walk along the banks of the Rio Grande  --  called the
Rio Bravo, or Angry River, in Mexico  --  and evidence of illicit activity
abounds. On the Mexican side of the river, smugglers and would-be undocumented
workers loiter, waiting for night to fall. Several have established camps in
what appears to be the middle of nowhere.

On the U.S. side, discarded tires, clothes and assorted trash litter the most
remote riverbanks  --  the byproduct of drug and immigrant smuggling.

"We see a steady flow throughout the whole Rio Grande Valley sector," Jose
Vicente Rodriguez, a Border Patrol agent and spokesman, said during a tour of an
inland highway checkpoint in Falfurrias.

The vast open spaces and proximity to major U.S. highways make South Texas
attractive to the powerful Mexican drug cartels.

"The infrastructure in both Mexico and the United States, mainly the highway
system, allows traffickers quick access for getting their product through Mexico
and into destination cities in the United States," said Will Glaspy, the head of
operations in South Texas for the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. "Here we
have highways, so it's easy for drug loads to be hidden in with normal traffic
on the highways to get out of Mexico and the Rio Grande Valley."

Highway access is what drug cartels are fighting over a few hours to the west,
in Laredo. Drug violence there is spilling over from Mexico as the Gulf and
Juarez cartels, and the Sinaloa cartel, run by violent fugitive Joaquin "El
Chapo" Guzman, battle for dominance of a route that feeds into U.S. Interstate
35.

In the Rio Grande Valley, such violence is rare. The Gulf cartel is thought to
dominate, and its competitors are willing to pay for access to the collection of
state roads that feed into the interstates that spread out from Houston to the
East Coast.

"The Gulf cartel doesn't care if Chapo Guzman is moving a load of drugs through
here, as long as he pays," said a senior U.S. law enforcement official, who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because of his ongoing work in the drug war.

For years, Mexicans thought the drug trade was a U.S. problem that needed to be
tackled by quelling the demand of addicts and recreational drug users.

Today, Mexico is experiencing its own drug plague. It is wrestling with an
alarming increase in drug use among its youth and an explosion of violence deep
in its interior. Existing and up-and-coming drug gangs are gunning it out for
control of entry routes in the south and domestic distribution.

U.S. officials say Mexico's outgoing president, Vicente Fox, has done more than
any other leader in Mexican history to cooperate in the drug war. After Dec. 1,
the task will fall to the country's apparent president-elect, conservative
Felipe Calderon, to reverse the mounting drug violence and distribution.

"Relations with Mexico have never been better. We're getting [intelligence] from
Mexico that we've never gotten before," said the law enforcement official,
referring to federal-level cooperation. "Six years ago, we would have gotten,
'You're going to do what with Mexico?' We're hopeful that we'll be able to build
on the progress we've made with the Fox administration."

During Fox's six-year term, Benjamin Arellano Felix, the alleged former leader
of the Tijuana cartel, was arrested, as was Osiel Cardenas, the leader of the
Juarez cartel.

Calderon has acknowledged that Fox's success in disrupting the cartels has come
with a price: escalating violence within Mexico and along both sides of the
border. On the campaign trail, Calderon has discussed the idea of a new
super-agency to combat drug trafficking.

That sounds a bit like reinventing the wheel to some U.S. officials, who prefer
to see Calderon focus on legal revisions that would make it easier to prosecute
and extradite trafficking suspects.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              108 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Rally May Gauge Future of Immigration Movement

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard and Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1117 words


Immigration activists plan to mass in front of the Capitol today, renewing their
appeal for legislative reform as Congress reconvenes after a recess in which
many members experienced a backlash against illegal immigration back home.

The turnout at today's rally may provide a barometer of the vitality of the
immigrant rights movement, which sent millions to the streets this spring but
has generated less public attention in recent months. Local organizers said they
expect hundreds of thousands of demonstrators from the East Coast, but protests
this week in Phoenix and Chicago drew disappointing crowds.

Organizers said they have little hope that Congress will act on immigration this
election year. But, they said, they see the new round of protests  --  and voter
registration drives that started slowly this summer  --  as part of a
still-nascent pro-immigration movement.

"It's obviously really important that we get good numbers but also that the
message gets across to Congress," said Jaime Contreras, chairman of the National
Capital Immigration Coalition, which is organizing the rally. "I have no doubt
that this issue is not going to end this year, and it's going to be an ongoing
issue."

Immigrant activists are seeking legal status for all illegal immigrants and a
halt to increased raids and deportations.

But Republicans, facing mid-term elections, appear more likely to focus on
funding enforcement measures  --  such as border patrols and fencing  --
through routine spending bills they intend to pass this month.

A month of House Republican hearings in August helped entrench conservative
opinion against a Senate-passed immigration bill that would couple stringent
border security measures with new pathways to legal work and citizenship for
undocumented workers. Compromising with the Senate now could risk alienating the
Republicans' core voters, who have soured on the party over government spending
and other issues.

Immigration "is a very serious issue with the American people, and the American
people feel pretty strongly, as House Republicans do, that we ought to be
securing our borders and enforcing our laws," said House Majority Leader John A.
Boehner (R-Ohio). "When I traveled the entire month of August, I heard it
nonstop. They don't want the [Senate] bill. They don't want amnesty for illegal
aliens."

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) conceded yesterday that a deal on
immigration before the election is now "next to impossible."

Several towns and states nationwide also moved this year to clamp down on
illegal immigrants, which some observers attributed to a backlash inflamed by
the spring protests.

The National Conference of State Legislators counted nearly 550 new pieces of
legislation concerning immigrants in state legislatures this year, covering
topics such as employment, public benefits, education and law enforcement.
Seventy-nine bills have been enacted, mostly after massive pro-immigrant marches
in March, April and May. This year's pace of enacted legislation exceeds last
year's, the group said.

Twenty panicked immigrant families fled Valley Park, Mo., near St. Louis, in
August after the city council approved an ordinance that barred landlords from
renting to immigrants under the threat of a fine of $500 per unit, according to
the Archdiocese of St. Louis.

Counties in Ohio, Texas and California have authorized sheriff's deputies to
turn over illegal immigrants to federal authorities for possible deportation
after stopping them for minor traffic violations.

Sheriff's deputies in other counties will receive training from federal
immigration authorities on spotting, arresting and deporting illegal immigrants.

"Have the marchers been a spur? Maybe in some places," said Rick Swartz, an
immigrant organizer, who founded the National Immigration Forum. "The marchers
have given the anti-immigration movement something to complain about, and they
are piling on a backlash that began years ago."

Counter-protesters have shown up at other immigrant rallies. Organizers in
Phoenix predicted their rally on Monday would attract 10,000 pro-immigrant
demonstrators to the state capitol  --  about 2,000 showed up.

In Chicago, about 250 marchers trekked west for four days from Chicago to
Batavia, Ill., where about 2,000 activists rallied near the district offices of
U.S. House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R).

Organizers initially predicted a turnout of 1 million, but they now are
projecting a crowd similar to the one at a rally on the National Mall on April
10. A police official estimated that the demonstration drew at least 100,000
people; organizers pegged attendance around 500,000.

"Even in the dog days of summer, there has been an incredible amount of energy,"
said Ali Noorani, executive director of the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee
Advocacy Coalition, which is bringing about 10 busloads of demonstrators.

About 200 buses  --  half from Eastern states outside the Washington region  --
are scheduled to stream into the District for the 4 p.m. rally. Local organizers
have contracted fewer buses than for previous protests and have encouraged local
demonstrators to take public transportation.

Ricardo Juarez, coordinator of the immigrant advocacy group Mexicans Without
Borders, said he feared that many immigrants who skipped work for the spring
rallies might be hesitant to leave their jobs early now, when signs do not point
to action in Congress.

"There was more energy, more interest," earlier this year, Juarez said.

Area organizers said they are pinning some hope for new energy on non-Latinos,
whom they worked harder to attract, both to broaden the base of the movement and
to make the efforts more palatable to opponents whose criticism has centered on
Hispanics who have sneaked across the border.

Organizers printed fliers in Arabic, Swahili, Korean, Amharic, French and
Chinese, among other languages. African and Asian community organizations
publicized the demonstration in news conferences with local ethnic media.

In each, they emphasized that the effect of immigration reform would stretch
beyond Latinos, by potentially cracking down on the 200,000 estimated illegal
Korean immigrants, for example, or by influencing the backlog for relatives'
immigration applications.

"If we leave this alone and let the Latino community take the lead on this alone
. . . they have a limited power and political power," said Chung Pak, chairman
of the League of Korean Americans of Maryland. "Other affected communities must
help form a coalition to make sure that whatever comes out would not be
detrimental."

Staff writer Jonathan Weisman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              109 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 9, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Frist Stresses GOP's Immigration Efforts;
He Admits Legislation Is Dead for Now and Focuses on Successes in Funding

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 845 words


Congress will not address major immigration revisions before the Nov. 7
election, the Senate's top Republican said yesterday, but he and his allies hope
to limit political damage to their party by telling voters they have poured
millions of dollars into one component of the controversy: tightening the border
with Mexico.

Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) acknowledged that a broad-based immigration
bill, backed by President Bush and passed by the Senate, is dead for now. But
Republican leaders have added money for border fences and patrol agents to
recent spending measures dealing with the Pentagon and homeland security. Frist
said he thinks that step may lessen public anger over the porous border and the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the country.

"We need to message very well the fact that we have increased over the last two
years . . . the level of funding for immigration and border control fourfold,
the fact that by the time we finish here in four weeks we will have 375 miles of
fence being built and being funded . . . and the fact that stopping people at
the border coming across has increased . . . by 25 to 30 percent in the last
eight months," Frist told reporters.

The effort omits many of the provisions that he and Bush backed in the Senate
bill, Frist conceded, including pathways to legal status for many illegal
immigrants. However, he said, most Americans "just want to see the fence going
up."

The legislative standoff amounts, in part, to a back-door victory for House
Republicans, who have insisted on tougher enforcement of immigration laws before
tackling broader revisions. Several prominent GOP senators have criticized that
approach, saying voters expect their party to address all major aspects of the
immigration debate. They include a larger temporary-worker program, improved
record-keeping and worker verification procedures, and strategies for dealing
with illegal immigrants without trying to deport them all.

"If it is perceived by the public that the Republican Party  --  which owns the
House, the Senate and the White House  --  cannot solve hard problems working
with Democrats, then we will lose our majorities," Sen. Lindsey O. Graham
(R-S.C.) said earlier this year.

Frist, briefing a half-dozen reporters in his Capitol office yesterday,
predicted that voters will give his party more time.

"We have to address the 12 million people, the temporary-worker program and
work-site enforcement, as well as border security," said Frist, who is not
seeking reelection but may run for president in 2008. "We're not going to be
able to do that before the election." The delay will not hurt GOP incumbents
this fall, he said, because "what Republicans expect us to do is be firm on the
border, secure the border, and we intend to do that," primarily through military
and homeland security appropriations bills "and other bills that may come
forward."

Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), who is poised to succeed Frist as
the Republican leader next year, told the reporters that if he were a GOP
senator asked about immigration in a debate, "whether I voted against that
comprehensive Senate bill or voted for it, as [Frist] and I did, here would be
my answer." He then read from a list compiled by the Senate Budget Committee of
spending measures in the past two years: 3,736 new Border Patrol agents, 9,150
new detention beds for arrested illegal immigrants, 370 miles of fence along the
Mexican border.

"I think that's the way our candidates are going to handle it this fall,"
McConnell said.

The Senate's immigration bill called for about 350 miles of new fencing along
the 1,950-mile border with Mexico. The House bill called for 700 miles of fence.
The two bills were never sent to a conference committee for reconciliation
efforts.

Graham and other GOP supporters of multifaceted immigration legislation have
opposed enforcement-only approaches. They feared they would lose leverage with
House conservatives if enforcement measures were not linked to other goals such
as possible citizenship for illegal immigrants with longtime employment and
clean criminal records. However, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) said this week that
the recent spending measures do not amount to a de facto House victory because
legislators realize they eventually must confront the broader aspects of the
immigration problem.

Democratic strategists said Congress's failure to enact a major immigration bill
this year is proof of the Republican Party's ineffectiveness.

"They don't have a single accomplishment, yet they have control of the
government," said Rep. Rahm Emanuel (D-Ill.), leader of his party's drive to
regain control of the House this fall. He cited government findings that between
1999 and 2003, work-site enforcement operations were scaled back 95 percent by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, while the number of employers
prosecuted for unlawfully hiring immigrants dropped from 182 in 1999 to four in
2003.

"I wish their actions were as tough as their rhetoric," Emanuel said.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              110 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 14, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Prepare for Next Step;
Citizenship, Voting Take Priority After Marches Disappoint

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 755 words


Advocates working on behalf of illegal immigrants said they learned a lesson
from the immigrant rights marches that fizzled over the Labor Day holiday: It's
time to start driving.

During the recently concluded National Latino Congreso in Los Angeles,
organizers decided to focus on voter registration drives for documented
immigrants and citizenship drives for immigrants who qualify.

Antonio González, president of the Los Angeles-based Southwest Voter
Registration Project, said 50 voter registration drives will be launched in
California, Texas, New Mexico and Colorado, states with large Latino
populations. In addition, 100 voter registration and get-out-the-vote drives
will kick off in October, he said.

"The message from the community was to switch gears," González said. "Now is not
the time for mass mobilization of immigrants who don't have the right to vote.
There has been a massive amount of intimidation, and immigrants aren't stupid.
They're trying to protect themselves as best they can. It's time to get the vote
out."

But opponents of illegal immigration said voter and citizenship registration
drives will not reignite a movement that has stalled.

Labor Day week demonstrations that were supposed to draw hundreds of thousands
of marchers in six cities drew fewer than 25,000 total. The number paled in
comparison with the millions of illegal immigrants and supporters who came out
in the spring for huge protests in Los Angeles, Dallas, Chicago, Phoenix and
Washington.

With little political follow-up in the months after the big marches, immigrant
organizers could only watch as legislation stalled in Congress to give illegal
immigrants a chance to work legally and start on a path to citizenship.
Meanwhile, state and city governments enacted laws targeting illegal immigrants.

Organizations working to stop illegal immigration said the big marches succeeded
only in reminding U.S. citizens that the situation is out of control.

"The momentum is on the enforcement side," said Rosemary Jenks, director of
government relations for NumbersUSA, a group that wants to decrease immigration.
"I don't think the marches generated the spirit they were meant to generate. I
think they scared Americans. It was an in-your-face reminder that we have a
problem with illegal immigration. In my view, the marches were great."

At the Latino Congreso, or congress, González and other leaders said the marches
touched off the largest Latin movement in decades. In May, applications for
citizenship were up by 42 percent from that time last year, and approvals rose
by 21 percent, according to the Web site of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services.

But the leaders acknowledged that they failed to dissuade Congress from pushing
forward with proposals that would make life harder for illegal immigrants. They
also said the Labor Day marches fared poorly because potential marchers felt
intimidated because of a government and law enforcement backlash against illegal
immigrants.

The timing of the marches  --  several of which happened in the middle of the
week at a time when families were returning from vacation, children were back at
school and the nation was remembering the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks  --
was poor, several organizers acknowledged.

"The plan of action is to play strong defense and adamantly oppose with a
variety of tactics the proposals that are coming out of Congress through
November," Gonzalez said. "We will take our chances with a new Congress."

González said activists hope to increase the number of registered Latino voters
from about 8 million to 10 million.

Baldemar Velasquez, founder and president of the Farm Labor Organizing
Committee, who once worked beside farmworker organizer Cesar Chavez, said Latino
representatives in Washington are failing to tell Americans the story of why
there are so many undocumented Mexican immigrants.

"The North American Free Trade Agreement opened up the market and put 1.3
million Mexican corn farmers out of work," he said. "Where do you think those
corn farmers are now? Some of them are in Mexican slums, but a lot of them are
in the United States."

The president of the Migration Policy Institute, an organization that studies
immigration patterns, disagreed.

"The first part of the statement is true: Mexican farmers have lost their
farms," Demetrios Papademetriou said. "But to say that those people are
releasing into the United States, I think it's a gigantic leap. I certainly
would not make that suggestion."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              111 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 15, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 520 words


The House voted yesterday for the second time in a year to erect a fence along a
third of the U.S.-Mexico border, part of a Republican effort to keep illegal
immigration an issue before voters.

The 700 miles of double-layered fencing won approval on a 283 to 138 vote, a
bigger margin than  in December, when the House passed it as part of a broader
bill that also would have made being an illegal immigrant a felony. The nearly
2,000-mile border now has about 75 miles of fencing.

Rep. Peter T. King (R-N.Y.) said the separate fence bill was needed to show
Americans "we can take meaningful action to secure the border."

The House's bill in December and one passed by the Senate in May are so far
apart on issues that Republican leaders have not tried to negotiate a
compromise.

The main difference is that the Senate bill would provide legal status to
millions of illegal immigrants already in the United States, a concept supported
by President Bush but opposed by most House Republicans. The Senate bill calls
for 370 miles of fencing along the Mexican border.

The House-passed bill doesn't pay for the fence, which Republicans estimate
would cost more than $2 billion.

Ozone levels are falling sharply in Eastern states where smog has been a
recurring summer problem, the Environmental Protection Agency said yesterday.

The improvement in air quality for a third of the nation's population is due to
reduced emissions of nitrogen oxides from hundreds of coal-burning power plants,
manufacturing plants and other large facilities in 19 Eastern states.

Ground-level ozone pollution caused by nitrogen oxides reacting with other
chemicals produces smog, particularly in the summer months, when the sun is
hottest and brightest. Other major sources of ozone are motor vehicle exhaust,
gasoline vapors and chemical solvents.

The  EPA said in an annual report that nitrogen oxides from hundreds of power
plants and other industrial sources in the East fell to 530,000 tons in 2005, an
11 percent decrease from 2004 and a decline of more than 50 percent from the 1.2
million tons in 2000.

Based on air-monitoring data, the EPA said 66 percent of the areas that in 2004
failed to meet national air quality health standards now exceed the standards.

Sen. John F. Kerry (Mass.), the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, accused
the Bush administration of pursuing a "cut and run" strategy in Afghanistan that
has emboldened terrorists and made the United States less safe.

"The administration's Afghanistan policy defines cut and run," Kerry said in
remarks at Howard University. "Cut and run while the Taliban-led insurgency is
running amok across entire regions of the country. Cut and run while Osama bin
Laden and his henchmen hide and plot in a lawless no man's land."

Kerry's "cut and run" accusation echoes criticism Republicans have leveled at
Democrats who have challenged President Bush's handling of the Iraq war.

Kerry lashed out at the administration on the same day the White House announced
meetings later this month with the leaders of Afghanistan and Pakistan.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              112 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 17, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Culpeper Targets Illegal Immigrants;
Enforcing Zoning Rules Seen as First Step

BYLINE: Nick Miroff, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 812 words


The "anti-crowding" controversy that roiled Manassas last winter resurfaced this
month, in Culpeper, Va., where town officials want to crack down on illegal
immigration with zoning ordinances that curb the number of people who can live
together in a single-family house.

Culpeper's Town Council voted unanimously Tuesday to move toward hiring a
special officer who would aggressively enforce existing zoning codes  --  such
as one that limits the number of unrelated people who can share a household to
five. Proposals to declare English the town's primary language and punish
employers and landlords who hire or rent to undocumented immigrants are being
debated by the council, which has voted to send a letter to federal officials
requesting assistance and advice on curtailing illegal immigration.

"We have an influx of illegal immigrants in our community, and we need to get a
handle on the situation now," said council member F. Steve Jenkins, a former
Culpeper County Board of Supervisors member who was elected to the Town Council
in July.

Since taking office, Jenkins has led a campaign to move aggressively against
Culpeper's illegal immigrant population. "My family has lived here for
generations," he said. "But the demographics have changed the complexion of
Culpeper, and I haven't been pleased with that."

In December, Manassas approved an anti-crowding ordinance changing its
definition of family to tighten its zoning code. The law was later repealed
under threat of a federal investigation into discriminatory housing practices
and pressure from national civil rights groups.

Just as a development boom has attracted illegal immigrants to Prince William
County in recent years, Culpeper  --  roughly 35 miles southwest of Manassas  --
has also had a big increase in its immigrant population, mostly Mexicans and
Central Americans drawn to the area by the demand for construction and farm
labor. Culpeper's population has swelled from 10,000 in 2000 to more than 14,000
today, according to Mayor Pranas A. Rimeikis, an immigrant from Lithuania.

"For the people who have lived here all their lives, the growth itself is very
frustrating," he said. "We have a lot more traffic than we did before. There is
overcrowding in the schools and just more people all over the place, and a lot
of negative aspects that people notice with that growth."

The number of Hispanics in Culpeper might be only 1,000 or 1,500, Rimeikis said,
but that would be a tenfold increase since 2000.

"There's a perception that there's a significant drain on social services," he
said, adding that the town lacks data to confirm that. "We haven't gotten any
reports, so we don't really have a handle on to what extent there's a problem."

Rimeikis said town officials were aware of what happened in Manassas and wanted
to proceed cautiously to avoid legal trouble. "We don't want to go there," he
said. "When you get to the reality of taking on this thing, going after
employers for verifying legal presence, or going after landlords, we don't have
the resources to do that. We'd have to double our police force."

Jenkins said that unlike Manassas, Culpeper isn't trying to amend its legal
definition of family and only wants to "fairly and assertively" enforce zoning
laws already on the books. He said that Culpeper should set up a task force to
"flush out" statistics to quantify the impact of illegal immigration in monetary
terms and that examples were many.

"What I've seen is a destruction of our community," Jenkins said. "The growth
that's occurred has threatened our water supply. The continual lack of zoning
enforcement has created situations where property values have decreased. There
are public safety issues now that didn't exist before."

Still more disturbing, Jenkins said, is the lack of information available about
immigrants' identities. "We don't know who these people are," he said. "Unless
someone has been living in a cave, they know that this country is a major target
for terrorists. [Terrorists] go to small communities like ours and network out."

Jenkins clarified that he didn't actually think there were terrorists among
Culpeper's Hispanic immigrant population but that there was a real danger in
"not knowing who's who."

Members of Culpeper's Hispanic community said that those types of allegations
are absurd and that Jenkins's campaign doesn't reflect the sentiments of most of
the town's residents.

"Culpeper's economy depends on Hispanic workers," said Martin Bernal, a
self-described immigrant "pioneer" who came to Culpeper from Mexico in 1988 when
there were virtually no other Latino immigrants in town.

Bernal owns a market and helped organize a march this month to protest the
council's actions. He said Jenkins was using Hispanic immigrants as a boogeyman
to advance his political aspirations.

"We're easy to pick on," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              113 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 20, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Boeing Wins Deal For Border Security

BYLINE: Griff Witte, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 881 words


Aerospace and defense giant Boeing Co. has won a multibillion-dollar contract to
revamp how the United States guards about 6,000 miles of border in an attempt to
curb illegal immigration, congressional sources said yesterday.

Boeing's proposal relied heavily on a network of 1,800 towers,  most of which
would need to be erected along the borders with Mexico and Canada. Each tower
would be equipped with a variety of sensors, including cameras and heat and
motion detectors.

The company's efforts would be the basis of the government's latest attempt to
control U.S. borders after a series of failures. The contract, part of the
Secure Border Initiative and known as SBInet, will again test the ability of
technology to solve a problem that lawmakers have called a critical national
security concern. This time, the private sector is being given an unusually
large say in how to do it.

Boeing sold its plan to the Homeland Security Department as less risky and less
expensive than competing proposals that would have relied heavily on drones for
routine surveillance work. Boeing plans only limited use of small unmanned
aerial vehicles that could be launched from the backs of Border Patrol trucks
when needed to help pursue suspects.

The system is to be installed first along the Mexican border in an area south of
Tucson known to be a key crossing point for illegal immigrants. The company has
said it can deploy the system along both borders within three years.

The public announcement of the award is planned for tomorrow. Several
congressional and industry sources yesterday confirmed that Boeing had defeated
four other companies in one of the most closely watched and intensely fought
contract competitions this year. The sources spoke on the condition of anonymity
because of the sensitivity of the competition. Homeland Security spokesman Larry
Orluskie said the department was "really close" to making an award.

Boeing officials declined to comment, pending official notification. In an
interview this month, Boeing executive Wayne Esser said that despite the
company's aviation experience, it wanted to keep its border surveillance systems
on the ground. "The aerial platform just goes off the map from a cost
standpoint," he said.

Homeland Security has been criticized harshly in recent years for initiatives
that have either failed or far exceeded their budgets. In one case, cameras that
the department installed on the borders broke down in bad weather.

"The administration has spent $429 million of the taxpayer's money to try and
secure our borders with two already-abandoned border security programs," said
Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-Miss). He expressed concern that the same thing will
happen to SBInet.

Mindful of that record, Boeing emphasized that all its technology has been
proven to work. "The low-risk approach is probably going to carry weight here,"
Esser said.

From the beginning, department officials told industry leaders that they wanted
immediate results. The contract proposed giving the private sector wide latitude
in helping U.S. Customs and Border Protection figure out the right combination
of technology, infrastructure and personnel needed to stop immigrants,
terrorists and criminals from illegally crossing into the United States.

Deputy Homeland Security Secretary Michael P. Jackson said this year that he
wanted the companies "to come back and tell us how to do our business."

SBInet has been regarded all year by many industry executives as a critical
prize, since the Homeland Security Department's budget continues to boom and no
single company has emerged to dominate the market.

As a result, there was pitched competition among defense companies for a
contract that is estimated to be worth about $2.5 billion over the next four
years. The contest included five prime contractors  --  Lockheed Martin Corp.,
Northrop Grumman Corp., Raytheon Co., Ericsson Inc. and Boeing. Each rounded up
dozens of subcontractors, bringing a wide variety of defense and technology
firms into the competition.

Boeing's subcontractors include a Washington division of L-3 Communications
Holdings Inc. and a Reston division of information technology firm Unisys Corp.

Boeing has been one of the Defense Department's largest contractors for decades,
and has been trying to win Homeland Security awards since the department was
created.

In pursuing this contract, Boeing pointed to its work installing
explosive-detection systems at more than 400 airports in less than six months
following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. But that contract was
criticized by the Homeland Security's inspector general's office, which found
that Boeing received $49 million in excess profit on a deal that was supposed to
be worth $508 million but ballooned to $1.2 billion. Investigators also found
that Boeing had subcontracted 92 percent of the work, and that the machines had
high false-alarm rates. The company disputed those findings.

Winning SBInet is considered an important victory for Boeing as it seeks to
overcome a number of recent setbacks, including a scandal in which a Pentagon
official admitted favoring the company in exchange for a job, and the loss this
summer in the competition to build the next U.S. manned spacecraft.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              114 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 22, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Ugliness;
Without objection from the president

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 521 words


THE CYNICAL immigration endgame of the 109th Congress isn't particularly
surprising. But after a session in which the Senate actually managed to produce
a bipartisan, comprehensive measure to overhaul the existing system, the latest,
enforcement-only developments are nonetheless disappointing and dangerous.

The House has passed, and the Senate seems ready to go along with, a measure to
require construction of a 700-mile fence along the Mexican border. That would
cost at least $2 billion, and that's in addition to a $2.5 billion initiative,
entrusted to Boeing Co. this week, to erect "virtual fences" along the northern
and southern borders.

A fence would damage relations with Mexico, harm the environment and, especially
in the absence of broader changes, be ineffective. Even if a foolproof fence
could be placed along every mile of the border, it wouldn't eliminate illegal
immigration. Perhaps half of those in the country illegally did not slip
secretly across a border but arrived through official entry points, using
fraudulent documents or coming in legally and overstaying their visas.

But the fence is, sadly, the least offensive of the measures  under
consideration. On Wednesday, the House approved an unnecessary and arguably
unconstitutional bill to require voters to show photo identification to take
part in federal elections beginning in 2008; in 2010, the ID would have to
demonstrate proof of citizenship. This would effectively disenfranchise many
poor and elderly Americans, who are less likely to have, or be able to obtain,
such documentation. It responds to a non-problem. The manifold challenges of
election administration do not include large numbers of noncitizens trying to
vote. The Senate should not go along.

Yesterday, the House passed another batch of immigration-related measures, the
worst of which would deputize state and local law enforcement officers to
enforce federal immigration laws. The measure would permit, but not require,
state and local police to arrest and detain illegal immigrants for even civil
violations of federal immigration law. This would undermine the ability of law
enforcement to deter and prosecute violent crime. As New York Mayor Michael R.
Bloomberg told the Senate Judiciary Committee in July, "Do we really want people
who could have information about criminals  --  including potential terrorists
--  to be afraid to go to the police?"

The most disappointing aspect of the debate is the passive posture of President
Bush. Mr. Bush could have used his bully pulpit to make clear the importance of
comprehensive reform. He could promise to veto the bills on the understanding
that enforcement measures, even justifiable ones, will be needed as leverage to
obtain the comprehensive program he says he wants. Instead, he's meekly
following the worst instincts of his fellow Republicans. "Yes, I'll sign it into
law," Mr. Bush told CNN, adding, "If your question is, 'Will I stop trying to
push for a comprehensive reform?' The answer is, 'No, I won't stop trying to
push for comprehensive reform.' " With pushing like this, who needs opponents?

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              115 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Border Fence Called Impractical;
Experts Say Illegal Immigrants Will Enter Elsewhere

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 381 words


Building a fence in an attempt to secure the U.S. border with Mexico is
impractical and would simply lead illegal immigrants to cross elsewhere,
according to former U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents and other experts.

And the Mexican government agreed in a diplomatic note sent yesterday to the
U.S. government, warning that the fence would damage relations between the two
countries.

The Senate voted Friday to build about 700 miles of double-layered fence with
access roads, lighting, cameras and sensors, to try to block five heavily used
crossing points along the 2,000-mile border.

The plan, which awaits President Bush's signature, includes a sweep of fencing
along most of the Arizona border, where about half of the almost 1.2 million
people arrested crossing from Mexico last year were caught.

The fence would also stretch through parts of California, New Mexico and Texas.

Former U.S. customs agents who have hunted drug traffickers in the mountains and
deserts near the Arizona border said the new barrier would be defeated by the
rugged terrain.

"You can't build a wall across the mountains of southern Arizona, as much of the
terrain is inaccessible even on foot," veteran agent Lee Morgan said as he stood
along the proposed route of the fence, east of Douglas.

The barrier would have to traverse the rugged Huachuca Mountains and other
craggy ranges west of Nogales, Ariz., which are marked by bluffs and ravines
that make them inaccessible to vehicle traffic, Morgan noted.

Another former customs special agent said the fencing would also struggle to
bridge hundreds of creek beds spanning the Arizona-Sonora border, which are
prone to flash floods from May to October.

Republican backers of the proposal contend it is necessary to prevent entry to
the United States by illegal immigrants and extremists, and to prevent smuggling
of weapons and drugs.

Mexican President Vicente Fox, who leaves office Dec. 1, has called the barrier
"shameful" and compared it to the Berlin Wall. His spokesman yesterday urged
Bush to veto the bill.

"This decision hurts bilateral relations, goes against the spirit of cooperation
needed to guarantee security on the common border, creates a climate of tension
in border communities," Ruben Aguilar told reporters.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              116 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 8, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For Texas Governor, a Fine Line;
Rick Perry Tries to Balance Competing Immigration Interests

BYLINE: Liz Austin Peterson, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 716 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN


Locked in a four-way race for reelection, Gov. Rick Perry (R) is walking a
1,200-mile political tightrope  --  the Texas-Mexico border.

He has to look tough to fiercely anti-immigration Republican voters. At the same
time, some of his biggest donors are home builders, poultry processors and
ranchers who depend on immigrants to fill jobs they say native-born Americans
don't want.

Then there's the tricky matter of supporting President Bush, Perry's
predecessor, while looking strong enough to take on the federal government when
border sheriffs and residents complain they are the ones doing all the heavy
lifting to keep Texas secure.

It is a balancing act that has left him open to attack from his three major
opponents, Democrat Chris Bell and independents Carole Keeton Strayhorn and
Kinky Friedman.

Texas is home to roughly 1.4 million illegal immigrants, more than any other
state but California, according to the federal government. An average of 54,000
illegal immigrants settled in Texas every year between 2000 and 2005, more than
in any other state.

Perry avoided the border security issue for months, insisting it was
Washington's responsibility. At the same time, drug-related violence escalated
in Laredo and the governors of Arizona and New Mexico declared states of
emergency on their borders.

Perry began to focus on the issue last October.

He has since provided millions to support Operation Linebacker, an effort by
sheriffs along the border to reduce crime, and Operation Rio Grande, a state
project that includes putting hundreds of surveillance cameras on volunteers'
property and eventually broadcasting the images over the Internet so viewers can
let law enforcement know about suspicious activity.

One of Perry's first television campaign ads showed him trekking across the
rugged border terrain, promising to secure the border.

Strayhorn has accused the governor of "failed leadership," complaining, "The
border has been ignored to the point that ordinary citizens rather than law
enforcement officials have been enforcing illegal immigration."

Bell has charged that Perry is turning a serious problem into little more than
an online video game and is playing on voters' fears.

Cal Jillson, a professor of political science at Southern Methodist University
in Dallas, said, "In the Republican Party, you can gin up energy and emotion on
the idea that illegal crossing of the border is a big problem." He added:  "They
try to elicit an image in people's minds of al-Qaeda operatives low, crawling
across the border with their AK-47s."

Strayhorn, who was elected state comptroller as a Republican, is taking a
similar approach. She recently unveiled her border security plan against the
backdrop of Houston's Ship Channel and port, saying such installations are
enticing targets for those who hope to paralyze the state and national
economies.

She proposed to double the number of Texas Rangers from 118 officers to 230 and
put them in charge of state homeland security.

Friedman says he would increase the number of National Guardsmen on the border
from 1,500 to 10,000, fine companies for hiring illegal immigrants, and require
immigrants seeking jobs to apply for taxpayer identification cards and pass a
background check.

Strayhorn has not said much about the illegal immigrants already living in
Texas. Perry refuses to discuss the issue, saying it is wrong to tackle
immigration reform before the border is secure. Bell opposes amnesty but says
there needs to be a way for immigrants to earn citizenship.

Some political observers say Perry is all but unbeatable because his opponents
will split the vote. But the immigration issue carries political risks.

Recently, three dozen prominent Texas businessmen published a letter to Congress
in the Dallas Morning News urging lawmakers to "pass realistic immigration
reform that provides the workers we need to keep our businesses growing."

If Perry wins, it will be easier for him to endorse a guest-worker program that
will appeal to those big donors, Jillson said. The president favors a
guest-worker program and ways for illegal immigrants to work toward citizenship.

Perry will "probably support the president after the election in a more
comprehensive solution," Jillson said.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              117 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 12, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Build It and They Won't Come

SECTION: Editorial; A26

LENGTH: 201 words


Regarding the Sept. 30 front-page article "With Senate Vote, Congress Passes
Border Fence Bill":

Construction of a 700-mile fence along the border with Mexico is a good first
step, but only a fence along the entire border will stop the flood of illegal
immigrants. People entering the country illegally can shift their routes to
bypass a barrier.

Deterrence, not detection, is the key to stopping illegal immigration. The
Department of Homeland Security's plan to install sensors instead of a fence in
many areas is the wrong approach. A fence will deter would-be crossers; sensors
mean that illegal immigrants run only the risk of detection. Imagine the expense
if, say, 90 percent of border-crossers were apprehended;  they would need to be
fed, housed, processed and returned to their native lands.

I support fair and just procedures to permit legal immigration, and I regret
that a fence must be built, but no other deterrent has worked. If we have 12
million illegal immigrants in this country already, let Congress move quickly to
ensure that 12 million more do not join them. Build the whole fence, and then we
can talk about the fate of the 12 million already here.

C.E. WRAY

Charlottesville

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              118 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Apparent Mexican Winner Attacks Border Wall;
In First Statements to International Press, Calderón Disputes Bush on
Immigration

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 635 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY July 7


Less than 24 hours after being named president-elect in a disputed official
count, Felipe Calderón took a firm stance against building a wall along the
United States-Mexico border to stem illegal immigration.

Echoing his campaign theme, Calderón said the best solution to the immigration
crisis was creating jobs in Mexico, "not walls or troops," a reference to
President Bush's decision to send National Guard troops to support the U.S.
Border Patrol.

Calderón's remarks, delivered during his first post-election briefing for the
international news media, angered a leading Capitol Hill proponent of increased
border security. Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) said in a phone interview that he
was "insulted" by Calderón's statement, "just as Mexico would be rightly
offended if we were to not only condemn their immigration policies but actively
work to aid and abet illegal immigration."

Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.) another proponent of increased border fencing,
said Friday in an e-mailed statement that he was "hopeful Mexico's
president-elect will also look more closely at the benefits security fencing
brings to both sides of the border."

The reaction presages what is likely to be one of the most contentious issues
facing Calderón if his victory is upheld by the special elections court that
will a hear a challenge of the results by his main opponent, Andrés Manuel López
Obrador. Attempts by Mexican presidents to influence U.S. policy have often
received frosty receptions. The outgoing president, Vicente Fox, failed to reach
an immigration accord with the United States.

Immigration legislation in the U.S. Congress is stalled. The House of
Representatives voted in December to build 700 miles of new fences along the
border, and the Senate has voted to approve 370 miles of fencing. But neither
proposal has been passed into law.

Calderón was declared the winner of Mexico's presidential race Thursday after an
all-night count yielded an official tally that showed him half a percentage
point, slightly more than 200,000 votes, ahead of López Obrador. López Obrador
alleges that the vote was marred by numerous "inconsistencies," such as more
votes being recorded than the number of ballots delivered at thousands of
polling places. He plans to hold a rally Saturday in Mexico City's large
downtown square, the Zocalo. On Friday, 1,000 of his supporters began a 60-mile
march to Mexico City from the town of Pachuca.

Mexico's special elections court has until Sept. 6 to  decide whether to certify
the results. But Calderón is talking and acting as if his victory is assured. On
Friday, he said there was no doubt about the results and predicted he would work
well with opposing parties, even though his National Action Party does not have
a majority in the legislature. He also said he would not privatize Mexico's
Pemex oil company.

Calderón also wants measures that will protect what he called "vulnerable"
crops, such as corn and beans. López Obrador had vowed to defy provisions of the
North American Free Trade Agreement that call for reducing tariffs on U.S. corn
and beans. Many small Mexican farmers have said the reduced tariffs would put
them out of business. Calderón said Friday he would not try to renegotiate the
provisions. "The way the U.S. Congress is now," he said, "I don't see a large
probability that the winner of the renegotiation would easily be Mexico."

Calderón said one of his first trips as president would be to the United States,
where he wants to meet with Mexican Americans. More than 20.6 million people of
Mexican origin live in the United States, representing 58 percent of the
nation's Hispanic population, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The Pew
Hispanic Center says there are also 6.2 million Mexicans living in the United
States illegally.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              119 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

DHS Wants Workers, Papers to Match

BYLINE: Cindy Skrzycki

SECTION: Financial; D01 , THE REGULATORS Cindy Skrzycki

LENGTH: 908 words


Documents, please.

As part of the Bush administration's effort to curb illegal immigration, the
Department of Homeland Security wants American employers to work harder to prove
that workers have the proper paperwork to be on the payroll legally in the
United States.

At a time when Congress and the Bush administration are debating the confines of
controversial immigration legislation, the DHS proposal, issued last month,
gives employers guidance about how to handle potential problems with an
employee's proof of citizenship.

The proposal sets out the steps that employers are to follow if they receive
what is known as a "no-match" letter from the Social Security Administration or
a notice from DHS signaling an immigration issue.

Specifically, the letter informs the employer and employee that the information
on wage documents do not match a Social Security number in the agency's
database. The discrepancy may point to the use of phony documentation or it may
simply reflect clerical errors such as misspellings and name changes.

The proposal puts employers on notice that the receipt of a no-match letter
might be used to prove they had "constructive knowledge" that they had
unauthorized workers on the payroll. The proposal also offers steps the employer
should follow to be shielded from liability.

These include verifying the legitimacy of the hire in its own records, working
with employees to clear up the discrepancy and notifying the agencies of the
results in 14 to 60 days.

If an employer does not clear up the mismatch, the employee has to be fired or
the employer faces liability under immigration laws.

The steps are designed to offer employers a safe harbor from violating the
immigration law but also increase pressure on them to terminate employees who
may have used fake documents to get a job.

"Most businesses want to do the right thing when it comes to employing legal
workers," said Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff when the proposal
was unveiled.

He said that if the procedures were followed in good faith, employers would not
be found in violation of their legal obligations.

The government stresses that the Social Security notices are sent to ensure
workers' accounts are in order so they can be paid benefits later  --  not to
check their immigration status. In fact, employers cannot use the letters as an
excuse for firing an employee.

Last year, the Social Security Administration sent out 8 million "no-match
letters" to employees and 128,000 to employers.

The business community said it welcomes clarification on what to do when such a
letter arrives. But it also fears many undocumented workers might be lost at a
time when industries including agriculture, hotels and restaurants depend on
their skills.

"From a practical standpoint, it will have the effect of [employers] having to
terminate employees. It will be devastating to many industries if people comply
with it," said Monte B. Lake, an employment and immigration attorney with
McGuiness Norris & Williams.

An estimated 12 million undocumented people reside in the United States, and
about 8 million of them are in the workforce.

Groups representing employers said it is difficult to know the immigration
status of a new hire because employers are required to check the documents that
a new hire provides only when they fill out an employment eligibility
verification form, or an I-9.

In most cases, the prospective workers provide a driver's license and Social
Security card.

If, on their face, the documents look genuine, the employer must accept them.
Asking for other documentation can lead to an immigration-related discrimination
claim against an employer.

Often, an employer's first inkling of a problem is a no-match letter questioning
a worker's documentation.

Elizabeth Dickson, manager of immigration services for Ingersoll-Rand Co. in New
Jersey, said that several years ago, the company received 500 "no-match" letters
from Social Security, and its human resources personnel swung into action to do
the necessary verification. It was a big job that smaller employers might be
hard-pressed to do in the proposed 14 days.

Dickson said most of the problems reflected clerical errors.

But the company had no choice but to terminate 35 or 40 workers, some of whom
never returned to work after questions were raised.

It's clear from the proposal that the DHS wants routine access to no-match
letters to employers.

Already, the letters are used as evidence in court cases or are included in
audits of workplaces.

"These regulations will help us in our efforts going forward," said Jarrod Agen,
a spokesman for DHS. "We will be able to use them to build evidence against
employers. Now, many just ignore the letters or act on them improperly."

Randel Johnson, vice president of labor, immigration and employee benefits at
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said businesses are seeking more than 14 days to
do the initial verification and perhaps adjustments in other deadlines.

Johnson indicated businesses are likely to ask the administration to consider
this issue as part of the new employee verification system proposed in the
pending legislation.

"We do welcome clarification," said John Gay, senior vice president of
government affairs and public policy for the National Restaurant Association.
"But concentrating on enforcement only without fixing the immigration system is
very troubling."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              120 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

American Pioneers -- or 'Illegals'?

BYLINE: Eduardo Moises Penalver

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 626 words


A number of the politicians calling for the criminalization of illegal
immigrants may not be aware that they and a good many of their constituents
could themselves be direct descendants of people who did some illegal migrating
of their own many years ago. Much of the territory of the United States was
settled by people  --  hundreds of thousands of them  --  who disregarded the
law by squatting on public lands.

Of course, they had a ready reason for doing so: Like today's immigrants, they
were seeking a better life for themselves and their families. Indeed, many of
the current residents of the states between the Appalachian and Rocky mountains
can trace their roots directly to these onetime criminals  --  whom we now call
"pioneers."

In the early decades of the 19th century, the federal government hoped to
dispose of public land in its western territories by auctioning it to the
highest bidder  --  typically a northeastern land speculator. But this policy
posed a serious obstacle to the settlers streaming west in hopes of acquiring
cheap land to start a new life. Speculators often held land off the market for
years, waiting for prices to increase so they could sell for a hefty profit.

Although federal law made it a crime to enter publicly owned land slated for
auction, hundreds of thousands of squatters trespassed on this land, as well as
on absentee-owned private holdings, and began to farm it illegally. The federal
government tried at times to protect the land by sending the Army to clear
squatters out, but the settlers would simply return once the soldiers had moved
on.

Eastern politicians, many of whom dabbled in land speculation, condemned the
squatters' defiance of federal law. They accused squatters of being "greedy,
lawless land grabbers" who had no respect for law and order. In 1815 President
James Madison issued a proclamation warning "uninformed or evil disposed persons
. . . who have unlawfully taken possession of or made any settlement on the
public lands . . . to remove therefrom" or face ejection by the Army and
criminal prosecution. Henry Clay expressed a widely shared sentiment in 1838
when he dismissed the squatters as a "lawless rabble."

But once the squatters managed to put down roots, the federal government found
it difficult, both politically and practically, to remove them. Accordingly, on
39 occasions before 1837, Congress enacted retroactive amnesties for squatters
illegally occupying federal lands, despite the objection that these amounted to
a reward for lawlessness. Ultimately the process of moving from occupation to
ownership was fully legalized in the 1862 Homestead Act, which granted free
title to settlers who met the statute's residency and improvement requirements.
In one of the great ironies of American history, the lawless squatters underwent
a dramatic image makeover in our collective memory to become noble pioneers.

The lesson for then  --  and now? When the needs that drive large numbers of
people to break the law are strong enough, it's unlikely that official
repression will be able to stop them. This is not to say that the government
isn't justified in attempting to regulate immigration. But efforts to get a
handle on the problem must be undertaken with a proper respect for the dignity
of illegal migrants and for the legitimate needs that push them to break the
law.

Who knows? Perhaps in a hundred years, when the heated debate over illegal
immigration has long since made way for some other controversy, our
grandchildren will watch movies or television shows celebrating the heroism of
today's illegal immigrants  --  or "pioneers."

The writer is an associate professor at Fordham Law School, where he teaches
courses on property and land use.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              121 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Thousands Attend Immigration Rallies

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 286 words


Hundreds of thousands of pro-immigration demonstrators mobilized on the Mall and
in scores of cities across the country Monday in a powerful display of
grass-roots muscle-flexing that organizers said could mark a coming-of-age for
Latino political power in the United States.

Calling for legal protection for illegal immigrants, the demonstrators  --  the
overwhelming majority of them Hispanic  --  streamed past the White House in
Washington, jammed streets near City Hall in Lower Manhattan, marched in
Atlanta, held a small candlelight vigil in Los Angeles and, in Mississippi, sang
the civil rights anthem "We Shall Overcome" in Spanish.

Demonstrators massed in cities large and small.  The mostly peaceful
demonstrations drew only a smattering of anti-immigration protesters.

The rallies came against the backdrop of fierce political struggle in
Washington. The House has passed legislation to tighten border security and
criminalize illegal immigrants and those who assist them. The Senate is
stalemated over a compromise that would provide a path to legal status for the
12 million illegal immigrants in the United States. President Bush has backed
the Senate approach but has declined to pressure Republicans to act on it.

A new Washington Post-ABC News poll showed that three-quarters of Americans
think the government is not doing enough to prevent illegal immigration. But
three in five said they favor providing illegal immigrants who have lived here
for years a way to gain legal status and eventual citizenship. One in five
Americans embraced the House bill, which includes no guest-worker program and
would make felons out of those in this country illegally.

--  Dan Balz and Darryl Fears

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              122 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Is An Aging Issue

BYLINE: Abigail Trafford

SECTION: Health; F01 , MY TIME Abigail Trafford

LENGTH: 965 words


How they marched: tens of thousands in cities across the country, waving the
American flag and calling for legislation that would legalize the presence of an
estimated 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants. A banner at a rally in
Atlanta summed it up: "Give us a chance for a better life!"

But overlooked in the debate over how to secure borders and how to treat those
already here  --  legally and illegally  --  is this: Immigration is an aging
issue.

With more people living longer and couples having fewer children, the influx of
immigrants  --  who tend to be young adults  --  helps stabilize the balance
between generations. Immigrants who are working and paying taxes into Medicare
and Social Security are really giving all of us a chance for a better life as we
grow old.

This was not the case in earlier waves of immigration, when the population of
the United States was relatively young and large families were common. But
increased longevity and lower birth rates have turned the demographic makeup of
the country upside down  --  putting some distinguishing wrinkles on the face of
America and raising questions about the impact of an aging society.

Who will be in the workforce to support the programs that support older men and
women? And who will push the wheelchairs?

Immigrants are a critical part of the answer. "Anybody who looks at immigration
has to look at aging," says Harry R. Moody, director of academic affairs at
AARP.

"First, immigration affects the age structure of society" by adding younger
members to the population, he says. "Second, the people who do hands-on care
work are immigrants. Look at our nursing homes! We have an image of people
picking tomatoes  --  that's not the whole story. Immigrants are the front-line
caregivers."

Most immigrants are in their prime working years. In 2004, a little more than
946,000 immigrants were legally admitted to the country, according to the latest
figures from the Office of Immigration Statistics in the Department of Homeland
Security. Only about 137,000 were over 50. About 154,400 were under 16. The rest
--  about 655,000 men and women  --  were 16 to 49, with peak numbers between
the ages of 25 and 39.

In the greater Washington area, most of the immigrants who were admitted that
year were between 25 and 44, with the greatest concentration in those 25 and 34.

Immigrants also tend to have larger families, which helps raise the U.S.
birthrate slightly above the level needed to replace the current population.
Without immigration, our birth rate would be below replacement level. That is
the situation in Europe, which faces more dire problems because of its aging
population. Italy already looks like a retirement community, with about 20
percent of the population over 65. Japan, with no immigration and one of the
world's lowest birthrates, is also confronting the consequences of its graying
society.

Obviously, immigration alone can't solve the demographic challenge of aging.
That will require restructuring society to take advantage of the talents of an
older population while at the same time providing care and support to the frail
and needy. One option involves raising expectations that people will work in
some capacity beyond the accepted retirement age of 65 and tightening
eligibility for such public programs as Medicare. Another involves retraining
people for post-retirement careers and making the business case for retaining
and hiring workers over 55. A third option is to fight age discrimination in the
workplace, stall the trend of early retirement and find ways that allow people
to stay in the labor force.

Restructuring society along these lines will not be easy or painless  --  or
without major political debate.

What immigration does is to postpone the day of reckoning so that we can start
the debate now and develop a national blueprint to meet the needs of our aging
population. AARP's Moody estimates that immigration has bought us about 30 years
before we reach a demographic high noon, when  --  if nothing is done  --
increasing numbers of older people will force what may be unpalatable economic
and political choices on an unprepared society.

Meanwhile, immigration helps to fill essential jobs caring for people in
hospitals and nursing homes. The nationwide shortage of nurses remains
significant. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that the health care system
will require more than 1.2 million new nurses between 2004 and 2014, in part
because the average age of a nurse is more than 46. "A cohort of nurses is about
to retire when health needs are about to burgeon because of the aging of the
population," says Erin McKeon, associate director for government affairs at the
American Nurses Association.

Foreign-born and foreign-trained nurses are taking up the slack. They come from
many countries  --  Nigeria, India, South Korea, Canada, Jamaica. More than half
come from the Philippines. In California, about a quarter of all nurses are from
outside the United States. Health officials are quick to point out that
immigration should not be the main answer to staffing shortages. Part of the
problem is that there are not enough teaching programs in this country to train
all the qualified applicants who want to go into the health care professions. (A
subject for another column.) But for now, immigrants play a large role in the
lives of older men and women.

In the assisted living facility in Boston where my 94-year-old stepmother
resides, most of the aides are foreign-born. Moody's 86-year-old father, who
lives in Orlando, has started to learn Spanish so he can communicate better with
the folks who work at the clinic.

It's demographics, stupid! Aging and immigration go hand in hand.*

Comments: mytime@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              123 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

New Virginia Law Goes After Sellers of Phony Licenses;
Illegal Immigrants Buy IDs to Drive

BYLINE: Dionne Walker Associated Press Writer

SECTION: Alexandria - Arlington Extra; T12

LENGTH: 854 words


Surrounded by other men gathered on an Arlington corner to find work, a day
laborer reached into his battered wallet and presented what he once considered
his key to legal driving.

It's the size of a standard ID, bearing a picture of the 47-year-old painter as
well as his date of birth, address and eye color. He paid $200 for the
identification from a vendor, who assured the undocumented Honduran he could use
the card to drive in Virginia.

But federal and state transportation officials say these bogus international
driver's licenses are worthless in the United States and a knockoff of the
legitimate licenses used by Americans who travel abroad.

A new Virginia law will be taking aim at the people who peddle these phony
licenses, punishing those who prey on illegal immigrants and keeping unlicensed
and untested motorists off the roads.

The law makes it a misdemeanor to sell, give or distribute any document
purporting to be a driver's license. Violations would be punishable by up to one
year in jail and a $2,500 fine. The measure, which goes into effect July 1,
strengthens existing restrictions on producing fake licenses.

Del. Albert C. Eisenberg, the Arlington Democrat who sponsored the legislation,
said bogus licenses offer false hope. "They're paying for worthless paper, and
then they get arrested on top of that," he said.

Critics argue, however, that the law deals with only one aspect of a problem
primarily related to undocumented workers.

There are "millions of people in the U.S. who have no access to secure,
government-issued identification documents," said Tim Freilich, an advocate for
immigrant rights with the Virginia Justice Center. "The surge in advertisements
and scams regarding international driver's permits is a direct result."

Priced out of the cities and into suburbs, where public transportation is
limited, undocumented immigrants will continue to drive illegally until
lawmakers offer a legitimate driving option, he said.

Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) argues that would reward illegal immigrants. He
sponsored legislation in 2004 that tightened the state's licensing procedures,
in part because seven of the 19 Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers had Virginia licenses
obtained through loopholes.

"The solution is for the illegal aliens to become legal immigrants," he said.
"Once they're legal immigrants, they can get a driver's license."

Utah has a special driver's license for undocumented immigrants, while Tennessee
is reviewing a similar program because of problems authenticating documents used
to prove state residency.

In all but nine of the remaining states, applicants for an operator's license
must prove they are here lawfully. Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, New
Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Washington and Wisconsin do not require that
proof.

The bogus licenses are similar to the international driver's licenses that cost
about $10. They are used to supplement a legitimate driver's license when
Americans drive while abroad.

They can be issued legally only by the American Automobile Touring Alliance or
AAA, said Martha Rowe Mitchell, a spokeswoman for AAA Mid-Atlantic.

An international driver's license alone is worthless to those who typically
purchase them for hundreds of dollars --  plus "renewal fees."

State and local police do not keep track of how many drivers are pulled over
using the phony licenses. In the Richmond suburb of Chesterfield County alone,
however, records show about three cases come through traffic court weekly.

"People who buy these things are mostly immigrants, undocumented aliens who
don't have a valid U.S. driver's license and want something that they think will
give them the right to drive," said Lemuel W. Dowdy, a staff attorney with the
Federal Trade Commission.

Vendors  --  typically travel agencies  --  target Latinos online or through ads
in Spanish-language newspapers they figure law enforcement officials do not
read, Dowdy said. Others hang out where undocumented immigrants seek jobs, such
as the Arlington labor site where the Honduran displayed his international
license.

The sellers know that among day laborers, driving is a major advantage, said
Andres Tobar, a Latino activist and executive director of the Shirlington
Employment and Education Center, which manages the Arlington day labor site.

About 80 men a day come to the site, many catching a bus. But others drive with
international licenses, said Tobar, who heard of someone paying $700 for one.

Speaking through a translator recently, the Honduran said he was desperate to
get to work when he bought his license five years ago. He had been driving on
his Honduran license, which is valid only if the holder is here legally.

"Many people come up and offer them," he said of the card he bought for $200, or
two days' pay. "They say to you, with that license, you can register your car
and can drive."

The Alexandria man declined to provide his name to an Associated Press reporter,
fearing deportation.

He said he has not ever used the license to drive  --  but he keeps it tucked in
his wallet anyhow.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              124 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Conspiracy Against Assimilation

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: Editorial; A25

LENGTH: 1019 words


It's all about assimilation  --  or it should be. One of America's glories is
that it has assimilated many waves of immigrants. Outsiders have become
insiders. But it hasn't been easy. Every new group has struggled: Germans,
Irish, Jews and Italians. All have encountered economic hardship, prejudice and
discrimination. The story of U.S. immigration is often ugly. If today's wave of
immigration does not end in assimilation, it will be a failure. By this
standard, I think the major contending sides in the present bitter debate are
leading us astray. Their proposals, if adopted, would frustrate assimilation.

On the one hand, we have the "cop" school. It adamantly opposes amnesty and
would make being here illegally a felony, as opposed to  a lesser crime. It
toughens a variety of penalties against illegal immigrants.  Elevating the
seriousness of the crime would supposedly deprive them of jobs, and then illegal
immigrants would return to Mexico, El Salvador or wherever. This is a pipe
dream; the numbers are simply too large.

But it is a pipe dream that, if pursued, would inflict enormous social damage.
The mere threat of a crackdown stigmatizes much of the Hispanic population  --
whether they're legal or illegal immigrants, or whether they've been here for
generations. (In 2004 there were 40 million Hispanics, says the Pew Hispanic
Center; about 55 percent were estimated to be native-born, 25 percent legal
immigrants and 20 percent illegal immigrants.) People feel threatened and
insulted. Who wouldn't?

On the other hand we have the "guest worker" advocates. They want 400,000 or
more new foreign workers annually. This would supposedly curtail illegal
immigration  --  people who now sneak into the country could get work permits
--  and also cure "shortages" of unskilled American workers. Everyone wins. Not
really.

For starters, the term  is a misnomer. Whatever the rules, most guest workers
would not leave. The pull of U.S. wages (on average, almost five times what can
be earned in Mexico) is too great. Moreover, there's no general shortage of
unskilled workers. In March, the unemployment rate of high school dropouts 25
years and older was 7 percent; since 1996, it has been below 6 percent in only
two months. By contrast, the unemployment rate of college graduates in March was
2.2 percent. Given the glut of unskilled workers relative to demand, their wages
often lag inflation. From 2002 to 2004, consumer prices rose 5.5 percent. Median
wages rose 4.8 percent for janitors, 4.3 percent for landscapers and not at all
for waitresses.

Advocates of guest workers don't acknowledge that poor, unskilled immigrants  --
whether legal or illegal  --  create huge social costs. Every year the Census
Bureau issues a report on "Income, Poverty, and Health Insurance Coverage in the
United States." Here's what the 2004 report shows:

*  Since 1990 the number of Hispanics with incomes below the government's
poverty line has risen 52 percent; that's almost all (92 percent) of the
increase in poor people.

*  Among children, disparities are greater. Over the same period, Hispanic
children in poverty are up 43 percent; meanwhile, the numbers of black and
non-Hispanic white children in poverty declined 16.9 percent and 18.5 percent,
respectively.

*  Hispanics account for most (61 percent) of the increase of Americans without
health insurance since 1990. The overall increase was 11.1 million; Hispanics,
6.7 million.

By most studies, poor immigrants pay less in taxes than they use in government
services. As these social costs have risen, so has the backlash. Already,
there's a coalition of Mayors and County Executives for Immigration Reform. It
includes 63 cities, counties and towns, headed by Republicans and Democrats,
ranging from Cook County, Illinois (population: 5.3 million) to Gilliam County,
Oregon (population: 1,817). Coalition members want the federal government to
reimburse their extra costs.

We have a conspiracy against assimilation. One side would offend and ostracize
much of the Hispanic community. The other would encourage mounting social and
economic costs. Either way we get a more polarized society.

On immigration, I am an optimist. We are basically a decent, open and tolerant
nation. Americans respect hard work and achievement. That's why assimilation has
ultimately triumphed. But I am not a foolish optimist. Assimilation requires
time and the right conditions. It cannot succeed if we constantly flood the
country with new, poor immigrants or embark on a vendetta against those already
here.

I have argued that our policies should recognize these realities. Curb illegal
immigration with true border barriers. Provide legal status (call it amnesty or
whatever)  --  first work permits, then citizenship  --  for most illegal
immigrants already here. Remove the job lure by imposing harsh fines against
employers who hire  new illegal immigrants. Reject big guest-worker programs.

It's sometimes said that today's Hispanics will resemble yesterday's Italians.
Although they won't advance as rapidly as some other groups of more skilled
immigrants, they'll still move into the mainstream. Many have  --  and will. But
the overall analogy is a stretch, according to a  recent study, "Italians Then,
Mexicans Now," by sociologist Joel Perlmann of Bard College. Since 1970 wages of
Mexican immigrants compared with those of native whites have declined. By
contrast, wages of Italians and Poles who arrived early in the last century rose
over time. For the children of immigrants, gaps are also wide. Second-generation
Italians and Poles typically earned 90 percent or more compared to native
whites. For second-generation Mexican Americans, the similar figure is 75
percent.

One big difference between then and now: Immigration slowly halted during and
after World War I. The Italians and Poles came mainly between 1890 and 1915.
Older immigrants didn't always have to compete with newcomers who beat down
their wages. There was time for outsiders and insiders to adapt to each other.
We should heed history's lesson.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              125 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Special Agent Has Tunnel Vision;
Customs Work Now Takes Back Seat to Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: John Pomfret, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A23

LENGTH: 1150 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Sometime in January, one of the men who works for Miguel "Mike" Unzueta, special
agent in charge of the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement bureau in
this salubrious southern Californian border city, got a tip. It seemed that drug
smugglers had bored a tunnel from Tijuana across the border.

As with much of the intelligence generated by Unzueta's team of investigators,
this tip provided specific information about what was going on in Mexico but
scant detail about what was happening on the U.S. side of the line. "We were
hearing rumors. The tom-toms started beating. People started talking, 'There's a
tunnel.' The difficulty was to find it, to corroborate the rumor," Unzueta
recalled.

By Jan. 23, Unzueta's agents had pinpointed the site of the tunnel in Tijuana,
and Unzueta had passed on the information to Mexican counterparts. After a
36-hour wait for Mexican authorities to issue a search warrant, Mexican and U.S.
lawmen entered the tunnel in Tijuana and, guns drawn, slid 80 feet below the
surface of the earth and then groped their way 2,400 feet north only to pop out
into the middle of a 50,000-square-foot warehouse in Otay Mesa, a suburb of San
Diego.

The tunnel is known to the men and women of the ICE bureau in San Diego as "El
Grande." Dug through a composite of clay and decomposing granite  --  perfect
for tunneling  --  the shaft had electricity, a ventilation system, pumps to
remove groundwater, concrete flooring for traction in steep areas, and wood
roofing to bolster the walls and ceiling.

On the Mexican side of the line, authorities discovered two tons of marijuana.
In the United States, agents found 300 pounds. Work had begun on a cold storage
facility in the U.S. warehouse. Apparently the smugglers were planning to move
narcotics around the United States in fruit and vegetable trucks. In subsequent
weeks, Unzueta's agents arrested a Mexican man in connection with the warehouse
and are seeking two others.

The uncovering of "El Grande," the longest and most sophisticated of the 21
underground passageways linking the United States and Mexico that have been
discovered since Sept. 11, 2001, was another success in the career of Unzueta,
45, the grandson of Mexican migrant workers and a longtime federal agent.

Unzueta grew up in Santa Barbara, Calif., and started his career straight out of
college with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. He was posted to
Spokane, Wash., in 1983 at the height of the Aryan Brotherhood and Nazi
movements. In an area awash with explosives from the mining and timber
industries, bombings were frequent and Unzueta learned to love the
investigations, especially, he said, post-bombing reconstructions.

"I found that fascinating," he said in an interview at his office  --  a round
room on the seventh floor of a nondescript office building in downtown San
Diego. "Back then, I would have done this job for free. Now I'm glad I get
paid."

White supremacists bombed the house of a Catholic priest and set off four bombs
at once in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, hoping to divert law enforcement's attention so
they could raid the national armory there. (The plan failed.)

Despite the fun, Unzueta angled to return to California after a few years.
Customs was hiring and Unzueta, with his fluent Spanish and law enforcement
background, landed a job in 1987. Once in San Diego, he was assigned to
Operation Alliance, a multi-agency narcotics task force. He spent the first
three years mostly working undercover, buying stolen cars, guns and heroin in a
storefront operation in the barrios of east San Diego.

He had shoulder-length hair, no love life to speak of, worked six days a week
and loved it. For his undercover identity, he took the name Miguel Castaneda, a
tip of the hat to Carlos Castaneda, the late Peruvian-born, peyote-munching
bestselling author.

"For some reason, I had a knack for buying heroin," Unzueta said. "People just
trusted me."

Joe Garcia, a fellow agent at the time, said Unzueta's people skills helped him
become a successful undercover agent. "He has the ability to make people feel
that they're his friends," he said. "He seems open and trusting so that people
buy into it right away. He had that very innocent look about him."

Unzueta got out of undercover work after three years. "I just felt like the tide
was going to turn and the odds were not in my favor," he said. "Undercover is
one of those things  --  it's like opera. You either like it or hate it. And if
you don't have a knack for it, don't even bother because you're going to get
hurt."

The transition from the life of a field agent to an administrative job is
difficult for an agent who, in his own words, was used to a life of "running and
gunning and arresting people left and right."

By 1992, Unzueta was supervising 10 agents. By 1997, he had been moved to
Washington, D.C., where he was placed in charge of all of Customs' covert
operations. A few years later, he was put in charge of all of the Customs
offices in the western United States.

The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks were followed by an enormous bureaucratic
shakeup, the creation of the Department of Homeland Security and the merger of
the investigative wings of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and of
Customs into ICE.

For Unzueta and many other senior Customs agents, the transition was rocky. For
one, they were used to dealing with things  --  drugs, money, controlled
technology, child pornography  --  while Immigration handled people. "We worked
criminal investigations where at the end of the day somebody goes to jail,"
Unzueta said. "Now some cases end up with criminal arrests, but a lot of them
end up in front of an immigration judge."

Another issue was the culture. "With some of us being immigrants ourselves, it's
just not what we signed up to do," said Mark Bastan, the special agent in charge
of ICE in Baltimore who worked with Unzueta in Washington.

Unzueta left Washington in 2002 and returned to San Diego. He was made the
special agent in charge, or SAC, in 2005. Since then, the illegal-immigration
issue has loomed large on his beat and around the nation.

Unzueta was driving toward the border along Route 905 to show a reporter "El
Grande." Almost 20 years ago, when he started work in San Diego, illegal
immigrants lined the road, trudging toward jobs and a new life. They would mass
in a soccer field across the border and pelt U.S. Border Patrol agents with
rocks and Molotov cocktails before sprinting across. Now a high-security fence
has moved the problem into the deserts  --  of eastern California and Arizona.

"I don't care what side of the [immigration] equation you're sitting on, it's
just really very complicated," Unzueta said. "The SACs, we don't make policy and
we try not to break it. But we'll implement whatever policy Washington comes up
with. We're the generals in the field."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              126 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 21, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. to Press Firms That Employ Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 485 words


The government plans to crack down ever harder on employers who harbor and hire
illegal immigrants, pursuing companies that ignore the law so they can exploit
cheap labor.

"We are going to move beyond the current level of activity to a higher level in
each month and year to come," Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said
yesterday. He pledged to "come down as hard as possible" on violators.

Federal agents Wednesday arrested seven current and former managers of IFCO
Systems, a manufacturer of crates and pallets, on criminal charges, and more
than 1,100 people were arrested on administrative immigration charges at more
than 40 IFCO sites in the United States.

"Our nation's communities cannot be a wild frontier where illegal aliens and
unscrupulous employees subvert our nation's laws," said Julie Myers, assistant
secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Don Sherman, director of the Cincinnati Interfaith Committee for Worker Justice,
an advocate for immigrant workers and their rights, expressed skepticism about
the government's move.

"I think the timing is very suspicious, because there are a number of rallies
coming up around the country promoting immigration reform," he said.

Chertoff denied the timing of the stepped-up enforcement had anything to do with
recent immigration demonstrations, saying the investigations began more than a
year ago.

Messages left with IFCO officials were not immediately returned yesterday. In a
statement Wednesday, the company pledged to cooperate with the investigation and
comply with state and federal requirements.

The Netherlands-based company describes itself as the leading pallet services
company in the United States. It reported $116 million in profits last year on
sales of $576 million.

More than half of the company's 5,800 employees during 2005 had invalid or
mismatched Social Security numbers, the government alleges.

The case began after officials got a tip that IFCO workers in Guilderland, N.Y.,
were seen destroying their W-2 forms because they did not intend to file tax
returns, Chertoff said.

Six of seven current and former IFCO managers charged with felony conspiracy to
harbor illegal immigrants were released on bond and are scheduled to appear May
4 in Albany, N.Y., where the criminal complaint was filed and the investigation
began at a suburban IFCO facility.

The managers could face 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine for each illegal
immigrant involved, as well as forfeitures.

"Just a small fine or a slap on the wrist is not a deterrent," Myers said.

Most of the 1,187 illegal immigrants arrested are being processed for
deportation, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Tina Sciocchetti in Albany.

"They were getting cheated on their overtime," she said. "There were 10 to 20
people living in a house sleeping on air mattresses. They weren't the greatest
employment conditions."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              127 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Fearful Of Random Roundups

BYLINE: Nancy Trejos, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 674 words


The recent arrests of illegal immigrants after high-profile federal
investigations in other states have sparked rampant rumors that law enforcement
officials are randomly targeting the Latino community in the Washington region.

Federal and local law enforcement authorities deny that they are conducting
random raids on illegal immigrants in the District, Maryland and Virginia. But
rumors of roundups at malls, shops and street corners have become the talk of
Spanish-language radio.

The stories have spread quickly: One man said two elderly women threw themselves
on the ground at a 7-Eleven store on Kenilworth Avenue to avoid getting
corralled into a bus of undocumented residents. The leader of an immigrant group
said he heard of arrests being made at Columbia Road and 18th Street NW. Reports
of buses being stopped in Silver Spring in search of undocumented passengers
were heard.

"There's just so much fear," said Grace Rivera-Oven of Germantown, who has a
local Spanish-language cable program. "There's a lot of paranoia going on, and
people are just afraid."

Giovanna Tassi, manager of Radio Latina (950 AM), said the station has received
dozens of calls with tips about mass arrests or law enforcement officers asking
people for identification cards. She said she and her reporters have tried to
verify the accounts but have been unsuccessful.

"What we have done is try to calm people down, and what we've done is interview
immigration attorneys to talk about what to do," she said.

Dean Boyd, spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
yesterday that he has been flooded with calls seeking confirmation of such
arrests but that he has found no evidence that they are true. "The suggestion
that our agents are going around using intimidation tactics and conducting
searches without warrants or making arrests without evidence are false," he
said.

That's not to say that the agency has been inactive elsewhere. Yesterday, it
announced that officers had arrested 106 illegal immigrant fugitives and 19
immigration status violators across the Midwest during a 10-day operation.

"Our arrests and investigations are not random sweeps but carefully planned
enforcement actions that often result from long-term investigations in which we
build evidence and track down leads and use intelligence," Boyd said.

He and some local Latino activists said they thought the rumors stemmed from the
arrest this month of seven managers of the pallet services company IFCO Systems
North America Inc. and more than 1,000 of their undocumented workers in 26
states, including Virginia.

"It was very scary. It affected multiple towns, multiple states," said Del. Ana
Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery). "It was kind of, oh my goodness, here the raids
are going to start."

Jaime Contreras, president of the National Capital Immigration Coalition, the
umbrella group that has organized recent rallies by immigrants, said he and
other immigration activists sent a letter to the Department of Homeland Security
asking it to cease such activities, if they are occurring.

"Let the debate go forward without trying to put fear in the immigrant community
. . .," he said. "What's next? Immigrant concentration camps? I don't think so."

True or not, the reports have had a profound impact on the everyday lives of
immigrants.

Olga Canas usually has about 100 customers a day at her carryout restaurant, Las
Americas, in Gaithersburg. Thursday, after reports of raids, she had only 20 and
closed 90 minutes early. "The people were so afraid. The people don't want to go
out and eat," she said in Spanish.

Carlos Castro, owner of Todos Supermarket in Woodbridge, almost closed his store
Thursday night because business was so slow. "Whoever is doing this is doing a
great job of making business owners lose money and the general population lose
their income," he said.

Jorge Sactic, owner of the popular La Chapina bakery in Langley Park, said
yesterday that business has plummeted over the past few days. "It's like a ghost
town," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              128 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

In Mexico, Thousands Support Immigrants to U.S.

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY May 1


Maya Indian rebels, student activists and middle-class families joined protest
marches and boycotted U.S. stores in Mexico on Monday to back illegal immigrants
demanding legal rights in the United States.

Thousands gathered outside the U.S. Embassy and marched through Mexico City in
support of the millions of Mexican migrants who have staged huge marches in U.S.
cities in recent weeks and held a one-day strike and business boycott.

"We remind the gringos that they are a country of immigrants. The work that
gringos don't like to do is being done by Mexicans," said marcher Felipe Gomez,
50.

Many Mexicans showed solidarity with their U.S.-based compatriots by refusing to
patronize McDonald's, Burger King, Starbucks and Wal-Mart. Protesters briefly
sealed off a Wal-Mart store in the capital, and fast-food restaurants around the
city center were virtually empty.

Even Subcomandante Marcos, the leader of the Zapatista rebels who rarely emerges
from his jungle hideout, joined the march through Mexico City. The Zapatista
rebels took up arms for Indian rights in the southern state of Chiapas 12 years
ago.

He was protected by a ring of Zapatista militants, some wielding machetes.

They marched alongside union workers celebrating Labor Day, radicals waving
banners showing Russian revolutionary heroes Karl Marx and Vladimir Lenin,
middle-class families and some protesters dressed in clown costumes  and banging
drums.

More than half the estimated 12 million  illegal immigrants in the United States
are from Mexico. Many work in low-paid jobs in restaurants, hotels, offices and
construction sites and send more than $20 billion to their families every year.
The cash transfers are Mexico's second-largest source of foreign currency after
oil exports.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              129 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Words and Music in the Immigration Debate

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 541 words


I am the president of a local retail and wholesale company that employs more
than 150 first- or second-generation immigrants. I am proud to say that 148 of
these  employees thought that the company was important enough to them to show
up for work Monday on a day of protest ["Boycott Gives Voice to Illegal Workers;
The Day's Impact on Economy Unclear," front page, May 2]. My employees showed
that they understand how to strive legally for the American dream by helping to
build a small business into a larger one through everyone pulling together.

If we could close our borders to illegal immigrants, the people here legally
would be able to find work  --  many at a better rate of pay. Many companies
employ illegal immigrants because they can pay them lower wages. It might cost
these companies more in higher wages if they had to hire legal workers, but it
also would lower the huge amounts of taxes our government uses to support
illegal immigrants.

CARL LEVIN

Lorton

*

Robert J. Samuelson's April 20 op-ed column, "Conspiracy Against Assimilation,"
failed to mention a major obstacle to Latino assimilation in the United States:
increasing bilingualism, which leads Spanish-speaking immigrants to conclude,
"Why bother to learn English, when everything is in Spanish?"

This trend benefits employers who want to continue to pay minimum wages to
non-English speakers, keeping them in a kind of perpetual near-peonage. The
immigrants thus are ill-served by bilingualism.

The first thing I would tell any Latino immigrant is, Sin inglés, siempre pobre
--  Without English, always poor.

Bilingualism also adds unnecessarily to the cost of doing business by requiring
the use of two languages. Further, it harms not only immigrants, but our
national unity. Just look at Belgium for a disturbing example of bilingualism's
effect on national unity.

WILLIAM LLOYD STEARMAN

Rockville

*

The April 28 front-page story "An Anthem's Discordant Notes; Spanish Version of
'Star-Spangled Banner' Draws Strong Reactions" noted that a wide variety of
artists have recorded the national anthem and then said that "musicologists
cannot name another foreign-language version."

On the Internet, I found "The Star-Spangled Banner" in Yiddish, German, French
(a recorded version by a Cajun group) and Samoan. I recall no hullabaloo when
the Samoan translation was proposed as a second anthem for American Samoa this
year. I also found lots of Spanish renditions, including versions on the State
Department's Web site.

KAREN DAVIS

Laurel

*

So Roseanne Barr can deliberately mangle the national anthem without causing a
political firestorm, but when the anthem is respectfully sung in another
language, it's a national crisis?

Last time I checked, English wasn't the official language of the United States.
I also remember that our country was founded on the principles of freedom of
expression. So as long as the anthem is sung respectfully, I don't see the
problem.

Our country was built by people of many ethnic backgrounds working together
despite their differences. It is what makes our nation great. Chastising people
for translating the anthem into another language flies in the face of our own
history.

PHILIP YABUT

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              130 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

After Protests, Backlash Grows;
Opponents of Illegal Immigration Are Increasingly Vocal

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 845 words


While a series of marches focused much of the nation's attention on the plight
of illegal immigrants, scores of other Americans quietly seethed. Now, with the
same full-throated cry expressed by those in the country illegally, they are
shouting back.

Congressional leaders in Washington have gotten bricks in the mail from a group
that advocates building a border fence, states in the West and South have drawn
up tough anti-immigrant laws, and ordinary citizens, such as Janis McDonald of
Pennsylvania, who considers herself a liberal, are not mincing words in
expressing their displeasure.

"Send them back," McDonald said. "Build a damn wall and be done with it."

The anger evoked a word that immigrant organizers who opposed Monday's boycott
feared: backlash. McDonald and other Americans were particularly disturbed by
Monday's boycott and civil action, attended in large part by people who entered
the country illegally and are now demanding rights enjoyed by U.S.-born citizens
and immigrants who entered the country legally.

"How dare they," said McDonald, a research specialist for the University of
Pittsburgh who said she voted for Sen. John F. Kerry (D-Mass.) in the 2004
presidential election. "If they are so active, why aren't they in Mexico City,
why aren't they forcing their leaders there to deal with the quality of life? If
you don't like it here, go home."

That strong sentiment was heard across the country, on a radio program in Los
Angeles, where talk-show hosts John Kobylt and Ken Chiampou encouraged listeners
to participate in a "Great American Spend-a-Lot" to offset the effect of the
boycott. They vowed to reimburse listeners picked in a drawing.

In the Washington area, African American radio listeners kept bringing up the
immigration issue as Leila McDowell, a guest host on the Joe Madison show, tried
to discuss abuse of black and Latino workers at a North Carolina meat-processing
plant.

"I would say that the majority of comments were hostile, but it wasn't an
overwhelming majority," said McDowell. "A lot of people said immigrants were
trying to make ends meet just like us. And then there were those who said that
they're taking our jobs, they're taking our services, that they shouldn't be
legal, that my forefathers were slaves, and these people haven't paid their
dues."

In Kansas City, Mo., Joyce Mucci, the executive director of the Mid-America
Immigration Reform Coalition, said she didn't see much impact from the march in
her city.

"Frankly I think they're overplaying their hand," she said, adding, "I think
people who may have been sitting on the fence are not sitting on the fence
anymore. These marches are not helping the people they're intending to help."

Congress is considering several immigration reform proposals. One would hand out
temporary work permits to foreigners outside the country, allow illegal
residents already here to pay a fine and work, possibly toward legal residency.
Another would make it a felony to enter the country illegally and to offer
assistance to anyone who does, and would build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border.
A third would force illegal immigrants here to go home before being allowed to
work.

Whether the anger expressed by some Americans will translate into votes in
November is anybody's guess. Fred Yang, a Democratic consultant in Washington,
guessed that it will not.

"This is going to be like a tug of war," he said. "I think Republicans are
trying to exploit voter concerns about immigration. It's not a winning strategy.
I think voters are more concerned about health-care costs, the cost of higher
education and gasoline and energy than immigration."

Immigration opponents are also concerned about the costs of public services
immigrants use at the expense of taxpayers. Don Stewart, a spokesman for Sen.
John Cornyn (R-Tex.), said his state spends $2 billion a year on health care and
education for people in the country illegally. Arizona and California officials
said their expense for detaining illegal immigrants who commit crimes is a
combined $950 million per year, a fraction of which is reimbursed by the federal
government.

"It's an enormous burden on taxpayers," Stewart said. "It's funny that people
think that going out on the streets will make people change their minds. There
are very strong opinions on this issue."

Cornyn is one of many politicians who got a gift from Send-a-brick.com, which
allows visitors to purchase a brick for about $11 and mail it to their
representative, a weighty hint to build a border fence. The site's operators
could not be reached for comment.

Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), one of the most vocal lawmakers arguing for a tough
approach to illegal immigrants, said he recently attended a dinner at which an
employer received rousing applause for his stand against an immigrant worker who
wanted to take Monday off. "He said he told him that if you don't come to work
Monday, don't bother coming in on Tuesday."

Staff writers Sonya Geis in Los Angeles and Kari Lydersen in Chicago contributed
to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              131 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Don't Say 'Undocumented' Y ...

SECTION: Editorial; A15

LENGTH: 571 words


Don't Say 'Undocumented'

Your May 1 editorial "After the Walkout"  used the politically correct
terminology "undocumented workers" rather than illegal immigrants.

You indicated that some  immigrants use "false identity documents." Thus they
are not undocumented but falsely documented.

In fact, a significant number   of these immigrants came to the United States
legally but did not return to their home country when their legal entry was
complete. This group has expired documents.

They can be called falsely documented or identified with expired documents, but
it is inappropriate to call them undocumented.

--  Robert Rubinstein

Gaithersburg

It's Not Whom. Really.

In his  April 9 column, "Answer Man: In Search of Virtual Countries," John Kelly
notes that "you get a sort of exasperated sigh from whomever is unlucky enough
to answer the phone." The use of "whomever" as the subject of the verb "to be"
comes as a surprise to anyone who studied grammar.

That  the quoted "whomever" clause is preceded by  "from" is irrelevant to the
question of using "who" or "whom" because the entire quoted clause [called a
noun clause] is the object of the preposition  "from." The subject of the verb
"to be" in that noun clause, or in any clause, cannot be "whom" or "whomever."

--  James R. Wachob

Somerset, Md.

Get Your History Straight

The April 2 article  regarding Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's visit to
Blackburn, England, with British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw  erroneously
asserted that "Birmingham [Alabama] had once been in the heart of the
Confederacy." The "Confederacy" ended in 1865 with the end of the Civil War,
and, as any Birmingham native with more than a passing knowledge of the city's
history knows (or should know), the city  did not yet exist during the era of
the Confederacy. The history of the area reflects that while there had been
settlements as early as 1813 or 1816 in Elyton, which  later became part of
Birmingham, and there were pig iron furnaces in  nearby  Irondale and Oxmoor
that Union forces  destroyed  in March of 1865, Birmingham itself was not
founded until June of 1871.

--  Marion E. Guyton

Columbia

Admirable Dissent

It's okay for Charles Krauthammer ["The Generals' Dangerous Whispers," op-ed,
April 21] to disagree with the assessment of the retired military men speaking
out about Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and our policies in Iraq. But I
don't think it's American of him to question their right to dissent. Maybe
Krauthammer missed these pertinent facts: These guys are retired, and they are
U.S. citizens. Is  Krauthammer implying that retired military personnel must
accept an abridgment of their constitutional rights?

That these men spoke out at all is extraordinary and ought to put all Americans
on high alert.

--  Pamela Fiore

Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

Enough Glory Details

I  couldn't believe my eyes when I  saw an article on the front of the May 3
Metro section practically advertising the use of morning glory seeds to teens as
a hallucinogen ["A '60s Buzz Recycled"].  If they were not aware of this
particular way to get high, they sure know now. Why not just enclose seed
packets with the paper?

All plant and garden centers should have those seeds under lock and key, just
like back in the '60s when airplane glue disappeared from hobby shop shelves for
the same reason.

--  Susan Warren

Rockville

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              132 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Rallies Have Mixed Impact

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 299 words


Through rallies and boycotts of schools and businesses across the nation,
illegal immigrants and their supporters sought to present a case Monday that
they are vital to the U.S. economy and should not be subject to deportation.

Demonstrators opposed to strict immigration proposals in Congress staged huge
marches in Chicago and Los Angeles, curtailed operations in at least one major
port, shut down construction sites in the District of Columbia, forced the
closing of crossings at the Mexican border and halted work at meat-processing
plants in the Midwest. But, although the protests caught the nation's attention,
the economic impact was mixed as many immigrants heeded the call of some leaders
not to jeopardize their jobs, and as businesses adopted strategies to cope with
absent employees.

More than 300,000 demonstrators marched in Chicago and another 300,000 took to
the streets of Los Angeles to shout their disapproval of House measures that
would make it a felony to be in the United States illegally and to help those
who are.

In the District, more than 1,000 people rallied at Malcolm X Park in the Mount
Pleasant neighborhood, and smaller rallies were held elsewhere in the
metropolitan area. There also were marches in San Francisco, Phoenix, Atlanta
and other cities.

The action may have been stronger had the coalition of grass-roots organizations
that advises immigrants not been deeply conflicted over the boycott. Some
supported the effort to demonstrate immigrant power, but others discouraged it,
saying it was premature because Congress has not taken action since earlier
demonstrations, and because the strike might induce a backlash by those born in
the United States.

The protests drew few counterdemonstrations.

--  Darryl Fears

and Krissah Williams

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              133 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Law Takes Aim At Phony Licences;
Illegal Immigrants Among Main Buyers

BYLINE: Dionne Walker, Associated Press

SECTION: Loudoun Extra; T03

LENGTH: 735 words


Surrounded by other men gathered on an Arlington County corner to find work, a
day laborer reached into his battered wallet and presented what he once
considered his key to legal driving.

It's the size of a standard ID, bearing the 47-year-old painter's photograph,
his date of birth, address and eye color. He paid $200 to get the identification
card from a vendor who assured the undocumented migrant from Honduras that he
could use the card to drive in Virginia.

But federal and state transportation officials say these bogus international
driver's licenses are worthless in the United States and are knockoffs of the
legitimate licenses used by Americans who travel abroad.

A new Virginia law will be taking aim at the people who peddle the phony
licenses, punishing those who prey on illegal immigrants and keeping unlicensed
and untested motorists off the roads.

The law makes it a misdemeanor to sell, give or distribute any document
purporting to be a driver's license. Violations would be punishable by up to one
year in jail and a $2,500 fine. The measure, which goes into effect July 1,
strengthens existing restrictions on producing fake licenses.

Del. Albert C. Eisenberg, the Arlington Democrat who sponsored the legislation,
said bogus licenses offer false hope. "They're paying for worthless paper, and
then they get arrested on top of that," he said.

Critics argue, however, that the law deals with only one aspect of a problem
primarily related to undocumented workers.

There are "millions of people in the U.S. who have no access to secure,
government-issued identification documents," said Tim Freilich, an advocate for
immigrant rights with the Virginia Justice Center. "The surge in advertisements
and scams regarding international driver's permits is a direct result."

Priced out of the cities and into suburbs, where public transportation is
limited, undocumented immigrants will continue to drive illegally until
lawmakers offer a legitimate driving option, he said.

Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) argues that that would reward illegal immigrants.
He sponsored legislation in 2004 that tightened the state's licensing
procedures, in part because seven of the 19 hijackers involved in the attacks of
Sept. 11, 2001, had Virginia licenses obtained through loopholes.

"The solution is for the illegal aliens to become legal immigrants," Albo said.
"Once they're legal immigrants, they can get a driver's license."

The bogus licenses are similar to the international driver's licenses, which
cost about $10 each. Americans use the international license to supplement a
legitimate U.S. driver's license when they are driving abroad.

The international permits can be issued legally only by the American Automobile
Association or the American Automobile Touring Alliance, said Martha Mitchell, a
spokeswoman for AAA Mid-Atlantic.

An international driver's license alone is worthless to those who typically
purchase them for hundreds of dollars  --  plus "renewal fees."

State and local police don't keep track of how many drivers are pulled over
while using the phony licenses. In the Richmond suburb of Chesterfield County
alone, however, records show that about three cases come through traffic court
weekly.

"People who buy these things are mostly immigrants, undocumented aliens who
don't have a valid U.S. driver's license and want something that they think will
give them the right to drive," said Lemuel Dowdy, a staff attorney with the
Federal Trade Commission.

Vendors  --  typically travel agencies  --  target Latinos online or through ads
in Spanish-language newspapers that they figure law enforcement officials do not
read, Dowdy said. Other vendors hang out where undocumented immigrants seek
jobs, such as the Arlington day laborer site where the Honduran displayed his
international license.

The Honduran, who declined to provide his name to a reporter, fearing
deportation, said he was desperate to get to work when he bought the license
five years ago. He had been driving on his Honduran license, which is valid only
if the holder is legally present in the United States.

"Many people come up and offer them," he said of the card he bought for $200, or
two days' pay. "They say to you, 'With that license, you can register your car
and can drive.' "

He said he has never used the license to drive but keeps it tucked into his
wallet, anyhow.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              134 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 12, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Deal Reached in Senate Provides Citizenship Opportunity

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 478 words


Senate leaders reached a deal yesterday  on reviving a broad immigration bill
that could provide millions of illegal immigrants a chance to become American
citizens and said they will  try to pass it before Memorial Day.

The agreement brokered by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and
Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) breaks a political stalemate that has
lingered for weeks while immigrants and their supporters held rallies, boycotts
and protests to push for action.

"We congratulate the Senate on reaching agreement, and we look forward to
passage of a bill prior to Memorial Day," said Dana Perino, deputy White House
press secretary.

Key to the agreement is who will be negotiating a compromise with the House,
which last December passed an enforcement-only bill that would subject the
estimated 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States to
felony charges as well as deportation.

Frist said the Senate will send 14 Republicans and 12 Democrats to negotiate
with the House, with seven of the Republicans and five Democrats coming from the
Judiciary Committee. The remaining seven Republicans will be chosen by Frist and
the remaining seven Democrats by Reid.

At least one opponent of the compromise measure, Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.), will
be among the remaining seven Republicans appointed to the committee, said Don
Stewart,  a spokesman for Cornyn.

Frist said a "considerable" number of amendments  will be considered when the
Senate begins debating the bill early next week.

It would be the most comprehensive rewrite of immigration laws since the
so-called Simpson-Mazzoli bill  about 20 years ago.

Reid acknowledged on the Senate floor yesterday morning that he "didn't get
everything that I wanted" in the agreement, but he said Frist  did not either.
Reaching the agreement is "not easy with the political atmosphere," Reid said.

Reid had taken criticism for refusing to move forward on the bill after he
complained that Republicans were trying to undermine it with amendments and
insisted that Democrats be allowed to have a say in who serves on the conference
committee.

Republicans, too, have had opposition from conservatives to the compromise
proposal. These critics consider the path to citizenship it would provide for
illegal immigrants and hundreds of thousands of future guest workers to be
tantamount to "amnesty."

They have also had to contend with fallout from opposition to the House bill,
which triggered nationwide protests that drew hundreds of thousands in Los
Angeles, Chicago and Dallas and hundreds more in other cities and small
communities.

Presidential and midyear politics have been a subtext to the immigration debate.
Frist and Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), one of the architects of the legalization
proposal, are prominent in speculation for the 2008 GOP nomination.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              135 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 13, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Minutemen Assail Amnesty Idea

BYLINE: Alec MacGillis, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 782 words


A relatively small but ardent group of protesters organized by the Minuteman
group rallied against illegal immigration on Capitol Hill yesterday, lambasting
President Bush and the U.S. Senate for considering legislation to give illegal
immigrants a path to citizenship.

"They are literally going to shove amnesty down our throats," Minuteman founder
Jim Gilchrist said to the applause of about 150 people. "If they pass this, we
are no longer a nation governed by the rule of law. We are governed by mob
rule."

The protest capped a cross-country trip by the Minutemen to build opposition to
the legislation, which regained momentum this week when senators reached a
compromise on the bill. The caravan began in Los Angeles last week and stopped
for rallies in a dozen towns and cities, including Bush's home town of Crawford,
Tex., as well as Memphis and Richmond.

The Minutemen rose to prominence last year when they began organizing armed
citizen patrols along the U.S.-Mexico border, a move credited with helping to
ignite the debate that has dominated Washington in recent months. Nationwide,
huge numbers of immigrants have protested legislation passed by the House late
last year that would result in mass deportations and make it a felony to assist
illegal residents.

The Senate legislation would allow certain illegal immigrants to apply for
citizenship after paying a fine and  create a temporary guest-worker program,
while also strengthening border security. Bush has indicated tacit support for
the legislation. Yesterday, senior administration officials said  Bush is
considering shoring up the Mexican border with National Guard troops in an
effort to build support for the legislation.

Gathered in  a park by the Russell Senate Office Building, the protesters said
that the Senate and Bush have betrayed the nation to curry favor with Hispanics
and other immigrants. They spoke particularly harshly of Bush, who has
criticized those on the group's border patrols as "vigilantes."

"History will record this act of treachery, and we as citizens must never forget
it," said Barbara Coe, co-author of California's Proposition 187 to deny public
benefits to illegal immigrants.

Over and over, the protesters said  they support legal immigration and  oppose
only  the  flouting of the nation's laws by millions of illegal residents. They
carried signs reading "Sovereignty Is Not Racism" and "Invasion Is Not
Immigration."

Loudly challenging them were a few dozen people gathered nearby, a mix of
immigration advocates and other activists who tried to drown out the Minutemen
with drums and bullhorns. "Bigots in your suits and ties, we don't want your
racist lies!" they chanted. Police tape separated the groups, and when it was
removed after the rally, the counter-protesters advanced on the Minutemen before
officers on motorcycles intervened.

The counter-protesters mocked the size of the Minuteman rally, noting that it
was dwarfed by the pro-immigrant marches. "They claim to have a million members,
but this is their big national rally," said David Benzaquen, 22, an American
University student.

Gilchrist said the turnout was modest because most critics of illegal
immigration are "average Janes and Joes" too busy working to attend rallies. He
said their voices would be heard in the 2006 and 2008 elections, predicting that
anyone with an anti-amnesty platform could win 40 percent of the vote.

Mike Olcott, 47, who joined the caravan in Texas, said it numbered about 15 or
20 cars for most of that stretch and drew varied crowds along the way  --  very
few in Little Rock but about 300 in Atlanta, where supporters showered the group
with cash for gas and motels (money that, in some road-trip humor, several
caravan members told Gilchrist they blew on beer).

Yesterday's rally included  supporters who traveled on their own from
California, New Hampshire, North Carolina and elsewhere.

There were also some Washington area residents who said they were not affiliated
with the group but attended to register their anger over what they saw as a wave
of illegal immigrants overwhelming their communities. Several said they took
heart in the recent town election in Herndon, in which the mayor and two council
members who supported a town-sponsored site for day laborers were turned out of
office.

Hedy Ross, an editorial assistant from Silver Spring, came to the rally with her
13-year-old daughter, saying she had grown "very upset" about immigrants
overcrowding her daughter's classes.

Ross said she suspects that there are many who feel the same way she does but
are wary of doing anything about it. "A lot of people have their head in the
sand," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              136 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

GOP Is Not Law-and-Order Party On Immigration, Democrats Say

BYLINE: Dan Balz

SECTION: A Section; A05 , SUNDAYPOLITICS Dan Balz

LENGTH: 847 words


With President Bush scheduled for a prime-time address on immigration tomorrow,
Democrats believe it's time to turn tables on the president and argue that the
Republicans are not the party of law and order when it comes to illegal
immigrants.

A new analysis by the centrist Democratic group Third Way concludes that the
administration has failed to enforce existing laws and that the president should
be held accountable for those failures in the political debate now raging in
Washington.

"The report shows that the administration, despite their tough talk, is failing
at border security and enforcing the employer sanctions provision,"  New Mexico
Gov. Bill Richardson said. "It makes them vulnerable in what is their biggest
and strongest argument  --  that they are enforcing the law against illegal
workers and are effective on border security."

According to the report, federal data show that the number of agents more than
doubled between 1995 and 2005, but that border apprehensions have fallen about
31 percent. From fiscal 1996 to fiscal 2000, apprehensions averaged 1.52 million
a year. The number fell to an average of 1.05 million from fiscal 2001 to fiscal
2004.

Away from the border, a similar pattern has occurred, with apprehensions falling
an estimated 36 percent. "This decline trend and low overall total suggests that
illegal immigrants who escape beyond the border are more or less here to stay if
they choose," according to the report.

A third count in the Third Way indictment charges  that the administration has
been lax in punishing employers who hire illegal immigrants. "Either the
administration has no interest in enforcing the law, or there's a wink" at
employers who hire illegal immigrants,  Richardson said.

Former health and human services secretary Tommy G. Thompson is back in his home
state of Wisconsin this weekend contemplating a return to politics. "I've got to
be honest with you," he said in a telephone interview from Madison on Friday. "I
miss the action."

Thompson was elected governor four times before he joined the Bush
administration in 2001. Now in private life, he's working on a project to reform
Medicaid and making money "for the first time in my life."

But he said he has been urged to challenge Democratic Gov. Jim Doyle or
Democratic Sen. Herb Kohl, although he acknowledged that the Senate holds far
less attraction for someone who's been in executive positions for nearly 20
years. He said he isn't sure he can envision himself in the Senate. "That's why
I haven't risen to the bait," he said.

But a recent Strategic Vision poll showed him easily defeating Doyle in the
governor's race, and that has stoked talk about a comeback. The irrepressible
Thompson said he believes the polls: "I have no doubt I would win."

But Thompson sounded far from being a likely candidate. One problem is that Rep.
Mark Green (R-Wis.) is already in the race to challenge Doyle, which could mean
a messy problem for the party if Thompson gets in. Then there is the issue of
Thompson's family. "My family doesn't want me to" run again, he said. "They're
adamantly opposed to me getting back into partisan politics again."

Thompson will make his announcement this week.

Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean didn't make any new friends
in the gay community last week when he appeared on Pat Robertson's "700 Club"
show on the Christian Broadcasting Network and misstated his party's position on
same-sex marriage.

Dean said "the Democratic Party platform from 2004 says marriage is between a
man and a woman." In fact, the platform said: "We support full inclusion of gay
and lesbian families . . . [M]arriage has been defined at the state level for
200 years, and we believe it should continue to be defined there."

Dean later retracted his comment, but it was one of several episodes that have
led some in the gay community to question his commitment to their issues.

"This is not the first time he has misrepresented this important and affirming
plank," said Matt Foreman, executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian
Task Force, in a statement. He pledged to return a $5,000 contribution from the
DNC. "Governor Dean's record on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues
since becoming DNC chair has been sorely and sadly lacking."

Earlier this month, Dean fired the DNC's gay outreach adviser, Donald Hitchcock,
less than a week after his domestic partner, Paul Yandura, had criticized Dean's
efforts to protect gay rights. He was immediately replaced by another activist,
but over the past year, other concerns have been raised about Dean's
bridge-building to gays.

Jo Wyrick of the National Stonewall Democrats, which represents many gay
Democrats, said the DNC is going through a process of internal reorganizing,
adding: "This presents an opportunity for the DNC to reveal their plan for GLBT
outreach."

Dean said in a statement that the party is committed to equal rights and will
oppose constitutional marriage amendments.

Staff researcher Zachary A. Goldfarb contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              137 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Texas Is at Forefront of Non-Mexican Influx

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: WESLACO, Tex.


At a Border Patrol station near Texas's southernmost tip, four U.S. agents
laboriously processed 36 Salvadorans apprehended one recent morning  --  making
an electronic record of each illegal immigrant by filling out a detailed
questionnaire and taking fingerprints.

The travelers ranged from men and women to three young sisters, ages 13, 15 and
16, who hoped to meet a brother living in Los Angeles. The room smelled of
people almost two months on the road. The immigrants' scant possessions  --  a
picture of a boyfriend, a toothbrush and small tube of toothpaste, face cream,
toilet paper and even a prosthetic arm  --  were catalogued and packaged in
clear plastic bags.

"We went along, asking God to help us," said Marta Estela Paredes, the eldest
sister. The three left their home in Santa Tecla in the province of La Libertad
in March, she said,  and earned money at restaurants along the 1,100-mile trek
across Guatemala and Mexico. They want to go to school in Los Angeles for now,
she said, "and work later."

The Weslaco station, 50 miles upriver from the Gulf of Mexico, is ground zero in
the  effort to stem the flow of non-Mexican immigrants. More than half of "other
than Mexican" immigrants apprehended this year by the Border Patrol were caught
in the Rio Grande Valley sector, which spans 19  Texas counties and the river's
last 320 miles.

Last year, the largest group caught in the sector was Brazilian.  But in August,
the  United States expanded the deportation of non-Mexican border crossers
without court hearings, and in October, the Mexican government stopped letting
Brazilians enter without a visa. The number of Brazilians caught here is just
500 this fiscal year, down from 22,124 in fiscal 2005.

This fiscal year  52 percent of non-Mexicans caught here  said they  were from
El Salvador.

Salvadorans remain exempt from the deportation crackdown because of a 1988 U.S.
court injunction that gives them the automatic right to an immigration hearing
and protection from being transferred out of the jurisdiction in which they are
apprehended for seven days. The protection dates to El Salvador's civil war,
which ended in 1992.

In November, the Department of Homeland Security filed a motion to overturn the
ruling so that Salvadorans entering the country illegally may be deported
immediately.

But for now, the arrest of Salvadorans in groups of 10,  12 or even 50 is
common.

Border Patrol intelligence agent Domingo Martinez said the size of
all-Salvadoran groups apprehended almost daily points to organized smugglers. In
the past seven months, U.S. authorities have caught 30,000 people border-wide
who  said they  were from El Salvador.

The number of available detention spaces varies each week for Salvadorans in
south Texas, Border Patrol agents say. On this day, only five slots were open
for the group of 36. The rest would be released with a notice to appear before
an immigration court.

Eight-eight percent of those caught in the area never show up, the Border Patrol
said.

"We spend an average of three hours processing a person from El Salvador, and
then there's no room to detain them, so they're let go after that," said J.R.
Villarreal, the agent in charge at Weslaco. "Catch and release  --  didn't
somebody call it that up in Washington?"

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              138 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 15, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Set To Send Guard to Border;
Assignment Would Be Temporary;
Critics Cite Strain on Troops

BYLINE: Peter Baker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 752 words


President Bush tried to ease the worries of his Mexican counterpart yesterday as
he prepared for a nationally televised address tonight unveiling a plan to send
thousands of National Guard troops to help seal the nation's southern border
against illegal immigrants.

Mexican President Vicente Fox called to express concern over the prospect of
militarization of the border, and Bush reassured him that it would be only a
temporary measure to bolster overwhelmed Border Patrol agents, the White House
said.

"The president made clear that the United States considers Mexico a friend and
that what is being considered is not militarization of the border but support of
Border Patrol capabilities on a temporary basis by National Guard personnel,"
said White House spokeswoman Maria Tamburri.

Yet the idea has further stirred an already volatile debate about immigration on
both sides of the border even before the president makes his prime-time speech
from the Oval Office at 8 p.m. A number of Democrats and even a few key
Republicans voiced skepticism or outright opposition to the reported plan
yesterday, calling it a politically motivated move that will only further strain
units already stretched by duty in Iraq without solving the underlying problem
of illegal immigration.

"We have to be very careful here," Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) said yesterday on
ABC's "This Week." "That's not the role of our military. That's not the role of
our National Guard. . . . That's a short-term fix, and I'm not sure that's a
very wise fix."

The White House formally insisted that no decision has been made and that Bush
was still considering options yesterday. But aides left little doubt that the
president intends to call for an expanded Guard deployment at the border
involving several thousand troops, a significant increase from the 200 or so now
there.

Officials suggested their mission would be to play a supporting role by
providing intelligence, training, transportation, construction and other
functions, while leaving the actual guarding of the 2,000-mile line separating
the United States and Mexico to the Border Patrol. The National Guard would be a
stopgap force until the federal government could hire civilian contractors to
take over administrative and support functions from the Border Patrol, freeing
more agents to actually hunt for immigrants slipping into the country.

"This is not about militarizing the border," national security adviser Stephen
J. Hadley said on CBS's "Face the Nation." "The president is looking to do
everything he can to secure the border. It's what the American people want, it's
what he wants to do."

The plan won support from several powerful Republicans. Senate Majority Leader
Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) dismissed the "whining and moaning" of critics and said the
National Guard was the only option in the short term.

"We've got to secure our borders," Frist said on CNN's "Late Edition." "We hear
from the American people. We've got millions of people coming across that
border. First and foremost, secure the border, whatever it takes. Everything
else we've done has failed, we've got to face that."

Some in the president's conservative base called on him to be even more
aggressive. Rep. Charles Whitlow Norwood Jr. (R-Ga.) said Bush should send
36,000 National Guard troops and eventually up to 48,000, drawn from around the
nation. "If President Bush signed that order Monday night, our border would be
secure for the first time in decades by Memorial Day at the latest," Norwood
said in a statement. "Mr. Fox and [the National Council of] La Raza wouldn't
like it  --  but the American people sure would."

The president's plan could increase the strain with Fox, who has grown
disenchanted with Bush's failure to ease immigration rules as promised. Fox for
years has pressured Bush to help the 11 million illegal immigrants now in the
United States, many of them from Mexico, with little to show for it. In their
15-minute call yesterday, "the president reiterated to President Fox his
commitment to comprehensive immigration reform," Tamburri said.

Tonight's speech is aimed at assuaging House Republicans who have insisted on
tougher enforcement measures against workers illegally in the country. If the
House contingent feels action is being taken, White House officials hope they
may yet sign off on some version of Bush's guest-worker proposal, which would
provide a way for undocumented immigrants to stay here legally if they pay back
taxes and penalties.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              139 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 15, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Supporters To Counter Bush Speech;
New Alliance Ready To Make Itself Heard

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1036 words


As President Bush prepares to address the nation tonight about immigration, a
newly formed network of groups that organized demonstrations for illegal
immigrants is conference calling, brainstorming and consolidating its forces so
that it can respond to the government with a unified voice.

The We Are America Alliance of 41 immigrant resource groups, unions, churches,
day laborers and Spanish-language disc jockeys opposes House legislation that
would criminalize illegal immigrants, but it  will lobby Congress and compromise
to realize its goal of obtaining legal residency for many of the 11 million
people who live in the shadows.

But like the president, whose proposal for a guest-worker program is opposed by
many in his own party, the alliance does not speak for all. It is being
criticized by a small but influential faction of Latino activists in Los Angeles
who say the alliance's compromise strategy could slow the momentum created by
the protests.

Bush's speech and the immigrant community's planned response on Spanish-language
radio will kick off a week of debate and activity over immigration. The Senate
is scheduled to take up the immigration issue today, and its leaders hope to
emerge with a bill by Memorial Day. Proposed Senate legislation would allow some
illegal immigrants to become legal residents. Once a bill passes, senators would
begin negotiations with the House, where proposals that would grant citizenship
to anyone who entered the country without proper documentation are deeply
opposed by Republicans and some Democrats.

Bush's plan to dispatch National Guard troops to the Mexican border was not
greeted well by the immigrant coalition, which plans a day of civil action
Wednesday, with demonstrations at the White House and on Capitol Hill, and the
launch of a nationwide voter registration campaign at churches and nonprofit
organizations that hopes to sign up a million new voters among legal residents.

"We expect a large turnout of people from all over the country," Juan Carlos
Ruiz, general coordinator for the National Capital Immigration Coalition, said
over the weekend. He presaged the message of the Spanish-radio address, saying,
"Militarizing the border is not a solution to the problem. We believe that
militarizing the border is a propaganda tool. We need comprehensive immigration
reform."

Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the Center for Community Change, which
helps fund and organize activities for immigrant groups, said the president has
to make hard choices. "It's not going to be possible for Bush to thread the
needle and create something that makes the right happy" while also pleasing
moderates, he said. "We are absolutely prepared to try to bring this thing down
if it heads in the wrong direction."

Bhargava's talk is not tough enough for some Latino activists, particularly in
Southern California. For them, boycotts and more forceful action are needed to
sway the White House and   Congress, and they say the alliance is slowing the
momentum built by recent marches and betraying people who risked their jobs to
participate.

"When the dust settles, we will see who the leaders are," said Jesse Diaz, an
original leader of the March 25 Coalition that inspired the Los Angeles march,
which put the immigrant movement on the map. He said that while mainstream
immigrant organizations were "complacently ignoring what was happening in
Washington" last December, his coalition diverted its fight with the Minutemen
in California and Arizona to organize protests against House legislation that
would criminalize illegal immigrants and those who help them.

"Where were they then?" Diaz asked of the National Capital Immigrant Coalition,
the Coalition of Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, the National Council of
La Raza, the Central American Resource Center, the Service Employees
International Union, Catholic churches and other groups that make up the
alliance. "Where were the cardinals? Where were the unions? They were complacent
and let that repressive bill pass."

Last week, Diaz showed his disdain for people who once were his allies. He
walked into a small meeting room in the Rayburn Building  and did not
acknowledge Angelica Salas, the executive director of the Coalition of Humane
Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. The two played key roles in organizing the big
Los Angeles march but are not on speaking terms now.

Salas said Diaz is acting irresponsibly with his negative public statements.
"It's okay to have differences. We are totally behind the idea of the immediate
right to legal residency," she said. "But we also understand that a community
has to build political power to get their demands. We're just trying to be
organized and responsible and get the job done."

Diaz said the alliance is composed of groups "with million-dollar budgets,"
checking into hotels while his crew of representatives was staying with a friend
in suburban Maryland, sleeping on a couch and on the floor.

"The leaders are those who continue to work alongside the people," Diaz said.

Other activists say the immigrant rights movement spans a multitude of languages
and defies leadership in a single voice. Eun Sook Lee, director of the National
Korean American Service and Education Consortium, said Latinos would have a hard
time reaching Chinese, Haitians, Africans and others who do not speak Spanish.

"I think a voice will emerge," Lee said, "but it will take time. Many of us have
never been tested this way. We have never before seen the scale of our work."

Despite Diaz's reservations, the We Are America Alliance is a formidable
ensemble of immigrants rights groups. The coalition took shape around nationwide
conference calls that started in February and continue today. Salas said
national organizations such as the New American Opportunity Campaign and the
Center for Community Change in Washington would call, sometimes at 6 a.m., and
she would brainstorm with other activists.

"At first it was going to be, 'We Are Your Neighbors,' then, 'We Are Your
Family,' and then, 'We Are Immigrants,' " Salas said. Finally, 'We Are America'
stuck.

"We can't rest on our laurels, saying we had these marches," Salas said.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              140 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 15, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

In the Polls

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 154 words


In a Newsweek poll last week of 1,007 adults nationwide, 61 percent disapproved
of the way President Bush is handling immigration, reflecting the findings of a
CBS News/New York Times poll from the previous week,  in which 58 percent of the
respondents disapproved of how the administration is dealing with the issue.
Fifty-nine percent of the 1,241 respondents in the CBS poll described illegal
immigration as a "very serious" problem for the country, but a majority (61
percent) also thought illegal immigrants who have lived and worked in the United
States for at least two years should be given a chance to keep their jobs. An
NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll in April reflected similar results; 61 percent
of the 1,005 respondents favored allowing illegal immigrants to remain in the
country if they passed a security check and paid taxes. The margin of error for
the polls ranged from three to 3.1 percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              141 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

On Immigration, Bush Seeks 'Middle Ground';
President to Send 6,000 Guard Troops to Mexican Border

BYLINE: Jim VandeHei and Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1472 words


President Bush said last night that he will dispatch 6,000 National Guard troops
starting next month to help secure the porous U.S.-Mexican border, calling on a
divided Congress and country to find "a rational middle ground" on immigration
that includes providing millions of illegal workers a new route to citizenship.

In a rare prime-time speech from the Oval Office, Bush said the nation must move
immediately to stanch the flow of illegal immigrants from its southern border by
sending in the National Guard to free up U.S. Border Patrol agents in Arizona,
California, New Mexico and Texas. The Guard troops will provide intelligence,
surveillance and logistical assistance over the next two years  --  not armed
law enforcement.

"We do not yet have full control of the border, and I am determined to change
that," Bush said. He also called on Congress to end the U.S. practice of
releasing into the country tens of thousands of people caught illegally crossing
the southern border because officials lack the jail space or legal authority to
detain them or send them home. He said every foreign worker should be required
to hold a high-tech, tamper-proof identification card so U.S. companies could
determine whether their employees are legal.

For the first time in a public forum, Bush endorsed new procedures that would
give illegal immigrants who have lived here for an extended time preferred
status in obtaining citizenship. To qualify, workers would have to pay a fine
and back taxes and would have to learn English and meet other requirements, he
said.

The speech  --  with its balance of security measures and pleas for tolerance
--  comes as Bush is trying to revive his presidency and salvage an immigration
deal in Congress before the midterm elections. The president's focus on border
control last night was aimed at mollifying conservative Republican lawmakers and
disgruntled voters, who have accused him of paying insufficient attention to
tightening the border and enforcing immigration laws. Bush said his goal is to
help lawmakers forge a bipartisan compromise this year to change how the United
States deals with illegal immigration and the pressing need for foreign workers.

"All elements of this problem must be addressed together  --  or none of them
will be solved at all," he said.

With the Senate set to debate the largest overhaul of immigration laws in
decades, Bush did not specifically address what many Republican lawmakers
consider the most politically explosive and intractable issue confronting the
country: what to do with most of the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants
living in the United States today.

In conversations with lawmakers earlier in the day, White House Deputy Chief of
Staff Karl Rove made it clear that Bush supports, in principle, a Senate-backed
plan that would provide immigrants who have lived here for five or more years a
clear path to citizenship if they pay a penalty, according to participants.
Under that plan, which Rove called "intriguing," those who have been here two to
five years would have to report to a border crossing, receive a temporary work
visa and then apply for a green card. Those here less than two years would have
to leave. But Rove made it clear the White House is open to compromise on how
this tiered system would be structured, said Rep. Jack Kingston (R-Ga.), who
participated in the private briefings.

Bush said: "There is a rational middle ground between granting an automatic path
to citizenship for every illegal immigrant and a program of mass deportation.
That middle ground recognizes that there are differences between an illegal
immigrant who crossed the border recently and someone who has worked here for
many years and has a home, a family and an otherwise clean record."

But the Republican-controlled House so far has been hostile to the emerging Bush
plan. Conservatives in that chamber are pushing for legislation that would
tighten the borders but would not allow any route to citizenship that does not
require first leaving the country. House Republicans recently passed legislation
to spend $2.2 billion on five double-layered border fences in California and
Arizona, stretching nearly 700 miles. The House would also make felons of any
undocumented worker in the country today and would make illegal any activity to
support such workers, such as smuggling as well as church-based sheltering.
After the speech, House Majority Leader John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) said in a
statement that he remains committed to making "border security our first
priority." He and many others pointedly did not praise the path-to-citizenship
plan.

Bush's plan to dispatch National Guard troops is the newest twist in the debate,
and one that is likely to dominate discussions over immigration reform during
the next week.

Even before Bush's speech, Senate Budget Committee Chairman Judd Gregg (R-N.H.)
questioned not only how the plan would work but also how it would be funded. He
said it would cost at least $2 billion to deploy the additional troops and
rejected the White House idea to pay for it with $1.9 billion in border security
funding that the Senate passed as part of a new emergency spending bill for the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. White House officials said it is unclear how much
the program would cost.

Under the White House plan, Bush would move National Guard troops from other
states to Arizona, California, New Mexico and Texas to meet each governor's
specific needs. The federal government would cover the cost, but the governors
would control the new troops.

The troops would serve along the border as part of their regular training
deployment, which typically lasts two or three weeks, and then rotate out. This
means as many as 156,000 of the nation's 400,000-plus Guard members could
participate in the border-enforcement program over the next two years, when Bush
plans to end Guard assistance, said Frances Fragos Townsend, Bush's homeland
security adviser. These troops would fill specific assignments, such as
intelligence duties, to relieve pressure on Border Patrol agents and increase
law enforcement presence along the border. Some critics say the troops will have
too little time to learn their duties without disrupting ongoing Border Patrol
operations.

Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and other lawmakers have also raised concern that the
Guard is already stretched too thin by deployment in Iraq and Afghanistan and
should not be burdened with border security. Said Rep. Ike Skelton (D-Mo.): "We
must not shift the burden from this lack of homeland security planning to our
nation's military. Doing so could jeopardize the recruitment and retention of
our National Guard forces."

White House officials said no more than 2 percent of the Guard will be assisting
border agents at any time. "We have enough Guard forces to win the war on
terror, respond to natural disasters and help secure our border," Bush said.

Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano (D) broke ranks with neighboring governors Bill
Richardson (D) of New Mexico and Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) of California in
applauding the use of Guard troops on a temporary basis, an idea she said she
had raised with the Pentagon months ago. But she said that step alone is not a
solution without comprehensive legislation. "You've just put on a Band-Aid and
not much more than that," she said.

Bush said the troops will help fill gaps until more Border Patrol agents are
hired. The overall aim, said White House officials, is to help double to 18,000
the number of border agents by the time Bush leaves office.

The president also wants Congress to approve $327 million to end what some call
the "catch and release" program. The money would help cover the cost of 4,000
additional beds at detention centers this year and should be paid for with money
already allocated by the Senate for emergency border security measures, Townsend
said.

Leaders of the National Capital Immigration Coalition who gathered to watch the
speech railed against proposals that they said would divide immigrant families
and fail to provide an orderly path for future immigrants to seek permanent work
in the United States. They said they were especially disturbed by the prospect
of thousands of Guard troops on the border, which Jaime Contreras, chairman of
the coalition, said would send the message that "immigrants are the number one
enemy of this country."

Bush appealed for "a reasoned and respectful tone" for the debate: "Feelings run
deep on this issue  --  and as we work it out, all of us need to keep some
things in mind. We cannot build a unified country by inciting people to anger,
or playing on anyone's fears, or exploiting the issue of immigration for
political gain."

Staff writers Karin Brulliard and Spencer S. Hsu contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              142 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

The President's Plan

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 379 words


President Bush cited five objectives in his plan to control illegal immigration:

1. The borders should be open to trade and lawful immigration and shut to
illegal immigrants, criminals, drug dealers and terrorists.

2. Congress should fund improvements in manpower and technology at the borders
to increase the number of Border Patrol officers to 6,000 by the end of 2008.

3. Technology will be used to help secure the border with high-tech fences,
motion sensors, infrared cameras and unmanned aerial vehicles.

4. During the transition to more technology  and more Border Patrol agents,
6,000 National Guard troops will be deployed to the southern border to assist
the Border Patrol by operating surveillance systems, analyzing intelligence,
installing fences and vehicle barriers, building patrol roads, and providing
training. Guard units will not be involved in direct law enforcement. After one
year, Guard troops will be reduced as new Border Patrol agents and new
technologies arrive.

5. Federal funding will be increased for state and local authorities assisting
the Border Patrol on targeted enforcement missions, including money for
specialized training.

To end the "catch and release" of border crossers  who cannot be immediately
repatriated, Bush said:

1. Detention facilities should be expanded, and the legal process to cut the
average deportation time should be expedited. Foreign governments must accept
the return of their citizens, and Congress should approve additional funding and
legal authority.

2. A temporary-worker program should be created. Foreign workers and willing
U.S. employers would be matched for jobs Americans are not doing. Workers would
have to pass criminal background checks and return to their home country at the
conclusion of their work.

3. A new identification card would be created for every legal foreign worker to
help employers account for their workers. The cards should use biometric
technology, such as digital fingerprints, to make  them tamper-proof.

4. Illegal immigrants who have roots in the United States and want to stay
should have to pay a penalty for breaking the law, pay their taxes, learn
English and work in a job for a number of years. Approval would not be
automatic.

--  Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              143 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Curbing Illegal Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 355 words


Both the May 16 front-page headline and the first paragraph of the story under
it ["On Immigration, Bush Seeks 'Middle Ground'; President to Send 6,000 Guard
Troops to Mexican Border"] said that  President Bush will dispatch 6,000 members
of the National Guard   to help secure the border between the United States and
Mexico. That is not what he said.

Mr. Bush said  he would dispatch "up to 6,000" troops, which can mean 600 as
easily as 6,000. This political speak will allow him to say "I never promised
that" in a few months if the 6,000 troops do not materialize.

The president also  said that illegal immigrants who want to stay in this
country "should have to pay a meaningful penalty for breaking the law."  What is
"meaningful"?

ADRIAN HAVILL

Reston

If the Bush administration  were serious about illegal immigration,  it would do
much more to strengthen enforcement of laws against hiring illegal immigrants
instead of focusing on stopping people at the borders.

Assigning 10,000 people to visit employers in industries with historically high
rates of violation of  immigration laws would reduce the incentives  to come
here illegally. Fines associated with this enforcement also could help pay for
the policing.

Eliminate jobs for illegal immigrants, and you eliminate the primary reason for
crossing the border.

JOHN McGING

Columbia

*

I am a third-generation Hispanic American. My grandfather fought and died in
World War I, and my father fought in World War II. My grandmother spoke only
Spanish, and my father spoke mostly Spanish. I speak only English.

My father was a unionized mason in Yuma, Ariz., but illegal immigration cost him
jobs and forced him to take nonunion work. Illegal workers drove down his wages
until he was forced into early retirement.

I come from a long line of ditch diggers on both sides of my family. We do work
that President Bush says Americans won't do. Americans will do any work for fair
treatment and honest pay. To pay someone below scale is a form of legal slavery.

If the country needs  workers, they should be brought in legally.

RON RUIZ

Austin

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              144 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Despite Security and Dangers, Border Crossers Find Way North

BYLINE: John Pomfret, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1424 words

DATELINE: YUMA, Ariz.


The Border Patrol radio crackled: "Four men rolling boulders at mile 11." Agent
Chris Van Wagenen sped along an irrigation levee toward the rock pile, used to
block smugglers and illegal immigrants from sneaking across the border.

The four men watched him coming, calmly tossing a few more boulders off the pile
before sauntering through the sagebrush and crossing the Colorado River back
into Mexico. By the time the agent had sprinted from his Ford Bronco toward the
men, they had wrapped their faces in their shirts, and one of them shouted,
"I'll be back."

Van Wagenen, panting, replied, "Of that, I'm sure. If it's a fence, a sensor, a
camera, they'll find a way to defeat it."

Here, in this far southwestern corner of Arizona, which President Bush is to
visit Thursday, the signs of the unintended consequences of a decade's worth of
efforts to crack down on illegal crossings of the 2,000-mile border are clear.

Apprehensions of illegal immigrants are about the same as a decade ago. Mexicans
and others continue to pour into the United States though it is now far more
expensive and far more dangerous for them than ever. And once here, they are
staying, turning border communities such as Yuma into boomtowns fueled by their
cheap labor.

Bush's vow to tighten border security follows through on policies that began in
the Clinton administration. Starting in 1993, the Border Patrol blockaded major
urban crossing points from San Diego to El Paso, where large groups of
immigrants simply dashed across in what were known as "banzai runs." In El Paso,
agents continuously patrolled the Rio Grande, hoping to deter immigrants. A year
later in San Diego, the government built a 10-foot-high steel fence for
Operation Gatekeeper. Eventually, 106 miles of fencing was constructed near
every metropolis along the border with Mexico.

But the illegal crossings have continued.

Gatekeeper and the other efforts did nothing to stem the tide of illegal entries
to the United States. In fiscal 2005, the Border Patrol apprehended 1.1 million
people, about the same as in 1993. Several academic studies have estimated that
500,000 got through, also the same as in 1993, despite the number of Border
Patrol agents tripling to more than 11,000 in 12 years. But Gatekeeper and the
rest of the deterrence campaign did have real effect: Instead of dashing across
in urban areas, illegal immigrants turned to paths through the deserts of
eastern California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. They began employing
"coyotes," smugglers who demanded thousands of dollars, to lead them and often
traveled under hot sun with little water. More than 2,500 have died attempting
such crossings in the past decade.

"We're the funnel point now," Van Wagenen, a four-year veteran, said of this
swath of desert near Yuma. Last year, Border Patrol agents in this sector, which
spans 120 miles of mostly barren desert, apprehended nearly 139,000 illegal
immigrants. Apprehensions this year are up 15 percent over the same period last
year.

On Wednesday, the Senate voted to put 370 miles of fencing along the border, and
earlier this week  Bush said more than 6,000 National Guard troops would be
deployed to assist Border Patrol agents.

In the meantime, Gatekeeper has come to Yuma. Two months ago along a dusty
stretch of border just east of the Colorado River, National Guard units
constructed a secondary border fence topped with barbed wire a few yards from a
10-foot-high wall. Like its twin in San Diego, the fence is fashioned from steel
mats used to build landing strips during the Vietnam War. Floodlights were
erected and Border Patrol agents were assigned to guard the zone  --  just a few
yards from the San Luis border crossing.

"With this fence we plugged another hole," Van Wagenen said, adding, "There's
always a hole somewhere."

An unintended consequence of the fencing and heightened security has been a
growth in the number of long-term illegal U.S. residents. Because it became
riskier and more expensive to cross  --  coyotes charge $1,500 per person, on
average  --  once illegal immigrants were here, they tended to stay. Also, a
decade ago, most people crossing were men. Now, Van Wagenen said, "We catch
whole families. Mother, children, grandma and grandpa are in the group."

Luis Ramirez is one of them. An illegal immigrant who lives in the farming town
of Gadsden, within sight of the border, Ramirez used to be a "circular migrant."
Each autumn, he worked in California, then returned home to Oaxaca for
Christmas, came to Arizona in January, worked until Easter and then went back to
Mexico until the fall. But once smuggling prices jumped and the route became too
dangerous, Ramirez said, he decided to move permanently to the United States. He
brought his family over; last year, his wife had their third child in America.
"All my friends are doing the same thing," he said.

People such as Ramirez have transformed the demographics of the border towns and
the rest of the nation. Twenty years ago, Gadsden was nearly all white; now,
it's 93 percent Hispanic. In a study of 18,000 migrants, the Mexican Migration
Project found that the probability an immigrant would return home dropped from
45 percent before 1986 to about 25 percent in 2002.

"This means an increased rate of settlement, an increased rate of population
growth, increased costs to society for schools, housing and medical care," said
Douglas S. Massey, a Princeton University sociologist who is running the study.
"We've accomplished the very thing we set out to avoid."

The perilous journey has also left thousands dead. In 1993, 23 people died
crossing the border, most of them hit on Interstate 5 north of the border in
California. Now, on average, 1.5 people die a day, according to Robin Hoover,
president of Humane Borders, a Tucson-based charity that places water stations
in the desert for wayward immigrants. "We have people crossing the desert dying
like flies," Hoover said. "They are forcing people down death trails."

From a strategic standpoint, Operation Gatekeeper made sense, said James
Metcalf, a former lawyer for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. In
urban areas, Border Patrol agents had only a short time to catch people before
they disappeared into populated neighborhoods.

"Now they've been pushed into areas where you have many miles of open area to
react," said Metcalf, who now handles immigration and criminal cases in Yuma.
"People didn't set out to cause more deaths, but it doesn't take a genius to
realize it would happen. It was one of those unintended consequences that was
foreseeable."

Some of the dead are buried in a potter's field in the desert near Holtville, a
California town about 60 miles west of Yuma. There about 400 graves, marked with
gray bricks. Mourners have placed small white crosses saying "No Olvidado" (Not
Forgotten) atop the tombs.

"The only thing they got from America was a name," said Fernando Quiroz, who
helps naturalize immigrants in Yuma, as he pointed to the grave markings  --
John Doe for the men and Jane Doe for the women.

The deterrence policies have another significant effect: triggering major
economic growth in border communities. This month, Inc. Magazine named Yuma the
country's top boomtown, noting that its job growth rate was the fourth highest
in the nation. A 1.5 million-square-foot mall opened earlier this year. In the
past five years, 6,000 houses have been built, and there's an eight-month
waiting list for a new house. The agricultural industry generates sales of more
than $3 billion a year. Wal-Mart has two stores in Yuma, and it is building a
third and planning a fourth. And recently, three factories opened  --  a reverse
of the trend in which  many manufacturers  have moved south of the border.

At the same time, Yuma's unemployment rate since 2005 has been at 10 percent or
more  --  one of the highest in the nation.

The apparent contradiction can be explained simply: Illegal immigrants are doing
the work, Quiroz said. "The unskilled labor force in Yuma is 65 percent
undocumented, and that's a conservative estimate. It's allowed this community to
grow; it's allowed the economy in the city of Yuma to prosper. Who after all is
building the houses? Who is picking the lettuce?"

Yuma Mayor Lawrence K. Nelson acknowledged that illegal immigrants "are a factor
in certain segments." But he said, "I don't think we have an employer in town
that knowingly hires an illegal."

Staff photographer Melina Mara contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              145 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Why Is Border Security 'Conservative'?

BYLINE: Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 795 words


I do not doubt the president's sincerity in wanting to humanize and regularize
the lives of America's  estimated 12 million illegal aliens. But good intentions
are not enough. For decades, the well-traveled road from the Mexican border to
the barrios of Los Angeles has been paved with such intentions. They begat the
misguided immigration policy that created the crisis that necessitated the
speech that purports to offer, finally, the "comprehensive" solution.

Hardly. The critical element  --  border enforcement  --  is farcical. President
Bush promises to increase the number of border agents. That was promised in the
Simpson-Mazzoli amnesty legislation in 1986. The result was more than 11 million
new illegal immigrants.

The president himself boasted about having already increased the number of
border guards by one-third under his administration. Yet he acknowledges in the
same speech that we do not have the border under control  --  "full control," as
he comically put it. The president's new solution? Increase the number of border
guards again, by half this time. Everyone knows that anything short of enough
border guards to do Hands Across America from the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific
Ocean won't do a thing to eliminate illegal immigration.

The only thing that might work is a physical barrier. The president offhandedly
dismisses a wall as something that could never stop the "enormous pressure on
our border."

By what logic? Opponents pretend that these barriers can always be circumvented
by, say, tunnels or clandestine entry by sea. Such arguments are transparently
unserious. You're hardly going to get 500,000 illegals lining up outside a
tunnel or on a pier. Such choke points are exactly how you would turn the
current river of illegal immigrants into narrow streams  --  which is all we
need to turn the illegal immigration problem from out of control to eminently
manageable.

Bush's enforcement provisions were advertised as an attempt to appease
conservatives. This is odd. Are conservatives the only ones who think that
unlimited, unregulated immigration is a detriment to the republic? Do liberals
really believe in a de facto policy that depresses the wages of the poorest and
most desperate Americans, African Americans most prominently among them? Do
liberals believe that the number, social class, education level, background and
country of origin of immigrants  --  the kinds of decisions every democratic
country makes for itself  --  should be taken out of the hands of the American
citizenry and left to the immigrants themselves and, in particular, to those
most willing to break the very immigration regulations the American people have
decided upon democratically?

And is it just conservatives who think the United States ought not be
gratuitously squandering one of its greatest assets  --  its magnetic attraction
to would-be immigrants around the world? There are tens of millions of people
who want to leave their homes and come to America. We essentially have an NFL
draft in which the United States has the first, oh, million or so draft picks.
Rather than exercising those picks, i.e., choosing by whatever criteria we want
--  such as education, enterprise, technical skills and creativity  --  we admit
the tiniest fraction of the best and brightest and permit millions of the
unskilled to pour in instead.

The president's speech made a fine case for temporary workers. But what possible
confidence can we have that when the time comes to return home, they will not
stay on? After all, having lived here for years, they would have an infinitely
easier time melting into American society than the current millions of illegals
who wandered into places they knew nothing about and successfully melted in.

I am not against legalization. Admittedly, legalization is desperately unfair to
the further millions who have been waiting in line at U.S. consulates around the
world.  By itself, it would only encourage future illegal immigration. But if
coupled with a program that closes down the border, it would make sense. It
would resolve the problem once and for all.

Serious border enforcement is what's missing in the president's "comprehensive"
program. And that is why so many "conservatives" are extremely unhappy. Not out
of nativism. There are many like me who cannot wait to end the shadow life of
the illegals. But doing so while fraudulently promising to close the border is a
simple capitulation  --  and an invitation to the next president to declare the
next amnesty for the next torrent of illegals who will have understood from the
Bush program that crossing the border at night and finding a place to hide is
the surest road to the American dream.

letters@charleskrauthammer.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              146 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Insufficient Funds to End 'Catch and Release'

BYLINE: Lara Jakes Jordan, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 328 words


It will take nearly 35,000 more jail beds to end a much-criticized "catch and
release" program for dangerous illegal immigrants in the United States, but the
Bush administration has not budgeted enough to do that, the Department of
Homeland Security's  internal watchdog said yesterday.

The White House proposes spending $386 million, which would pay for 6,700 beds
but not enough to detain all high-risk aliens, Inspector General Richard L.
Skinner said in a 52-page report.

The new report highlighted shortfalls in deporting illegal immigrants who commit
crimes in the United States or are from countries that sponsor terrorism or
protect terrorists.

It also warned of "significant risks" posed by the inability of U.S. Customs and
Border Protection officers to identify whether immigrants released from jail
were linked to terrorist groups.

In an administration pledge to crack down on illegal immigrants, the Homeland
Security Department has vowed to end the policy  --  ticketing and freeing
people in the United States illegally instead of detaining them  --  by fall.

Skinner's report said 36 percent of the 774,112 illegal aliens apprehended in
the United States in the past three years were released because there were not
enough beds or funds available to hold them while officials determined their
immigration status.

The number of illegal aliens who were caught increased by 19 percent from 2002
through 2004, but the number of beds for them actually dropped by 6 percent, the
report added.

The shortages of bed space, personnel and money, among other factors, have
"created an unofficial 'mini-amnesty' program for criminal and other high-risk
aliens," the report concluded.

The Senate late Thursday approved adding 20,000 beds to the estimated 19,000
currently available as part of a broad immigration and border security bill
moving toward a final vote next week. A House bill also up for a vote next week
would add 4,870 beds next year.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              147 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

One Sheriff Sees Immigration Answer as Simple

BYLINE: John Pomfret and Sonya Geis, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Sheriff Joe Arpaio thinks he has found the answer to the problem of illegal
immigrants in the United States. It's not the National Guard. And it's not
amnesty. "Fuhgeddaboudit!" growled Arpaio, his Boston accent unbleached by the
desert sun. The sheriff's solution: Lock 'em up.

Since March, Arpaio, a Republican who refers to himself as "America's toughest
sheriff," has directed the 3,000 men and women in the nation's third-largest
sheriff's department to arrest undocumented workers. As of Thursday, his
deputies and a posse of several hundred volunteers had captured 170  --  in a
region where an estimated one in 10 workers is illegal.

"My message to the illegals is this: Stay out of Maricopa County, because I'm
the sheriff here," Arpaio said in an interview in his office on the 19th floor
of a building in downtown Phoenix.

Arpaio decided to go after illegal immigrants in this county of 3.6 million
people after the county attorney issued an interpretation of a new state
anti-smuggling law that said illegal immigrants could be arrested if they were
party to a deal to smuggle themselves into the United States. Punishment could
be up to two years in jail. The county attorney's legal opinion is being
challenged in court.

More people sneak into Arizona from Mexico than any other state in the nation.
More people die in its deserts. More people commit crimes along its border. And
among many Arizonans, Arpaio's brand of frontier justice provides a quick fix
and a clear counterpoint to a federal enforcement campaign that, since 1993, has
failed, despite a tripling of Border Patrol agents, to decrease illegal entries
along the Mexican border.

"We should have done this years ago," Arpaio said.

The sheriff's campaign in Maricopa County is among the toughest approaches by
state and local law enforcement to addressing the estimated 11 million
undocumented workers in the United States.

In the first four months of this year, 43 states introduced 461 bills involving
immigration, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, with
many concentrated on law enforcement.

Law enforcement is split over whether local police and sheriff's departments
should be wading into the immigration issue, according to Gene Voegtlin,
legislative counsel for the International Association of Chiefs of Police, based
in Alexandria. Some departments follow Arpaio's philosophy. Others, such as the
police departments in the District, Baltimore, Prince George's County and Los
Angeles, generally prohibit officers from asking about immigration or enforcing
immigration laws.

Los Angeles Assistant Police Chief George Gascon said local and state law
enforcement officers should avoid becoming agents of the federal immigration
system because police depend on many different kinds of people, including
illegal immigrants, to solve crimes. If undocumented workers fear that police
will deport them, they will not come forward with tips and will not testify in
court, he said.

"You will find that most of the people who are professional law enforcement
officers who are not necessarily engaged in the electoral process understand the
value of these types of policies," Gascon said.

Despite those concerns, since 2002 states have been able to enter into a
memorandum of understanding with the Department of Homeland Security that allows
training of local police to enforce immigration laws, including starting the
deportation process for any illegal immigrants officers encounter during their
normal activities, such as traffic stops. Florida was the first to train local
officers, followed by Alabama, where state troopers now check the immigration
status of everyone they stop. Voegtlin said that Florida's state troopers
launched a public relations campaign to explain their plans to local immigrant
communities and that "they haven't really witnessed a chilling effect with
police."

In April, Gov. Sonny Perdue (R) signed a tough immigration bill that made
Georgia the first state to require municipalities to require immigration
enforcement training for their police. Police must check the immigration status
of anyone arrested for a felony or drunken driving. The law also fines employers
who hire illegal immigrants. Fourteen other states, including Virginia, are
working on laws like Georgia's that would require local police training.

Arpaio's approach has struck a chord among those who want to curtail illegal
immigration in Arizona.

A former D.C. police officer and federal narcotics agent, Arpaio first ran for
sheriff in 1992 and since then has garnered attention for constructing a tent
city jail housing 2,000 inmates in the desert, forcing prisoners to wear pink
underwear and creating what he says is the world's only female chain gang. He
has been reelected three times by substantial margins, and his campaign against
illegal immigrants has garnered him reams of e-mails from fans.

"If you get caught by immigration, you get a free ride back to Mexico in an
air-conditioned bus," Arpaio said. "A free ride? Not in my county. I'm going to
put them on chain gangs, in tents and feed them bologna sandwiches."

Arpaio said he is eager to see the lawsuit challenging his enforcement program
"go all the way to the Supreme Court." "I'm going to keep locking them up," he
said. "This wasn't no one-day pony show."

Geis reported from Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              148 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The Unvarnished Immigration Debate

BYLINE: Mark Helprin

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 1015 words


When nations in decline are assaulted from without, even if gently or only
rhetorically, they often lose not only the will to defend but the capacity to do
so sensibly. They turn upon themselves in fits of self-destruction marked by
truncated, simplistic and merely assertive disputation. Illegal immigration, an
external pressure, brings forth arguments of this type.

Each party to the immigration debate seems to know only a single truth. One
faction says that it is a mistake to conflate illegal immigration with terrorist
infiltration: Of the many millions of illegal crossings only a handful are made
by people of even suspect origin, and therefore the borders should remain
porous. Apart from the non sequitur, this takes no account of the fact that
terrorists by the handful are effective; that if one border is open, traffic
blocked at the others will flow to it; and that if a nation hasn't the will to
control its frontiers, and thereby disestablishes them, its sovereignty will
deflate.

Not a single illegal immigrant should or need enter the United States, not one.
Contrary to the common wisdom, the borders are easy to seal, and controlling
entry is hardly totalitarian. This is not the same as the question of how much
immigration to allow, an important matter rightly the political decision of the
whole people rather than of a febrile militia of Willie Nelson look-alikes or
the purposeful inefficiency of a fence. And lest the government nurture a
parallel and unrepresentative authority, it would best attend to its
responsibilities and displace the armed geezers who have stepped in where it has
failed, though to do so with the military is wrong on half a dozen counts.

This spring's "pro-immigration" marches attempted lamely to confuse legal and
illegal immigration. Of course everyone in the New World is an immigrant or a
descendant of immigrants, and immigrants have built America and continue to do
so. Legal or illegal, they are almost universally good people who work to better
their lot and that of their children. That is not, however, license either for
illegal entry or America's failure to have an immigration policy except by
unregulated default.

Businesses large and small, careerists with Latin nannies, and those who want
wages low, the unions suppressed and their gardens well tended have made common
cause with their political opposites. The latter, who have embraced
multiculturalism and bilingualism, and who, though they may be little blast
furnaces of ostentatious compassion, are in their disdain for America as
ruthless as commissars, would be delighted to see it changed any which way as
long as it becomes unrecognizable. If you worry about the potential for
California and the Southwest to calve like melting glaciers and cleave to
Mexico, or vice versa, the left will mock your distress as it once mocked and
reviled anticommunism. And in the same vein the equanimity of the business right
is similar to the self-satisfaction of those who would have sold Lenin the rope
with which he planned to hang them. This is the lobby, strange as it may seem,
for illegal immigration.

Their position is indemnified not only by stupidity and greed but by the fact
that it is impossible to make a simple case for sovereign control of the borders
without attracting nativists and xenophobes who pollute the argument with
racism, protectionism and statist economics. Tossing aside one of America's
great strengths, they would simply end immigration. As a graceless technique of
law enforcement, they would deny basic services to the children of illegal
immigrants, and they speak of rounding up 12 million mainly Latin Americans for
deportation, forgetting the signal fact that over the years, by our lack of a
policy, neglect of enforcement and systematic indecision we have at the very
least made of ourselves an attractive nuisance.

By allowing the bloc that benefits from illegal immigration to extend its
invitation and welcome, the whole nation is complicit in luring these people
here. After doing so and benefiting immensely from their labor, to make their
children truants, turn them away from emergency rooms or expel them would be
beneath contempt. And yet it is not surprising in light of the trajectory of our
politics and morals that this is something some of us urge and the rest are
forced to contemplate.

Other than simple sovereignty and the control of borders, which should be beyond
debate and would if properly approached immediately contain and stabilize the
problem, the essence of the illegal-immigration question, muddled though it may
be by sophistry and peripheral claims, is the importation of labor.

To assert as some have that illegal immigrants do not depress wages because they
do the jobs Americans refuse is the kind of nonsense economists speak when they
strain to be counterintuitive. It is similar to saying that cheap imports do not
hold down prices. If employers paid higher than substandard wages, Americans
(who famously do almost anything for money, including eating worms, shooting
themselves from cannons and listening to Barbra Streisand sing) would take these
jobs.

Because of their humanity, culture and language, the workers and their families
who cross the borders are far more influential than even the destabilizing flow
of goods from China. Thus, the question of how much to relieve wage pressure by
the importation of labor should be put to the country unadorned and in its
simplest form: To what extent is economic advantage sufficient to justify the
consequences of the evolving common-law marriage with the countries and cultures
of Latin America? If this is decided merely parochially as a test of strength
among business, labor and ethnic lobbies, there will be no policy, no borders,
no justice and no relief. For it is a great question, to which the answer must
be given by the whole people.

Mark Helprin, a novelist, is a senior fellow of the Claremont Institute and
distinguished visiting fellow of Hillsdale College. This article will also
appear in the Claremont Review of Books.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              149 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

How to Deal With the Tide of Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 436 words


Charles Krauthammer's May 19 op-ed column, "Why Is Border Security
'Conservative'?" seems to rewrite the promise of America.

In Mr. Krauthammer's world, the United States picks and chooses who is "fit" to
allow in. His Statue of Liberty would read: "Give me your educated, enterprising
individuals possessing technical skills and creativity."

I prefer the America that says: "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled
masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.

"Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden
door!"

KEITH KINCAID

Arlington

*

A May 20 Associated Press news story reported that $386 million will provide
6,700 beds for  high-risk illegal immigrants who have been detained  --  that is
about $160 per day, or $57,600 a year per bed.

The same day, on the same page, a news story about Maricopa County Sheriff Joe
Arpaio ["One Sheriff Sees Immigration Answer as Simple"] presented an obvious
solution in  both quantity and quality. The Department of Homeland Security need
only contract with Sheriff Arpaio, pay him the $386 million and send him all
detained illegal immigrants. Washington bureaucrats will be amazed at how the
sheriff will accommodate the detainees with his tents and bologna sandwiches in
the Arizona desert.

MICHAEL J. McMORROW

Arlington

*

If we tied the promise of a green card, or citizenship, to enlistment in the
armed forces, we might be able to put a dent in two of the biggest problems
facing the United States. We need soldiers, and plenty of able-bodied young men
and women are crashing through our borders in search of a paycheck.

Why not offer legal status to those who join up, or allow their family members
to stay in return for the enlistment?

HARISE POLAND

Greenbelt

*

English should be the unambiguous and sole official language in the United
States, but with a proviso: If all government business is conducted in English,
the government should provide free, universal English instruction everywhere and
at all times.

In an ideal world, schools would have night classes taught by both professionals
and volunteers, and we would have round-the-clock English instruction on
television.

Despite what Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (Nev.) has shamefully
suggested ["Senate Votes English as 'National Language'; Bill Keeps in Place
Multilingual Laws," front page, May 19], an official English policy is not
racial discrimination.

I am a liberal, and I consider this issue nonpartisan and essential to the
competitive survival of the nation.

WILLIAM CLINE

Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              150 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

House-Senate Battle On Immigration Likely;
Some in GOP See Bush as Key to Accord

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 797 words


With the Senate marching toward completion of an immigration bill that is more
generous to illegal immigrants than the House-passed version, House leaders said
yesterday that it will be difficult to reach a compromise and enact a measure.

Several House Republicans said an accord is possible only if President Bush
pours his full energy into the effort, which they say is an uncertain prospect
given his preoccupation with Iraq, his low poll numbers and GOP skittishness
about November's elections.

The Senate yesterday continued to reject amendments that may threaten the shaky
alliance behind a bill that Bush supports. The measure, sponsored by GOP Sens.
Chuck Hagel (Neb.) and Mel Martinez (Fla.) and slated for a final vote this
week, combines tougher border security with pathways to legal status for
millions of immigrants and a guest-worker program.

The House bill, passed in December, deals only with tougher border and workplace
enforcement efforts. Numerous House Republicans and some Democrats support that
version, lawmakers said, and they are urging colleagues to resist the
president's call to move closer to the Senate's approach this summer.

Senators voted 61 to 37 to reject an amendment that would have allowed the
nation's 11 million illegal immigrants to stay in the country and work toward
citizenship, if they have no criminal records. It would have upended the
Hagel-Martinez provision to divide illegal immigrants into three categories:
those here five years or longer, who could stay and pursue citizenship; those
here two to five years, who could apply for green-card status after leaving the
country; and those here less than two years, who would be ordered home.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), sponsor of the unsuccessful amendment, said
the three-tiered approach is unworkable and "would create a bureaucratic
nightmare and . . . lead to substantial fraud." But supporters of the
Hagel-Martinez version called   it a carefully calibrated compromise that can
attract a filibuster-proof majority.

Senators also rejected an amendment, by Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), that would
have toughened penalties for labor-law violations involving immigrants, but they
approved one by Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) that would grant employers "an
affirmative defense against criminal liability" if they follow certain protocols
in hiring immigrants who prove to be illegal.

With Senate passage appearing likely, focus is shifting to negotiations with the
House, expected to begin next month. The immigration issue fractures both
parties, especially in the House, along unfamiliar lines, and it is far from
clear whether House leaders can craft a compromise acceptable to majorities in
both chambers.

House Majority Leader John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) told reporters yesterday: "You
all know how far apart these two bills are, and how far apart the American
people's opinions are. So trying to find a pathway that is acceptable to the
House and Senate is going to be very difficult."

Chief Deputy House Whip Eric I. Cantor (R-Va.) said that if a compromise is to
win House approval, "it needs to be about border security first." House members
might accept some form of pathway to legality for illegal immigrants, he said,
but only if it is preceded by clear evidence that tighter border restrictions
are beginning to work.

Rep. Ray LaHood (R-Ill.), who supports the Senate version, said finding a
workable House-Senate accord will be a challenge. "Whether the speaker and
majority leader can pull that rabbit out of the hat is the $64 billion
question,"  he said. "I think if the president puts his full weight behind it,
he can get it. But it's a big pull."

Rep. Mike Pence (R-Ind.), a prominent House conservative, called for a bill
largely similar to the House version, adding a guest-worker program. But Pence's
plan would require all illegal immigrants in the United States to be deported, a
move most senators reject.

The Senate debate has mobilized groups opposed to legalizing illegal immigrants.
Black conservatives and activists formed an 11-member coalition yesterday called
Choose Black America, saying competition for jobs and housing with immigrants
have worsened living and working conditions for blacks.

"We formed to oppose the Senate bill," said Frank Morris, a former associate
dean at the University of Maryland. "The most vulnerable constituents to
immigration reform are African Americans, especially African Americans with less
education and training."

The Choose Black America coalition, whose news conference was sponsored by the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, called on Congress to strengthen
border security, boost enforcement and deport illegal immigrants.

Staff writer Krissah Williams contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              151 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Labor Center Bad for City Whi ...

BYLINE: Letters To The Editor

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T04 , Letters To the Editor

LENGTH: 510 words


While President Bush was giving a prime-time speech from the Oval Office last
week on immigration, in which he highlighted  the need for the National Guard to
reinforce the U.S.-Mexico border against illegal immigrants, Gaithersburg Mayor
Sidney A. Katz and the City Council were having yet another meeting to praise
and welcome illegal immigrants in our community. Mayor Katz and most of the
council members are out of touch with the majority of U.S. citizens, the
majority of citizens in their own community and the recommendations of the
recently completed task force report on the day-laborer issue.

How ironic that a few weeks ago Gaithersburg was ranked as one of the top cities
in America by the book "Best Places to Raise Your Family." For the 2007 edition,
we can invite the authors back to have them visit the mayor's taxpayer-funded
pet project  --  an "Illegal Worker Pickup Center" in the heart of Gaithersburg.

You would have thought that Katz and the City Council would have learned from
day-laborer center mistakes in other parts of Montgomery County. Ask the
citizens of Silver Spring and Takoma Park if their day-labor centers have
reduced crime, gang activity, overcrowding in schools, the use of public
services and taxes or raised housing values and community livability. But Katz
and the City Council are not up for reelection in 2006 and can seemingly ignore
their constituents, their day-labor task force and the recent events in Herndon.

As co-president of the Greater Shady Grove Civic Alliance, I also am concerned
about the impact that the Gaithersburg "Illegal Worker Pickup Center" will have
on the recently approved Montgomery County Shady Grove Master Plan. How can we
expect nearly 20,000 new residents to pay top dollar for housing and services
around the Shady Grove Metro station when literally up the road, Gaithersburg
will be hosting a day-laborer center?

The alliance has consistently argued that the master plan included insufficient
services and amenities (parks and recreation areas, schools, a community center,
open space, shopping and restaurants, police and roads). The day-laborer center
will compound these deficiencies by attracting thousands of illegal immigrants
and their families to our communities, negatively impacting housing values and
community livability in current and planned communities surrounding
Gaithersburg.

Brad Botwin

Derwood

I enjoyed and appreciated Christian Davenport's piece in the May 18 Montgomery
Extra on bicycling in Montgomery County. I didn't know about the ride routes
featured in the article, and now I want to explore them up close.

Bicycling is not only enjoyable and a great way to get and stay in shape, but
it's also good transportation and it's good for the environment. Unlike cars,
trucks and sport-utility vehicles, bicycles don't pollute, and they take up less
space than alternatives. I biked to work on Friday, which was Bike to Work Day,
as I do most days, because it's fun, clean, inexpensive and almost as fast as
driving.

Richard Reis

Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              152 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Debate Beyond The Fence;
Immigration Issues We're Overlooking

BYLINE: E. J. Dionne Jr.

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 783 words


In our debate over immigration, we're talking past each other on issues of
genuine concern to both sides, and we're using our confrontation over
immigration to evade larger questions.

As the Senate moved to set up a  clash with the House over how to deal with  the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, the country faced the prospect of a
narrow and confusing discussion. On one side are those who just want to deal
with border security and would like to deport a lot of those immigrants. On the
other are those who also want to deal with security but would provide a path to
citizenship for most, though not all, of those illegally in our country.

On the whole, senators  --  such as John McCain and Ted Kennedy  --  who want to
deal with both security and legalization have the better of the argument. As
President Bush has said, we're not about to round up and deport 12 million
people, and we might as well face that fact. It is far better for our country,
perhaps especially for the native-born, to transform members of an illegal
subclass into taxpaying, rights-bearing citizens who can openly live up to their
responsibilities as Americans.

But advocates of a more liberal policy toward illegal immigrants need to take
seriously the discontent that the anti-immigration movement has tapped into.
Immigration has been a blessing to the United States, but it is not an unmixed
blessing, and the costs of our immigration policies are borne more heavily by
some parts of our society than others. Rather than dismiss all immigration
critics as xenophobes, supporters of immigrant rights need to deal with the
legitimate gripes of their opponents.

The most basic (and perhaps the simplest to deal with) is that immigrants cost
local governments money even as they fill federal coffers with income,
especially from payroll taxes. "The tax costs are local, but the tax windfalls
are national," says Cecilia Muñoz, vice president for policy at the National
Council of La Raza. "There's a local-national imbalance. It becomes a potent
political issue locally, and there is nothing local governments can do."

A National Academy of Sciences study found that the average immigrant puts a net
lifetime fiscal cost of $25,000 on state and local governments. "Estimates are
that states and localities are forced to pay tens of billions of dollars in
health and education costs for noncitizens," says Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton
(D-N.Y.). The federal government should share its tax windfall with localities,
yet Clinton's amendment to the immigration bill to do just that was defeated
last week. This issue will come back.

Less straightforward but still important are the effects of illegal immigration
on the wages and working conditions of  our fellow citizens at the bottom of the
income structure. There is much debate over this effect, but the evidence
suggests at least a small downward push on wages.

Low-income native workers worried about their own wages and job opportunities
cannot be dismissed as special pleaders. What to do? Clearly laws against hiring
illegal workers need to be enforced more effectively. But former labor secretary
Robert Reich has made a broader point:  If our labor laws, for immigrants and
the native-born, were enforced more vigorously and consistently, all workers at
the bottom of the economy would benefit.

The core problem illegal workers pose for the native-born is that the illegally
employed are less likely to demand their rights and to complain about unfair
treatment. The problem would be much less severe if the federal government were
doing its job.

This, by the way, is why it would be a great mistake to create a large new class
of "guest workers" with no pathway to citizenship. Paradoxically, those most
worried about the impact of immigration should be those most insistent upon full
rights for immigrants.  Establishing a separate and unequal population with
limited civil, political and social rights is the surest way of undercutting the
rights of those who were born here.

Of course, the immigration battle is not just about economics. It also entails
sharp cultural confrontations, particularly in areas of heavy immigration. Our
nation's long history of such fights suggests that cultural battles are more
easily resolved when legitimate economic grievances on both sides of the
immigration divide are taken seriously.

Paradoxically, those fighting to achieve justice for immigrants will reach their
goal only if they are also seen as fighting for justice for the native-born. The
native-born, in turn, will find their rights better protected if the rights of
immigrants are guaranteed, too.

postchat@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              153 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration by the Numbers

SECTION: A Section; A19

LENGTH: 283 words


Douglas S. Massey, a professor of sociology and public affairs at Princeton
University and the author of "Beyond Smoke and Mirrors: Mexican Immigration in
an Era of Economic Integration," has assessed the challenge of enforcing
immigration laws on undocumented foreign laborers at a time of growing economic
integration between the United States and Mexico. The following conclusions come
from his 2005 Cato Institute report, "Backfire at the Border," and data from the
Mexican Migration Project at Princeton.

The cost to taxpayers: Before 1992, the cost of making one arrest along the
U.S.-Mexico border stood at $300. After a steady Border Patrol buildup in the
1990s and the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, each arrest cost $1,700 in 2002, an
increase of 467 percent.

The chance of getting caught: The odds that undocumented Mexican migrants were
apprehended attempting the enter the United States was 33 percent in 1997. After
enforcement pushed border crossings out of cities and into more remote sectors,
surveys of migrant communities show that the probability of apprehension fell to
19 percent in 2004.

The cost to illegal immigrants: From 1980 to 1992, the cost of hiring a
"coyote," or smuggler, averaged $400 per crossing. The cost rose to about $1,200
in 1999 before leveling off.

The likelihood of returning: As the cost of illegal crossings grew, the
likelihood that undocumented Mexican migrants would stay in the United States
instead of going home fell, from about 45 percent to 25 percent, while the
average stay rose from 1.7 years to 3.5 years.

The bottom line: The number of illegal immigrants has doubled since 1995 from 5
million to more than 11 million.

--  Spencer S. Hsu

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              154 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

What a Wall Can't Stop

BYLINE: Richard Rodriguez

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 955 words


To placate the nativist flank of his Republican Party, President Bush has
promised to brick up the sky. But that will not prevent the coming marriage of
Mexico and the United States. South and north of the line, we are becoming a
hemispheric people  --  truly American  --  in no small part because of illegal
immigrants.

As the son of Mexican immigrants legally in the United States, I have long
wondered about the future of Mexico, a nation that every night for nearly a
century has lost hundreds of its most hopeful youths to its neighbor and rival,
the North.

I think historians will come to recognize the illegal immigrant as the great
prophetic figure within the Americas. The illegal immigrant Americanized us all
by a simple and frugal migration; by sojourning in the North; and by sending the
dream of the North (a money-gram)  back into Mexico.

From the early 20th century, the migrant worker commuted between here and there,
hot and cold, high and low, past and future, rich and poor, Spanish and English,
life and death.

The legend of the North spread throughout the Americas. Today Peruvians and
Bolivians know when there are apple-picking jobs in the Yakima Valley;  when the
godawful fisheries in Alaska will begin to hire; when  a dishwashing job in a
Bronx restaurant is coming open.

By the late 20th century, the rumor of the North had ascended to the middle and
the upper class in Mexico. They, too, followed the peasant's lead. In Mexico
City, a capital of abundant but vulnerable wealth, the rich have learned the
prudence of a second home in La Jolla.

The Americanization of Mexico is as inevitable as the Mexicanization of the
United States, though the cross-pollination will never be equal because the
United States is the more potent transgressor.

Americans take our imperial influence for granted. We assume, do we not, the
desirability of Wal-Mart? Shouldn't we build Wal-Mart in Mexico? Of course we
should. Where shall we build Wal-Mart in Mexico? How about right there  --
where it will appear in the photograph of the Pyramid of the Sun.

Commentators did not seem to know what they were watching when millions of brown
people recently marched along U.S. streets. This was obviously a
"demonstration," but a demonstration of what? I believe it was a reunion  --  of
family, of hemisphere. Children and parents walked as one family. Brothers born
there, sisters born here, walked as one hemisphere.

A great many Americans are alarmed by how much of Mexico is within the United
States  --  the tongue, the tacos, the soccer balls, the street gangs, the
Spanish Catholic Masses, the workforce swarming into New Orleans in the wake of
Hurricane Katrina. The extent of the Mexicanization of U.S. culture renders any
notion of a fortified border irrelevant.

Twenty-five years ago, Joel Garreau wrote "The Nine Nations of North America,"
in which he described a nation he called "MexAmerica"  --  a puzzle to both
Washington and Mexico City  --  encompassing much of the U.S. Southwest and
Northern Mexico as well as Baja California. A quarter-century later, one is
struck by how prescient Garreau was but also how modest his forecast was.
MexAmerica now includes vast sections of Chicago and blocks along Main Street in
Kansas, as well as the Baptist Church in North Carolina.

In the other direction, MexAmerica includes not just the Mexican border towns
that have become drug supply centers for U.S. addiction but also Jalisco,
Colima, Michoacan and points south.

Mexico, the poorer country, does not have the luxury of an appalled demeanor
when the Atlanta couple transforms a beachfront property into a saltwater Tara
or when senior citizens from Ohio park their retirement village in Baja.

And watch closely  --  I implore you  --  watch the eyes of Mexican busboys and
waiters as they observe U.S. college students conducting wet T-shirt
competitions on the beaches of Cancun. Do not believe, America, that you are
alone in your reservations concerning this marriage.

President Bush is far more accommodating to the notion of a hemispheric America
than other members of his party. In a film made for his reelection campaign in
2004, Bush put his arm around a brown child's shoulder and waved a small Mexican
flag with his other hand. One cannot imagine Theodore Roosevelt in such a
posture or, for that matter, Bill Clinton.

When I tell Mexicans I think their country is dying (as a vision and economic
reality separate from the United States), they take my remark as an affront.
They tell me Mexico will always be different from the United States.

But a recent poll taken twice (over several months) by the Pew Hispanic Center
found that more than 40 percent of Mexicans would emigrate to the United States
if given the opportunity. Twenty percent would be willing to emigrate illegally.

In the initial survey, 41 percent indicated they would leave Mexico if they had
the means and chance. Three months later, the percentage rose to 46 percent.
Included were people of the middle class: Around 35 percent of college graduates
would emigrate from Mexico; 13 percent would be willing to enter the United
States illegally.

A nation that cannot feed its young with dreams but cuts its milk with memory
and sand is going to starve the future; it is going to die. The only place where
people will continue to hold on to Mexico will be in the United States.

Because of the illegal immigrant, we are all entering the hemisphere. There are
now too many Mexicans in "America" and too many "Americans" in Mexico for any of
us to avoid the New World: the united states of Americas.

Richard Rodriguez is the author of "Days of Obligation," a book about Mexico and
California.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              155 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Deal at Risk as House GOP Looks to Voters

BYLINE: Jim VandeHei and Zachary A. Goldfarb, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1622 words


Republican House members facing the toughest races this fall are overwhelmingly
opposed to any deal that provides illegal immigrants a path to citizenship  --
an election-year dynamic that significantly dims the prospects that President
Bush will win the immigration compromise he is seeking, according to Republican
lawmakers and leadership aides.

The opposition spreads across the geographical and ideological boundaries that
often divide House Republicans, according to interviews with about half of the
40 or so lawmakers whom political handicappers consider most vulnerable to
defeat this November. At-risk Republicans  --  from moderates such as
Christopher Shays in suburban Connecticut and Steve Chabot in Cincinnati to
conservative J.D. Hayworth in Arizona  --  said they are adamant that Congress
not take any action that might be perceived as rewarding illegal behavior.

Shays, one of the few vulnerable House Republicans open to a broad compromise
with the Senate, said strong protests from his constituents this month prompted
him to speak out for the first time against citizenship for undocumented
workers. "It would be a huge mistake to give people a path to citizenship that
came here illegally," he said.

The nearly united front of Republicans from the most competitive districts
against Bush's approach to immigration underscores the difficulties the
president is facing as he tries to coax his partisans in the House to embrace
what he calls a "rational middle ground," along the lines of a bipartisan bill
that passed the Senate by 62 to 36 Thursday. GOP leaders in the House are basing
their legislative strategy in large part on how it will affect members in the
most jeopardy this fall.

Several Republicans said they are getting more bricks in the mail  --  as part
of a new grass-roots campaign promoting a fence between the United States and
Mexico  --  than letters or calls supporting Bush and the Senate bill. Most said
80 to 90 percent of feedback coming from constituents last week was in
opposition to Bush and the Senate on the citizenship question.

Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) will not allow a vote on a House-Senate
compromise that does not have the support of most GOP lawmakers or one that
would undermine the reelection chances of his at-risk members, aides said.
According to GOP lawmakers and strategists, about 75 percent of the 231 House
Republicans are steadfastly opposed to the Senate bill or even a watered-down
version of it.

Despite some national polls showing strong support for a comprehensive solution
of the sort favored by Bush, nearly every GOP lawmaker interviewed for this
article said the House plan to secure the borders and enforce existing
immigration laws is unquestionably the safer political stand in his or her
district. Many Democrats from vulnerable districts say the same thing, although
the Democratic Caucus as a whole is more sympathetic to a Senate-style
compromise.

Rep. Chris Chocola (R-Ind.) said he told White House officials, who keep citing
polls showing wide support for the Bush approach, that "they must not be polling
anyone in the 2nd District."

The House GOP lawmakers reject the argument made by the White House and Senate
Republicans such as John McCain (Ariz.) that the best long-term political
strategy is to craft a compromise that is appealing to many Latinos, the
fastest-growing minority group in America. McCain, in an interview, cautioned
his House colleagues to more closely examine "voting patterns" and understand
the "detrimental" consequences of alienating Hispanics, who make up about 12.5
percent of the U.S. population.

Rep. Ric Keller, who analysts said could lose his Orlando district if there is a
powerful anti-Republican wave in November, said that "there has never been more
intensity on any issue in the last six years than illegal immigration." In town
hall meetings, he said, about 90 percent of voters are opposed to a guest-worker
program and in favor of the House approach. The House bill focuses solely on
border security and law enforcement  --  and makes it a felony for people to
assist illegal immigrants.

Keller said Bush's proposal to send National Guard troops to the Mexican border
did little to quiet criticism that the White House has failed to sufficiently
crack down on illegal immigration. "There is not a lot of credibility right now
with the administration on securing the border and enforcing the law," he said.

Keller, like most House Republicans in tough races this year, has a small
percentage of Hispanics living in his district, which strategists said makes it
easier to reject a broad compromise. Many senators, by contrast, represent more
diverse populations and are therefore more sensitive to the concerns of
Hispanics. Moreover, only one-third of senators face reelection this fall, so it
is easier for them to ignore the short-term Republican politics, which are
dominated by concerns about any program that resembles amnesty for illegal
immigrants.

"House members' elections are not periods with us, they're just commas," said
Rep. Gil Gutknecht (R-Minn.). "We keep our finger on the public pulse all the
time, not just every six years."

Gutknecht, who represents a southern Minnesota district that is 93 percent
white, rejected claims by McCain and others that it would be disastrous if
Republicans, who control the White House and Congress, failed to strike a
compromise this year. "It would give the administration time to demonstrate they
are serious that they can defend the law," he said.

Rep. Heather A. Wilson, who represents a majority-minority district in New
Mexico, is an exception among House Republicans. She voted against an earlier
House GOP bill that made illegal immigration a felony and cracked down on
illegal border crossings. Wilson, one of the top Democratic targets this fall,
said she is torn over how to handle the illegal immigrants living here. She said
she is open to a compromise that treats families with children born in the
United States differently. These children, who are citizens, she said, "should
not be held accountable for bad decisions their parents made." Her district is
more than 40 percent Hispanic.

Shays, who represents an upscale, largely white swing district in Connecticut,
said he informed GOP leaders of his opposition to Bush's path to citizenship
after talking to local voters in a recent 18-stop tour. If anything, voters are
growing more "adamant" in their opposition, he said. In an interview, he
proposed allowing illegal immigrants a chance to stay and work but not become
citizens, which many senators said would be a deal-killer.

This highlights the hurdles to a compromise. House Republicans appear
inalterably opposed to any bill that paves the way for citizenship. They plan to
name representatives to the House-Senate conference committee who share this
view. They will fight for the security-only approach and are prepared to walk
away from the conference if they don't get their way, according to GOP
leadership aides.

On the other side, the fragile Senate coalition that passed a more comprehensive
bill is held together by a common belief that it would be unwise and unworkable
to deal with the borders only and not solve the problem of what to do with the
11 million illegal immigrants living here today. The coalition will crumble if
the House Republicans prevail, according to senators and aides.

The White House, led by Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove, has been lobbying House
members to soften their position and expects that more moderate lawmakers would
eventually side with Bush.

Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr. (Fla.), who is not known as an immigration hard-liner but
is one of the party's most vulnerable incumbents, said there is virtually no
chance of a compromise this year that includes a guest-worker program or a
pathway to citizenship. Shaw said the politics of the issue are more mixed in
his Fort Lauderdale district, which includes a large number of hospitality firms
and other companies that rely on low-cost labor from illegal immigrants.

But he emphasized that Congress needs months, and perhaps years, of public
hearings to determine the economic effects of legalizing millions of immigrants.

Another moderate, Chabot, said immigration was the only issue that came up
during a tour of church festivals in his Cincinnati district a week ago,
deepening his opposition to the Bush approach. "If you allow the folks here to
stay, you're just encouraging more to come," Chabot said.

Some Democrats are feeling similar pressure. When the House voted on its
get-tough bill that also made illegal immigration a felony, 13 of the 17
Democratic incumbents who face tough races sided with Republicans. "The folks I
represent in Georgia are sick and tired of the fact that nothing's been done to
stem the tide of illegal immigration," said Rep. John Barrow, who dismissed the
Senate bill as "amnesty-light  --  no matter what they try to call it." Still,
many House Democrats are open to a Senate-style settlement.

Rep. John N. Hostettler (R-Ind.), a top Democratic target who represents a
district so competitive it is known as the "bloody 8th," warned that if House
Republicans do not oppose guest workers, temporary workers and anything "that
looks like amnesty," they could very well lose the House.

"There are lot of people on Capitol Hill that have no clue what November is
going to bring them on immigration," he said. "It could be something like a
tidal wave that could benefit the Democrats simply because Republicans don't do
the right thing. To survive through November, the folks up here [on Capitol
Hill] are really going to have to understand the passion behind this."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              156 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 29, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Weighing Illegal Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 306 words


With flair and fiery rhetoric, Mark Helprin attacked "the lobby . . . for
illegal immigration" [op-ed May 21], which he characterized as a group that
wants "wages low, the unions suppressed and their gardens well tended," in
addition to being filled with left-wing multiculturalists. Mr. Helprin also
described economic arguments about small immigrant effects on wages as "the kind
of nonsense economists speak."

However, almost every serious study finds that immigration has only modest
effects on the wages of native-born Americans, and those mostly involve  high
school dropouts in the short term. In the absence of immigrants, employers
probably would substitute machines for workers in some jobs or invest in other
lines of business rather than pay much higher wages to the native born.

Some U.S.-born workers are hurt by immigrants, but many also benefit  --  from
the lower prices and greater availability of food, housing, health-care and
elder-care services that low-wage immigrants often provide. Over time,
immigrants and their children also are likely to contribute to the country's
fiscal health, paying more in taxes than they take in services.

At this point, the debate in Congress is not between supporters and opponents of
illegal immigration, because all the proposed bills would strengthen enforcement
of immigration laws. It is about the wisdom of a guest-worker program and about
paths to citizenship for illegal or temporary workers. In these debates, it is
the opponents of any legalization who would keep millions of workers permanently
in illegal status, allowing employers to exploit them while undercutting the
wages of native-born workers by even greater amounts.

HARRY J. HOLZER

Chevy Chase

The writer is a professor of public policy at Georgetown University and a
visiting fellow at the Urban Institute.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              157 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 30, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 569 words


YAKIMA, Wash.  --  The  state Republican Party adopted a resolution calling for
an end to the Constitution's guarantee of automatic citizenship to the U.S.-born
children of illegal immigrants.

Delegates supporting that platform said their concerns include the cost to
public hospitals and the expense of welfare for the children of indigent or
deported illegal immigrants.

"I think voters realize immigration is a problem, and we are trying to grapple
with solutions to the illegal-immigration problem," Diane Tubeless, state GOP
chairwoman, said of the resolution, which was adopted Saturday with little
debate and with few dissenting votes.

The 14th Amendment says: "All persons born or naturalized in the United States
and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and
of the State wherein they reside."

State Democratic Party Chairman Dwight Pelz called the  resolution "a punitive
and inhumane response to the immigration issue America is confronting," and said
it would prove to be an embarrassment to Republican candidates.

*  MILWAUKEE  --  A man opened fire at a group of people Monday evening at a
park packed with Memorial Day picnickers, killing a 31-year-old man and
17-year-old youth in the group and wounding three, police said. Police were
looking for the man, who argued with the victims at the park about 7:30 p.m.,
fired shots and fled in a vehicle, police spokeswoman Anne E. Schwartz said.

*  BARDSTOWN, Ky.  --  Two skydivers collided about 200 feet above the ground
and their parachutes deflated, causing the divers to plummet, authorities said.
John Kevin Benningfield, 33, was pronounced dead at a hospital and Chris Snellen
broke his leg, officials said. In an accident Saturday, first-time skydiver
Ellan Ann McWilliams, 44, of West Chester, Pa., slipped from her harness during
a jump near Sterling, Ohio, and fell to her death, authorities said.

*  KEY WEST, Fla.  --   A 13-year-old boater was arrested after authorities said
he hit and killed a 6-year-old snorkeler, then sped away. The 6-year-old was
snorkeling off Key West with his father and a sibling next to their 22-foot
motorboat when he was struck, said Lt. Steve Acton of the Florida Fish and
Wildlife Conservation Commission. A 18-foot skiff sped over the boy, then
crashed into his father's vessel, causing it to sink. The 13-year-old driver
will be charged with failing to report the accident and failure to remain on the
scene, and may face vessel homicide charges.

*  CORONA, Calif.  --  A former law enforcement official was arrested after
allegedly posing as a police officer, then  abducting and sexually assaulting a
teenager in Nevada, police said. Shawn Shelton, 39, of Moorpark, Calif., was
arrested Friday evening in Corona by officers acting on a tip from Las Vegas
police. Shelton had been a Los Angeles County sheriff's deputy and a Manhattan
Beach police officer.

*  MIAMI  --  A doctor who killed his two young sons by throwing them over a
hotel balcony and then jumped to his own death seemed to be hallucinating and
sounded paranoid in a phone call two days earlier, his father said. Oebele Van
Dyk, 86, said he talked to his son the day before Edward Van Dyk flew to Miami
to join his wife and sons. "He was very distraught. I think he was seeing things
that didn't seem to be real," Van Dyk told the Miami Herald in a telephone
interview.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              158 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 6, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

An Increasingly Deadly Trail;
Tighter Border Has Illegal Immigrants Risking More Perilous Routes

BYLINE: John Pomfret, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1568 words

DATELINE: COVERED WELLS, Ariz.


It was early on a May morning, still dark, when Border Patrol agent Dan
McClafferty first smelled death, its rich odor piercing the desert bouquet of
sage, salt cedar and creosote. Following the beam of his flashlight, McClafferty
looked under the thorny branches of a paloverde tree and found what he was
looking for.

The body of the 3-year-old boy lay still, covered with a jacket and his arms
crossed over his chest. His mother, found wandering along a desert highway hours
earlier, had carried him there as she had tried to cross into the United States
illegally.

The sad discovery was not unique. Since 1993, when the Clinton administration
began a crackdown on border crossings in San Diego and El Paso, more than 3,500
people have died trying to cross into the United States through desert. And, as
officials work to put more patrols and fencing along the U.S.-Mexico border,
immigrant advocates fear there will be more deaths among the tens of thousands
who attempt the trip.

Most of the deaths so far  --  959 since Oct. 1, 2001, according to local
government statistics and the Mexican government  --  have been in Arizona,
where the landscape comprises mountains, ranches, Indian reservations, military
proving grounds and endless miles of cactus-filled desert. The boy, who was
found on May 16 and whose name could not be ascertained from U.S. or Mexican
officials, was one of the latest additions to the list.

Border Patrol statistics show that while the death toll mounts annually, the
number of those apprehended while crossing the border has not changed
significantly since 1993. But because federal agencies have tightened the border
in urban areas, smugglers who move the men, women and children seeking to enter
the United States illegally have funneled them onto increasingly perilous trails
where temperatures are high, water is scarce and danger is abundant.

"All the evidence is that increased enforcement on the border has achieved no
benefit at all except in additional employment of Border Patrol agents," said
John Fife, a Tucson pastor and founder of No More Deaths, a coalition of
charities devoted to stopping deaths during desert border crossings. "What has
changed is the devastating elements of this policy. You have a number of deaths
that surpasses the number of American deaths in Iraq. And yet still we are
determined to persist and redouble our efforts."

The other view is that a tipping point could be reached if the flow of agents
and materiel to the border continues to increase. Since 1993, the Border Patrol
has tripled in size and President Bush has pledged to add 6,000 more agents. He
also has ordered the National Guard, which began deploying to the border Monday,
to help build new fencing and other protections. "America has the best
technology in the world, and we will ensure that the Border Patrol has the
technology they need to do their job and secure our border," Bush said May 15 in
a nationally televised speech.

Even as the president was speaking, McClafferty was searching the Arizona
desert.

The 3-year-old's mother's name was Edith Rodreguez. She and her son crossed into
the United States from Sasabe, Mexico, on May 11, said a spokesman for the
Mexican consulate in Tucson. A native of the Mexican state of Veracruz, a major
source for illegal immigration, the 25-year-old woman was traveling in a group
of eight to 10 people, herded north by a smuggler, called a coyote.

To keep the group moving fast, the coyote handed out a Mexican over-the-counter
drug called Sedalmerk, consulate spokesman Alejandro Ramos Cardoso said after
Mexican officials interviewed Rodreguez. Sedalmerk is a combination of caffeine,
Tylenol and the herbal supplement ephedra  --  an amphetamine precursor that is
banned in the United States.

Sedalmerk may be safe to use as a pick-me-up in a normal environment but it is a
toxic mix when combined with a trek through the desert because it accelerates
dehydration, McClafferty said. Two days into the journey, the boy's energy was
flagging and he was dehydrated. On May 13, Ramos Cardoso said, the coyote and
the rest of the crossers abandoned Rodreguez and her son, leaving them to walk
in the desert by themselves.

Rodreguez began carrying the child, moving north through a sliver of earth
hemmed in by two mountain ranges on land belonging to the Tohono O'odham Indian
reservation. Sometime that day, the boy lost consciousness, Ramos Cardoso said.
But Rodreguez kept on walking, clutching him.

In early January, the Border Patrol began concentrating on  Arizona's Altar
Valley, which  had become a virtual highway into the United States for thousands
of illegal immigrants and is dotted with natural water holes and water stations
serviced by American charities. The renewed enforcement there resulted in
traffic being diverted to the Tohono O'odham land that has less water.

Some religious and charitable groups have placed water barrels in the desert and
handed out maps in Mexico showing their locations, drawing the ire of those who
seek tougher enforcement along the border. One of the groups, Humane Borders,
received permission to keep water barrels on land belonging to the Bureau of
Land Management, the Interior Department, the city of Tucson and Pima County.
But the Tohono O'odham tribe has declined to give its permission.

It was on that land that Rodreguez found herself walking with her son. She
carried him for more than a day, Ramos Cardoso said, before placing him under
the paloverde tree and going to look for help.

Like many who cross the border illegally, Rodreguez had been in the United
States before. She worked menial jobs in Kentucky, where she  met a man who
apparently was married. The two had a relationship and Rodreguez got pregnant,
Ramos Cardoso said. She decided to have the baby in Veracruz so her mother could
help her. Returning to Mexico to have a baby was an unusual decision  --  many
Mexican women make the reverse trip, traveling to the United States to have
their babies so their children will be U.S. citizens.

Earlier this year, Rodreguez decided to return to the United States to show the
boy to his father, Ramos Cardoso said. She traveled to Sasabe, joined the
coyote's group and walked across the border.

After placing her son under the tree, Rodreguez chanced upon Highway 86, which
runs through the heart of Tohono O'odham. There, on the afternoon of May 15,
Border Patrol agents picked her up.

Ramos Cardoso said she told the agents immediately that she had left her son in
the  desert, but Gustavo Soto, a Border Patrol spokesman, said they learned of a
missing boy four hours later after she was sent to a processing center in the
border town of Nogales before she was returned to Mexico.

McClafferty received word about the missing boy that night. He is a member of
BorStar, the Border Patrol's elite search and rescue unit, established in 1998
to help save illegal immigrants lost in the desert. When McClafferty went
searching for the boy, it was unclear whether he was alive. He said he was told
that the mother was so distraught that Border Patrol agents understood only that
her son was missing.

McClafferty and three other agents began bushwhacking through the desert scrub,
looking for footprints, where Rodreguez had been found. There were thousands,
making it impossible to track the boy that way.

Back at Nogales, Border Patrol agents photographed the bottom of Rodreguez's
shoes and faxed the image to McClafferty. Just as the sun was setting,  he found
matches in the dust. For the next seven hours he and the other agents tracked
them by flashlight.

"We figured she was in bad shape," McClafferty said. "She was walking around in
circles. She went for help then went back to her son but couldn't find him."

In the end, McClafferty smelled the boy's remains before he found them.

"She carried her kid in the desert for four or five hours and not one of them
helped her," McClafferty said of the others who walked in with Rodreguez. "I've
seen a lot in six years, but this kid thing was one of those that I just
couldn't file away."

After being expelled from the United States, Rodreguez was allowed back on May
18 on a short-term humanitarian visa to identify her son's body. An autopsy
revealed that the probable cause of death was dehydration and exposure to the
sun. The temperature had been above 100 degrees during their journey.

Eric Peters, deputy chief medical examiner for Pima County, placed the time of
death  between May 13 and May 14, meaning the boy had probably died in his
mother's arms.

The last time a young child died on the border, according to Pima County
records, was November, when a 1-year-old girl succumbed to pneumonia. Peters
said authorities told him they had seen women with babies trudging through the
reservation lands, and he and his colleagues are bracing for more  child deaths
this summer.

The Tohono O'odham police considered charging Rodreguez with child endangerment,
but the Pima County attorney's office said it had no interest in prosecuting
her. Rodreguez  returned to Mexico on May 20 and her son's body followed two
days later.

Ramos Cardoso said he tried to persuade  Rodreguez to speak to the media because
the consulate hoped her story would encourage others not to follow her.

"She had been through a lot of suffering," he said. "She told us she just wanted
to go home."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              159 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Emphasizes English, Assimilation for Immigrants

BYLINE: Michael Abramowitz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: OMAHA June 7


Continuing his campaign to build support for comprehensive immigration
legislation, President Bush on Wednesday emphasized that illegal immigrants who
want to stay here should learn English and demonstrate that they are committed
to assimilating into American culture.

After visiting a community center where immigrants learn English,  Bush coupled
a call for strict border enforcement with a plea that newcomers be treated
compassionately.

He said immigrants should know there is a legal way to stay, if they are willing
to make the effort: "One is to say you got to pay a fine for being here
illegally. You got to learn the English language. In other words, you got to
repay a debt to society and learn the skills necessary to assimilate into our
society. Show us you've been working hard."

In recent weeks, Bush has labored to convince conservatives that he has heard
their demands for a more serious effort to prevent illegal immigrants from
crossing the U.S.-Mexico border. He is calling for a doubling of U.S. Border
Patrol agents and is deploying 6,000 National Guard troops to bolster border
enforcement in the meantime.

On Wednesday, Bush appeared to put greater emphasis on other elements of the
debate, visiting a community center that offers assistance to immigrants living
in Omaha. He also announced the creation of a federal task force to help people
at the grass  roots teach English and civics to newcomers.

Bush said the United States is "a compassionate nation that treats people
decently."

To that end, he said, Congress must approve a plan that would give hope to those
illegal immigrants who have lived in the United States for a long time.  "It
makes no sense at all to say we can find people and run them out of the
country," Bush said. "For some, I guess that sounds appealing. It's
impractical."

"It is not the right thing to do," he added.

Bush is essentially backing the thrust of the plan approved by the Senate, which
would couple greater border security with a guest-worker program and giving
long-standing residents a chance of earning citizenship. The House has approved
a plan that focuses on border security and avoids any legalization provisions.

Nebraska has experienced a surge in immigration in recent years, and the issue
could resonate in a campaign that will see Sen. Ben Nelson (D-Neb.) face a stiff
challenge. While Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) has been a champion of the
president's approach, Nelson has questioned what he terms Bush's "amnesty
plans."

Reacting to Bush's appearance,  Nelson said, "Nebraskans want to secure the
border first and then deal with the 12 million illegal immigrants already here."

Bush took an unexpected shot at Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, with whom the
administration has long been at odds. Told by one woman at the center, Lourdes
Secola, that she was from Venezuela, Bush said he  is worried about her country.

"I think it will be okay," Bush told Secola. "But it's going to take awhile.
Sometimes leaders show up who do a great disservice to the traditions and people
of a country."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              160 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 9, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Mr. Grassley Responds

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 332 words


Robert D. Novak failed his readers in many ways with his June 5 column about
collecting taxes from illegal immigrants and corporate executives overseas. For
starters, Mr. Novak's objection was hypocritical. He bemoans the possibility of
the Senate passing a revenue bill before the House in the case of the
immigration bill, but he did not object to the Senate acting first to pass a
revenue bill to extend lower tax rates for capital gains and dividends.
Apparently, it's okay to violate a constitutional principle if Mr. Novak likes
the policy outcome. In reality the Senate routinely passes revenue measures
before the House. The constitutional principle is upheld by waiting for a
House-passed measure and then substituting it with the Senate bill.

In addition, Mr. Novak's reporting was shoddy. If there is a "blue slip" problem
with the immigration bill, which I opposed, it wasn't caused by my amendment to
Title III. Title VI of the immigration bill absolves employers of all civil and
criminal tax liability. Title VI also said that illegal immigrants had to pay
three of the past five years' worth of back taxes before it was fixed to require
paying back taxes for every year. These provisions obviously affect revenue.
Finally, none of this was secret. Both Title III and Title VI were part of the
underlying bill.

The "Grassley touch on taxes," as Mr. Novak calls it, is tax fairness. That
means illegal immigrants pay just as legal workers and citizens do. It also
means overseas corporate executives don't enjoy double non-taxation with
sweetheart deals but begin to pay taxes a little closer to their domestic
counterparts' levels. This policy change for expatriates applies to taxes that
will be paid next April. So it's not retroactive.

Mr. Novak often reminds readers how long he's been around Washington. You would
think he's been here long enough to get his facts straight.

CHUCK GRASSLEY

U.S. Senator (R-Iowa)

Chairman, Senate Finance Committee

Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              161 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

In Mexico, Migration Issue Gets No Traction;
Ahead of July Vote, Presidential Candidates Find Little to Gain From Highly
Charged Debate in U.S.

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 1345 words

DATELINE: HUEJUTLA, Mexico


The illegal immigration debate draws millions of protesters to the streets of
U.S. cities. It touches off podium-pounding on Capitol Hill and passions among
talking heads.

But the same debate here in Mexico, the country of origin of most illegal
immigrants in the United States, is far from a blockbuster issue in this year's
presidential contest. Even though developments in the United States have forced
candidates to discuss migration more often in the past two months than in the
early stages of the race, none of the three major contenders has made the issue
a central tenet of his campaign.

Their calculus is simple, according to political analysts and advisers to the
candidates: They don't think it will help them win the July 2 election.

"Foreign policy doesn't give you any votes in Mexico," Jorge Montaño, a former
Mexican ambassador to the United States and to the United Nations, said in an
interview. "The candidates have been extremely practical."

Beyond the political calculation, the candidates' strategies are grounded in
fundamentals, including the reality that a Mexican president has no control over
U.S. immigration law, and in hard numbers. Expectations that huge numbers of
Mexicans living in the United States would register to vote went unmet.  After 1
million absentee ballots were printed, only 40,800 of an estimated 4 million
eligible Mexicans living in the United States registered.

Recent political history also plays into the calculation, illustrating the risks
candidates face by emphasizing migration. After his victory in 2000, President
Vicente Fox staked much of his political capital on hopes of reaching an
immigration accord with the United States. Those hopes disintegrated when the
United States tightened its border policy following the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks,
leaving the perception that Fox had failed in one of his most important
missions.

All three leading contenders in this year's race, Felipe Calderón of Fox's
National Action Party, or PAN; Andrés Manuel López Obrador of the Democratic
Revolutionary Party, or PRD; and Roberto Madrazo of the Institutional
Revolutionary Party, or PRI, have said they want an immigration accord with the
United States. But none has guaranteed they will deliver. On the stump they tend
to race past any mention of an accord and on to pledges that they will stem
migration by improving the economy.

"I would rather see a Huastecan working in a packing house in Huejutla than in a
packing house in California," Calderón said during a recent campaign stop in
Huejutla, a mountain town in eastern Mexico, 120 miles northeast of Mexico City,
where indigenous Huastecan women placed a mound of flower petals on his head.

Calderón, who has spoken against building more fences along the U.S.-Mexico
border, is proposing that Mexico solicit aid funds from the United States and
Canada, another major destination of Mexican workers, for development programs
in impoverished areas of Mexico that send the most illegal migrants abroad.

Arturo Sarukhan, a former Mexican consul general in New York who is Calderón's
lead foreign policy adviser, said he expects candidates to address migration
more often in the final weeks of the campaign. But he believes the discussion
has to be presented through the prism of the economy of Mexico, where, the World
Bank has estimated, half the population lives in poverty.

"The immigration issue, per se, does not weigh significantly in the campaign,"
Sarukhan said in an interview. "At the end of the day, the debate is about job
creation."

López Obrador, who is tied with or slightly ahead of Calderón in new opinion
polls, is taking a similar tack. In a televised presidential debate last week,
López Obrador said Mexico needed to address the root causes of illegal
immigration by providing more jobs, and he promised not to insert Mexico into
the "internal lives of other countries and other governments."

"If we make things good in Mexico, if we clean our house, if there is progress
in our country, if there is justice, if there is security, if there is political
and social stability, they will respect us on the outside," he said.

López Obrador asserts that Mexico must convince the United States that illegal
migration will not be slowed by building more fences and "militarizing the
border," a reference to President Bush's decision to deploy 6,000 National Guard
troops to support the U.S. Border Patrol. But the main thrust of his campaign
has been trained on domestic issues, primarily promises to help poor voters, who
form his political base, to lower their gas and electricity bills.

Migration "is a very important issue, but it will not define the Mexican
elections," José María Pérez Gay, a former Mexican ambassador to Portugal, who
is López Obrador's chief foreign policy adviser, said in an interview.

The migration question is particularly ticklish for Calderón. He has positioned
himself as a candidate who will continue policies instituted by Fox, whose
historic victory ended 70 years of PRI rule, an era marked by corruption and
rigged elections. But he also faces the fact that the number of Mexicans living
illegally in the United States has surged during Fox's six-year term to a record
6.2 million, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

By linking his political identity to Fox, Calderón has given the other
candidates an opening to indirectly slam his candidacy by criticizing Fox during
flashpoints in the U.S. immigration debate.  López Obrador and Madrazo, who is a
distant third in most opinion polls, went on the attack last month after Fox
applauded a U.S. Senate vote that preserved proposals to create a guest-worker
program and to develop a process for migrants living illegally in the United
States to gain legal status.

López Obrador accused Fox, who is prohibited by Mexican law from campaigning for
his party's candidate, of acting as Calderón's unofficial campaign manager and
of being a puppet of the United States. Madrazo, who has pledged to slow
migration by creating 9 million jobs in six years, accused Fox of "losing the
battle" with the U.S. Congress.

"It's a deceit," Roberta Lajous, a former Mexican ambassador who advises Madrazo
on foreign policy, said of Fox's reaction to the Senate vote. "He's acting as if
there was a result. Nothing is final."

The uncertainty about the outcome in Congress is creating complications for the
candidates here as they try to formulate their stances on migration issues,
Pérez Gay said, and it is one of the main reasons migration has not taken a
larger role in the campaign.

What is clear, Pérez Gay and the other candidates' campaign advisers say, is
that millions of Mexican migrants, legal and illegal, will be in the United
States for years to come.

López Obrador has proposed converting all of Mexico's consulates in the United
States into offices tasked with protecting Mexican migrants from discrimination.
During the presidential debate, which had a pre-formatted question about
migration, he described his proposals for the consulates using a Spanish phrase
that can mean "branches of the Mexican attorney general's office." Pérez Gay
later said that the candidate's wording has been misinterpreted and that
consular staff would act in a defense capacity, rather than attempt to be
prosecutors.

Nonetheless, Calderón pounced on the remark, using it to further his contention
that López Obrador is "dangerous" and would damage Mexico's relations with other
countries.

"Having a dignified relationship with the United States does not necessarily
imply having a confrontational relationship," Calderón said during a speech to a
group of migrant leaders on June 7, the day after the presidential debate. "If
we sum up the immigration theme, and many other themes, as themes of controversy
and hate between the people of the United States and the people of Mexico, we'll
be making a mistake and closing doors."

But by the next day, migration had slipped into the background again, and the
candidates had moved on to other things.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              162 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

GOP vs. GOP on Borders

BYLINE: David S. Broder

SECTION: Editorial; A27

LENGTH: 758 words


Out of the past and into the current controversy dividing the Republican Party
came former California governor Pete Wilson, charging into Washington this week
to argue that he had been right all along in trying to slam the door on illegal
immigration.

Far from dooming Republicans to a series of defeats in the most populous state,
Wilson argued, his championing in 1994 of Proposition 187, denying health care
and educational services to illegal immigrants and their children, anticipated
the kind of hard-line policy many Republicans endorsed this year.

The old Marine, as unyielding now at 72 as he was during his eight years as
governor, may not be the spokesman the embattled House Republicans would choose
for their fight with the White House and the Senate over the immigration reform
bill now headed for  conference committee. Wilson is blamed by many Republicans,
including those around President Bush, for so alienating the growing Hispanic
vote in California that the state's hoard of electoral votes has moved
permanently into the Democratic column.

But Wilson, a former senator, rejected that charge at a Hudson Institute talk in
Washington. And, despite being a Bush appointee (to the Defense Policy Board, a
Pentagon advisory panel), he called on his former colleagues to resist White
House pressure on the House and Senate to pass a compromise bill that preserves
elements of the president's more generous approach and that includes a path to
citizenship for the millions of illegal immigrants already here. He said the
only reason the Senate voted for a more generous bill was that many senators had
been "intimidated."

Wilson said House Republicans are right in insisting that the Mexican border be
closed before any thought is given to a guest worker program or anything
resembling amnesty. That was also the message the winner of last week's House
special election in the San Diego area, Republican Brian Bilbray, said voters
were sending when they chose him.

Build a wall the entire 2,000-mile length of the border, and do it first, Wilson
said, or else "you'll have 20 million, 35 million, 50 million" illegal
immigrants in the country.

Wilson, a former mayor of San Diego, offered a revisionist history of California
politics in defending his position. The 1994 campaign ad for which he became
famous  --  a nighttime shot of shadowy figures sneaking across the border,
while the announcer intoned, "They keep coming"  --  was falsely depicted in the
media, he said, as an anti-immigrant message. It was aimed strictly at illegal
immigrants, Wilson said, and in defense of California  taxpayers.

Did it cost Republicans California? Many have said so, noting that Democrats
have won every presidential race, every Senate contest and every regular
election for governor since Prop. 187 passed.

Arnold Schwarzenegger's victory in the 2003 recall election broke that spell,
Wilson said, and the blame for the earlier defeats can be assigned to the men
who were "nice guys but not good candidates." As for the presidential races, he
said Bob Dole in 1996 and George W. Bush in his two campaigns really didn't try
hard enough to get California.

That's his story, and he's sticking to it. But Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), one of
the principal sponsors of the Senate bill, isn't buying any of it. "He really
misreads this," Hagel told me. "The intimidation was all coming from the other
side," in the form of e-mails and phone calls denouncing the 23 Republicans who,
like Hagel, voted for the Senate bill.

Hagel said the 2,000-mile fence "is just not practical" and the "20 million, 35
million, 50 million" illegal immigrants flooding in are numbers Wilson pulled
out of the air. And Wilson's interpretation of California political history is
equally unpersuasive. "California has become a wasteland for Republicans," Hagel
said, "with not one elected official except the governor, who got there by
accident. And you can't blame that all on candidates. Parties get a reputation
from the policies they support."

Hagel made one other point: Those who, like Wilson, want only a border-closing
bill offer no policy for dealing with "the 11 million illegals living in our
country or their 3 million legal children. Is the party of Abraham Lincoln going
to allow a permanent second class of people waiting to be citizens?"

The next few months of House-Senate negotiation will determine whether Pete
Wilson and Brian Bilbray or Chuck Hagel and George Bush speak for the Republican
Party.

davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              163 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Calculating Immigration Politics;
For the GOP, Short-Term Gain vs. Long-Term Pain

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 755 words


Geographically, Pennsylvania is a long way from Laredo, Texas. But politically,
every state may be a border state this year. As evidence, consider a radio ad
being run by Rick Santorum, a Republican seeking a third U.S. Senate term in a
state that has voted Democratic in the past four presidential elections. Titled
"He Needs Glasses," the ad is targeted at Santorum's opponent, Bob Casey:

"Bobby Casey announced his support of a Senate bill that grants amnesty to
illegal immigrants, shocking hardworking taxpayers all across Pennsylvania. Now
Casey's trying to wiggle out of it by saying the bill doesn't offer amnesty and
requires illegal immigrants to pay their back taxes. Either Casey didn't read
the bill, or he's trying to deceive you. The Washington Times reports the
legislation gives amnesty to 11 million who are here illegally, and paves the
way for 66 million more immigrants to enter the country. The bill also forgives
two of the last five years of back taxes for illegal immigrants, something the
IRS would never do for you. This Casey-supported bill even gives illegal aliens
Social Security benefits for the time they were here illegally. Fortunately,
Rick Santorum voted against the bill, and Rick's leading the fight to make sure
it never becomes law. Now you know the advantage of having in our corner a
fighter like Rick Santorum."

Whether or not the word "amnesty" is apposite concerning what the Senate bill
does is a matter of opinion. You can judge for yourself the plausibility of 66
million new immigrants by reading the report, by Robert Rector of the Heritage
Foundation (www.heritage.org), that helped strengthen the House's insistence on
an "enforcement first" policy. The claims about taxes and Social Security are
true enough.

Leaving aside the merits of the Senate bill, and considering the ad simply as
political ammunition, it packs more punch than what one hears from Democrats
this year. (House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi: "We have two oilmen in the White
House. The logical follow-up from that is $3-a-gallon gasoline. There is no
accident. It is a cause and effect.")  The "He Needs Glasses" ad features the
third-ranking member of the Republicans' Senate leadership attacking legislation
that passed the Senate even though a majority of Republican senators  --  32 of
55  --  voted against it. Supported by 39 of 44 Democratic senators, this
"Casey-supported" legislation has two key features  --  a guest-worker program
and a path to citizenship for most of the 11 million to 12 million illegal
immigrants  --  that are supported by George W. Bush and that are the two main
reasons  Republicans oppose the bill.

Many Republicans, looking for any silver lining in an abundance of dark clouds,
think the immigration issue might be a silver bullet that will slay their
current vulnerability. The issue is, as political people say, a "two-fer."
Opposition to the Senate bill, and support for the House bill, puts Republican
candidates where much of the country and most of their party's base currently is
--  approximately: "Fix the border; then maybe we can talk about other things."
And opposition to the Senate bill distances them from a president who, although
rebounding recently, has approval ratings below 40 percent in 29 states.

Republicans very much want to pass an immigration bill as proof their party can
govern. For that reason, there is no reason to expect Senate Democrats to
compromise by passing something like the House bill. Nothing very different from
it has any chance of being accepted by the House. So, safely assuming that the
House-Senate conference fails to produce a compromise acceptable to both houses,
when Congress returns to Washington after the Labor Day recess, the House may
again pass essentially what it passed in December, just to enable Republicans to
campaign on the basis of a clear and recent stance against exactly what
Santorum's ad stands against.

The cost of this, paid in the coin of lost support among Latinos, the nation's
largest and fastest-growing minority, may be reckoned later, for years. Remember
this: Out West, feelings of all sorts about immigration policy are particularly
intense, and if John Kerry had won a total of 127,014 more votes in New Mexico,
Nevada and Colorado, states with burgeoning Latino populations, he would have
carried those states and won the election. But for now, the minds of Republican
candidates are concentrated on a shorter time horizon  --  the next 41/2 months.

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              164 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Dozens Illegally Used Calif. Woman's ID

BYLINE: Peter Prengaman, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Calif.


Audra Schmierer's Social Security number really gets around. It has been used by
at least 81 people in 17 states, most of them probably illegal immigrants trying
to get work.

The federal government took years to discover that the number was being used
illegally, but authorities took little action even then.

"They knew what was happening but wouldn't do anything," said Schmierer, 33, a
housewife in this San Francisco suburb. "One name, one number; why can't they
just match it up?"

Her case is an example of an increasingly common problem: Many thieves are able
to steal and use personal information because employers do not have to verify
Social Security numbers or other documents submitted by job seekers.

The situation has long drawn fire from opponents of illegal immigration, but
Congress has only recently moved to fix it. The House and Senate have passed
immigration bills that call for employers to verify Social Security numbers in a
national database.

Homeland Security officials have taken it a step further, calling on Congress to
allow the Social Security Administration to share information with
immigration-enforcement agents at work sites.

Under current law, if the Social Security Administration or the Internal Revenue
Service finds multiple people using the same Social Security number, the
agencies send letters informing employers of possible errors.

The IRS can fine employers $50 for each inaccurate number filed, a punishment
that companies often dismiss as just another cost of doing business.

"Sending letters is the limit to what can be done," Social Security spokesman
Lowell Kepke said. "We expect that will be able to fix any records that are
incorrect."

The information on mismatched names is seldom shared with law enforcement
agencies.

Schmierer realized she had a problem in February 2005, when she got a statement
from the IRS saying she owed $15,813 in back taxes  --  even though she had not
worked since her son was born in 2000. Perhaps even more surprising, the taxes
were due from jobs in Texas.

Schmierer called the IRS and learned that numerous people were using her Social
Security number. Officials said that the erroneous balances would be eliminated
but that the agency would have to correct the problem again in future years.

"They told me they couldn't do anything else," Schmierer said.

IRS officials declined to talk about Schmierer's case, citing privacy laws.

Schmierer obtained more than 200 W-2 and 1099 tax forms that contained her
Social Security number but different names. She provided copies of the records
to the Associated Press.

People from Florida to Washington state used her number to work at construction
sites, fast-food restaurants and high-tech companies.  Information gleaned from
criminal investigations, tax documents and other sources suggested that most of
the users were illegal immigrants.

Schmierer's number became so compromised that Social Security officials finally
took a rare step used only in extreme cases: They gave her a new one.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              165 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Along Part of the Border, A Zero-Tolerance Zone;
Tough Program Is Discouraging Illegal Crossings

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1055 words

DATELINE: DEL RIO, Tex.


On June 1, the three Ordaz-Valtierra brothers from Mexico illegally crossed the
Rio Grande with the same dream that so many other Latin American immigrants
have: head north from the border, get jobs and start sending money home.

Their journey, instead, ended in a federal courthouse here, where, dressed in
orange prison jumpsuits, each was charged with the federal misdemeanor crime of
entry without inspection. Each pleaded guilty and was sentenced by a U.S.
magistrate judge to 15 days. Under guard of U.S. marshals, they were put in
shackles and bused to a West Texas jail to serve their time and await
deportation home.

"I'm sorry," Juan Carlos Ordaz-Valtierra, 27, said through an interpreter as he
stood before U.S. Magistrate Judge Dennis G. Green. "I didn't think it was this
difficult to cross into your country."

It wasn't. But this year, a 190-mile stretch of riverbank that includes the
small border cities of Eagle Pass and Del Rio became a "zero-tolerance zone." If
apprehended by the U.S. Border Patrol, illegal immigrants are prosecuted by
federal authorities for a misdemeanor, sent to jail for 15 to 180 days and then
deported. If they are caught illegally entering the country a second time, they
are eligible for a felony charge of illegal entry and as much as two years in
federal prison.

"Catch and release"  --  in which Mexican citizens are returned promptly to
Mexico, but citizens of other countries are given a notice to appear in
immigration court at a later date, set free and never tracked down by
authorities  --  would end here, said Department of Homeland Security officials
at a Washington news conference this year. "Catch and remove" would start. And,
officials predicted, as this tough policy became known, immigrants would be
discouraged from crossing through this slice of southwest Texas.

As Congress discusses tightening immigration laws  --  from criminalizing the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States to
instituting a guest-worker program  --  this federal experiment, called
Operation Streamline II, has shown what it takes to stop the flow of illegal
immigrants: aggressive enforcement of the laws on the books. That entails
putting the fate of each illegal border crosser in the hands of not only the
Border Patrol, but also the local offices of the U.S. attorney and the U.S.
Marshals Service, the Federal Bureau of Prisons, and the regional Immigration
and Customs Enforcement office of the Department of Homeland Security.

The coordination is complicated, and the logistics  --  finding jail space over
an eight-county area as far away as Odessa, more than 300 miles northwest of Del
Rio, and transporting immigrants to and from the far-flung jails  --  are a
"headache," said Pete Acosta, a deputy U.S. marshal in San Antonio. The Del Rio
U.S. marshal's office comes under the jurisdiction of the San Antonio office.

Still, this pilot project, which the Border Patrol is considering implementing
along other parts of the 2,000-mile border with Mexico, has been worthwhile,
officials said.

"Although it continues to be a big challenge for everyone involved, it's been at
least manageable," said Johnny Sutton, the U.S. attorney for the Western
District of Texas, which covers 93,000 square miles and 660 miles of border from
El Paso to just beyond Eagle Pass.  "The results, plus the morale boost for the
Border Patrol  --  the agents in the field making these arrests  --  is a big
payoff."

Agents on the line, such as Arthur Malacara and Mario Mata, concur.

Maneuvering their airboat along the shoals of the Rio Grande between the two
bridges that connect Eagle Pass with its Mexican neighbor, Piedras Negras, they
recalled the days when dozens of immigrants at a time would wade across the
river and give themselves up to the Border Patrol. That was just last fall.
Illegal immigrants knew they would be processed, given court-appearance slips
and released.

"They had no regard for us," Malacara said.

"We would be processing [paperwork] all day," Mata said.

"Then we'd watch them walk out," Malacara said. "Do all that work, watch them
walk out and never see them again."

"Now we're holding them back," Mata said. "It's a drastic change, drastic."

They are, said Randy Clark, the agent in charge of field operations in the Eagle
Pass Border Patrol office, "the most dynamic results I've seen in my 19 years in
the Border Patrol."

As of June 5, apprehensions of illegal immigrants in Eagle Pass, where Operation
Streamline II began Dec. 6, were down 51 percent, and they were down 32 percent
in Del Rio, compared with the same period a year ago.  Apprehensions of drug
smugglers increased substantially between Dec. 6 and June 5, because agents were
no longer tied up processing illegal immigrants, Clark said. Since the program
began, the value of narcotics seizures has increased 309 percent to $13 million
in Eagle Pass and by 176 percent to almost $40 million in Del Rio, he said.

But as with many border enforcement programs, the positive effects are often
offset by negative consequences. "It's plugging one hole here and creating holes
somewhere else," said one federal official who asked not to be identified
because he is involved in enforcing the program. "If it's only done right here,
everybody might go elsewhere."

That appears to be happening. While border crossings are down in Del Rio and
Eagle Pass, Border Patrol spokeswoman Maria Valencia said apprehensions between
Oct. 1 and Wednesday increased by 9 percent in Laredo, the neighboring sector.
Apprehensions for the same period increased by 24 percent in the San Diego and
El Centro, Calif., sectors and by 20 percent in El Paso. "Everything has shifted
over," she said.

For now, Eagle Pass is quiet, a far cry from the days last fall when groups of
20, 30 and 40 illegal immigrants, most of them from El Salvador, Honduras and
Guatemala, could be seen walking through the tiny downtown.

"We were getting overwhelmed," said Eagle Pass Police Chief Tony Castañeda.
"Fortunately, we didn't have a crime wave with these people. They just wanted
their [court appearance] papers, to get money wired here from their families up
north and to get on a bus out of town. They came into the police station asking
for their papers. It was crazy, man."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              166 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

At Border Crossing, It's Zero Tolerance;
Part of Texas Abandons The Catching, Releasing Of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1039 words

DATELINE: DEL RIO, Tex.


On June 1, the three Ordaz-Valtierra brothers from Mexico illegally crossed the
Rio Grande with the same dream that so many other Latin American immigrants
have: head north from the border, get jobs and start sending money home.

Their journey, instead, ended in a federal courthouse here, where, dressed in
orange prison jumpsuits, each was charged with the federal misdemeanor crime of
entry without inspection. Each pleaded guilty and was sentenced by a U.S.
magistrate judge to 15 days. Under guard of U.S. marshals, they were put in
shackles and bused to a West Texas jail to serve their time and await
deportation home.

"I'm sorry," Juan Carlos Ordaz-Valtierra, 27, said through an interpreter as he
stood before U.S. Magistrate Judge Dennis G. Green. "I didn't think it was this
difficult to cross into your country."

It wasn't. But this year, most of the 210-mile stretch of riverbank between the
small border cities of Eagle Pass and Del Rio became a "zero tolerance zone." If
apprehended by the U.S. Border Patrol, illegal immigrants are prosecuted by
federal authorities for a misdemeanor, sent to jail for 15 to 180 days and then
deported. If they are caught illegally entering the country a second time, they
are eligible for a felony charge of illegal entry and  as much as two years in
federal prison.

"Catch and release"  --  in which Mexican citizens are returned promptly to
Mexico,  but citizens of other countries are given a notice to appear in
immigration court at a later date, set free and never tracked down by
authorities  --  would end here, said Department of Homeland Security officials
at a Washington news conference earlier this year. "Catch and remove" would
start. And, officials predicted, as this tough policy became known, immigrants
would be discouraged from crossing through this slice of southwest Texas.

As Congress discusses tightening immigration laws  --  from criminalizing an
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States to
instituting a guest-worker program  --  this federal experiment called
"Operation Streamline II" has shown what it takes to stop the flow of illegal
immigrants: aggressive enforcement of the laws on the books. That entails
putting the fate of each illegal border crosser in the hands  of not only the
Border Patrol, but also the local offices of the U.S. attorney and the U.S.
Marshals Service, the Federal Bureau of Prisons and the regional Immigration and
Customs Enforcement office of the Department of Homeland Security.

The coordination is complicated, and the logistics  --  finding jail space over
an eight-county area as far away as Odessa, 350 miles north of Del Rio, and
transporting immigrants to and from the far-flung jails for court appearances
--  is a "headache,"  one federal official said. Still, this pilot project,
which the Border Patrol is considering implementing along other parts of the
2,000-mile border with Mexico, has been worthwhile, officials said.

"Although it continues to be a big challenge for everyone involved, it's been at
least manageable," said Johnny Sutton, the U.S. attorney for the Western
District of Texas, which covers 93,000 square miles and 660 miles of border from
El Paso to Eagle Pass. "The results, plus the morale boost for the Border Patrol
--  the agents in the field making these arrests  --  is a big payoff."

Agents on the line, such as Arthur Malacara and Mario Mata, concur.

Maneuvering their airboat along the shoals of the Rio Grande between the two
bridges that connect Eagle Pass with its Mexican neighbor of Piedras Negras,
they recalled the days when dozens of immigrants at a time would wade across the
river and give themselves up to the Border Patrol. That was just last fall.
Illegal immigrants knew they would be processed, given court appearance slips
and released.

"They had no regard for us," Malacara said.

"We would be processing [paperwork] all day," Mata said.

"Then we'd watch them walk out," Malacara said. "Do all that work, watch them
walk out and never see them again."

"Now we're holding them back," Mata said. "It's a drastic change, drastic."

It is, said Randy Clark, the agent in charge of field operations in the Eagle
Pass Border Patrol office, "the most dynamic results I've seen in my 19 years in
the Border Patrol."

As of June 5, apprehensions of illegal immigrants in Eagle Pass, where Operation
Streamline II began Dec. 6, were down 51 percent and down 32 percent in Del Rio.
During the same period, apprehensions of drug smugglers increased substantially
because agents are no longer tied up in offices processing illegal immigrants,
Clark said. Since the program began, the value of narcotics seizures had
increased 309 percent to $13 million in Eagle Pass and increased by 176 percent
to almost $40 million in Del Rio, he said.

But like many border enforcement programs, the positive effects are often offset
by negative consequences. "It's plugging one hole here and creating holes
somewhere else," said one federal official involved in enforcing the program who
asked not to be identified. "If it's only done right here, everybody might go
elsewhere."

Already that appears to be happening. While border crossings are down in Del Rio
and Eagle Pass, Border Patrol spokeswoman Maria Valencia said apprehensions
between Oct. 1 and Wednesday  increased by 9 percent in Laredo, the neighboring
sector. Apprehensions for the same period had increased by 24 percent in the San
Diego and El Centro, Calif., sectors and by 20 percent in El Paso. "Everything
has shifted over," she said.

For now, Eagle Pass is quiet, a far cry from the days last fall when groups of
20, 30 and 40 illegal immigrants, most of them from El Salvador, Honduras and
Guatemala, could be seen walking through the tiny downtown of this
22,400-population city 50 miles south of Del Rio.

"We were getting overwhelmed," said Eagle Pass Police Chief Tony Castañeda.
"Fortunately, we didn't have a crime wave with these people. They just wanted
their [court appearance] papers, to get money wired here from their families up
north and to get on a bus out of town. They came into the police station asking
for their papers. It was crazy, man."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              167 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 29, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Rep. Cannon Urges Unity After Utah's GOP Primary

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY June 28


Rep. Chris Cannon said his solid victory in Utah's Republican primary is good
news for President Bush and those seeking a consensus on immigration policy.

"I hope what it means is Republicans look at this and realize we don't have to
be divided on the issue of illegal immigration," Cannon said.

The five-term incumbent defeated political newcomer John Jacob  56 percent to 44
percent on Tuesday.

The race  focused mainly on whether millions of illegal immigrants should be
forced to return to their home  countries before getting an opportunity to
return to the United States.

Jacob portrayed Cannon as soft on illegal immigration.   In December, Cannon
voted for a House bill that would toughen border security, criminalize people
who help illegal immigrants and make being in the United States without the
required papers a felony. But he also supports Bush's proposal for a
guest-worker program.

Cannon's willingness to compromise made him a target of Team America, a
conservative group that calls illegal immigration the most critical problem
facing the nation.  The group spent $40,000 on radio ads criticizing him. Jacob
favored returning illegal immigrants to their home countries before giving them
a  chance at U.S. citizenship and punishing businesses for hiring them.

Cannon will face Democrat Christian Burridge, among others, in the November
general election in the heavily Republican district.

In other states' primary runoffs Tuesday:

*  In Mississippi, state Rep. Erik Fleming soundly defeated business consultant
Bill Bowlin for the Democratic Senate nomination and a long-shot bid to unseat
Sen. Trent Lott (R). In a House race, political consultant Ken Hurt defeated
lawyer William Bambach. The Democrat was expected to have a tough time ousting
Rep. Roger Wicker (R).

*  In the South Carolina lieutenant governor's race, incumbent Andre Bauer
narrowly won the GOP nomination against Mike Campbell, son of a prominent former
South Carolina governor. Bauer will face Democrat Robert Barber.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              168 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 30, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

House May Chill Bush's Wooing of Latino Voters

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 978 words


By pushing English-only policies and tough measures against illegal immigrants,
House conservatives are endangering President Bush's goal of drawing millions of
Latino voters to the Republican Party and helping realign ethnic politics for
years to come, according to an array of analysts and officials.

The latest blow to Bush's efforts to woo Hispanics came last week, when a band
of House Republicans unexpectedly balked at renewing the 1965 Voting Rights Act,
partly because of a 30-year-old requirement that many local governments provide
bilingual ballots. The revolt, which forced House GOP leaders to abruptly
postpone a vote, came as House Republicans are stiffening their resistance to
Bush's bid to allow pathways to legal status for millions of illegal immigrants
while also strengthening borders and deportation efforts.

"It's sort of a double whammy," said Sen. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), a Cuban native
who is among the GOP's most visible Hispanic leaders. Under Bush's leadership,
he said in an interview, "our party has shown a very welcoming approach to the
emerging Hispanic vote." However, he said, "there obviously are those who feel
that's not important. . . . I think there could be great political risks to
becoming the party of exclusion and not a party of inclusion."

While the stalemate over immigration legislation will be difficult to break,
House leaders predict they eventually will quell the conservative rebellion over
the Voting Rights Act and reauthorize the law for 25 years.

But the depth of House GOP support for English-only policies was demonstrated
Wednesday night, when an overwhelming majority of Republicans voted to end
funding for the bilingual ballots provision. The effort, led by Rep. Cliff
Stearns (R-Fla.), failed only because 192 Democrats joined 61 Republicans to
vote against it.

The actions have embarrassed the White House and inflamed many Latinos.

"It's offensive and insulting," said Cecilia Muñoz, vice president for policy
for the National Council of La Raza, the nation's largest Latino civil rights
and advocacy group. She said the national Republican Party is running "a real
risk" of replicating the blunder that began unraveling the California GOP in
1994.

That's when then-Gov. Pete Wilson (R) backed a ballot initiative barring illegal
immigrants from attending public schools or receiving social services. The
ensuing uproar drove hundreds of thousands of Latino voters into Democrats'
arms. The state has backed Democratic presidential and senatorial nominees ever
since.

"That is exactly the danger that is facing Republicans today," Muñoz said. She
praised Bush, Republican National Committee Chairman Ken Mehlman and others who
"know that immigrant-bashing is disastrous to the future of their party  --  and
they're right."

Peter Zamora, legislative attorney for the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, said he believes that House leaders will manage to salvage the
Voting Rights Act renewal. However, he said, "it will be a political challenge
to explain tabling the Voting Rights Act to the Latino community if action isn't
taken very soon."

Both parties are energetically courting the nation's burgeoning Hispanic
population, which will become increasingly important as more second- and
third-generation Latinos get involved in politics, and as more immigrants attain
citizenship and the right to vote.

Most Latino voters lean Democratic, but Republicans have long felt they can chip
away at that advantage. Bush  --  who has advocated social services and pathways
to legal status for illegal immigrants since he was governor of Texas  --  took
40 percent of the Hispanic vote in 2004 after winning 34 percent in 2000,
according to exit polls. In league with Mehlman, political adviser Karl Rove and
others, Bush has urged his party to pursue Latino voters in numbers that could
help keep Democrats in the minority for decades.

But some GOP activists say the drive is being undermined by the
Republican-controlled House's tough stance on immigration and the flap over
voting rights.

Many Southern House Republicans have long objected to the Voting Rights Act's
requirement that their states obtain Justice Department approval for an array of
voting activities. Last week, in a closed GOP caucus meeting, they were joined
by colleagues from throughout the country who object to a measure added in 1975
that requires ballots or interpreters to be available in a number of foreign
languages in places where census reports found a need for language help.

"Multilingual ballots divide our country, increase the risk of voter error and
fraud, and burden local taxpayers," said a letter signed by nearly 80 House
Republicans and authored by Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa).

The 2000 Census found that nearly 41 percent of all Hispanic persons 5 years and
older spoke English less than "very well," and those eligible to vote needed
language assistance.

John Bueno, a Republican from Michigan, is president of the National Association
of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, which was meeting in Dallas last week
when news of the voting rights flap broke. "My first reaction was, 'My God, here
we are, it's 2006, and we're still dealing with this issue,' " Bueno said.
"Mainstream Republicans are frustrated right now with what's going on in
Congress."

Latino Democrats, meanwhile, can hardly believe how Bush's overtures are being
thwarted by his own party. By stressing English-only policies and stumbling on
the immigration and Voting Rights Act issues, congressional Republicans "either
made the best case for switching the Congress from Republican to Democratic
control, or they made the best case for their own incompetence," said Pedro
Colón, a Wisconsin legislator who attended the Dallas convention. "As a
Democrat, I'm really optimistic about our opportunities."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              169 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Let's Get A Border Deal Done

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: Editorial; A25

LENGTH: 782 words


The immigration bills passed by the House and Senate in recent months could
hardly be more different. The House package is harsh, punitive and focused
exclusively on tougher enforcement. The Senate bill balances toughness with
pragmatism by including provisions to admit the workers we need to keep our
economy growing and deal with the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants
already in the country.

The prospect of reconciling the two bills has always looked difficult  --  the
legislative equivalent of marrying a giraffe and a hippopotamus. As part of
their maneuvering for position, House Republicans declared that they wouldn't
even negotiate until they had  held a series of special hearings on immigration.
And despite signs of softening in recent days, even hints of possible agreement
on a phased solution, the House is still going ahead with its hearings. Yet
this, I believe, may not be such a bad thing.

Why would I say that? After all, the details on the hearings leave little doubt
about the House's intentions: to look tough and  --  let's put it charitably  --
skeptical about immigration, both legal and illegal. Many of the sessions are
scheduled for border states, where frustration about illegal immigration runs
highest. And they will address  such subjects as retroactive Social Security
benefits for illegal immigrants, whether state and local law enforcement should
be empowered to arrest illegal immigrants  without other cause, whether existing
border enforcement is tough enough, and English as the official language  --
all subjects guaranteed to rub raw the public's irritation.

Still, as every American TV viewer knows, no one, no matter how savvy,
ultimately succeeds in controlling the message in our great, garrulous media.
House immigration naysayers may believe that they can use the hearings to stir
voters' bile. But television, national and local, is not just going to air the
sessions. On the contrary, each night's news will bring a debate about
immigration, and the more one-sided the hearings, the more stubbornly the media
will air the other side.

By the end of the summer, the public will have had a long, thorough course on
immigration. And as someone who spends a lot of time speaking to audiences on
the subject, I'm convinced that this will only deepen viewers' pragmatism.
They'll start to look more closely at who these foreigners are  --  and see that
most are hard-working, churchgoing people with families. Voters will also start
to think harder about enforcement  --  about what  is practical and what isn't.
And by the end of the summer, they will be, if anything, hungrier for a solution
--  less patient with grandstanding efforts to block a bill.

The debate won't, of course, convince the angriest voters  --  the ones who want
to seal the border and deport or drive out illegal immigrants. That 20 to 25
percent of the public  --  and poll after poll shows that's how strong they are,
no more, no less  --  is probably not open to persuasion. But what the
discussion could do is energize some of the other 75 percent: voters who, most
surveys show, are more pragmatic  --  including being willing to legalize the 12
million  --  though generally less intense in their beliefs and less likely to
voice or vote on them.

And new energy among moderates could in turn shift the balance among House
Republicans, strengthening practical, problem-solving members as against those
who think their ticket to reelection is signaling that they dislike immigrants.
Of course this strategy will work only if there are indeed some pragmatists
among House Republicans. But I believe they  are there, including in leadership:
members who see the summer's hearings less as a means to stop the Senate bill
than as a way to mollify and manage the immigration naysayers in their caucus.

In the end, it will depend on what the electorate seems to want most. Do
Americans want Congress to take action on this year's No. 1 domestic issue, or
would they rather see candidates standing pat on a party line? A recent
Manhattan Institute poll of likely Republican voters left little doubt: 72
percent thought it was very or extremely important for Congress to come to grips
with immigration this year, and though 39 percent believed  the Senate package
was amnesty, 75 percent still favored it. They want a solution that badly.

Neither party yet seems to recognize this deepening public desire for the
government to try governing. But that's exactly the point about a summer of
debate about immigration. Come September, the public's hunger for a solution may
be impossible to ignore.

The writer is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              170 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 14, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Hispanics Cite Rise In Discrimination;
Immigration Debate Is Called a Factor

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 606 words


Hispanics believe  that discrimination has risen since the start of the
congressional debate over illegal immigration, according to a survey released
yesterday.

But they also think their group is more galvanized after  the pro-immigration
marches that resulted from the debate, and many believe they are on the verge of
a major social movement, according to the survey by the Pew Hispanic Center.

"Nothing produces a sense of unity more than a common threat," said Roberto
Suro, the center's director. "Feeling like you all face the same problem really
brings people together. You can see that happening in these results."

In a departure from past polls, both native and foreign-born respondents said
they feel empowered to create change. Fifty-eight percent said they believe that
Hispanics, though coming from a  variety of national, ethnic, cultural and
political backgrounds, are working to reach similar political goals.

In a 2002 survey,  nearly half  said Hispanics were not striving toward a common
political objective.

The 2006 survey, conducted by telephone for a month starting in June, was
described by the center as the first major opinion poll of the Hispanic
population since the policy debate and marches in April and May.

In December,   Republicans and some Democrats in the House approved a plan to
build a wall at the Mexican border, increase patrols and work toward expelling
many of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants.

Illegal immigrants and their supporters poured into the streets by the millions
for demonstrations. A bipartisan  group of  senators eventually introduced
legislation that would allow illegal immigrants to pay a fine and stay in the
United States while strengthening border enforcement. President Bush favored the
latter plan.

Congress has yet to approve either plan. Meanwhile, Hispanic leaders have vowed
that if illegal immigrants are threatened with expulsion, they will take further
action with boycotts, demonstrations and increased voting among those who are
eligible.   Some opponents of illegal immigration have promised to protest
against political leniency with their vote in the midterm elections in November.

In the survey, three-quarters of respondents said more Hispanics will vote in
those elections. The percentages did not waver much between foreign-born
Hispanics (74 percent) and native-born ones (76 percent).

But there is indecision over which party to vote for, the survey shows. Although
most Hispanics in the survey believe  that Democrats have taken the better
position on the immigration issue, the party is not favored by much.

Thirty-seven percent said Democrats have more concern for Hispanics, compared
with 9  percent for Republicans. Another 37 percent said there is  no difference
between the parties in their attitudes about Hispanics.

"It's not surprising that this does not translate cleanly into partisan terms,"
Suro said. "Both parties are divided."

Among native-born Hispanics, opinion was almost evenly split between those who
favored  Democrats (42 percent) and those who said there was no difference (40
percent).

More than half of Hispanics  --  54 percent  --  who responded to the Pew
Hispanic Center's survey reported discrimination, although the survey did not
describe the types of bias they encountered. Foreign-born Hispanics who could be
ousted from the country if tough  legislation against illegal immigrants in the
House passes were far more likely to say discrimination is a major problem.

"This isn't just an immigrant thing," Suro said. "It's clearly affected the
native-born and foreign-born population."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              171 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 15, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Bribery At Border Worries Officials;
Mexican Smugglers Intensify Efforts to Entice U.S. Agents

BYLINE: John Pomfret, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1364 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Federal law enforcement officials are investigating a series of bribery and
smuggling cases in what they fear is a sign of increased corruption among
officers who patrol the Mexican border.

Two brothers who worked for the U.S. Border Patrol disappeared in June while
under investigation for smuggling drugs and immigrants, and are believed to have
fled to Mexico. In the past month, two agents from Customs and Border
Protection, which guards border checkpoints, were indicted for taking bribes to
allow illegal immigrants to enter the United States. And earlier this month, two
Border Patrol supervisory agents pleaded guilty to accepting nearly $200,000 in
payoffs to release smugglers and illegal immigrants who had been detained.

Authorities say two factors are  causing concern that larger problems may
develop: The massive buildup of Border Patrol agents in recent years has led to
worries that hiring standards have been lowered; and, as smugglers  demand
higher and higher fees to bring illegal immigrants into the United States, their
efforts to  bribe those guarding the border have intensified.

The investigations come at a time when the United States is focused on the
security of its borders. Congress is mulling legislation that would pour
billions of additional dollars into securing the border, including the
construction of hundreds more miles of barriers. The Border Patrol, which has
tripled in size in the past decade, is due to grow 50 percent in the next six
years.

"There is more pressure than ever on smuggling networks to find agents who will
work with them," said Andrew Black, an FBI special agent with the multiagency
Border Corruption Task Force in San Diego. "As a result, there's tremendous
temptation for someone who is less than honest to work with them. Someone who is
working on the border can make their salary in a couple of nights."

While the main corruption problem along the border is still among Mexican law
enforcement officials, there have been numerous arrests of U.S. officers, too.

Last year in Texas, for example, 10 federal agents were charged with or
convicted of taking bribes from drug dealers or human smugglers. Also last year,
a U.S. Justice Department operation arrested 17 current or former military and
law enforcement officers who were paid $220,000 by undercover agents to allow
counterfeit drugs to cross into Arizona. In 2004 and 2005, federal authorities
in Arizona uncovered numerous relationships, including marriages, between Border
Patrol agents and Latina women illegally in the United States.

"The smugglers have binoculars and spotters, you name it," said James Wong, who
heads the Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Office of Professional
Responsibility in San Diego, which investigates corruption allegations. "They
scan the line looking for a weak inspector, someone, for example, who likes to
flirt with women. And then they will send a test person, a chatty female. She
shows up and says, 'My friend needs to visit a doctor, but she doesn't have
papers, can you help?' They will get friendly, and before you know it, they own
the employee."

Despite the recent spate of cases around San Diego, the number of federal
corruption cases against agents from Customs and Border Protection and the
Border Patrol has not increased since the 2004 fiscal year, according to Kristi
Clemens, assistant commissioner of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection in
Washington. So far in fiscal 2006, there have been nine cases. There were 21 the
year before and 22 in 2004.

"The bottom line is: If corruption happens anywhere, we're concerned about it,
but it's not an upward trend," Clemens said in a telephone interview.

But interviews with other federal law enforcement officials, security experts
and a Border Patrol union official paint a less rosy picture.

They note that the Department of Homeland Security can provide only two years of
full statistics. There are no data before 2004, because Customs and Border
Protection was formed in 2003, when the Customs Bureau and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service were merged and divided into several new parts.

While the number of cases referred for prosecution may not have increased, the
massive influx of new recruits onto the border is of concern to investigators,
said one senior official involved in corruption cases at the border. The Border
Patrol is now the nation's largest law enforcement agency, with more than 11,000
personnel, and continues to expand.

"The feeling is with the pressure to hire more individuals to monitor the
border, perhaps the weeding-out process has not been as diligent as it should
be," said the official, who requested anonymity because he was talking about
another federal agency.

Last year, Border Patrol agent Oscar Antonio Ortiz pleaded guilty to conspiring
to smuggle 100 people into the country. Authorities discovered that Ortiz was an
illegal immigrant born in Mexico, having used a false birth certificate to pass
himself off as a U.S. citizen.

More than 90 percent of U.S. law enforcement agencies use psychological tests or
polygraphs in their recruiting, but the Border Patrol does not. Kevin Gilmartin,
a Tucson-based law enforcement consultant who has worked with the FBI and local
law enforcement for two decades, said the Border Patrol must raise its standards
and administer polygraph tests.

"If a local law enforcement agency used the hiring practices of the Border
Patrol, I am confident that it would be found negligent," Gilmartin said. "And
it's highly doubtful that a local city police officer would compromise national
security. But a corrupt border patrol agent is clearly capable of affecting
national security."

Customs and Border Protection's Clemens defended the agency's recruiting, saying
that only one in 30 applicants to the Border Patrol is accepted after screening.
"We think our screening process is pretty rigorous," she said.

T.J. Bonner, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, the union that
represents Border Patrol agents, said, contrary to the statistics, corruption is
increasing among the rank and file, but the agency does not welcome
whistle-blowers.

"People are told to shut up and not make waves," he said. "It's my impression
that things are worsening, not to the degree that should cause people to lose
trust in the agency. But I think that it's to the degree that the agency needs
to take a long, hard, inward look and try to uncover the causes of this recent
trend."

Bonner said a 2004 study, commissioned in part by his union, showed a
significant morale problem among agents for the Border Patrol and Customs and
Border Protection. In the survey of 500 agents, by Peter D. Hart Research
Associates, the results of which were challenged by the Department of Homeland
Security, 60 percent said morale was low to very low. Four out of nine said they
had considered leaving in the past year. And while nine out of 10 said stopping
terrorists was now a big part of their job, the majority said they had not been
given the tools and training to do the job.

"Morale is the lowest I've ever seen, and I've been around for 28 years," Bonner
said.

The Border Patrol agents who disappeared in June were brothers Raul and Fidel
Villarreal. Before they disappeared, Raul Villarreal had been angry with the
agency about the transfer policy, according to a former colleague, who requested
anonymity because the men are under investigation.

Raul was based in Mexico for several years. While there, he made public-service
announcements for Mexican television about the dangers of dealing with
smugglers, known as coyotes. With his looks, Villarreal played the role  --
ironically in light of the corruption investigation  --  of a coyote.

He had recently been transferred back to the United States from Mexico City and
was back "on the line," working the border, the colleague said. "He seemed
pretty upset about it," he said. "And this is a guy who used to love the Border
Patrol."

Authorities, though, said the brothers are fugitives now and that officials are
actively looking for them  --  and whoever tipped them off to the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              172 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Greater Support for the Senate's Immigration Plan

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 262 words


In his July 6 op-ed column, "A Senate 'Terrorist Loophole,' " Robert D. Novak
makes the oft-repeated but unsubstantiated claim that "the polls show clear
public preference for the House bill." That's not true.

Nearly two-thirds (63 percent) of respondents in a recent nationwide  Post-ABC
News poll agreed with the Senate bill that undocumented immigrants who have
lived in our country for a certain number of years should be allowed to apply
for legal status and eventually become citizens.

Only 14 percent favor a plan that would force the undocumented to return to
their home countries, as the House bill would require. A Time magazine poll in
January found that 76 percent of Americans favor allowing illegal immigrants now
in this country to earn U.S. citizenship if they learn to speak English, have a
job and pay taxes.

Republicans stand behind such a plan. A Tarrance Group poll last month found
that 75 percent of likely Republican voters support immigration reform that
would allow illegal immigrants to receive a temporary-worker permit and then
progress toward citizenship. Only 17 percent of likely Republican voters opposed
this plan.

Although Mr. Novak is right to identify potential problems in the recently
passed immigration bills, the House-Senate conference committee will need to fix
such shortcomings rather than reject either bill in its entirety.

Americans clearly support a rational, compassionate and practical solution to
our immigration woes  --  best exemplified in the Senate bill.

JIM KOLBE

U.S. Representative (R-Ariz.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              173 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

GOP Fears Fallout Of Immigration Split;
Fight May Weaken Party, Some Say

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 1144 words


They monitor the same polls and national debate over immigration, yet House
Republicans are reaching dramatically different conclusions from President Bush
and Senate GOP leaders regarding which political and policy routes to take, a
disagreement that may haunt their party in years to come.

House Republicans overwhelmingly favor a get-tough approach that deals only with
tightening the U.S. border with Mexico and bolstering efforts to capture and
deport illegal immigrants. With time growing short for a compromise, House
members appear more wedded to their stand than ever and have held hearings that
ridicule the approach taken by Bush and the Senate.

The Senate bill would tighten borders but also provide an expanded guest-worker
program and opportunities for many of the nation's estimated 11 million illegal
immigrants to achieve legal status, possibly including citizenship.

House Republicans reject the approach as "amnesty" that rewards lawbreakers.

Both camps say they are right not only on the issue's substance but also on its
politics. Each group claims to have the Republican Party's best interests at
heart. By definition, both  cannot be right, and if the party misplays its hand
on the volatile issue, the consequences could be dire, according to a variety of
politicians.

"If we lose a generation of Hispanic immigrants, the Republican Party will be a
minority party for a long time," said Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), a chief sponsor
of the Senate bill.  That is what will happen if the House approach prevails, he
predicts, and things  will not be much better if the House and Senate fail to
reach a compromise before the November election.

Americans "want this problem resolved," Hagel said, and if it is not, "the
Republicans, I believe, will be blamed, because we control the process."

House GOP leaders are equally convinced that they are the ones reading the
political winds correctly and saving their party from a harsh voter backlash.

"I believe that the American people are much closer to where the House is,"
Majority Leader John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) said last week. Asked how veteran,
successful politicians from the same party could assess the situation so
differently, Boehner replied: "I wish I knew."

It is not the first time the GOP-controlled House and Senate have clashed, but
in most cases Bush has been aligned with the House. That was true during
protracted debates over renewing the USA Patriot Act, curbing interrogation
techniques allowed on military detainees, and limiting the number of pet
projects added to a spending bill for the Iraq war and Hurricane Katrina
recovery. Bush also sided with the House in seeking constitutional bans on flag
desecration and same-sex marriage, which the Senate rejected.

In all those cases, Bush and the House took more conservative stands than did
the Senate. But in the immigration debate, Bush is aligned with the more liberal
Senate position  --   which most GOP Senate leaders embraced but most
rank-and-file Republicans opposed  --  because of a philosophy and goal he
shares with Hagel, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and others.

Since his days as Texas governor, Bush has advocated comparatively generous
treatment of illegal immigrants who work hard and avoid trouble. He and
political advisers such as Karl Rove dream of bolstering the GOP well into the
future by attracting large numbers of Latinos, the fastest-growing segment of
the American electorate.

Many elected officials and political analysts say inherent differences between
House and Senate members also help explain their approaches to immigration.
House members must defend their seats every other year, and are much more likely
than senators to have a homogenous constituency with clearly defined views on a
matter such as immigration.

Senators have a six-year break between campaigns, and represent entire states
that typically have a broader mix of urban, rural, conservative and liberal
voters. Senators are far more likely than House members to have presidential
aspirations, which prompt a more national approach to politics.

"It's the difference between long term and short term," said Sen. John Thune
(R-S.D.), who spent six years in the House and who opposed the Senate bill.
"House members think about November, because they run every two years."

With their majority status at risk this fall, Thune said, House Republicans are
taking a hard line on immigration because "it generates a lot of emotion,"
especially among conservative voters, whose turnout will be crucial.

House Republicans "are probably right in the short term," Thune said. But for
Bush and Rove, he said, "the question is, 'How can we reach out to a group that
is the fastest-growing segment?' "

Four key GOP backers of the Senate bill  --   Hagel, McCain, Sam Brownback
(Kan.) and Majority Leader Bill Frist (Tenn.)  --   have presidential ambitions.
"They, like Bush and Rove, think about the long-term fate of the GOP and the
importance of Latinos," said Thomas E. Mann, a Brookings Institution scholar and
co-author of a new book on Congress.

Senators say most polls support their position. A New York Times/CBS poll in May
found that 61 percent of Americans think illegal immigrants who have lived and
worked in the United States for at least two years should be given a chance to
keep their jobs and eventually apply for legal status; 35 percent agreed with
the House's position that they should be deported.

In a recent Manhattan Institute poll of likely Republican voters, 72 percent
said it was extremely or very important "for Congress to solve the problem of
illegal immigration this year." Yet the two chambers appear deadlocked.

Rep. Jack Kingston (R-Ga.) says such surveys miss the point. "I think the Senate
probably is reading the polls," he said, "but I think the House members are
listening to real people in real situations. . . .  People keep saying: border
security, biometric cards [to prove legal status] and no amnesty."

Some lawmakers hope for a compromise in which tougher border enforcement
eventually would trigger a broader guest-worker program and legal status for
some of the undocumented workers already here. But Rep. Eric I. Cantor (R-Va.)
is dubious.

"I think the frustration level is so high," he said. "If you are talking about
triggers now  --   without having proven you can control the border  --   the
question is, trigger what? Trigger amnesty?"

The Senate also shows little appetite for compromise. "I don't think the Senate
will go for anything that is not comprehensive in nature," Hagel said. He fears
that the debate and impasse are driving his party toward serious trouble with
Latino and non-Latino voters alike.

"We are seen by too many as an intolerant party," Hagel said. "And the majority
of Americans are not going to elect intolerant representatives."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              174 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 18, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Try Enforcing the Law Right Here

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 181 words


Julie Myers, assistant secretary of homeland security for immigration and
customs enforcement, gave a fine endorsement of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement's new tactic of fighting illegal immigration ["Cracking Down on
Borders and Bosses," op-ed, July 8]. However, I do not think Ms. Myers, her
agency or the Bush administration is serious about enforcing the employment and
labor laws in this country. If they are, they should dispatch agents to various
known day-laborer sites in the Washington area and arrest the many "employers"
in pickup trucks who are definitely not examining papers as laborers are jumping
in to be transported to a job site.

When Immigration and Customs Enforcement can actually enforce the laws right
here, in its back yard, I will believe that it is taking its responsibilities
seriously. Until real enforcement takes effect, no amnesty, temporary worker
program or path to citizenship for illegal immigrants will make a dent in the
problem of people illegally crossing our borders and employers illegally hiring
them.

MARY HELEN AMERY

Montgomery Village

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              175 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 19, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 436 words


After more than 50 congressional hearings on immigration, lawmakers complained
yesterday about the prospect of even more hearings in a House-Senate standoff
over how to deter illegal immigrants.

House Republicans have called for six more hearings this month  --  and possibly
more in August. The hearings began after the Senate passed a bipartisan
immigration bill offering a chance at citizenship to millions of illegal
immigrants.

The latest round of hearings has been criticized as a political maneuver to
delay immigration legislation and to help Republican candidates in an election
year.  A Republican joined the criticism yesterday.

"They ought to be called faux hearings," said Rep. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.). Flake
sponsored an unsuccessful House bill that, like the Senate's measure, would
offer some amnesty.

Republican leaders made no attempt to hide their disdain for the Senate bill.

Three witnesses testifying on behalf of Republicans criticized the Senate bill,
and the lone witness for Democrats, Rep. Silvestre Reyes of Texas, the only
member of Congress to serve in the Border Patrol, supported it.

Democrats launched an ad yesterday criticizing Ohio Republican Sen. Mike DeWine
for using images from the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in a television
campaign against his Democratic rival.

In the DeWine ad, which began airing last week, the Republican accused
Democratic Rep. Sherrod Brown of being soft on terrorism. The statewide ad
showed photographs of the World Trade Center towers burning after terrorists
struck and images of the 19 people accused of hijacking the planes.

Democrats responded with their own statewide spot in which an announcer says:
"It's sad: Mike DeWine exploiting images of 9/11 to smear Sherrod Brown."

Two senators want to require drugmakers  to meet with the Food and Drug
Administration annually for three years after new products are approved  to
monitor safety, and would fine companies that do not  complete safety studies.

Mike Enzi, a Wyoming Republican who leads the Senate health committee, and
Democrat Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts yesterday released a draft proposal
of a bill that would give the FDA new authority to police drugs that are on the
market. The plan would be paid for with higher company fees.

Their proposal, which may be introduced before the Senate recesses in August,
comes amid complaints that companies frequently fail to conduct follow-up safety
studies ordered by the FDA.

The Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee posted a draft of the
proposal on its Web site.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              176 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 25, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Long Flight of No Return;
Illegal Immigrants Are Deported From Va. to Native Countries

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1245 words


The passengers settled uncomfortably into the narrow seats of the Boeing 737 as
a woman in a blue uniform launched into the pre-flight safety speech that has
become a ritual of modern air travel.

But her tone made it clear that she was no flight attendant, and this was no
ordinary flight.

"Keep your seat belts on at all times. Don't touch any of the buttons above your
head, and don't touch the window shades," the woman, a U.S. marshal, commanded
in Spanish. "Once we're in the air, we'll give you something to eat, and then
you can go to the bathroom -- with permission. Did you hear me?"

The passengers  --  105 men shackled at the wrists and the ankles -- grumbled
their assent. Then they peered out the thick, blurry windows for a last glimpse
of Virginia. Once, they had been hopeful newcomers to the United States. Now,
they were about to leave for good on a deportation flight for illegal immigrants
run by the Department of Homeland Security.

As the plane began to hurtle down the runway, many of them let out a cheer. It
was their first time on an airplane.

In seat 7A, Jose de Jesus Galea, 37, stared morosely out his window, unmoved.
The burly Salvadoran pet store owner had called Virginia home for 21 years. It
seemed incredible, he said later, that he would never again see the flat,
forested landscape that was receding rapidly from view.

Just as strange was the thought that he would soon be back in a country he last
saw when he was 17. The year was 1985, El Salvador was in the throes of civil
war, and Galea had just been discharged from one of the army's most ruthless
battalions. Pressed into service when he was 14, Galea said he was taught to
torture the unit's captives by pushing needles under their fingernails. He had
buried innocent civilians alive, and he was haunted by guilty flashbacks of
their screams. Now he was being deported back because of a drunken assault.

Deportation is a fate that befalls only a fraction of illegal immigrants, though
such flights may become commonplace if some of the more restrictive immigration
reforms pending in Congress are adopted.

Although U.S. authorities turn away or deport more than 1.6 million people
attempting to cross the border illegally every year, once an immigrant manages
to sneak into U.S. territory, the chances of getting caught are minimal. In
2004, the most recent year for which statistics are available, authorities
deported only 104,000 immigrants who had been in the United States for three
days or longer before they were apprehended. That's less than 1 percent of the
nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

Those who are deported often come to the attention of immigration officials only
because they commit a crime. Authorities in the Washington area often wait until
they have a critical mass of deportees, then charter a plane to fly them to a
detention facility near the U.S. border for final transport to their home
countries.

Such was the case with the men aboard the somewhat worn, plain white aircraft
rolling onto the runway at Dulles International Airport one recent afternoon,
its destination Alexandria, La.

Watching over them were 16 marshals, who had reason to be wary. About 45 percent
of the deportees had been convicted of violent crimes. Others had committed
offenses as minor as public drunkenness. Although most were Salvadorans, there
were natives of the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Guatemala, Jamaica and Honduras.

The men's appearance was as diverse as their backgrounds. There were fresh-faced
teenagers wearing baggy jeans that drooped around their ankles because the
marshals had confiscated their belts. There was an older man dressed in a deeply
rumpled business suit that made him seem at once dignified and pathetic.

And stretching a long leg into the aisle from seat 9C was Oscar Barilla, 25,
whose chest and back were tattooed with the gothic letters and fearsome symbols
of his gang, Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13. Barilla consented to be photographed
for this article, but, like the other 15 gang members aboard, he refused to be
interviewed.

Galea, the pet store owner, said that after he sneaked into the United States,
he found in Virginia not only the psychological help he was seeking after the
atrocities of El Salvador's civil war, but also a fresh start. He was granted
political asylum and started working in a cafeteria. He said he enrolled in
night school and received a high school diploma, then a bachelor's degree in
theology. He married a U.S. citizen and had a son.

But he also garnered a series of convictions for drunken driving. Then, one
evening in 2002, he broke a window to get into his house. His wife called 911.

Galea maintained that his wife mistakenly thought an intruder was in the house.
The commonwealth's attorney said that when police arrived, Galea's wife told
them that Galea was drunk and that she was concerned because he was upstairs in
bed with their son and might be molesting the boy.

When the officers entered the bedroom, a scuffle ensued. Galea said he had been
confused and was acting in self-defense. Unconvinced, a jury convicted him of
assaulting and unlawfully wounding two officers -- securing Galea a four-year
prison sentence and a seat on the deportation flight afterward. "I will miss
everything about the United States," Galea said with a sigh. "I had my whole
life here."

In the rear of the plane, in seat 17B, Tulio Estrada was lamenting not how much
he was leaving behind, but how little.

The 25-year-old prep cook said he had been full of plans when he stole in from
Guatemala. He was going to earn enough to pay a doctor to cure his mother's
aches and his little brother's mental illness. He was going to save up enough to
buy a small business or maybe some land back in Guatemala. Nine years later, he
was still living in a one-bedroom rental apartment in Arlington with two other
men, barely earning enough to send his mother money for basic expenses.

One evening last fall, Estrada said, he went to a wedding reception and got into
a drunken fight. Someone called police. Now he was being shipped back to
Guatemala in the same white polo shirt and work pants he was wearing when he was
arrested. Like the rest of the passengers, he carried no other possessions save
for a red mesh sack the size of a pillowcase packed with a change of underwear,
a Bible and shampoo.

"Sure, I had planned on returning to Guatemala someday. But not like this  --
with nothing," he said sadly.

The plane reached cruising altitude. Several marshals began passing out box
lunches.

Rafael Llano, a tall Dominican with dreadlocks, took his box with a scowl. A
resident of the United States since he was 8, Llano said he felt out of place on
the flight.

"I went to school here. My mom, my dad, all my brothers live here," Llano, 22,
said in unaccented English. "I'm as American as the president. The only
difference between us is that he has a piece of paper proving it. It makes me so
angry."

Llano said he was a permanent resident but lost that privilege when was
convicted on drug charges and sentenced to five years in prison. Now, he said,
"I'm going to a place where I'm a stranger, where I don't know nothing from
nothing."

He did not plan on staying long. "I have to find my way back. I have three kids
there. I have no choice."

The plane began its descent. A hush fell over the passengers. It touched down
with a gentle bump. This time, there were no cheers.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              177 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 25, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Bill Aims to Bridge Republican Divide

BYLINE: Jim VandeHei and Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 700 words


In an attempt to strike a pre-election Republican compromise on immigration, two
conservative lawmakers will unveil a plan today that would allow most of the 11
million illegal immigrants in the United States a chance to work here legally,
but only after the government certifies that U.S. borders have been sufficiently
secured, two congressional aides said.

The proposal  --  sponsored by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (Tex.) and Rep. Mike
Pence (Ind.)  --  would pressure illegal immigrants to "self-deport" to their
home countries within two years of the law's enactment and apply for a new kind
of visa that would allow them to return to the United States quickly and work
legally if a job awaits them. They would have to work here for 17 years,
however, to be eligible for U.S. citizenship.

The plan, which has received mixed reviews from those briefed on it, is aimed at
unifying Republicans on an issue that has bitterly divided them for months and
threatens to damage the party in future elections.

The stringent rules for illegal immigrants are certain to draw bipartisan
opposition from those who favor a quicker and easier path to citizenship.
Additionally, conservatives who favor legislation to secure the border this year
and delay action on guest workers and the citizenship question are also expected
to oppose it.

The Washington Post was provided an advance copy of the proposal.

Hutchison and Pence consider it the foundation for a possible compromise between
the Senate, which voted for a plan that would provide a new path to citizenship,
and the House, which has demanded that Congress focus only on securing borders
for now. Former House majority leader Richard K. Armey (R-Tex.), a critic of the
Senate bill, said the new proposal could be "a bridge between the two bodies."

Armey, former House speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) and former Republican National
Committee chairman Ed Gillespie were briefed on the plan in hopes that they
would help build pressure on skeptical lawmakers, the aides said. White House
officials, including presidential adviser Karl Rove, have been told of the
framework but not the details. A Republican close to the White House said
President Bush "won't be crazy about it, but I think he would sign it."

The impasse will not be easy to break. The push for a pre-election compromise
has lost its sense of urgency, as both sides privately calculate that no deal
might be the best politics and produce the best policy.

Hutchison and Pence think they can bridge the divide. They will emphasize that
immigration laws will not be changed until the president certifies that the
borders are secure, the congressional aides said. The plan includes the most
popular security measures that have passed the House and Senate, including new
border fences, additional enforcement personnel and bigger detention facilities.

The government would spend about two years instituting the security changes.
U.S. companies would open Ellis Island-type centers in many countries to process
applications for a new kind of work visa, known as the Good Neighbor SAFE
(Secure Authorized Foreign Employee) visa. The government would create
tamper-proof identification cards that contain personal information and
biometric technology designed to minimize fraud. Illegal immigrants would be
required to return to their home countries and apply for the SAFE visa. They
would undergo criminal background checks and health screenings and would need to
prove that a U.S. job awaits them.

The new visa would be offered only to immigrants from countries that are part of
trade pacts covering Canada, Mexico and most of Central America. The SAFE visas
would be good for two years and could be renewed five times, for a total stay of
12 years. At any point, the holders could return to their home countries and
apply for U.S. citizenship without paying a fine or back taxes. But they would
have to wait in line.

Illegal immigrants could extend their stay beyond 12 years by applying for a
five-year X-Change visa, which requires a job and a clean record. After 17 years
in the system, X-Change visa-holders could go through the citizenship process
without leaving the United States.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              178 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Reality, Not 'Railing,' on Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 317 words


Eugene Robinson says I "rail" at Mexico for encouraging illegal immigration to
the United States and asks "what right does the Mexican government have to stop"
its citizens from leaving ["Secure Borders: The Cuban Solution," op-ed, July
14]? This comparison is beyond apples and oranges; one has nothing to do with
the other.

First, it is illegal in Mexico to leave the country except at designated places.
But more important than Mexico's exit policies is the Mexican government's
well-documented assault on our sovereignty by its encouragement to  its citizens
to head north. The encouragement goes far beyond "practical advice" to avoid
dying in the desert, including recommendations for evading detection once inside
our country (such as to "avoid loud parties"). How about this reported directive
from Ernesto Ruffo Appel when he was commissioner for northern border affairs in
Mexico: "If the Border Patrol agent finds you, try again."

To deny that the Mexican government actively encourages illegal immigration is
silly. Mexico acts this way because it is hooked on the $20 billion in annual
remittances from Mexicans working in the United States  --  more than it earns
from tourism or foreign investment and perhaps economically more important than
its state-owned oil industry.

Also, Mr. Robinson asks readers to imagine how horrible it would be if to leave
the United States, we had to "ask permission from government officers who could
arbitrarily say no, you're not going anywhere." He should try getting on a plane
to any number of foreign destinations without his passport or a visa and see
what happens.

As for the gratuitous "xenophobe" gibe  against me, maybe Mr. Robinson could
explain how he squares that with my call for a substantial increase in legal
immigration. The issue is not immigration, but illegal immigration.

J.D. HAYWORTH

U.S. Representative (R-Ariz.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              179 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 28, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

House GOP Plans Hearings In 13 States on Border Security

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 208 words


House Republican leaders said yesterday that they will hold 21 hearings across
the country through August to build support for tough border security measures
to curb illegal immigration.

House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) and Majority Leader John A. Boehner
(R-Ohio) said the hearings will take place in 13 states, including states along
the border with Canada.

"Almost everywhere that I travel around the country, illegal immigration's a top
concern," said Hastert, who recently visited the U.S. border with Mexico. "It's
a top concern among Americans because they want our southern and our northern
borders to be secure."

As with earlier hearings sponsored by House Republicans, the latest round will
highlight problems they see with Senate legislation that would give millions of
illegal immigrants a chance to earn U.S. citizenship.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) called the hearings an election-year campaign
gimmick that stands in the way of completing legislation.

"These are campaign events driven by the right wing of the Republican Party, not
true hearings," Kennedy said. "They think their enforcement-only plan will help
them at the ballot box in November, but security experts agree that it can't fix
our broken system."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              180 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 6, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 582 words


PHOENIX  --  One of the two suspects in a series of apparently random late-night
killings discarded a trash bag in which police found a map with red and blue
dots representing the locations of the attacks, court documents said.

The bag also contained an expended .410-gauge shotgun shell and a piece of paper
referring to serial violence, according to a probable cause statement released
Friday night.

The trash bag had been tossed into a bin at the suburban Mesa apartment complex
where Dale S. Hausner and Samuel John Dieteman lived, the report said. The men,
accused of shooting two dozen people, killing six, were arrested late Thursday
after police tailed them for a week.

At an initial court appearance Friday night, Hausner, 33, and Dieteman, 30, were
ordered jailed without bond for investigation of two counts of first-degree
murder and for investigation of 13 counts of attempted first-degree murder.
Their preliminary hearings were set for Aug. 14, and the court assigned them
attorneys.

*  President Bush said overhaul of immigration policies must begin with border
security and must include a guest-worker program and a means for many
undocumented workers in the United States to gain legal status. "When immigrants
assimilate, they advance in our society, realize their dreams and add to the
unity of America," Bush said in his weekly radio address. "We can fix the
problem of illegal immigration and deliver an immigration system that is
rational and compassionate."

*  A failed Republican attempt to tie an estate-tax cut to the first federal
minimum wage increase in nearly a decade was "political blackmail" and the
result of "cynical politics," Sen. Ken Salazar (D-Colo.) said. "Working
Americans deserve a raise, but congressional Republicans keep giving them
political tricks," Salazar said in the Democrats' weekly radio address. "We need
a new direction for America, and a new Congress that works for our common good."

*  SANTA CLARA, Calif.  --  U.S. officials abruptly revoked the visas of dozens
of Iranians headed this weekend to Northern California for an academic gathering
about earthquakes, refusing them entry as they landed at U.S. airports. Leaders
of the California-based Sharif University of Technology Association said the
actions were clearly political. A State Department spokeswoman said she could
not discuss the cases but stressed that visa revocations in general are not
politically motivated.

*  COLUMBUS, Ohio  --  Former senator and astronaut John Glenn and his wife were
taken to a hospital with minor injures after being involved in a car accident,
police said. Glenn, 85, and his wife, Annie, 86, were in fair condition at a
Columbus hospital, a nursing supervisor said.

*  NEW ORLEANS  --  The U.S. Attorney's office and the Justice Department's
Civil Rights Division will review last year's blockade of a Mississippi River
bridge by armed police officers who turned back Hurricane Katrina evacuees
trying to flee New Orleans. The announcement came a day after the Orleans Parish
district attorney said the results of a state investigation will go to a parish
grand jury.

*  EL PASO  --  Flash-flood warnings were issued in this waterlogged border city
as rain fell for the 10th consecutive day. Parts of El Paso have received  15
inches of rain since January, with nearly all of that falling last week, said
Roger Mead of the National Weather Service. The city typically receives less
than 10 inches a year.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              181 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A18

LENGTH: 524 words


SALT LAKE CITY  --  Swathed in gauze, twin sisters Kendra and Maliyah Herrin
were rolled from the operating room and moved to separate beds for the first
time in their lives Tuesday, after 26 hours of surgery in which doctors
separated the 4-year-olds and reconstructed their internal organs.

The operation was believed to be the first time that surgeons separated
conjoined twins with a shared kidney, said Rebecka Meyers, chief pediatric
surgeon at Primary Children's Medical Center.

The girls were born fused at the midsection so that they were practically face
to face. They shared a liver, a kidney, a pelvis, one set of legs and part of
their intestines. Surgeons gave each girl one leg, split their liver and
intestines, and reconstructed their bladders and their pelvic rings.

*  YUMA, Ariz.  --  Authorities filed charges against a man believed to be
behind the steering wheel during a rollover crash that killed nine illegal
immigrants and injured a dozen more. Adan Pineda, 20, of Mexico was charged with
one count of transporting illegal aliens, said Russell Ahr, a spokesman for U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. More charges are under consideration. The
vehicle Pineda is alleged to have driven was traveling at least 80 mph when it
overturned near the U.S.-Mexico border, a sheriff's official said. The seats in
the Chevrolet Suburban were down, so the passengers were probably stacked inside
when the accident happened Monday, said Maj. Leon Wilmot of the Yuma County
Sheriff's Office.

*  RALEIGH, N.C.  --  A CIA employee testified that a former CIA contract worker
admitted striking and kicking an Afghan detainee during an interrogation; the
detainee later died. The employee was one of three who testified in disguise and
under assumed names in the assault trial of David Passaro.

*  BAY ST. LOUIS, Miss.  --  The FBI has joined in the search for a woman
charged with murder, accused of dumping hot cooking oil on her sleeping husband.
Police believe that Edna May Sanders, 45, poured about two quarts of household
cooking oil over her husband's head, chest and arms. Sherman Sanders suffered
third-degree burns over more than half of his body and died after a week in a
hospital burn center.

*  HONOLULU  --  The American Bar Association approved a resolution condemning
President Bush's practice of writing exceptions to legislation he signs into
law. Delegates, representing 410,000 members, at the ABA's annual meeting
approved the resolution objecting to any president using "signing statements" as
a way of diluting or changing laws rather than using an outright veto.

*  LAS VEGAS  --  A judge ordered a blood alcohol test for a defense lawyer who
was slurring his words, then declared a mistrial after declaring him too tipsy
to argue a kidnapping case. Clark County District Judge Michelle Leavitt told
Joseph Caramango that the test showed he had a blood alcohol level of 0.075.
Nevada's limit for drivers is 0.08.

*  BOSTON  --  A Big Dig ramp reopened to traffic after a four-week closure. It
had been shut down in the wake of the deadly collapse of a nearby tunnel
ceiling.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              182 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 21, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

In Porous Border, GOP Sees An Opening;
Candidates Take Hard Line To Rally Conservative Base

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1842 words

DATELINE: ORO VALLEY, Ariz.


When 11-term Rep. Jim Kolbe (R-Ariz.) announced his retirement, he bestowed his
endorsement on soft-spoken state Rep. Steve Huffman. Only someone in his own
moderate mold, Kolbe declared, could prevail in a demographically diverse
district stretching from the affluent foothills of the Santa Catalina Mountains
above Tucson to the rugged border of Mexico.

But when the long-simmering issue of illegal immigration boiled over this year,
Huffman lost his favored status in the Sept. 12 Republican primary in the 8th
Congressional District and was gasping to keep up with anti-immigration
firebrands in his party  --  and even with some in the other.

"Stop the invasion," conservative Democrat Bill Johnson bellowed at a
candidates' forum last week, as the sun set through the picture window of the
Church of the Nazarene here.

"Not only can we secure the border  --  we must secure the border," trumpeted
former state representative  Randy Graf, widely considered the new front-runner
for the Republican nomination.

There seems to be little doubt that a hard line against illegal immigration is
the safer position in a GOP primary. But many Republicans believe, in a year
when many national trends are not blowing their way, that it is also the safer
position in a general election.

It is a counterintuitive strategy: The way to win a swing district is not with a
campaign aimed at swing voters. Instead, the goal is to motivate conservatives
with anti-illegal-immigration appeals, hoping they overcome their disenchantment
with GOP policies in Washington.

Of course, Republicans also hope to snare independents and even some wayward
Democrats with the immigration issue. But they plan to do it with hot words  --
not with the cool centrism that is more typical in districts where both parties
have run competitively.

In a way, this strategy borrows from President Bush's rally-the-base approach to
winning reelection in 2004, even though it is based on spurning Bush's stance on
the immigration issue. Like Kolbe, the Bush administration wants tough border
security measures combined with new, legal avenues toward work and citizenship
for the country's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. Many conservatives
fear this would be a de facto amnesty for undocumented workers.

It may be little surprise that immigration is a flash point in this district,
which is 18 percent Hispanic. But the issue echoes in House campaigns around the
country, and the tenor of the debate on the Republican side has grown
increasingly unified and increasingly punitive.

In Upstate New York, Republican state Sen. Raymond A. Meier has made a border
crackdown and opposition to "amnesty" for illegal immigrants centerpieces of his
race to hold the seat of retiring Rep. Sherwood L. Boehlert for his party. House
Republicans held an immigration field hearing this month in Dubuque, Iowa, where
Rep. Jim Nussle is retiring from his highly competitive seat, to let Republican
candidate Mike Whalen highlight his proposal for a tough employment-verification
system for immigrant workers.

Last week, House Republican field hearings in San Diego explored the societal
and governmental costs of illegal immigrants' use of health-care facilities and
welfare. Another in Houston looked at "the criminal consequences of illegal
immigration." One near here, in Sierra Vista, examined the nation's strained
technical capacity to monitor "the efforts of terrorists and drug cartels"
trying to "infiltrate American soil."

At a field hearing Tuesday in Gainesville, Ga., Rep. Charles Whitlow Norwood Jr.
(R-Ga.) brushed off complaints by those who wanted a more balanced witness list.
"What I wanted was witnesses who agree with me, not disagree with me," he told
reporters.

Some believe rigidity is what voters are seeking. Randy Pullen, a Republican
National Committeeman from Arizona, pointed to national polls of Republican
voters that indicate illegal immigration is a close second behind fighting
terrorism on the list of GOP priorities. In that sense, opposition to a porous
border may be to November 2006 what opposition to gay marriage was to November
2004.

"If we turn out our base, we win," Pullen said. "In states like Arizona,
[illegal immigration] is the issue. There is no other. But nationally, when that
much of your base feels so extremely strong about an issue, you need to take
notice."

Mike Hellon, a former Arizona GOP chairman running in the primary here, said,
"Not since the Watergate year of 1974 have I seen an issue so dominant in an
election."

The race to succeed Kolbe promises to be one of the most tightly contested,
expensive House races this cycle; the prize is one of only a handful of open
seats in swing districts.  Bush carried this district in 2004. But so did
Democratic Gov. Janet Napolitano. Independent congressional analysts have
labeled the seat one of the Democrats' best pickup chances.

But a race that was expected to pit moderate against moderate on issues such as
Iraq and Medicare now seems likely to have a much sharper edge. Like Kolbe,
Huffman, a former aide to the retiring congressman, embraces "comprehensive"
immigration changes, including a robust guest-worker program for some illegal
immigrants and future immigrants.

But other Republicans say Kolbe and Huffman miscalculated the district's mood.
Graf, who took 43 percent of the primary vote in an anti-illegal-immigration
challenge to Kolbe two years ago, jumped into the race to oppose a guest-worker
program and excoriate any candidate offering a path to citizenship for those in
the country illegally.

Hellon started with conciliatory rhetoric, then embraced a harder line on
immigration. Frank Antenori, a former Green Beret and Iraq combat veteran,
entered the fray, saying he had sat on a mountaintop with night-vision goggles
and helped apprehend illegal immigrants.

Democrats said they savor the prospects of a primary victory for one of the
immigration firebrands, who they think are too conservative for the district.
Huffman agrees, making Graf's "extremism" the centerpiece of his campaign. "An
extreme candidate cannot win the general election," he said.

But other Republicans here say moderation is no virtue on this issue. Hellon
said Kolbe's endorsement probably cost Huffman some Republican support. With
conservative voters so demoralized, said Hellon, if Huffman won the nomination
they would rather sit out the vote in November with their eyes on 2008.

"A vote for Steve Huffman is a vote for the politics of Jim Kolbe. There may
have been a time when those politics were valid  --  not anymore," said local
conservative radio host Charles Heller.

"There is a frustration among the base, and that's why we're going to be
successful in this primary," Graf said. "Conservative Republicans in this
district have not had a reason to go to the polls to vote for a congressman for
quite some time because this congressman has not represented them."

Some voters do not see it that way. On a street in Warren, near what is left of
a once-bustling copper mine, Annette Walton was talking to the few customers
trickling in for lunch at her no-name diner when she turned to politics.

"Most of those immigrants coming across are working jobs that most people here
don't want anyway," she said. "Most of them are good people trying to get a
better life. It's a smokescreen, is what it is."

But even some Democrats worry that immigration hard-liners may be accurately
gauging the temper of the times  --  and that the GOP has found an antidote to
its woes.

In the liberal enclave of Bisbee, a picturesque 19th-century mining town
spilling down the walls of Tombstone Canyon, the talk among Democratic partisans
congregating in artist studios and cafes was of the Bisbee police officer who
was pulled off the beat, put into his National Guard uniform and stationed a few
miles away at the Naco border post.

"So stupid," said Susan Rohrbach over tea at a Bisbee coffee shop.

But, she added, the anger of the few diehard Democrats in the district may be
nothing compared with the rage being stoked among the Republicans by the
anti-immigration push.

"I'm afraid that is the right strategy, at least in this state," she said.

At a Graf rally last Monday at Trail Dust Town, a Tucson tourist stop, the talk
wasn't over whether to build a wall on the border with Mexico, but what kind.

"Jewish-style," counseled Lee Ewing, 70, referring to the Israeli barrier being
erected around the West Bank. "Double-layered, with a berm in between and razor
wire."

Ewing railed against Bush's immigration policies, saying he failed to deploy
enough resources on the border, and against the war in Iraq, where "2,600
Americans have died . . . for nothing." But given the choice to vote for a
Republican vowing to clamp down on illegal immigration and a Democrat promising
a new course in Iraq, he said he would not hesitate to vote Republican.

At the Bakers Dozen donut shop in Sierra Vista, Sally Hawk of Huachuca City held
her tongue as her husband, Jim, fretted over a Republican Party in control of
the House, Senate and White House but "doing nothing." Then, when talk turned to
the illegal immigrants flowing over the border, she chimed in hesitantly: "I
think they ought to shoot them. I don't have anything against Mexicans. I just
want them here legally."

Most of the Democratic candidates are confident that their broader assault on
Republican policies will prevail in November. Former Tucson anchorwoman Patty
Weiss, who is locked in a contest for the District 8 nomination with former
state senator  Gabrielle Giffords, said candidate coffees and house parties
regularly pass without a word about immigration as she talks up universal health
care, education and environmental quality.

Giffords said the GOP thrust can be parried with a tough Democratic response
that blames Republican inaction for the crisis that illegal immigrants have
visited upon resource-strapped schools, health-care systems and law enforcement
agencies.

"We're mad here in Arizona," she said. "The Republicans can try to say they're
going to come in on a white horse on the immigration issue and save the day, but
they have been in power for six years, and they have done nothing."

David Green, a retired journalist and independent voter, milled uncomfortably
last week on the fringes of the Graf rally, still very much undecided about his
vote in November. Don't be fooled, he said, by the 100 or so Graf supporters so
confident a Republican would win the seat. Illegal immigration is just one of
the discontents of the district, he added, and it could well work against the
Republicans.

"The feeling is, 'I'm fed up with illegal immigration. I'm fed up with Iraq. I'm
fed up with gas prices. I'm fed up with nothing being done about the minimum
wage,' " Green said, as black thunderheads rolled down the mountainside and
chased the rally into Trail Dust Town's faux Old West opera house. "The general
attitude is, 'Whoever's in, I want him out.' "

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              183 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 22, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Pa. City Puts Illegal Immigrants on Notice;
'They Must Leave,' Mayor of Hazleton Says After Signing Tough New Law

BYLINE: Michael Powell and Michelle Garcia, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1320 words

DATELINE: HAZLETON, Pa.


An immigrant's grandson, Louis J. Barletta, the mayor of this once-sleepy hill
city, leans forward behind the desk in his corner office and with an easy smile
confides his goal.

Barletta wants to make Hazleton "the toughest place on illegal immigrants in
America."

"What I'm doing here is protecting the legal taxpayer of any race," said the
dapper 50-year-old mayor, sweeping his hands toward the working-class city
outside. "And I will get rid of the illegal people. It's this simple: They must
leave."

Last month, in a raucous meeting, the mayor and City Council passed the Illegal
Immigration Relief Act. (Barletta wore a bulletproof vest because, he says,
Hazleton is menaced by a surge in crime committed by illegal immigrants.) The
act imposes a $1,000-per-day fine on any landlord who rents to an illegal
immigrant, and it revokes for five years the business license of any employer
who hires one.

The act also declares English to be the city's official language. Employees are
forbidden to translate documents into another language without official
authorization.

The law doesn't take effect for another month. But the Republican mayor already
sees progress. "I see illegal immigrants picking up and leaving  --  some
Mexican restaurants say business is off 75 percent," Barletta says. "The message
is out there."

So another fire is set in the nation's immigration wars, which as often burn
most fiercely not in the urban megalopolises but in small cities and towns,
where for the first time in generations immigrants have made their presence
felt. In these corners, the mayors, councils and cops cobble together ambitious
plans  --  some of which are legally dubious  --  to turn back illegal
immigration.

Last year two New Hampshire police chiefs began arresting illegal immigrants for
trespassing, a tactic the courts tossed out. On New York's Long Island, the
Suffolk County Legislature is expected to adopt a proposal next month
prohibiting contractors from hiring illegal immigrants.

Hazleton has upped that ante, and four neighboring municipalities in
Pennsylvania and Riverside, N.J., already have passed identical ordinances.
Seven more cities, from Allentown, Pa., to Palm Beach, Fla., are debating
similar legislation.

"The ideas that these things are happening spontaneously would be mistaken,"
said Devin Burghart, who tracks the immigration wars for the nonprofit Center
for New Community in Chicago. "What is driving folks is fear of change and
changing demographics."

German, Italian and Japanese television crews have interviewed Barletta. He has
received 9,000 favorable e-mails and has raised thousands of dollars for the
city's legal defense on a Web site called Small Town Defenders. (Two staffers
from Sen. Rick Santorum's staff prepared the site; Santorum, a Republican who is
in a tight reelection race, has pushed for immigration crackdowns.)

But Barletta and the council just might walk off a legal cliff. The American
Civil Liberties Union and the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund have
sued to block the ordinance, saying it could ensnare many who are here legally.

Even the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which organizes cities and
towns to push for tighter immigration quotas and much tougher enforcement, says
Hazleton's ordinance is overly broad.

"If you are going to use the word 'illegal immigrant,' you have to be very
careful when you are defining that term that it corresponds to federal
immigration classification," said Michael Hethmon, a lawyer with FAIR. "You
can't use terminology that mixes and matches illegal immigrants and legal
immigrants."

High in coal country, Hazleton sits perched on a rocky mountain ridge, and more
than once immigration has been the agent of the city's deliverance.

Hazleton (it was supposed to be "Hazelton," but a clerk misspelled the name at
incorporation) was founded in the early 1800s atop a thick vein of anthracite
coal  --  "black diamonds"  --  and immigrants arrived by the thousands to mine
it. The Irish came first, then Italians and Tiroleans, Poles and Slavs. There
were mine disasters, and for decades bosses and workers fought pitched wars.
Always there were complaints that the most recent arrivals didn't speak English
or understand American customs.

Hazleton's city fathers, though, tended to be progressive. In 1891, the city
became the third in the nation to electrify. And they helped silk and garment
mills open. Not all of this was wholesome  --  worthies from Murder Inc., not
least mafia boss Albert Anastasia, owned a few mills. Sometimes politics was
settled with fists or a carefully aimed pistol.

In the 1930s the coal mines closed, and then the mills moved south. Barletta was
elected mayor in 2000, and he's credited with working hard at Hazleton's
revival.

But the big change came half a decade back when Latinos  --  Puerto Ricans, who
are citizens of the United States, and Dominicans  --  began driving west on
Interstate 80, fleeing the high housing prices and cacophony of inner-city New
York, Philadelphia and Providence. They found in Hazleton a city with an
industrial base and cheap housing (an old Victorian could be had for $40,000
five years ago).

Latino-owned markets, restaurants and clothing stores sprang up along Wyoming
Street, and property values tripled. Hazleton's population has jumped from
23,000 to 31,000 in the past six years.

Daniel Diaz stands behind the cash register in his supermarket filled with
plantains and tamales and Goya products. The gray-haired grocer was born in the
Dominican Republic but spent 31 years in New York City. He moved here in 2000.
He loved the mountain air and bought properties and invited friends to move
here, too.

"Five years ago?" He's incredulous you might think it was better then. "It was
d-e-a-d. It's gotten better and better.

"Now? Business is down. I don't get it  --  they don't like this revival?"

Barletta says it's not that simple. He says his epiphany came in May, when
several illegal immigrants walked up to a local man at 11 o'clock one night and
shot him in the forehead. One suspect had four false identity papers. "It took
us nine hours of overtime just to run down who he was," Barletta said.

This, he said, came on the heels of crack dealing  on playgrounds and pit bulls
lunging at cops.

"I lay in bed and thought: I've lost my city," he recalls. "I love the new legal
immigrants; they want their kids to be safe just like I do. I had to declare war
on the illegals."

In truth, the crime wave is hard to measure. Crime is up 10 percent, but the
population has risen just as fast. Violent crime has jumped more sharply, but on
a small statistical base. Barletta insists there's no whiff of racial
antagonism. "This isn't racial, because 'illegal' and 'legal' don't have a
race," he says.

It's not hard, however, to discern a note of racial grievance. Many whites who
attended the council vote serenaded Latino opponents with chants of "Hit the
road, Jack!" A prominent Hispanic leader said Hazleton had become a "Nazi city."

But it's a complicated tapestry. To walk Sixth Street, near the ridge line, is
to hear white old-timers warn about the gang graffiti and drug dealing on
playgrounds, and then listen as Latino homeowners echo those complaints. A
Puerto Rican metal worker and a ponytailed white truck driver swap stories about
Mexican laborers driving down construction wages.

Connie and David Fallotovich sit on their porch on a cool summer evening. They
sort of miss their sleepy old white city, and they favor a crackdown  --  why
should an illegal immigrant get a break? They also see their new Dominican
neighbors as a big improvement.

David, a custodian, jerks his head at the house next door. "The couple now is
really nice. Tell you the truth, buddy, a white family lived there for 20 years
and they were a  . . .  nightmare."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              184 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 23, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Comments Haunt Another Senator;
Montana's Burns Joked About Latinos

BYLINE: Jim VandeHei, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 627 words


In a moment of unusual candor for a veteran senator fighting for his political
life, Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) offered this blunt self-assessment a few months
ago: "I can self-destruct in one sentence," he told supporters. "Sometimes in
one word."

It seems Burns has spent a good part of the summer testing his theory.

A new video released this week by his Democratic challenger, Jon Tester, shows
Burns, 71, joking to a crowd in June about how a "nice little Guatemalan man"
fixing up his house might be an illegal immigrant. "Could I see your green
card?" Burns tells the crowd he asked the man. "And Hugo, says, 'No.' I said,
'Oh, gosh.' "

A Burns spokesman said the senator never really doubted the legal status of the
handyman, Hugo Reyes. But it wasn't the only time Burns  --  a critic of illegal
immigration  --  has poked fun at the immigrants doing work around his house.

One week after the green-card crack, Burns recounted in a debate how after
watching an interview on television of an illegal immigrant headed to Virginia
for work, "I told my roofer, you better go out and get your help, or you won't
get my house roofed."

The Tester campaign compiled the Burns statements and sent them to reporters
this week. "Burns embarrassing Montanans is nothing new, and this is no
exception," said Matt McKenna, Tester's spokesman.

Jason Klindt, a spokesman for Burns, said he did not want to respond to the
immigrant remarks, other than to say they were accurate and not mean-spirited.

This is not the first time Burns's sharp and unguarded tongue has stirred
trouble in Big Sky country. In July, Burns told a group of firefighters they had
done a "piss-poor job" fighting a wildfire east of Billings. Burns later told a
public information officer that the firefighters, the Augusta Hot Shots, "didn't
do a goddamned thing" to stop the fires, comments that grabbed headlines
throughout the state. Shortly after, Burns apologized.

Seven years earlier, Burns apologized for calling Arabs "ragheads" in a speech
about high oil prices. He won reelection a year later.

It is also not the first time Burns has been stung by this year's campaign
version of "caught on tape." The Web site YouTube, the same one that showed tens
of thousands of viewers Sen. George Allen (R-Va.) making his "macaca" remark, is
showing a clip of Burns dozing off at a field hearing on the farm bill.

Some of Burns's jokes about illegal immigrants were videotaped by a Tester
campaign aide  --  just as Allen's "macaca" comments were recorded by a
volunteer for Democratic challenger James Webb in Virginia. The Tester campaign
provided the tapes to the media.

"It is all on tape," said Klindt, when asked if the material circulated by the
Tester campaign was accurate.

Also on tape are comments by Wisconsin GOP House candidate Paul R. Nelson, which
critics have said are similarly racially insensitive. Nelson, who is running
against Rep. Ron Kind (D), has called for racial profiling as a way to tighten
airport security. When asked by a radio interviewer how to identify a Muslim
male, Nelson said: "Well, you know, if he comes in wearing a turban and his name
is Muhammad, that's a good start."

Burns, who was first elected in 1988, is one of the most endangered Republican
senators in the country. Even before his controversial comments about
firefighters and immigrants, Burns was under fire for his relationship to
convicted GOP lobbyist Jack Abramoff, whose clients provided more than $130,000
in campaign contributions to the Montana senator. Both parties expect the race
to be decided by a few percentage points, so every misstep is potentially
significant.

Klindt said he did not want to comment on whether Burns's comments are hurting
his reelection chances.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              185 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 24, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Plan Gets a Boost;
Chertoff to Tour Border With Lawmakers Seeking a Compromise

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 784 words


Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff will tour the Texas-Mexico border
this morning with the conservative authors of a congressional immigration
compromise, in what will be the clearest sign yet that the Bush administration
is prepared to make major concessions to reach an immigration deal this year.

Chertoff's appearance with Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Tex.) and Rep. Mike
Pence (R-Ind.) is "in no way meant to signal an endorsement" of their
compromise, Department of Homeland Security spokesman Russ Knocke said. But it
was seen by supporters and opponents yesterday as a boost for the plan and a
significant White House concession to conservatives.

Under the compromise, most of the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants would
be allowed a chance to work in the country legally  --  and possibly earn
citizenship. But no guest-worker program would be made operational until
stringent border-security measures are implemented, and illegal immigrants would
have to report to privately run "Ellis Island" centers in Mexico to apply for
legal work permits.

President Bush has maintained that a crackdown on the border could work only if
new avenues toward legal work and citizenship were opened concurrently.

"The White House thinks we have a very interesting idea, and the president was
very adamant about wanting to encourage my efforts," Pence said yesterday, after
touring the border near San Diego. "Going to the border with Secretary Chertoff
will help emphasize our seriousness about putting border security first."

With  15 scheduled legislative days left before Congress adjourns for the fall
campaign, it is unclear whether any compromise stands a chance of passage. House
leaders have spent the month staging "field hearings" on immigration. The
hearings have raised sharp questions about guest-worker programs and have helped
gird opposition to a Senate-passed bill, which includes such a program. Border
security has moved to the forefront of Republican campaigns, from the frontier
districts of Arizona to Upstate New York.

The Pence-Hutchison compromise has taken heat from conservatives, who say it
would be exploited to allow a flood of illegal workers into the country and
would still amount to amnesty for undocumented workers. And Sen. Edward M.
Kennedy (D-Mass.), a co-author of the Senate bill, said the plan's 17-year wait
for full legalization and citizenship "fails the basic test of fairness."

But administration officials have ramped up efforts to win over conservatives as
they push for an immigration deal this year. The Department of Homeland Security
all but declared victory yesterday in its new policy of ending the "catch and
release" program for illegal immigrants from nations other than Mexico. For
years, such non-Mexican immigrants were released upon apprehension and told to
report for deportation hearings. Few did.

The DHS said that in the second week of August, the Border Patrol apprehended
1,055 non-Mexican illegal immigrants and released seven of them. At this time
last year, 34 percent of such migrants were detained. About 4,000 beds have been
added to detention facilities this year. And with the support of newly deployed
National Guardsmen, the authorities have caught 6,200 illegal immigrants since
June 15. Seizures have included 130 vehicles, 31,000 pounds of marijuana, 1,500
pounds of cocaine and $11,000 worth of currency.

"There is a real deterrent effect to this policy," Chertoff told reporters in
Washington, pointing to a 20,000 drop in the number of illegal immigrants caught
crossing the southwest border between this summer and the same period last year.
"Although we're not ready to declare victory  --  we've got a lot more work to
do  --  it is encouraging."

By convincing conservatives that the government is serious about a border
clampdown, administration officials hope to win some flexibility to negotiate a
final legislative package that would include a guest-worker program. But the
anti-illegal immigration firebrands who have driven the debate on the GOP side
have shown no sign of budging.

Jim Gilchrist, a founder of the Minuteman Project, a citizens' border patrol,
greeted news of Chertoff's appearance with Pence and Hutchison with a preemptive
salvo. He called it "a staged public relations ploy by the White House to give
the voting public the illusion that the administration is going to do something
about border security."

The bipartisan coalition that passed the Senate's more lenient bill has also
held together. The Pence-Hutchison plan "is just another distraction to try to
kill the Senate-passed bill," said Jim Manley, spokesman for Senate Minority
Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.).

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              186 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 31, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Tim Brooks Age: 33 Residence ...

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T52

LENGTH: 553 words


Age:  33

Residence: Frederick.

Education: Some college, Frederick Community College, Montgomery College;
attending Marine Corps Institute.

Occupation: Business development manager, IndyMac Bank.

Elected offices/civic activities: Past member, Maryland Republican State Central
Committee; served, U.S. Marine Corps; member, Christian Coalition.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Illegal immigration is one of the most urgent problems facing Frederick County
and our nation as a whole. Alex Mooney repeatedly voted in support of illegal
immigration. He has voted in favor of in-state tuition for illegal aliens,
legislation that makes it easier for illegals to vote as well as state contracts
exclusively for Hispanics. I believe that this is wrong. Alex Mooney's values
are out of touch with Frederick County. Mooney has spent too much of his time
raising questionable campaign donations and not enough time on the people of
Frederick County. It's time for a change."

Why should voters elect you?

"As your state senator, you can count on me to be a reliable conservative
Republican voice for the people of Frederick County."

Web site:

brooksforsenate.com

E-mail address:

tim@brooksforsenate.com

Age:  35

Residence: Urbana.

Education: BA, philosophy, Dartmouth College.

Occupation: State senator.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, Maryland Senate, 1999-present.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"High taxes are the most urgent issue facing Marylanders. According to the Tax
Foundation, in 2006 Marylanders had to work until April 27 just to pay their
total tax bill. With the cost of gas rising, Maryland's gas tax at 23.5 cents
per gallon is a major issue for people who commute to work. Our state's gas tax
ranks 17th highest in the nation. In addition, the value of homes has also risen
dramatically over the last couple of years. Because of the rise in home prices,
property taxes have skyrocketed in my district."

Why should voters elect you?

"My record of opposing new taxes won me the Hero of the Taxpayer Award in 2003.
I have helped block $7.5 billion in new taxes."

Web site:

www.alexmooney.com

E-mail address:

alex@alexmooney.com

Age:  61

Residence: Frederick.

Education: AA, business mgmt., Frederick Comm. College; BS, bus. admin., Belknap
College (N.H.); MS, mgmt. science, Frostburg State U.

Occupation: Chief executive, U.S. Flag Service; retired instructional assistant,
Frederick County schools.

Elected offices/civic activities: U.S. Army, Vietnam, 1965-67; member, Army
Reserve and Air National Guard, 1974-2005; president, Ballenger Civic
Association; legislative officer and past commander, Disabled American Veterans,
Chapter 5, Amvets Post 2 and Amvets Maryland; past national finance officer,
National Emergency Management Monument Commission; sponsor, Civil War
reenactments benefiting the Salvation Army and 4-H.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Highway congestion, overcrowded schools, need tax relief."

Why should voters elect you?

"Maturity, honest leadership, financial and business experience, educational
background and experience, community involvement, lifelong resident with a
thorough knowledge of our area."

Web site:

www.hughmwarner.com

E-mail address:

gailflag1@adelphia.net

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              187 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 20, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A True Believer In Immigrants;
"One day, we will gather for celebration. I believe that this takes time." The
Rev. José E. Hoyos

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1663 words


José E. Hoyos stood on a stage in front of the U.S. Capitol this month, calling
on lawmakers to do what is "morally correct and just" by welcoming illegal
immigrants into society. The Catholic priest had dreamed of seeing an ocean of
immigrants stretching from his feet to the Washington Monument. Instead, the
crowd before him filled a fraction of one block of grass.

When illegal immigrants demanded amnesty at nationwide rallies in the spring,
Washington area organizers turned to Hoyos, director of the Arlington Diocese's
Spanish Apostolate, to marshal and inspire protesters. Though unfamiliar to many
outside the Hispanic community, his magnetic preaching and frequent appearances
in Spanish-language media have earned him near-celebrity status among local
Latinos and in El Salvador, a nation to which he has dedicated much of his
ministry.

But on this September afternoon, it was clear that not even Hoyos could rouse
the masses.

"One day, we will gather for celebration," said the Colombia-born Hoyos, 50,
taking a break in the shade after his speech, his hazel eyes surveying the
paltry gathering. "I believe that this takes time."

The passion of spring seems to have fizzled, leaving leaders such as Hoyos to
ponder the smoldering remnants of the spark that drove millions of illegal
immigrants to the streets just a few months ago. Has the movement that seemed
full of powerful promise in April sputtered out, or will it revive after this
month's disappointing rally turnouts?

Hoyos  --  believer in miracles, admirer of fictional idealist Don Quixote  --
takes a long view, perhaps because a short view never yielded much.

"I'm still looking for answers," he said.

The same week that fewer than 4,000 people turned out for a Sept. 7 rally in
Washington, demonstrations in Los Angeles and other cities produced even smaller
crowds. Immigration proposals have stalled in Congress, and anti-illegal
immigrant backlash is high.

Hoyos said protesters stayed home this month because they had seen no results
from earlier demonstrations or because arrests of undocumented workers had made
them fearful.

To the priest, who began demonstrating at the Capitol and asking politicians to
pardon illegal immigrants in the early 1990s, this year's protests and their
youthful organizers injected a shot of energy into an old quest.

Since he first met illegal immigrants while studying in Chicago 20 years ago,
Hoyos has believed most are good people who need a break. He sees it like this:
Someone knocks on your door in the middle of the night and needs protection. Do
you help or close the door?

"I understand they are breaking the law. But what other things can they do?"
asked Hoyos, who immigrated legally and became a U.S. citizen in 1995.

Hoyos said his position has elicited frequent e-mails, many from Catholics,
telling him he should be ashamed and perhaps arrested. Some within the 67-parish
Arlington Diocese grumbled that the flier he made for this month's rally  --
which called support of illegal immigrants a "moral obligation"  --  was overly
histrionic, he said.

"Who will help the poorest of the poor?" Hoyos responded, referring to the Book
of Isaiah. "The poorest of the poor are the immigrants."

His charisma is legendary within the Hispanic community.

When a D.C. Latino Civil Rights Task Force picked board members in 1993, Hoyos
received the most votes, without campaigning. When he was transferred from a
Falls Church parish to Dale City in 2001, congregants in Falls Church collected
3,000 signatures in protest.

In Dale City, legions of Latinos quickly filled the pews, and a Latino
home-buying boom nearby became known among some real estate agents as the
"Father Hoyos phenomenon."

"When he walks in the room, he's got it," said Paul Kyle, president of a beer
and wine distributor and board member of Marcelino Pan y Vino, the nonprofit
organization Hoyos founded in 1992 to help sick immigrants pay for lifesaving
treatments.

Hoyos greets everyone  --  from reporters to distraught immigrants who stop by
his office  --  with the warmth of an old friend. He plays pickup soccer. He
cracks jokes during sermons. On the eve of the recent rally, he watched "Maid in
Manhattan," a Jennifer Lopez movie he enjoyed because it features an Anglo
politician who falls for a poor Latina.

Mostly, immigrants adore him because he is a believer  --  in their goodness, in
their futures.

Hoyos's brother Francisco described the reaction he gets from patients at
Providence Hospital in Northeast Washington, where he is a critical care
physician: "People from Nicaragua, people from Mexico, people from Guatemala  --
everybody is telling me, 'Oh, you are the brother of Father Hoyos. . . . He is
the one that is working for us. He is the one that is looking out for us.' "

If Hoyos was undeterred at this month's rally, it was partly because many in
attendance sought him out.

"We came for him," said Agustin Fuentes, 43, a Woodbridge truck driver who
carried a Bible in his backpack.

In Hoyos's vision of immigration reform, the United States would send a
mega-Peace Corps to build toilets and encourage investment in poor nations. All
illegal immigrants would get green cards. Everyone who wanted to immigrate would
be allowed, with the exception of criminals.

If enough critics hear illegal immigrants' personal stories of struggle, Hoyos
said, "they will understand."

When he says that, Hoyos is referring to a chapter in his own biography. In
2002, guerrillas with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia kidnapped one
of his brothers, a national politician who remains missing. Hoyos keeps a low
profile during infrequent visits to Colombia, fearing he might also be targeted.

"So now you understand why I fight for freedom for immigrants," he said. "Every
person has his own bad nights and nightmares that we don't know."

The eighth of 12 children born to two school principals, Hoyos grew up in a town
near Cali, Colombia, surrounded by sugar cane fields. He said he was a fair
student, strong athlete and a social butterfly. His dance moves made him a hit
at quinceañeras. But church did not interest him. He was the only one of his
brothers who wasn't an altar boy.

Francisco Hoyos said his brother always had deep concern for the needy and a
gift for getting things done. As a teenager, he organized parties, parades and
beauty contests, producing donations from businesses whose managers he had
befriended.

During a religious mountain retreat when Hoyos was 19, a priest told him he had
a calling. A year later, he entered the seminary in Bogota.

In 1989, he came to work for one year in the Arlington Diocese and stayed for
three. Five years later, after launching several community groups and serving
two churches, he moved to Holy Family Catholic Church in Dale City, becoming the
first Latino priest to head a parish in the diocese. He was appointed to direct
the Spanish Apostolate last summer.

Early on, Hoyos heard horror stories from Salvadoran parishioners, many of them
illegal immigrants displaced by brutal warfare in their country. One family
invited him to attend the funeral of a relative killed in El Salvador. There, he
said, a group of people begged him for help with their postwar sorrows, treating
him "like I was a Messiah."

El Salvador became a mission for Hoyos in a way his homeland could not. He
contacted El Diario de Hoy, a major San Salvador newspaper, and proposed a
column on peace, love and forgiveness. Soon radio and television stations were
calling. His writing now appears in two Salvadoran papers and in Washington
Hispanic, which publishes 55,000 copies weekly.

"However difficult it is for you, it is important that you smile at life," Hoyos
wrote in an April column for Nuevas Raices, a 14,000-circulation newspaper in
the Shenandoah Valley and central Virginia. He finished, "Before you see a
rainbow, it has to rain!"

Hoyos visits El Salvador several times a year to deliver money and supplies,
preach in stadiums and confer with President Elias Antonio Saca. His nonprofit
organization has funded community centers and a maternity ward. His fellow
Colombians tell him that his Spanish has taken on a Salvadoran accent.

Hoyos has been the "most active player in the human aspect to immigration,"
Salvadoran Ambassador Rene A. Leon said.

But when it comes to illegal immigrants, Hoyos acknowledged that victories have
been few. He counts among them subtle attitude shifts toward his ideas by some
politicians  --  such as Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.), who backed a strict
House immigration proposal but who also recently nominated Hoyos for a Prince of
Asturias Concord Award, a Spanish prize given to those who battle poverty and
injustice. In a nomination letter, Davis cited Hoyos's quest for immigration
reform and his dream of seeing North, South and Central America united into "one
America."

Hoyos said another success is temporary protected status for Salvadorans  --  a
program that gives some immigrants from disaster- or war-torn countries a
renewable one-year U.S. work and residency permit, which he lobbied for. But
even that is only a partial victory: He has also come to see it as a curse that
gives immigrants the chance to stay in the United States long enough to set down
roots but not to stay for good.

When a procession in front of the Capitol began at this month's rally, Hoyos
took a spot in the middle. He waved a small American flag and licked a coconut
popsicle.

During a lull in chanting about halfway through the march, Hoyos started one of
his own.

"We want justice!" he said loudly in Spanish, prompting a few marchers to join
in. Their voices quickly died down.

Hoyos was unfazed. The faces around him, he noted, were young  --  a good sign,
he said, for a growing movement.

"I am satisfecho," he said, using the Spanish word for "satisfied" as he walked
down Independence Avenue after the march. "Mission accomplished. For now."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              188 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

6 N.J. Illegal Immigrants Sue Salvation Army, Ex-Officials

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A16

LENGTH: 329 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J. May 20


--  A half-dozen illegal immigrants sued the Salvation Army and two of its
former local officials for consumer fraud,  alleging the leaders took their
money under false promises of helping them gain legal status.

The lawsuit, filed Friday in state Superior Court,  alleges that the Rev. Enoc
Tito Sotelo told his mostly Latino congregation at Plainfield's Salvation Army
church that he would help them become Americans if they each paid $4,000 and
donated $500 to the church.

Gilberto Garcia, a lawyer for the immigrants, said Sotelo and Jorge Sancho, a
Salvation Army captain assigned to the Christian organization's Bound Brook
office, used the agency's reputation to harm his clients. The Salvation Army
should have known what the men were doing, Garcia said.

Trish Pelligrini, a spokeswoman for the Salvation Army's New Jersey chapter,
declined to comment on the lawsuit, saying the organization had yet to see it.

Sotelo was fired in April, and Sancho was dismissed in November, she said.

Pelligrini was not sure why Sotelo and Sancho were let go but acknowledged that
Sotelo was fired after an internal investigation. It was initiated after
complaints about the two men appeared in a Spanish-language newspaper.

No working telephone numbers could be found in New Jersey for Sotelo or Sancho.

The lawsuit  says the plaintiffs  --  five men and one woman from Latin America
--  were promised they had been "chosen by God" to be sponsored by the Salvation
Army for legal permanent residency.

An alleged accomplice of the defendants helped them file applications requesting
green cards for foreigners with extraordinary abilities, such as professional
athletes and scientists, knowing they were not eligible, according to the suit.
None of the six received green cards.

New Jersey consumer fraud law does not bar illegal immigrants from suing, Garcia
said. The suit seeks class-action status, claiming that possibly hundreds more
people were defrauded.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              189 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 31, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Lockheed Among Finalists Bidding On Border Contract

BYLINE: Griff Witte, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D03

LENGTH: 550 words


Some of the nation's largest defense contractors were among the firms yesterday
that submitted bids on a multi-billion dollar Homeland Security Department
contract designed to shore up the nation's porous borders and help curb illegal
immigration.

The Secure Border Initiative, which has at its heart a six-year, $2 billion
contract, is intended to give the United States a comprehensive solution to its
persistent border problems. Homeland Security officials have said they are
looking for a contractor that  can bring together technology, Border Patrol
staff members and barriers to keep illegal immigrants on the other side of the
nearly 7,000 miles of U.S. land that borders Mexico and Canada.

While the government says it will leave the details to the contractor, Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff has mentioned a desire to see increased use
of  unmanned drones, better detection technology and expanded detention
facilities, among other elements.

The competition for the job is down to teams organized by five companies  --
Lockheed Martin Corp., Raytheon Co., Northrop Grumman Corp., Boeing Co. and
Ericsson. Homeland Security officials are expected to pick a winner in the fall,
following oral presentations from each of the competing firms.

Lockheed of Bethesda, which like the other four companies did not release
details of its proposal because the competition remains active, said its bid
included a recommendation to use the Border Patrol's existing systems as well as
"new and upgraded capabilities."

"We understand the problem well. And we've got a lot of experience in Homeland
Security with a number of large programs," Lockheed spokesman Keith Mordoff
said.

In announcing its bid, Raytheon of Tewksbury, Mass., pointed to its experience
as the lead contractor for the System for Vigilance of the Amazon, a program
designed to protect two million square miles of rainforest in Brazil. That
program, unveiled in 2002, uses sensors on the ground, in the air and in space
to give officials a unified picture of what is happening across an area that is
more than two-thirds as large as the continental United States. Raytheon also
holds the contract for a system that will use cameras and radars to give
officials an up-to-the-second view of the security environment at each of the
New York area's four major airports.

Lockheed recently won a major contract to do video surveillance of the New York
subway, and it makes a high-altitude surveillance blimp. Northrop manufactures
the pilotless Global Hawk drone.

Raytheon said yesterday that if it wins  the contract, its subcontractors would
include Apogen Technologies Inc. of McLean, BAE Systems Inc. of Rockville, and
Bechtel National Inc. of Frederick.

"We've been studying the border enforcement problem for the last two years, and
we feel confident that we understand the challenges and have the best solution,"
Raytheon Vice President Gene Blackwell said in a statement.

Los Angeles-based Northrop's partners for its proposal include Anteon
International Corp. and SRA International Corp, both of Fairfax, and
BearingPoint Inc. of McLean.

A spokesman for Boeing of Chicago said the firm would release the names of its
partners today.

A spokesman for Ericsson of Stockholm could not be reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              190 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 10, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

AFL-CIO Aligns With Day-Laborer Advocates

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 779 words


The AFL-CIO voted yesterday to join forces with a national network of
day-laborer organizers in a push for worker rights and legalization for
unauthorized workers, a move that could provide day laborers with a potent ally
in efforts to establish hiring halls and combat shifty employers.

Six years after organized labor made an about-face to support illegal workers,
the agreement further cemented the struggling labor movement's embrace of
illegal immigrants as key parts of the U.S. workforce and potential union
members. Research indicates that about three-fourths of day laborers are in the
country illegally.

For day laborers and their organizers, who have faced high-profile opposition in
Herndon and elsewhere, the agreement offers access to expert lobbyists and
lawyers and a chance to devise strategies with local councils of the 10
million-member AFL-CIO, which backed sanctions against illegal immigrants until
a policy shift in 2000. The partnership does not require day laborers to join
unions.

"Day laborers in the United States often face the harshest forms of workplace
problems, and this exploitation hurts us all, because when standards are dragged
down for some workers, they are dragged down for all workers," John J. Sweeney,
president of the AFL-CIO, said at a news conference in Chicago, where he signed
an agreement to form a partnership with the Los Angeles-based National Day Labor
Organizing Network.

The group, known as NDLON, is made up of about 30 day-laborer centers and
organizers, including CASA of Maryland and Tenants and Workers United in
Alexandria.

Officials said the groups will begin working together at a national level,
crafting policies on workplace issues and campaigning for immigration
legislation that includes a path to citizenship but not a guest-worker program,
which both groups oppose.

The agreement gives local AFL-CIO councils the option to link up with
day-laborer centers. Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA of Maryland,
said he expects to work with local AFL-CIO organizers to boost the state's
minimum wage and fight local ordinances that might penalize day laborers.

The alliance comes one year after four major unions split from the AFL-CIO,
taking a third of its membership, and as the labor movement struggles with
decline. Union membership waned from about 35 percent of the 1950s workforce to
about 13 percent last year.

About 117,600 day laborers solicit jobs each day, according to a national study
by researchers at the University of Illinois at Chicago, New School University
and UCLA. They frequently fall victim to the employer abuses and workplace
hazards that unions battle: Nearly half have been stiffed or denied breaks, and
20 percent have been injured on the job, the study found.

"We want to build a stronger network of support for our day-worker centers,"
Pablo Alvarado, executive director of NDLON, said in an interview.

Since 2000, organized labor has been a chief advocate for immigrants. And worker
centers and street-corner activists have been organizing day laborers. But
unions and worker centers have rarely collaborated.

Recently they have begun wooing one another. Alvarado recently escorted AFL-CIO
leaders to a day-laborer corner in Agoura Hills, Calif., where workers have a
pact not to work for less than $15 an hour. Labor leaders see such
self-organizing as the "seeds of the labor movement," said Ana Avendaño, general
associate counsel for the AFL-CIO.

Ruth Milkman, a sociology professor at UCLA, said, "The labor movement wants to
ride that wave."

Not everyone thinks it is a good idea. In Allentown, Pa., unions are backing a
law prohibiting the hiring of illegal immigrants. Vernon M. Briggs Jr., a
Cornell University labor economics professor, said labor's support for illegal
immigrants could encourage immigration and depress wages for low-skilled
Americans.

"Fighting for people who are not supposed to be working in the first place? What
kind of union is that?" Briggs said.

In Fairfax County's Culmore neighborhood, men waited for work yesterday outside
a 7-Eleven, where organizers with Tenants and Workers United have helped day
laborers set a $10 minimum wage and record employers' license plate numbers.

Most were vaguely aware of the agreement. But they described their need for
advocates. Jose Santos Lazo, 37, said he dropped a large sheet of wood on his
face during a job last year. Surgery cost $17,000, he said, and his boss
promised to pay. But the employer has vanished, said Lazo, a Salvadoran who said
he has legal residency.

"I do not have money for a lawyer," Lazo said.

Alvarado said that is a resource the AFL-CIO can offer.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              191 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 28, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Visas for Skilled Workers Still Frozen

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 749 words


For technology companies and research institutions that have spent recent
autumns lobbying for permission to hire more foreign workers, this was supposed
to be the year that ended the annual rite of desperation.

A bill that passed the Senate this spring would have doubled the number of visas
issued every year for highly skilled professionals, such as scientists and
engineers. And it would have helped clear a backlog of applications for
permanent residency from such workers.

But the attempt by Congress to rewrite the nation's immigration laws has bogged
down in controversy over border security and illegal immigration. That means
changes in the skilled-worker programs, while less controversial, are also in
limbo.

With Congress due to recess tomorrow, advocates of the programs have given up on
winning immediate change. Now they're hoping members of Congress will focus on
the issue in the lame-duck session late this year.

"It is incredibly difficult to pass major legislative reforms in any areas, and
they tried to bite off a lot," said Jenifer Verdery, a policy director for Intel
Corp., which has lobbied for more skilled foreign workers. "We've made a strong
case, and we're hoping to take that to the finish line . . . if there is any
policymaking left to do after the election."

For years, many of the country's largest technology companies and most
prestigious research laboratories have said they are unable to find enough
U.S.-born scientists and similar workers to fill their openings. They have
depended on the H-1B visa to bring overseas talent into the United States. The
companies also sponsor such skilled workers for green cards, which allow them to
live and work here permanently.

But only 65,000 H-1B visas are issued each year, and demand has been so high
recently that all of them are taken instantaneously  --  mostly with tech
workers from India and China. People from those countries also face among the
longest waits for green cards.

The Senate plan would have nearly doubled the H-1B quota to 115,000 a year, and
it would have helped clear a backlog of green-card applications.

The technology industry mounted a huge push on the issue this year. Microsoft
Corp. Chairman Bill Gates met with members of Congress. A group of computer
programmers hired a lobbying firm. An industry coalition handed out fake green
cards imprinted with their demands.

A few professional associations and anti-immigrant groups oppose expanding the
skilled-worker programs, contending that they can depress wages, but the
programs have historically drawn support from both political parties.

At Microsoft, H-1B and green card reform has emerged as the "top legislative
priority right now," said Jack Krumholtz, the company's managing director for
federal government affairs. "We are really at a crisis in terms of the
industry's ability to hire the best and the brightest and retain them."

A company spokeswoman estimated that about 7 percent of Microsoft's hires over
the past five years had H-1B visas. Of the company's H-1B employees, 20 percent
a year obtain green cards. The company said the low number stems from delays in
processing green cards. An estimated 500,000 green-card applications are pending
nationwide.

The employees describe agonizing, life-altering waits. In some cases, marriages,
home purchases and retirement investments are put off. Graduates of master's and
doctorate programs describe stringing together fellowships and one-year
appointments to stay in this country. A spokesman for the National Institutes of
Health said those on temporary work visas have trouble qualifying for federal
research grants.

Immigrant scientists call the policies crippling and said they had expected
relief from a provision in the Senate bill that would have allowed favorable
treatment for graduates in the sciences, technology, engineering, and
mathematics.

"In the midst of this whole debate, very little is said about legal immigration.
And even within legal immigration, little about PhDs and scientists," said Jai
Pathak, a research scientist who lives in Washington. "There are a lot of very
fine scientists the government would like to keep, but their citizenship status
impedes it."

Pathak cited the Hungarian roots of Intel Corp. co-founder Andrew S. Grove,
whose work helped create the modern computer industry that employs millions of
Americans.

"What would have happened if the United States had decided to close the doors on
him?" Pathak said.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              192 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Border Security, Job Market Leave Farms Short of Workers;
Growers Frustrated by Delay in Agriculture Legislation

BYLINE: Sonya Geis, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1108 words

DATELINE: CLOVIS, Calif.


Bins of Granny Smith apples towered over two conveyor belts at P-R Farms'
packing plant. But only one belt moved. P-R Farms, like farms up and down
California and across the nation, does not have enough workers to process its
fruit.

"We're short by 50 to 75 people," said Pat Ricchiuti, 59, the third-generation
owner of P-R Farms. "For the last three weeks, we're running at 50 percent
capacity. We saw this coming a couple years ago, but last year and this year has
really been terrible."

Farmers of all types of specialty crops, from almonds to roses, have seen the
immigrant labor supply they depend on dry up over the past year. Increased
border security and competition from other industries are driving migrant
laborers out of the fields, farmers say.

Earlier this year, many farmers were optimistic about finding a solution in the
Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act, or AgJobs. The bill,
proposed by Sens. Larry E. Craig (R-Idaho) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.),
would allow undocumented agricultural workers already in the United States to
become legal permanent residents and would streamline the current guest-worker
program. In March and September, hundreds of growers traveled to the Capitol to
lobby for the bill.

But deep divisions within the  Republican Party have stalled immigration reform.
Although legislation to build a 700-mile fence along the border passed the House
and Senate, the AgJobs proposal has languished.

As the border tightens, Mexican workers who once spent part of each year in
American fields without a work permit fear that if they go back to Mexico, they
will be trapped behind the border, farmers say. Instead, they stay in the United
States, taking year-round jobs that pay more and are less backbreaking than farm
work, such as cleaning hotels or working in construction in cities on the Gulf
Coast devastated by last year's hurricanes.

"Frequently you hear, especially from California, complaints about construction
companies actually recruiting workers from the sides of the fields," said Craig
Regelbrugge, co-chair of the Agriculture Coalition for Immigration Reform. Other
industries that depend on immigrant labor, such as landscaping and construction,
"are also concerned about the overall availability of labor given demographic
trends," he said, adding: "But agriculture is the warning sign, if you will, of
structural changes in the economy."

The problem is now reaching crisis proportions, food growers say. As much as 30
percent of the year's pear crop was lost in Northern California, growers
estimate. More than one-third of Florida's Valencia orange crop went
unharvested, Regelbrugge said. In New York, apples are rotting on the trees,
because workers who once picked the fruit have fled frequent raids by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, said Maureen Marshall, an apple
grower in Elba.

Michael Keegan, a spokesman for the federal agency, said he could not confirm
any specific targets for raids. But he said it now takes a more proactive
approach to work-site enforcement, seeking to build criminal cases against
employers instead of issuing fines. The agency focuses work-site raids on
"critical infrastructure," he said, such as airports and chemical plants,
including food processing facilities.

Critics say increased wages would keep workers in the fields. Growers contend
that their wages, often minimum wage plus a piece rate, are as high as they can
pay and still remain profitable. Ricchiuti echoed many growers when he said
local people "don't want to do the work at any price."

Farmers also contend that an existing guest-worker program is not usable.
Although some industries, such as Maryland crab pickers, rely on the H-2B
program to provide foreign labor, farmers argue that the equivalent program for
agriculture, known as H-2A, is too complex and has onerous requirements, such as
providing housing for workers. Nationwide, only 2 percent of agricultural
workers use H-2A visas, Regelbrugge said.

"We explored [H-2A], and it was so cumbersome, it just would not meet our
needs," said Ricchiuti of P-R Farms, who grows apples, nectarines, nuts and
grapes in California's fertile San Joaquin Valley. "It's so specific; you agree
to hire so many people at this time. What if the season is two weeks late? I
have to have work for them. Or pay them to do nothing."

Some farmers said they have invested in machines to take the place of workers,
though some tasks, such as picking soft fruit,  cannot be mechanized.

Others are worrying about credit. In August, Tom Brown, president and chief
executive of Fresno Madera Farm Credit bank in California, testified at an
immigration forum hosted by Rep. George Radanovich (R-Calif.) that he was
worried about the impact of the labor shortage on farmers' ability to repay
loans.

Some food growers, who as a group tend to vote Republican, now find themselves
fighting hardest against leaders in their own party.

"So many of the farmers here are conservative, but they're finding themselves
kind of at odds, not so much with Republicans in this area but with Republicans
on the East Coast who have no idea what's going on in the San Joaquin Valley and
California," said Daniel Jackson, a California fruit grower. "Something could
happen in Washington, D.C., tomorrow, and all the farmers in the San Joaquin
Valley would be out of work."

Ricchiuti has a framed photo of President Bush and first lady Laura Bush on his
office wall and a pile of "Re-Elect Arnold" signs supporting Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger (R-Calif.) at his processing plant. But he grew agitated when he
talked about the GOP's handling of immigration.

"What's wrong with the Republican leadership?" he demanded. "They control the
House and the Senate. I would have thought it would be a slam-dunk.

"Certain Republicans are very closed-minded," he continued. "They're prejudiced,
and they're concerned about people taking their jobs. Well, you know what? You
won't do those jobs. You might stick your head up the grapevine once or twice,
but you won't do it a third time."

Hopes for the AgJobs bill are now on hold until after the midterm elections,
said Barry Bedwell, president of the California Grape and Tree Fruit League.
Bedwell has made four trips already this year to Washington  to lobby for
immigration reform.

"Even from our best friends and allies in the San Joaquin Valley on the
Republican side, they were saying, yes, they understand. But they were trying to
explain the political reality of an election year," he said. "Boy, I will be
happy to get by the election, where we can start talking reason."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              193 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Guard Vows 6,000 Troops for Border;
Mission's Limited Scope Is Among Facets of Bush Plan Under Attack

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1018 words


The commander of the National Guard pledged yesterday that 6,000 troops will be
trained and ready to carry out President Bush's order to help secure the
U.S.-Mexico border starting next month, but the narrowness of their mission and
long-standing doubts about U.S. enforcement efforts shadowed Bush's call to
"gain full control of the border."

Even as administration officials provided more detail on the Guard's role along
the southern border, advocates on both sides of the debate, especially
anti-immigration conservatives in Bush's own party, kept up their attacks on his
multitiered drive for tougher enforcement at the borders and inside the United
States, a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants already here, and a
temporary-worker program.

Speaking to reporters, military and homeland security officials played down the
scope of the deployment and hedged when gauging its overall impact on the
2,000-mile-long border. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff stressed
that beefed-up enforcement at the border will also require border barriers, new
technology and the establishment of a guest-worker program to regulate the flow
of immigrants seeking jobs.

"The fact of the matter is if you have people who are willing to try eight, 10,
12 times" to cross the border, Chertoff said, a legal guest-worker program would
"bleed off a lot of that pressure . . . on the Border Patrol."

Without a guest-worker program, Chertoff has said, "it's going to be
extraordinarily difficult to ask our Border Patrol agents . . . to stem the tide
that is driven by a huge economic engine of employers looking for people to do
work that won't be done by Americans."

The deployment of up to 6,000 troops is expected to begin in June and could
extend into a second year with a smaller force of about 3,000, said Paul McHale,
assistant secretary of defense for homeland defense. They will be replaced as
more Border Patrol officers are hired and trained.

McHale said the military force will consist mainly of National Guard troops from
California, Texas, Arizona and New Mexico who will rotate to the border for
three-week tours in lieu of their annual 15-day field training.

Lt. Gen. H. Steven Blum, chief of the National Guard Bureau, said the decision
to handle the mission with many short rotations is designed to minimize the
stress on the Guard's citizen soldiers, already taxed by unprecedented war
deployments.

"We're talking about people that have jobs, people that have families. And we're
trying to balance that," Blum said.

"I don't want to say it's business as usual," he added, "but it's usual business
done at a little bit more expanded pace," describing a nearly 20-year-old Guard
role in counternarcotics activities.

The National Guard will not be involved in patrolling the border and
apprehending and detaining illegal immigrants. Mexico said yesterday that it
will file lawsuits in U.S. courts if troops directly engage in detaining
migrants.

Blum also stressed that the expanded border mission will not come at the expense
of fighting terrorism abroad or providing disaster relief, other missions that
have strained the Guard.

"There are three glass balls we have to manage or juggle . . . we can certainly
do what is being asked by our commander in chief with about 2 percent of my
force structure," he said.

McHale said yesterday that the Guard's core missions will include using
helicopters and ground sensors to detect illegal border crossing, building
barriers and roads, and medical and logistics support. Active-duty forces may be
called for certain "niche capabilities," as well as civilian contractors. The
military will seek reimbursement for its costs, he said.

About 90 percent of the 12,000-member U.S. Border Patrol work on the southern
border, twice as many as a decade ago. But the buildup has only driven up the
cost of each arrest and reduced the chances that an illegal immigrant is caught,
researchers said, while the number of those living inside the United States
doubled to nearly 12 million.

T.J. Bonner, president of the National Border Patrol Council, the agents union,
said: "It's going to have very little effect. . . . This is a smoke screen, a
diversion."

"The issue is whether the National Guard is there for anything but show," said
Frank D. Bean, co-director of the Center for Research on Immigration, Population
and Public Policy at the University of California at Irvine.

Activists who take a harder line toward illegal immigration also said that the
border security measures issued by the administration do little more than shift
the focus away from the issue of removing the millions of illegal immigrants
living in the United States. At the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, which calls for stronger enforcement, Executive Director Mark
Krikorian called Bush's speech "inspired by Mary Poppins  --  a spoonful of
border enforcement makes the amnesty go down."

He called use of National Guard troops "about number 17 on the list" of things
to do, after targeting immigrant fugitives and U.S. companies that use illegal
labor.

"It was insulting, really," Krikorian said. "He must think people who oppose
amnesty are a bunch of troglodytes that can be induced by cosmetic measures."

But the president's proposal was deemed too tough by  activists who helped
organize recent demonstrations on behalf of illegal immigrants. Deepak Bhargava,
executive director of the Center for Community Change, said Bush pandered to
right-wing supporters who want to close the border, while activists planned a
national lobbying effort today to push for a broader legalization plan.

"The message that President Bush is sending to Mexico and the countries in
Central America is that Mexico is a threat to the national security of the U.S.,
and they need to be dealt with militarily, and migrants are seen as enemies,"
said Angela Sanbrano, executive director of the Central American Resource Center
in Los Angeles. "It's just bad foreign policy."

Staff writers Ann Scott Tyson and Krissah Williams contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              194 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 16, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Joined by Love, Separated by Immigration Laws

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 453 words


The situation for potential immigrants without U.S. spouses is actually worse in
two ways than described in Susan Laurel Hodges's June 12 op-ed, "Left Out by the
Legal Route In."

First, if the employer of Ms. Hodges's partner has not already applied for an
H-1B visa for her, it is too late for this year. On May 26,  the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services stopped accepting applications for H-1B
visas for the fiscal year that will begin Oct. 1.

Second, as the op-ed notes, if the employer of Ms. Hodges's partner did not make
the May 26 deadline, she will have to wait until next April 1 to try again.
However, even if she applied April 1  and the H-1B were granted, she could not
start work then. She would have to wait until Oct. 1, 2007, to begin work. Few
employers would be willing to keep an offer open to an employee who could not
begin work for nearly a year and a half.

The problems go beyond domestic partners, and even beyond the problems for the
immigrants themselves. When a highly sought-after German radiologist with
excellent English and a sister in the United States requires more than four
years to enter the country legally, a U.S. employer is not in a position to
gather the best talent worldwide for high-level projects. Thus, the U.S.
employer either moves overseas to a country with more liberal immigration
policies or makes do with whatever talent is available locally. In either case,
the United States loses the capacity for innovation that produces jobs over the
long run.

If we wonder why we have so many illegal immigrants, perhaps we ought to look at
why the United States makes it virtually impossible even for hard-working people
with top credentials to immigrate legally.

CAROL V. CALHOUN

Bethesda

*

I sympathize with Susan Laurel Hodges regarding the immigration laws that
separate her from her partner Kirsten, a German citizen who cannot lawfully move
to the United States until she finds a job with an American employer.

But I cannot understand why The Post hasn't raised awareness about 1.5 million
legal immigrants who are exiled from their spouses and minor children for a
minimum of five years. Kirsten is really lucky that at least she can visit her
loved one and look for a job. I have been married almost two years, and my
husband is not even allowed in the United States for a brief visit, just because
he is married to a legal U.S. immigrant. As an applicant for immigration who is
waiting for a visa number, he can't receive a tourist visa or a student visa.

I love my husband and I love America, and I can't understand why everyone else
can't understand that and do something about this aspect of immigration laws.

EKATERINA ATANASOVA

Eliot, Maine

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              195 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 16, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A26

LENGTH: 481 words


TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras  --  Honduras is becoming a key staging point for human
trafficking rings that bring undocumented Cuban immigrants to the United States,
authorities said Thursday.

The country has long been a steppingstone for Latin American immigrants bound
for the U.S. border, but the government said at least 292 Cubans have washed up
on the Caribbean coast this year, up from 177 in 2005.

Migration authorities say gangs spirit the Cuban nationals north through
Guatemala and Mexico to the United States in an illicit trafficking pipeline
funded by Cuban relatives living stateside.

Honduran Foreign Minister Milton Jimenez said that although authorities give
asylum to the Cubans they apprehend, police have started an investigation to try
to break up the trafficking rings at work in the country.

the middle east

*  GAZA CITY  --  Israeli forces killed three Palestinian militants who
approached the Israel-Gaza border, Palestinian security officials said. An
Israeli army spokeswoman said troops spotted the men planting explosives near
the fence along the border with the central Gaza Strip. It was not clear to
which armed group the men belonged.

asia and the pacific

*  CANBERRA, Australia  --  Australian Prime Minister John Howard wrote to
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono to protest the release Wednesday
of Abubakar Baasyir, a radical cleric who served time for links to the 2002 Bali
bombings that killed 202 people, including 88 Australians.

*  BANGKOK  --  Suspected Islamic insurgents exploded more than 40 bombs in
attacks on government offices at 41 locations in three Muslim-majority provinces
in Thailand's restive south, killing at least two people and injuring at least
16, officials said.

One of the bombs went off at a government office in Yala province minutes before
Deputy Prime Minister Chitchai Wannasathit was due to visit the area. Chitchai
is in charge of overseeing security in Thailand's south.

Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra said intelligence had warned that insurgents
were planning a major operation. But the government's security prevention
network was "not good enough" to prevent the attacks, he said.

*  BEIJING  --  Cleanup crews in northern China scrambled to absorb 60 tons of
toxic coal tar accidentally dumped into the Dasha River in Shaanxi province
before it reaches a reservoir serving 10 million people, state media said.

EUROPE

*  BELGRADE  --  The Serbian government recognized newly independent Montenegro
and said it would establish diplomatic ties with its former partner.

The tiny Balkan republic declared independence from Serbia on June 3, after its
citizens supported the split by a slim margin in a May 21 referendum. Serbia had
opposed the separation and initially disputed the results of Montenegro's
referendum, fueling fears of tension between the two nations.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              196 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 8, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

9 Die in Ariz. Crash as SUV Flees Border Patrol;
At Least 12 Others Hurt as Vehicle Rolls Over in Area Known for Immigrant
Smuggling

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: YUMA, Ariz. Aug. 7


Nine people were killed and at least 12 others were injured Monday after the
sport-utility vehicle in which they were riding rolled over while the driver
attempted to elude Border Patrol agents, officials said.

Five of the injured, including a pregnant woman, were in critical condition,
most with head trauma, a hospital spokeswoman said.

The nine dead, including six women, were Mexicans who tried to enter the United
States illegally, Mexico's Foreign Relations Department said.

Border Patrol spokesman Lloyd Frers told the Associated Press, "It's pretty
obvious to anybody who looks at it that it was more than likely a smuggling
load."

The Chevrolet Suburban was carrying as many as 22 people, Frers said.

The vehicle was apparently trying to skirt a Border Patrol checkpoint on a state
highway near the California-Arizona border by taking a remote desert road.
Spotted by agents, who followed the vehicle, the driver made a U-turn and tried
unsuccessfully to speed back onto the highway, authorities told the Los Angeles
Times.

"The driver lost control and rolled it," Martha Silva, a Border Patrol
spokeswoman, told the Times.

The five critically injured victims were transferred to a Phoenix hospital,
along with a sixth who was in good condition, officials said.

Two more of the injured were at Yuma Regional Medical Center in serious
condition, and a third person was being examined in the emergency room,
spokeswoman Machele Headington said. Three other patients were released to
Border Patrol custody after treatment, she said.

Car accidents involving illegal immigrants are increasingly common in Arizona,
as smugglers try to avoid or outrun Border Patrol agents sent in greater numbers
to secure the frontier with Mexico.

The southwestern Arizona desert has become the nation's busiest
immigrant-smuggling hot spot. President Bush visited Yuma in May as part of his
push for a sweeping overhaul of immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              197 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 4, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Wal-Mart's Obligations

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 231 words


In his Aug. 28 op-ed column on Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Sebastian Mallaby wrote
that "the idea that Wal-Mart pays below-market wages is false. Otherwise nobody
would work there." Not only is Mr. Mallaby's theory untrue, but it touches on an
issue central to the immigration debate.

He defended Wal-Mart as an American company that employs and is supported by
Americans.

One accepted fact in the immigration debate is that undocumented workers are
often willing to take jobs with extremely low wages, many of which offer
below-market pay and are thought to be undesirable to Americans.

Last year, Wal-Mart agreed to an $11 million settlement to resolve federal
allegations that its contractors knowingly hired undocumented workers to clean
floors at more than 1,000 of its stores.

ELIZABETH WELSH

Allston, Mass.

*

In his Aug. 30 column, Robert J. Samuelson wrote that it was wrong for the
Maryland General Assembly to try to "mandate higher labor costs on Wal-Mart."

What he meant is that he thinks Wal-Mart should not be forced to provide health
care to its workers. Where he sees a liability to corporate profits, others see
doctor visits for sick children. According to Mr. Samuelson the company is worth
$183 billion. Shouldn't something be done to make such a rich company adequately
compensate a workforce that has made it the nation's top employer?

JOHN MATHWIN

Rockville

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              198 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

REGIONAL BRIEFING

SECTION: Metro; C03

LENGTH: 435 words


PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY

A fire that burned a Prince George's County duplex early yesterday might have
been started by something that crashed through a window, according to what a
resident of the duplex told a 911 dispatcher and neighbors.

Residents of the 7200 block of Joplin Street in Seat Pleasant said they heard an
explosion after midnight and saw flames leaping from the two-story brick and
vinyl-sided duplex.

The fire displaced two families and caused about $100,000 in damage, said Prince
George's Fire Department spokesman Mark Brady. He said no one was injured, and
the matter is being investigated.

--  Joshua Partlow

FAIRFAX CRIME

A man was shot last night outside a food store in the Hybla Valley section of
Fairfax County, police said.

They said he was hit in the leg shortly before 11 p.m.

--  Clarence Williams

CHESAPEAKE BAY

A seasonal work visa that allows foreign workers to pick crabs and shuck oysters
was extended by Congress early yesterday, hours before an earlier extension
would have expired, possibly closing Chesapeake processors.

The visas allow foreign workers in seasonal jobs such as crab picking to spend
several months a year working in the United States. The visas started becoming
scarce several years ago, and bay watermen worried that the 66,000 visas would
run out before spring crab season started.

Congress grandfathered in some employees for two years in 2004, but that
extension was to expire. It was extended for 12 months.

"It means that we live for another year, " Jack Brooks, a Cambridge, Md.,
processor, said.

--  Associated Press

NORTHEAST WASHINGTON

An 80-year-old Brentwood woman was killed Friday in a collision in Northeast
Washington, D.C. police said.

They said Willa M. Noble of the 3700 block of Perry Street died after the car
she was riding in and a pickup collided about 1:20 p.m. at Bladensburg Road and
Montana Avenue.

--  Martin Weil

FREDERICK CRIME

Another police officer has been charged with setting a sport-utility vehicle on
fire  to get insurance money, the Maryland State Fire Marshal's Office said.

Elizabeth L. Anderson, 27, of Knoxville was picked up Friday in Brunswick,
authorities said.

Anderson, who joined the Brunswick Police Department this year, was a passenger
in a vehicle being driven by Randy Dorsey, the first police officer charged in
the crime, said Frederick County Deputy State's Attorney Charlie Smith.

Dorsey, 37, a sergeant in the Frederick County Sheriff's Office, was arrested
Sept. 15 and charged with second-degree arson and malicious burning, authorities
said.

--  Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              199 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 12, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Smuggler Of Humans Gets 23 Years

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 202 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON Sept. 11


A man convicted of participating in the nation's deadliest human-smuggling
attempt was sentenced Monday to more than 23 years in prison.

Victor Sanchez Rodriguez was convicted in February on 18 counts of smuggling.
The case stems from the 2003 deaths of 19 illegal immigrants who were among more
than 100 Mexicans and Central Americans crammed into an airtight
tractor-trailer. The truck was found abandoned at a truck stop outside Victoria,
about 100 miles southwest of Houston.

In the trials, survivors testified that they screamed and clawed at the
sweltering trailer's walls. Fourteen people have been indicted.

Sanchez was ordered to serve 280 months in federal prison, longer than the
sentence given to the admitted leader of the smuggling operation. U.S. District
Judge Vanessa Gilmore noted that he brought his wife and son into the scheme.
The leader, Karla Patricia Chavez Joya, was sentenced in May to 209 months  --
more than 17 years  --   in prison.

The truck driver, Tyrone Williams, a legal Jamaican immigrant from Schenectady,
N.Y., is scheduled to go on trial again next month after an appeals court
ordered a new trial. Some of the counts against him carry a possible death
sentence.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              200 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 12, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 556 words


HOUSTON  --  A federal appeals court has ordered a new trial for the truck
driver convicted in the nation's deadliest human-smuggling attempt  --  a
journey that ended in the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants crammed into his
sweltering trailer.

The ruling means Tyrone Williams could once more face the death penalty.

A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit ruled
Wednesday that the trial verdict was invalid because the jury failed to decide
whether Williams was directly responsible for the deaths.

When the jury could not agree on that question before Williams was sentenced
last year, the judge removed the death penalty as an option. Prosecutors
appealed.

Meanwhile, in Laredo, Tex., sheriff's deputies found 56 illegal immigrants
locked inside a refrigerated trailer with no driver in sight and no way for the
shivering human cargo to escape. No one was injured. Two suspected immigrant
smugglers from Mexico were later arrested.

*  BIRMINGHAM  --  Investigators searched Thursday for the source of an early
morning fire that destroyed Tubbs Church of Christ in Oakman, Alabama's 15th
church fire since February. The state fire marshal's office said it was too
early to tell if the latest fire was an accident or a possible copycat case.

*  MIAMI  --  Maria Bafunno knelt and touched the name of her brother, Giuseppe,
inscribed on a cemetery marker that lists the names of the 110 people killed
when ValuJet Flight 592 plunged into the Everglades 10 years ago. She and about
80 relatives and friends of passengers and crew members were joined by federal
investigators who recalled the crash and talked about the subsequent changes in
laws and airline policies.

*  CHICAGO  --  Donald Udstuen, a longtime political adviser of former governor
George Ryan (R-Ill.), was sentenced to eight months in prison on charges of tax
fraud. Udstuen, a former lobbyist for the Illinois State Medical Society,
pleaded guilty in 2003 and became a key witness in the racketeering trial that
lead to Ryan's conviction last month.

*  NASHVILLE  --  Tennessee is close to becoming the first state to require
stores selling beer to check the age of every buyer, even those obviously older
than 21. The universal carding legislation sponsored by state Rep. Gary Moore
(D-Joelton) passed the House on a vote of 75 to 20. The legislation was
unanimously approved by the Senate last week, but it must reconsider the bill
because the House amended it.

*  NEW YORK  --  The Salvation Army is poised to install a black leader for its
U.S. operations Friday, the first time for a black church official to lead the
predominantly white, evangelical denomination in this country. Commissioner
Israel L. Gaither will be installed as commander of the Army in the United
States at a ceremony featuring brass band and choral flourishes. Few blacks have
served as the top officials of majority-white U.S. religious bodies.

*  PHILADELPHIA  --  The peripatetic bronze Rocky statue, bestowed on the city a
quarter of a century ago by actor Sylvester Stallone, appears to be coming to
rest again: at the head of the Benjamin Franklin Parkway near the steps of the
Philadelphia Museum of Art. The Fairmount Park Commission on Wednesday approved
the site to the east of the steps featured in the movie "Rocky."

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              201 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 2, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

The Migrants' Mayor;
Salvadoran's Path to Politics Built on Reputation for Smuggling People North

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 1453 words

DATELINE: CARA SUCIA, El Salvador


Narciso Ramírez strode through the throng of supplicants waiting outside the
mayor's office on a recent morning with the expansive smile of a man who had
just been elected by a landslide.

A middle school dropout with no experience in government, Ramírez had taken on a
three-term incumbent belonging to the region's most successful political party.

But the 45-year-old rancher, widely known by his nickname, "Don Chicho," offered
a credential far more persuasive in these parts. By his own account, Ramírez has
helped about 200 residents sneak into the United States over the years by
lending them money for their journeys and providing a list of friendly contacts
along the route. According to Salvadoran officials, Ramírez's role went further.
In 2002, they charged him with heading an international network of at least 50
smugglers.

He was acquitted of the charges, but many residents of this far western town say
Ramírez was the area's top coyote, or people smuggler, for much of the 1990s,
personally guiding groups of 150 to 200 at a time up through Mexico into the
United States.

"If I tried to list all the people who Don Chicho has taken to the States, I'd
never finish," said Herman Walter Orellana, 48, a cheese maker who was sipping
coffee at a stall on the traffic-choked road that bisects the town.

The exact role Ramírez played in helping people reach the United States could
not be determined through interviews. Still, his election in the municipality of
San Francisco Menendez, which includes Cara Sucia, underscores the respect
accorded here to reliable members of a profession generally considered callous
and criminal in the United States. To many in Cara Sucia, Ramírez also serves as
a reminder of a gentler, simpler time before the debate over immigration in the
United States reached a fever pitch  --  when the trip north was less dangerous
and expensive, and trustworthy coyotes were easier to find.

"Don Chicho always came through. . . . And if you were especially poor, he'd
give you a discount and let you pay half of the cost later," recalled Orellana,
who said his younger brother got just such a deal for his trip to Atlanta in
1990. When Ramírez announced his candidacy, Orellana added, "My brother
immediately called me and said, 'You have to give him your vote. It's thanks to
him that I'm over here.' "

Ramírez, the son of a struggling farmer, said such expressions of gratitude from
those he has assisted were common. One man even sent back a refurbished pickup
truck upon opening his own repair shop in Atlanta. "That was years after he had
paid me back and after we had lost contact," Ramírez said. "I get emotional
thinking about it."

Cara Sucia, a warren of shacks and concrete huts near the border with Guatemala,
is home to about 5,000 people. It is one of a handful of towns in the
municipality of San Francisco Menendez and is believed to derive its name, which
means "dirty face," from the destitute children who used to swarm around the
owners of one of the area's first plantations.

Nonetheless, jobs were once plentiful here, compared with eastern El Salvador.

It wasn't until the late 1980s, when the local economy began to sag under the
pressure of so many new arrivals fleeing the civil war and poverty rampant in
other parts, that Cara Sucia's residents began heading north.

Ramírez was well-positioned to help them. A short but muscular man whose manner
is at once affable and wary, he recalls showing an entrepreneurial streak since
age 8, when he took his first job hauling vegetables in the local market.

At 21, still penniless, he sneaked into the United States, living first in
Houston, then in the District and Arlington. By 1989, Ramírez had saved enough
from jobs in restaurants and construction to return to Cara Sucia permanently
and start several businesses  --  including a cattle ranch that has 150 cows and
employs 10 people, a construction company that employs 20, a bus service that
employs 10, a motorcycle taxi service that employs four, and a hardware store in
which he is a silent partner.

Ramírez, who obtained permanent residency status in the United States through a
1986 amnesty, would frequently drive to the United States to buy cars and spare
parts for his businesses and to visit relatives. Locals say it wasn't long
before he branched into smuggling people.

Even back then, the trip to the United States was a difficult one for illegal
migrants.

Orellana said it took his brother 25 days. Most of that time was spent getting
through Mexico, where Central Americans must evade authorities as well as
bandits.

During a recent interview in his home, Ramírez said emphatically that he never
earned anything for helping people get to the United States. But according to
residents, Ramírez charged about $3,400 for his services and did a brisk
business.

"He already had money before he became a coyote. But with this work he became
really rich," said Arturo Galendo, 70, owner of a lunch stall called "The Divine
Master."

Today Ramírez drives a gleaming silver Toyota pickup and lives with his wife and
two young children in the nicest house in town  --  an elegant two-story affair
with wraparound balconies and a kitchen larger than most homes here.

A few in town alleged that Ramírez had used his wealth to buy the March 12
mayoral election. But most people interviewed noted admiringly that he was a
frequent sponsor of local charities, contributing to the town's annual patron
saint day festival, hosting rodeos, and paying medical and funeral expenses for
the poor.

When Hurricane Stan flooded the coastal area of the municipality last October,
Ramirez marshaled his vehicles to evacuate residents, townspeople said. For
nearly two weeks he housed a large group of them in one of his extra houses.

Residents said that through his work as a coyote, Ramírez gained a reputation
for honesty and decency not often associated with that occupation.

"He would travel with people as if he were an illegal alien himself," Orellana
explained. "He'd put himself in the same situations with the same risks."

Residents said Ramírez gave up the coyote business by the end of 2000 to
concentrate on his other interests. In his place, they said, a bewildering
variety of coyotes and amateurs claiming to be coyotes have surfaced in Cara
Sucia. Gone are the days of mass trips through Mexico. The most reputable
coyotes will take groups of only 10 to 15 at a time and charge $6,000 or more
per person. Less proven coyotes might charge substantially less, but there is no
guarantee that they won't leave clients stranded along the way or get lost. They
also promise only one try across the border, as opposed to the standard three.

But Salvadoran authorities were not convinced that Ramírez had actually retired.
In the 2002 case, he was charged with defrauding clients who were allegedly
abandoned in Mexico by coyotes under his command when they were stopped by
police. Ramírez insisted that the accusations were cooked up by unnamed people
jealous of his popularity.

In searching Ramírez's house, authorities said, they found deeds to more than
200 homes that Ramírez had confiscated from clients unable to pay him.

U.S. officials immediately stripped Ramírez of his permanent residency, and a
two-year battle in Salvadoran courts ensued.

For the first 14 months of the investigation and trial, Ramírez was kept in one
of El Salvador's most notorious prisons. "It's another world in there. You're
with kidnappers, rapists and the worst gang members, and you don't know if
you'll get out alive," he said.

But Ramírez never lost the support of a core group of Cara Sucia residents, who
held various demonstrations calling for his freedom. At one point they even
traveled for a court proceeding all the way to San Miguel, at the other tip of
El Salvador.

In the end, five members of Ramírez's alleged group were convicted in the United
States and two in Mexico. Ramírez and three others were tried in El Salvador and
found not guilty.

The U.S. Embassy issued a statement decrying the verdict. "Alien smugglers are
not interested in the well-being of the would-be immigrants; they are concerned
only about money," it said. "The migrants are treated not as human beings but as
merchandise."

Ramírez, despite his insistence that he never smuggled people for money, said he
strongly objects to the law against it.

"It's an exaggeration. How can you make it a crime to help somebody who needs to
get out of extreme poverty by the only way possible?" he said.

He also hates the term coyote. "That implies that you want to devour a person. .
. . I never thought of myself as a coyote. I was just trying to help people."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              202 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 10, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A20

LENGTH: 540 words


NEW YORK  --  The federal government must release 20 more pictures of U.S.
soldiers and detainees in Iraq and Afghanistan to satisfy the requests of a
civil rights group seeking to expose evidence of abuse, a judge ordered Friday.

U.S. District Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein, who reviewed the photographs Thursday,
said identifying facial features must be removed from the pictures before they
are released to the American Civil Liberties Union, which had filed a lawsuit
seeking visual evidence of abuse.

The color photographs were taken by individuals serving in Iraq and Afghanistan,
the judge said in a two-page order. He said the government was not required to
turn over another seven photographs, and he reserved judgment about two others.

ACLU attorney Amrit Singh called the ruling "a victory for the public's right to
know the full truth about the treatment of detainees held in United States
custody abroad."

The images apparently were not taken at Abu Ghraib, the Iraqi prison where
soldiers photographed each other physically abusing and sexually humiliating
inmates.

*  PHOENIX  --  A judge upheld an Arizona law that made immigrant smuggling a
state crime, rejecting arguments that it was never intended to target immigrants
--  only the human traffickers they hire. Maricopa County Attorney Andrew P.
Thomas has used the law to charge more than 200 people, most of them immigrants
accused of paying to be smuggled into Arizona. Defense lawyers and the law's
author said it was intended to apply only to smugglers.

*  NEW YORK  --  Nicholas Minucci, 20, was convicted of assault as a hate crime
for pummeling Glenn Moore over the head with a baseball bat in June last year
in the Queens neighborhood of Howard Beach. Minucci, who is white, used a racial
epithet while beating Moore, who is black.

*  ATLANTA  --  Lawyers for convicted killer Wayne Williams, blamed for the
murders of two dozen boys and young men in the Atlanta area during the 1970s and
'80s, are casting suspicion on a child molester they say lived or worked near
where many of the bodies were found. In court papers, the defense asked a
federal judge for access to police files on the molester. The papers do not
identify the man by name but say he is a multiple child molester serving time in
a Georgia prison. They also allege that investigators knew the man was a viable
suspect in the child murders but never told defense attorneys.

*  DETROIT  --  A 16-year-old honor student from Michigan tricked her parents
into getting her a passport and then flew to the Middle East  to be with a West
Bank man she met on MySpace.com, authorities said. U.S. officials in Jordan
persuaded her to return home before she reached the West Bank.

*  NEW HAVEN, Conn.  --  A reputed mob boss, a former mayor and the owner of a
trash hauling business were among 29 people charged in a federal investigation
into the mob's influence over the region's trash-hauling industry. The
indictment alleges that companies owned by James Galante paid a "mob tax" to
Matthew Ianniello, the reputed boss of the Genovese crime family. Former
Waterbury mayor Joseph Santopietro, who was a consultant for Galante's
companies, was charged with racketeering.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              203 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                                  May 1, 2006

BYLINE: Arlington Catholic Diocese Spanish Apostolate, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 36 words



HIGHLIGHT: Some local activists predicted that thousands of Washington area
immigrants would participate in a national economic boycott today, but immigrant
groups who have spoken out against the boycott said they fear that the
immigration reform movement is being commandeered to promote political causes
beyond immigration.


Join live discussions from the Washington Post. Feature topics include national,
world and DC area news, politics, elections, campaigns, government policy, tech
regulation, travel, entertainment, cars, and real estate.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 2, 2006 Tuesday 8:12 AM EST

Punchline Politics

BYLINE: Howard Kurtz, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 2207 words



HIGHLIGHT: Forget immigration, gas prices, Iraq or Iran. The blogosphere is
aflame over one of the most shocking and jaw-dropping public appearances of the
modern era.


Forget immigration, gas prices, Iraq or Iran. The blogosphere is aflame over one
of the most shocking and jaw-dropping public appearances of the modern era.

We're talking about Stephen Colbert.

Now you might think that a professional comedian hurling barbs at the White
House Correspondents Dinner might be graded on a simple scale: funny or not
funny.

You would be so wrong.

Colbert was devastating. He practically punched the president in the stomach. He
did what all those sniveling, lapdog journalists have failed to do for the last
five years!

At least, that's what the liberal bloggers say.

The conservative bloggers just say he bombed.

The liberal bloggers say he bombed because the assembled journalists were so
uncomfortable. (I wasn't there, but Colbert took plenty of shots at the White
House press corps, who are of course a juicy target.)

What's more, you may be interested to know that there's a MEDIA COVERUP of the
Colbert performance. The MSM don't want you to know about how the Comedy Central
man made them look bad! (Never mind that the thing was carried on C-SPAN and the
video is widely available online. I played two clips of Colbert on my CNN show,
so apparently I didn't get the memo.)

My reading is that Colbert zinged Bush as a 32-percenter a number of times and
zinged the press (those 'clowns,' as he put it) an equal number of times, all in
the character of the blowhard pundit he plays on television and all within the
usual boundaries for such dinners. But these days, even a comic's performance
sparks fierce left/right debates.

Rick Moran at Right Wing Nuthouse sounds like he's starting to defend Colbert:

"I disagree with those on the right who are skewering Stephen Colbert for his
performance at the White House Correspondents dinner on Saturday night. Much of
it was actually pretty funny. It's just a pity that Colbert, in his ignorance,
never realized that people were laughing at him rather than at what he was
saying.

"Full Fledged Moonbattery is the only way to describe Colbert's performance. All
the canards were there; Iraq, WMD, the press as White House lap dogs(??), Bush
the stupid, Bush the incompetent, Bush as Machiavelli (the stupidity of trying
to show Bush as both dumb and evil genius lost on the clueless Colbert), as well
as the usual jokes that liberals find funny about 9/11, religion, and ordinary
Americans.

"The left, of course, is in rapture over Colbert's 'speaking truth to power.' I
always have to scratch my head in wonderment over this little prevarication by
the liberals. Does anyone seriously believe that the 'power' to shape debate,
set the national agenda, color the personalities, and make or break the
politicians resides with conservatives? Who are they trying to kid?"

Mash at Right Wing Nuthouse is ecstatic:

"Stephen Colbert just finished speaking truthiness to power at the annual White
House Correspondents Dinner. Standing at the podium only a few feet from
President Bush, Colbert launched an all out assault on the policies of this
Administration. It was remarkable, though painful at times, to watch. It may
also have been the first time that anyone has been this blunt with this
president."

Right Wing Nuthouse believes the man is a hero:

"Stephen Colbert displayed more guts in ten minutes of performance at the White
House Correspondents Dinner than the entire Bush family has in their collective
lifetime. He, along with the ever-feisty Helen Thomas, deftly exposed the
'truthiness' to the world (or at least those who were watching) that Bush AND
the D.C. press corps are indeed a naked emperor and his gutless courtiers."

Salon's Right Wing Nuthouse is in the coverup camp:

"The AP's first stab at it and pieces from Reuters and the Chicago Tribune tell
us everything we need to know: Colbert's performance is sidestepped and
marginalized while Bush is treated as light-hearted, humble, and funny. Expect
nothing less from the cowardly American media. The story could just as well have
been Bush and Laura's discomfort and the crowd's semi-hostile reaction to
Colbert's razor-sharp barbs. In fact, I would guess that from the perspective of
newsworthiness and public interest, Bush-the-playful-president is far less
compelling than a comedy sketch gone awry."

Mark Kleiman at Right Wing Nuthouse suggests Colbert was too funny for his own
good:

"Stephen Colbert's astonishing rant at the White House Correspondent's
Association dinner hit so near the bone --BushCo's bone, and the bone of the
lapdog journalists present-- that it drew few laughs, despite its superlative
excellence both as text and as performance."

HuffPost's Right Wing Nuthouse also uses Stephen for some press-bashing:

"Colbert's was a brave and shocking performance. And for the media to pretend it
isn't newsworthy is a total bafflement. And a symbol of how shoddy and suspect
the media is."

Right Wing Nuthouse ponders the cool audience reception:

"Stephen Colbert is being roundly panned for his mean-spirited performance. He
was big on edge, short on rib-tickling. And the audience? A tough crowd reacting
with embarrassment and silence. From my table I counted three rounds of
infectious yawns spreading around the room like the wave at football games. It's
gotta be tough to hear silence when telling rat-a-tat jokes in front of 3,000
people. Imagine singing the Spanish Star Spangled Banner to the Minutemen. Even
worse, these were mostly drunk reporters -- normally an easy mark. Colbert's
editorial act quickly sobered folks up like an unwelcome buzz kill, like a
newspaper's retirement buyout offer was rescinded."

And one more, from the New Republic's Right Wing Nuthouse: "I'm a big Stephen
Colbert fan, a huge Bush detractor, and I think the White House press corps has
been out to lunch for much of the last five years. (Though, unlike many in the
blogosphere, I don't think that's because White House reporters are lazy or
stupid.) That should have made me the ideal audience-member for Colbert's
performance at this weekend's White House Correspondents' Dinner. As it happens,
though, I laughed out loud maybe twice during Colbert's entire 20-odd minute
routine. Colbert's problem, blogosphere conspiracy theories notwithstanding, is
that he just wasn't very entertaining."

Not as entertaining as the conspiracy theories, at least.

I guess Bush felt that if he didn't say Right Wing Nuthouse about a certain
three-year anniversary--it's a "turning of the tide"--that the media would mark
it for him.

Right Wing Nuthouse sees a Day That Will Live in Infamy:

"Yes, three years ago, President Bush declared Mission Accomplished in Iraq.

"I think this will go down as the symbol of the Bush administration -- like
Carter's malaise speech, Bush's father with the carton of milk, LBJ falling on
his metaphorical sword in a nationally televised address. It captures
everything. The arrogance. The dingbat personality cult. The fleeting triumph of
Potemkin stagecraft over tangible accomplishment. The happy willingness to let
others take care of the president's messes."

Here we go again: Right Wing Nuthouse has Bush at "the lowest approval rating of
his presidency"--34 percent--at least compared to previous USA Today polls (but
not to the spate of polls in the last two months that had W. in the low
thirties). How many times can a president hit the "lowest ever" without really
moving?

Right Wing Nuthouse responds to criticism by John Hinderaker that he's become a
naysayer on Iraq. First, Hinderaker:

"The fact that half of all deaths caused by terrorists last year were in Iraq is
consistent with what the terrorists themselves often tell us: Iraq is the
central front in the global war against Islamic terrorism. The old Andrew
Sullivan would have understood that this means we should fight to win in Iraq,
not cut and run. To the extent that people are being murdered by home-grown
terrorists in Iraq, as opposed to Zarqawi, et al, the perpetrators are the very
same Baathist thugs who, until we overthrew Saddam, controlled Iraq's
government. For thirty years, they ruled Iraq through a ruthless campaign of
violence that killed many thousands of Iraqis (300,000 is a number that is
commonly cited) and terrorized the rest. It is obvious to the Iraqis themselves
that it is a good thing that these people are now out of power rather than in
power. Why isn't it obvious to Andrew?

"Well, if John has been reading this blog, he will know that I do not in any way
favor a cut-and-run strategy in Iraq. He will also know that I have shed no
tears, except of joy, about Saddam's demise, and only recently linked to a
report showing how Saddam's sons were preparing 'martyrdom operations' in London
before they were deposed. I'm just concerned, as any sentient being at this
point would be, that our occupation strategy never created the stability
essential for the good things Powerline and I both want for Iraq. I think it's
unfair to describe me in this sense as a defeatist. I want victory. I link to
any reasonable glimmer of hope I can find; and I still have not given up on a
decent outcome. I'm just a realist about how far away from victory the Bush
administration's war-management has taken us."

Right Wing Nuthouse , describing the settlement of his drug case, says he no
longer feels the urge to pop painkilling pills.

McCain for SecDef? In the Weekly Standard, the idea registers high on the Right
Wing Nuthouse scale:

"No one can match McCain's eloquence when it comes to talking about being a part
of a cause larger than oneself. That's the message Americans need to hear--and
believe--if there's any hope of regaining widespread public support for the
difficult work ahead in Iraq.

"Okay, but what about McCain? He wants to be president, not a cabinet member.
What's in it for him?

"Like it or not, his political fate is already tied to what happens in Iraq.
Although he's been clear in his disagreements with Rumsfeld, McCain nevertheless
embraced the war as appropriate and continues to insist on success. If, say,
Sen. Allen has also been a steadfast supporter of the war, many Americans don't
know it simply because most Americans still don't know him. McCain (the senior
senator from Meet the Press) has no such cover.

"And yet, as a senator, there's almost nothing McCain can do to change our
fortunes in Iraq. As secretary of Defense, on the other hand, he could certainly
make an impact. At the same time, he would be freed from the burdens of the
Senate, which although exceptionally fertile ground for presidential ambition is
notoriously unproductive soil for victorious campaigns."

Take it from me: It would blow up his campaign like an IED.

By the way: Did you really think that Bill Frist &amp; Co. would tax the oil
companies?

"Senate Republicans on Monday hurriedly abandoned a broad tax proposal opposed
by the oil industry and business leaders, another sign of their struggle to come
up with an acceptable political and legislative answer to high gasoline prices,"
says the Right Wing Nuthouse.

Why? Can't be offending the base: "The retreat came after a torrent of
objections from business leaders and their advocates, who typically view
Republicans in Congress as allies. They said they had been blindsided by the
inclusion of the proposal as a central element of the Republican leadership's
energy package late last week."

Right Wing Nuthouse is getting gas pains:

"I'll confess that I'm a little tired of columns expressing outrage about our
bipartisan temper tantrum over $3 gasoline -- where were these guys last year
when Dick Cheney's energy industry giveaway passed? -- but there's certainly no
arguing with the underlying charge:

"Most Republicans, constrained by an ideological resistance to federal
regulation, have always opposed tougher mandates. But achieving better fuel
economy was once a passion of Democrats. In 1990, 42 of the Senate's 55
Democrats -- about three-fourths -- voted to require automakers to reach 40 mpg
by 2001. That bill drew 57 votes overall, but failed amid opposition from
President George H.W. Bush and a Republican-led filibuster.

"Idiots. But then there's this:

"Under pressure from the auto companies and auto workers, Democrats have
retreated ever since. President Clinton didn't seriously try to raise fuel
economy standards. Last year, a proposal from Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) to
require a 40-mpg average for cars by 2016 drew just 28 votes; only about half of
the Senate's 44 Democrats voted yes. Those voting no included every Senate
Democrat considering a 2008 presidential bid.

"Idiots. Mileage standards work. If we had passed that bill in 1990, oil
consumption in the United States would probably be 10% lower than it is today at
virtually no cost to the economy and no inconvenience to consumers. That's a
savings of about two billion barrels of oil a year -- and there are other things
we could do to double that number with only modest pain.

"(And ANWR? If Republicans were willing to act like grownups on the efficiency
side, I'd say we should just open the damn thing up. It won't make a lot of
difference, but at the same time, it also won't cause very much damage.)"

Well, you can't call Anna Nicole Smith a gold-digger any more. Now you have to
call her a gold-digger with a Right Wing Nuthouse under her, uh, belt.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 11, 2006 Thursday 11:00 AM EST

Immigration Debate

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 7307 words



HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post staff writer S. Mitra Kalita was online to discuss
immigrants who are calling for tighter U.S. borders. She writes that the issue
complicates a debate often framed in racial terms, with immigrants on one side
and native-born, white Americans on the other.


Washington Post staff writer S. Mitra Kalita was online to discuss immigrants
who are calling for tighter U.S. borders. She writes that the issue complicates
a debate often framed in racial terms, with immigrants on one side and
native-born, white Americans on the other.

Read more in her story, Dissonant Voices Inside the Border .

A transcript follows. .

____________________

S. Mitra Kalita: Hi, everyone. Thanks for joining me today. I have already
gotten some e-mails and voicemails on today's story so I welcome the chance to
dissect some of these issues with you ovee the next hour or so. Please do try to
be respectful and brief in your submissions so I can get to as many questions
and comments as possible... As always, do stay in touch beyond this virtual chat
and drop me story ideas, observations and thoughts at kalitam@washpost.com.
Thanks for playing and let's begin...

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: Very interesting article today. I am always curious about
this viewpoint. I was born her, but had I waited on long lines to get here I'd
sure be upset about anyone who jumped that line. I think it is clear that an
unregulated flow of illegal immigrants across the border has clearly caused
strains to our social systems (specifically those of border states, but more and
more the entire country) and depressed the wages of those jobs they compete for
(filled previously by the next most recent immigrant wave, surprising not
causing more tension between the groups than it has) - However, clearly, this
flow is caused by a demand for labor, a demand that our legal immigration system
has not adaquately adapted to account for. I am a supporter of drastically
fixing our legal immigration system, BUT only after careful analysis, by a third
pary completely unaffiliated with US business interests, into how much is
"employers can't find workers" and how much is "employers can't find workers at
ridiculously unfair wages". Do you feel that these immigrant groups you write
about agree that our legal system needs to be fixed? Or do they feel that is not
necessary?

S. Mitra Kalita: Thanks for your thoughtful reading and response. I think
stakeholders on all sides agree the system is broken. Even undocumented
immigrants tell me they worry about the current border situation because more
illegal migration means more competition for them, a possible undercutting of
wages, strains on the services they have come to use. Your idea about a third
unaffiliated party brokering a deal is an interesting one and I thought that's
what government was attempting to be in this case (although they are certainly
subject to political, business, constituent and popular interests). And if you
look at some of Congress' proposals, many try to do the middle-of-the-road walk:
avoiding use of the word amnesty, allowing long-time immigrants to get on a
quicker path to green cards while more recent arrivals might be deported,
granting certain high-skilled professionals visas that would lead to green cards
sooner --and tighter border security, employer fines for hiring illegal workers,
possibly a fence... But each of these ideas I just throw out there has a
vociferous camp for and against. In reality, I think this is a much more nuanced
debate. I hope today's story captured just one element of that.

_______________________

Dumfries, Va.: It honestly seems to me that these immigrants are only seeking
acceptance from Americans with their anti-immigrant rhetoric. It is also
surprising to me that they've seemed to have forgotten the hardships that
immigrants face when arriving here, considering that I haven't, and I am only
the son of immigrants, not an immigrant myself. I entirely understand there
needs to be a serious response to recent immigration, I really do, but it seems
to me that people have stopped seeing immigrants as people and more as felons
that should be treated like dirt.

S. Mitra Kalita: Just posting this comment, for which I thank you. I was at an
event the other night and a young man, also the son of immigrants like you, felt
similarly, that it was unfair for immigrants to want to close doors behind them.
Certainly there are many legal immigrants who have been marching and rallying
alongside illegal workers in recent weeks.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: There are many illegal immigrants that want to become Americans
without going through the regular process that countless immigrants before them
have. Since we are a nation of law, and everyone is equal supposedly, why are
our lawmakers even considering granting amnesty to the 11-12 million illegals
already in our country? This will send the wrong message to potential future
illegal immigrants that money and cheap labor are more important than protecting
our own workers and their standard of living...The companies who want to employ
cheap labor are the main beneficiaries of any such amnesty not the American
people...My grandmother was born in Columbia and was proud to assimilate and
become an American. She is ashamed now that so many illegals can come here and
not have to learn English or assimilate at all it seems. Instead of spending
billions on a war with Iraq, that I think we will never win, we should be
spending this money to secure our borders and pay to improve schools and health
care in our country. Do you agree that many politicians are hoping to get the
Hispanic vote in the next election by hoping on the pro-illegal immigrant
bandwagon?

S. Mitra Kalita: I do think the Hispanic vote and their future as a large number
of voters is interesting and motivating some politicians. But I also would ask
the question of where our laws have been over the last few decades as these
millions of people crossed our borders and this country and its economy became
one increasingly dependent on immigrant labor. It seems to me like it's
impossible to turn back the clock now. Any thoughts on this?

_______________________

Melbourne, Fla.: Florida has a lot of Cubans and Puerto Ricans, many of them
first generation immigrants. The difference between them and other hispanic
groups like Mexicans is that they are all gauranteed full legal status. Because
of this do you see any conflicts or resentment with the other immigrants? Or do
they feel solidarity? Thanks!

S. Mitra Kalita: Yes there is certainly "classism" within the Latino community,
and other communities for that matter, based on legal status. However, there
have been many wealthy immigrants, too, who have thrown their support behind the
marches and more public protests in recent weeks. And others are like the people
I wrote about in today's story.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: You cited a few immigrants, mainly from Asia, as wanting to
restrict immigration to the point that it would have prevented their immigrating
to the US. Were they even aware of the irony of this stance? It strikes me as
the worst kind of hypocrisy.

S. Mitra Kalita: They were but they said that as long as they were in the United
States, they wanted to act in what they felt were the best interests of their
adopted homeland.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Good article. I have not seen very much discussion of this
issue. Do you think that is because it veers from the received wisdom, which is
that most immigrants are Hispanic and all Hispanics support legal and illegal
immigration (basically the script that the various marches were trying to put
forward)?

S. Mitra Kalita: I think the mainstream media (of which I am a member) might
perhaps be guilty of presenting it this way sometimes -- although the Post has
certainly done a great number of stories pointing out the complexities of the
overall issue, the stakeholders, the immigrants themselves. And this week, I
have seen a lot of stories across the country about how this is not just a
Latino issue. So I hope the coverage will begin to reflect the nuances I talked
about earlier. (Also public opinion polls - cited in today's story - have showed
that Hispanics support more open immigration policies at higher rates than other
immigrant groups and the overall population.)

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Great Story! Another Post article today indicated that President
Bush is losing support among conservatives because of his open-borders
philosophy. However, people like Karl Rove are always saying that the
Republicans have to be supportive of immigration because Hispanics are the next
great voting bloc. Do you think stories like this one will convince people that
many immigrants and minorities are actually against immigration, and that
staking out a tough position on that issue is not somehow a death sentence for
the Republican Party?

washingtonpost.com: Dissonant Voices Inside the Border , By Jim VandeHei and
Peter Baker

S. Mitra Kalita: My goal is not to convince the Republican Party of that but to
perhaps present another side of the debate and to make sure we don't paint all
immigrants with one broad brush. Thanks for your comment and question.

_______________________

Annapolis, Md: I work for a landscaper, he was in an accident a couple of weeks
ago. He had legal transient workers in his truck. They had their paperwork with
them. My boss was not at fault in the accident but the policeman started to
question him about the legality of the workers. If those workers had not been
Hispanic the questioning would never had happened. This definitely reeks of
discrimination.

S. Mitra Kalita: Can you please send me your contact information to
kalitam@washpost.com. I would be very interested in talking to anyone out there
who has seen more examples of cracking down on illegal workers or asking for
documentation in the current climate of reform. Thanks!

_______________________

Grand Rapids, Mich.: The truth is that illegal immigration is just that,
illegal. All other euphemisms distort the issue to the point that an effective
dialogue cannot occur. I do not know what you mean by "classism" among
Hispanics, unless you mean the "classism" of the oligarchies in Mexico, Latin
America and the US being complicit in exporting their working classes to avoid
real democratic change in Latin America.

Jose A. Amors

Editor at Large, La Voz

S. Mitra Kalita: A comment. Thanks for it.

_______________________

Germantown, Md.: It is obvious from the article that there are many people,
other than the "native-born, white Americans", who feel that the open borders
must be secured. I am getting a little tired of constantly seeing the media
labeling this debate as illegals vs. the "native-born white Americans". The
debate involves many people outside of these two classes. I do feel that illegal
immigration will cause a great drain on our country. These people are not here
legally. They are mostly unskilled laborers who works in occupations that have a
great potential of obtaining injuries from the work. Who then pays for their
medical care? Our tax dollars! Deporting them may be costly up front, but it
will be costly to allow them to stay here.

S. Mitra Kalita: I am sending along this comment and also want to send along a
wonderful story that my colleague Darryl Fears did on how some black Americans
view the immigration debate.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Dissonant Voices Inside the Border , By Darryl Fears, April
8, 2006

S. Mitra Kalita: Here it is.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Ms. Kalita,

Can you please mention that the Minuteman Project caravan will be arriving in
Washington, D.C. and will hold a rally at Upper Senate Park tomorrow (Friday
11am). There is little to no mention of where people can go to support them in
our local media.

Thank you for standing up for your fellow citizens at this important time in our
country.

S. Mitra Kalita: I am passing this along only to say that I do believe the
Minuteman Project has gotten a lot of press in the last few months. (And I will
still be calling you for comment.) But I am also interested in hearing from
other groups that either have proposed immigration reforms, have studied data to
conclude that immigrants do or don't depress wages for Americans, are lobbying
Congress in interesting ways, etc.

_______________________

Annapolis, Md.: Thank you for writing what many Americans feel that this country
will become Balkanized unless new immigrants assimilate to American culture and
that is not going to happen if the numbers are too large or under the guise of
"diversity" we don't insist they assimilate into our society. It is not racist
to say English is our language. Illegal immigration does drive down wages and
impacts social services. This isn't about race but it is about culture. The
values/social system of many Latin American countries is not what America is
about. Yes, they do have strong family values but they also come from cultures
where corruption is endemic throughout the society, where there is class
stratification and where extreme prejudice exists against other countries. I
also understand that many want to escape this environment. But what is missing
in the debate is why after so many years countries like Mexico continue to be so
underdeveloped when other countries have been able to advance their development?
The elites in these societies/governments do not have to change because they
have the release valve of sending poor illegal immigrants to the US. Yes, we
need guest workers and we need to insure they receive decent wages and support
but the US should decide how many come into this country, not Mexico. People in
America better wake up for there are many in Mexico who feel illegal immigration
is how Mexico can reclaim land they feel is rightly theirs.

S. Mitra Kalita: I have gotten many questions in this hour on what foreign
governments can do to keep their workers within their borders, to lift up their
own populations. Will post a few more.

_______________________

Manassas, Va.: In this debate, I never hear discussions on why so many millions
of people risk lives, health, and fortune to live in the US every year.

Most of the illegal immigrants do so because their countries of origin are
chronically awash in poverty and corruption. Why don't those who promote
"amnesty" for the illegals aren't demanding accountability towards the
governments where they come from?

No country in the world is as generous as the US with its immigrants, legal or
illegal.

Thanks!

S. Mitra Kalita: Here is another thought along the lines of the above.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Growing up as a Puerto Rican American, my mother would
sometimes talk about the rivalries between the diverse groups lumped under the
title of 'Latino' or 'Hispanic'. While my family is 'Americanized', my relatives
who grew up in a more traditional environment would often express derogatory or
racist views on other hispanic groups; notably Mexicans. While this certainly
doesn't speak for all or even most Latinos, a sense of differece does exist for
many hispanics. Many Cubans look down on Puerto Ricans, many Puerto Ricans look
down on Mexicans, many Mexicans look down on El Salvadorans, etc...

In your article you talk about the other perspectives by immigrant groups, did
you see any difference based on race within the hispanic umbrella? Or is the
common plight bringing them together, dissolving the national rivalries?

S. Mitra Kalita: For this story, I didn't dwell on race within the communities
but yes, it is certainly a factor. Colorism, actually, exists across many ethnic
groups, including my own. (Just last month, someone told me that I had been a
cuter baby than my daughter because I was lighter-skinned!) But what we are
seeing in this current movement highlights the creation of a Latino culture in
the United States - one that would only be possible in the United States because
it marries people across different countries of origin, in some cases race, etc.
And, whatever you think of the marchers' stance, they are certainly banding
together across many differences. What they are doing, creating culture while
asserting their own, speaking up for their rights, ironically, seems very
American.

_______________________

Oakland, Calif.: Do natives and legal immigrants who blindly oppose immigration
reductions realize that if the current U.S. population growth rates continue, by
2050 -- within the lifetimes of today's college students -- we could have more
than 500 million people, which is a projection of the U.S. Census Bureau? This
is half of India's current population! Do they realize that if the U.S. just
amnestied 12 million illegal aliens, with 10 years, they could add 30 million
more people to this country through births here and immigration of their
extended families who consume energy, need jobs, health care, education and many
other very costly social services? Does the U.S. have an unlimited supply of
energy, jobs, etc. for all those who wish to immigrate to this country? The U.S.
has massively exported jobs to many countries, such as China and India. If the
U.S. continues to massively import workers from China, India and other
countries, how can natives and legal immigrants already here find work? Many
Chinese legal immigrants have chosen to go back to Hong Kong, Taiwan and China,
saying that there are far more opportunities there than here. Americans must
wake up! China is rising very fast and the U.S. is falling even faster!

Yeh Ling-Ling

Oakland, Calif.

S. Mitra Kalita: I am posting a comment from Yeh Ling-Ling who was quoted in the
story. Thanks for joining us, Ling-Ling. She also has many articles up on the
Diversity Alliance web site that expand on these thoughts.

_______________________

Dallas, Texas: As a family that benefits from the new markets that have opened
up from having Spanish speaking customers (many large consumer brands are
marketing to these people), I think the economic benefits of the immigrants are
being overlooked. They DO consume retail goods here in the states, and that is
good for everyone.

S. Mitra Kalita: Some economists essentially say immigrants balance out the
negative effects they have on wages (as in lowering them) by consuming American
goods, paying taxes (sales, if nothing else), using their credit cards, buying
houses, etc. Thanks for your thought.

_______________________

Mayodan, N.C.: I appreciate your article and the recognition of complex nuances
on an inflammatory issue typically eliciting polarized responses. In his
analysis Donald Horowitz from Duke University cites that the most heterogeneous
of societies demand "assimilation" from immigrants more readily than do
homogeneous societies. Yet other scholars have found that assimilation program
components such as "official language" requirements and "guest worker programs"
(i.e., Germany's notion of "heimat") tend to exacerbate divisions and inflame
racist practices. Assuming that our recent immigration problems are addressed in
a package finally passed by Congress, and given your experience with recent
immigrants (legal or illegal), can you anticipate the response of immigrant
communities if such assimilation requirements were mandated? Thanks for your
response.

S. Mitra Kalita: Wonderful question. It is so hard to legislate assimilation,
no? How would you do that beyond making English the nation's official language?
And it seems to me that a state of assimilating, even of calling oneself
"American" is an emotional, possibly long journey. Yes, perhaps one the
government wants people to make. But I don't see how you make it a
requirement...

_______________________

Long Beach, Calif.: I work for one of the oldest e-Commerce development firms in
the U.S. - we've been trying to land Japanese business for years where there is
a giant consulting need for American expertise in presenting the midsized co's
services/products to Americans... So we invited a gentleman we know to invest in
our firm and come over to America to live and work. He is uniquely placed in his
community of leading corporate board members... we failed to get the U.S.
government to let him in, however. This guy invested hundreds of thousands of
dollars in American jobs in a good faith gesture and the Gov't came up with one
excuse after another to deny his visa...

This is why I say we need to build the wall. If we're keeping legit business
people out who would be creating jobs, then we need to stop being hypocrites and
seal the border.

S. Mitra Kalita: Thanks for sharing your story. Can I please have you e-mail me
with your information? I have a colleague working on a story that this might
relate to. kalitam@washpost.com

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: I found your characterization of the two sides of the debate
obnoxiously racist. How, for example, do you reconcile Ray Nagin's comments
after Katrina concerning Mexican workers with your view that only whites are
anti-immigrant?

S. Mitra Kalita: Thanks for your comment, although I am sorry you feel that way.
I just posted a story about black Americans by Darryl Fears that has the details
-- but at least one poll shows that while one-quarter of blacks thought they had
been displaced by an immigrant worker, blacks were still less likely than whites
to say they wanted to severely curb immigration. Prominent black leaders, too,
have come out in favor of the recent activism for legalizing undocumented
workers. BUT as I mention in today's story, there are black Americans and other
minorities who sit on the board of the Diversity Alliance headed by Yeh
Ling-Ling, who want to reduce immigration. Again these are all the complexities
that are not reflected in the overly simplistic debate I alluded to in the story
as immigrants versus whites -- because it is exactly that, overly simplistic.

_______________________

Grand Rapids, Mich.: There is also a Hispanic version of the Minutemen that do
not get coverage; they are called Friends of the Border Patrol. Thanks for
posting my previous comment, and taking up this issue.

Jose A. Amors

S. Mitra Kalita: Another comment from Jose. Thanks.

_______________________

San Francisco, Calif.: You ask that we be respectful this a.m. well I ask the
same of those who enmass bombarded and changed my culture illegally.

Forty-nine percent of the population in CA is Latino. Everything is bi-lingual
including government jobs.

The injection to the economoy has been remarkable, cars, homes, et.al. A task
laid wide open because of legal chicanery. No taxation for the illegals.

New jobs were created for Spanish speaking people. Yesterday, a realtors office
openly displayed it's Mexican flag along with the Red/White and Blue.

The illegals are the ones who save money, buy the new cars, homes, et.al because
they work for cash. Pay in cash. Save in cash.

Not so the rest of us who are gouzed by taxation -- unless of course we are in
the upper 10%

These are crimes against Americans as allowed by our government who has no
understand or sense of fair play.

S. Mitra Kalita: Posting this comment. I do appreciate you sharing your
thoughts.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: I am an immigrant. My family spent years in line to become
citizens. We learned English, pay taxes, and contribute to our communities. I
support stricter restrictions on immigration and I do not think I am being
hypocritical. I support legal, not illegal, immigration. To argue that I am a
hypocrite because I support restrictions that would have made it more difficult
if not impossible for me to immigrate here is a red herring because the true
issue is that of legalty. I only want people coming here legally. No exceptions.
If, for the betterment of this country, we need to limit the number of
immigrants we allow in, then I fully support such measures. The fact that I
happened to legally immigrate here under a different legal regime is irrelevant.
Times change. Laws change. It would be foolish to demand that the laws stay the
same for all time.

S. Mitra Kalita: Thanks for your comment.

_______________________

Rockville, Md.: How much responsibility does the U.S. have towards the
immigrants? Lets face it we went and mucked with the governments of Guatemala
and El Salvador. We spray herbicides on drugs crops but frequently the wind
carries the poison to food crops and some farmer is without livelihood. We just
told Mexico it could not pass a bill decrimilzing possession of marijuana. Maybe
some of the people coming here feel like they are part of this country since we
run their governments.

S. Mitra Kalita: And another point on the responsibilities of foreign
governments.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: It is very difficult for me to hear people blaming the other
countries for their lack of development--not that there isn't corruptions or
internal problems. However, there is very little understanding of globalization
and of how different economic forces are playing out.

One of the big reasons that a lot of people have immigrated from Mexico is
because of NAFTA and poor farmers of Mexico could not compete with subsidized
American grain from ADM--subsidies that you and I pay for. Our international
trade policies promote the interest of U.S. businesses often by denying other
countries the ability to protect their native businesses and agriculture.

So when those businesses and family farms collapse after trying to compete with
the global, mega- businesses of the U.S. What are people supposed to do? Let
their families starve?

We need to recognize immigration as what it is which is one piece of the large,
global economic integration. So, people need to think about that when their
Reps. and Sens. vote for bills like CAFTA or NAFTA. This is one of the impacts.

S. Mitra Kalita: Thanks for your comment. I do think the current immigration
model is much, much different because of globalization, and this idea that
people can go back and forth (in the case of the Chinese and Indian business
leaders, for example). In some cases, illegal workers tell me they want to be
able to do business with their home countries, or even go back home, but they
know once they go back, they won't be allowed in -- and that's what keeps them
here.

_______________________

Bowie, Md.: Just a comment - I am increasingly frustrated by the Main Stream
Media's penchant to use "undocumented" vice "illegal". Why are we so afraid to
call things what they are? If John Wayne Gacy was offended at my calling him a
murderer, why should I care? Other nations are much stricter on immigration than
we are. In Japan, if you're arrested for being an illegal alien, you go straight
to a processing station, then straight on a plane back to your country of origin
- no phone calls, no going back to your apartment to pick up your things, nada.
My wife, who is a legal immigrant from a much stricter country, is amazed that
the border patrol is not authorized to shoot on sight. While a bit extreme, I
bet it would only take a few days to stem the flow.

S. Mitra Kalita: I do use the word "illegal" to refer to illegal workers,
illegal migrations. I also, however, use the words "undocumented" and
"unauthorized" because sometimes they are more factually correct. Someone coming
here on a tourist visa did not come here illegally, for example. If they
overstayed their visa, though, that is an illegal action. I try to ask the
immigrants I interview how they came over and have the story and its semantics
as accurate as possible. There are many debates waging within newsrooms on what
the best words are to talk and writer about this debate. I am just giving you my
personal parameters.

_______________________

Amsterdam, Netherlands: Ms. Kalita,Your article captured several facets of this
popular debate. Good job!

As an African-American, I sometimes feel offended when I hear people say that
"illegal immigrants are doing the jobs Americans don't want to do." It seems
that often the people saying this are the ones who stand to gain financially
from illegal labor. It's as if Americans are being painted as lazy--broad stroke
yet again. Americans have always worked hard in this country. I feel that
illegals are doing the jobs Americans don't want to do for anything less than
what it takes to maintain their standards of living. In your interviewing, what
have you found to be the main reasons employers are hiring illegal workers. And
are any illegal sources commenting on what they desire if they a guest worker
program is passed (i.e. benefits, housing, etc)? Thank you!

S. Mitra Kalita: Wonderful to hear from you. Thanks for writing. Employers hire
illegal workers for many reasons - perhaps they can't find anyone else, they
don't want to pay taxes, they want cheap labor. Views on the guest worker
program are mixed. I spent the day at a landscaping company recently and even
the workers were divided. Some wanted it the same as it is now: they get a
prevailing wage (about $11 per hour), worker's comp, housing allowance and
transportation. Others wanted to be put on a path to a green card so they could
bring their families over. The employer himself just wanted the program to
continue as it is -- 10 months a year -- because he said he could not find
Americans who wanted to do the job. (And when I say Americans, I mean
immigrants, too.:)

_______________________

Washington, DC: Are you as disturbed as I am about the spanish National Anthem?

These people have the nerve to sneak into our back door, force companies to hire
spanish language interpreters and create spanish advertisements, and now they
create their own United States National Anthem in spanish. This is the problem
of illegal imigration at its heart. When people come from other parts of the
world to the United States, they work hard to learn our culture, while adding
some of their own flavor, learn the language, and assimilate into our
ever-changing culture. The Latin American imigrants are pandered to with spanish
this spanish that, and in no way assimilate to the American culture. Now they
feel they have the right to compose their own anthem.

THE PROBLEM MUST STOP NOW!!!!

S. Mitra Kalita: No comment on the anthem but I am posting yours. Actually one:
when I lived in Puerto Rico, we used to sing the U.S. anthem before assemblies
and "La tierra de Borinquen donde nacido yo..." afterward. I really really
looked forward to the latter.

_______________________

Baltimore, Md.: When this immigration issue suddenly became front burner for the
entire country (as opposed to the border states) I heard that Latino groups were
trying to forge an alliance with Irish groups, because there are so many illegal
Irish immigrants in New York, Boston, Chicago, etc. The theory was that, by
putting a white, English speaking face in the foreground of the issue, the
American people would see immigration in a different light. Has such an alliance
formed?

S. Mitra Kalita: I am not sure so someone out there, please let me know. I am
going to post an interesting story by a colleague about the Irish in NY.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Dissonant Voices Inside the Border , By Michelle Garcia,
Feb. 20, 2006

S. Mitra Kalita: Here it is.

_______________________

George Briese - Chicago, IL: History is awash with instances where the majority
population uses a derogatory word towards a minority group to perpetuate their
superior position in society.

During times of war, conflict or stressful situations, new words are created to
debase or dehumanize the enemy enabling a speedy transition to bypass the
instinctive moral apprehension to do harm against another.

The recent CNN show with Gov. Bill Richardson, Sen. Dick Durbin, Anderson
Cooper, Lou Dobbs brought the role of media as reporter and as instigator to
this now divisive issue. While everyone in that forum used the term 'illegal or
undocumented immigrants', Lou Dobbs made it a point to use 'illegal ALIENS'. Mr.
Dobbs obviously know his propaganda methods, as he tries to desensitize his
listeners from seeing these 'aliens' as real people.

With these facts in mind, are we surprised these derogatory terms were so
effectively used by the Nazis for Jews, Khmer Rouge and Darfur to rally their
cohorts in exterminating these 'enemies'? What do you think the responsibility
of the media when using the 'correct' terms as part of the discussion to
separate reporting vs. propagandizing? ?

S. Mitra Kalita: I think we need to be very careful and semantics, labels, etc.
matter deeply. Again, that's why I try to tell readers how someone came here and
use the right word to describe status. The word "alien" is avoided generally
because it is a government term and because most readers associate aliens with
spacial beings or somesuch. I don't think that's propaganda; it's word choice to
give our readers clarity.

_______________________

London, UK: I am American, married to a Brit. I had to leave America, because
after filling out the application form for immigration, it became clear that as
a retired educator -- and even if I was still teaching -- I would never make a
salary large enough for Uncle Sam to consider me a viable sponsor for my highly
skilled husband, who makes at least three times more than me. Plus, the INS at
the time told us that it would take them 2-3 years just to even begin to process
my husband's application, due to their backlog.

During the years my husband was seconded to the corporation he worked for in the
US, he paid his income taxes to the US, and was even erroneously called for jury
duty.

When his secondment ended, we could no longer stay in my homeland, unless we
found a sponsor other than me to help him acquire a green card. So we came to
the UK. It was much easier for me to be vetted for permanent residency here than
in the US. Only 2-pages for the application.

I am bitterly disappointed and disillusioned that things have worked out the way
they have. We have tried everything to go through the process LEGALLY, but to no
avail. And now all the illegals are getting a big bonus. What a dysfunctional
system we have. But we brought it upon ourselves.

Any ideas? I guess we won't be living back home anytime soon. Thanks.

("What's the point in being legal?" --
http://www.kibbelznbitsbydeb.blogspot.com/)

S. Mitra Kalita: Interesting. Immigration lawyers, out there, can you help? It
seems to me like the spouse-sponsorship by a U.S. citizen is the easiest hurdle
to surmount in the quest for a green card. I suppose there are exceptions if he
came her illegally or didn't want to wait in his country of origin? But I am not
an immigration lawyer so perhaps I am mistaken. Also just a note - because I am
getting a lot of notes on this - any process of securing green cards to illegal
workers will not result in them "cutting a line" or getting ahead of people
already waiting years for them. At least that is what I have been told. I think
everyone expects this will be a long process.

_______________________

Richard Baum - Kenosha, Wisc.: The mere fact that there are 11-20 million
'undocumented workers' working today says a lot about their contribution to
sustaining the pace of this economy.

Yeh Ling-Ling and co. are predictably worried about their recent migration and
ability to sustain their kind. Studies show that immigrants and their siblings,
one or two generations removed from coming over to their new country are the
most 'protective' of their status in terms of competition and fear of 'scarce'
resources syndrome.

It's now wonder this segment of population most vehemently opposes further
'erosion' of their status.

S. Mitra Kalita: Thanks for your comment.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: I think one thing interesting about this debate is that no
one is seeing the big picture economy wise. Everyone says we need immigrants for
the economy, because the very low wage, low hassle work force is invaluable to a
couple core industries like construction, agriculture and the restaurant
business. This argument is being used by both american legislatures who are
presumable representing the businesses it would benefit and the immigrants
themselves.

In response we have a lot of legislation on the table that would give the
immigrants instant citizenship. The argument at this point seems to be how many
will get this instant citizenship.

What I don't understand is that if we in fact instantly legalize all these
people, won't both the new citizens and their old employers then instantly have
to start paying taxes. This cheap workforce would no longer be so cheap, right?

S. Mitra Kalita: I don't believe I have heard of anyone potentially getting U.S.
citizenship in the time it takes to make oatmeal (but please provide me details
if you know something I don't). The plans, as I know it, do require a path to
citizenship - registration, verification, sometimes going to a different place
to be processed (I am sketchy on details and also all this stuff is still being
ironed out so it is evolving).

But I do think you are right -- as soon as many immigrants I have talked to get
their green cards, their salaries go up. This leveling of the playing field in
certain industries is likely to create the scenario you speak of...

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Two quick comments. First, everything changes once an
immigrant arrives. So what she or he wanted before immigration--mainly a chance
at the good life--can change after to protection of the good life. That would be
as true of people's grandparents who immigrated as it is potentially true of me.
Second, I believe many "culture" conflicts are racial conflicts in disguise. Who
would admit to racism? I don't know what to do about either of these things
except that talking about them probably is helpful.

S. Mitra Kalita: Thanks for sharing - and talking!

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: As a contractor to the federal government I have been exposed
to both the immigrant visa process and to the immigration court deportation
process. Our State Department, hard as it may try is controlled by law as the
number and types of visas that may be issued for foreign nationals wanting to
immigrate to the United States of America. Unfortunately there are so many who
just are unable to wait their turn that they enter our country illegally for "a
better way of life and to help our family back home." When the illegal aliens
are detained and brought before courts to be deported, they employ every tactic
possible to extend their and their family's stay in our country for as long as
possible. I have even seen instances of cases going on for over 5 years.
Awarding amnesty to this group will not end or even curb our country's problem
with illegal aliens. It will only reset the count zero for the number of
"illegals" in the country.

S. Mitra Kalita: Thanks for your comment.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: As someone observing this issue, I am thoroughly convinced that a
big dose of racism plays into it. So often I hear about the "horror" of going
into a supermarket and -hearing Spanish- that it seems clear to me they are, in
part, simply threatened by something different than themselves. I realize it is
not that simple, but this is a big element of it.

S. Mitra Kalita: Gracias por su opinion.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: I tend to feel that a lot of the current debate on immigration
is outdated. We can debate the issue of what type of imigration should be
allowed for years (and have), but the truth is in this global world, people and
jobs will tend to move to the most attractive economic locations, whether or not
it is legal. Our goal should be to figure out how to manage the flow to avoid
problems and how to help people assimilate. Having taught ESL in Arlington,
where I worked with many recent immigrants, I can tell you that the stories of
those who come here are so incredibly inspiring -- the hardships they have
suffered and their faith in the American dream is simply amazing. We have to
realize that America doesn't "belong to us" and perhaps it never did. It belongs
to those who believe in its ideals and work to make life better. People come
here because of their ideals and dreams and belief in what America represents.
We should all work to make sure those ideals continue to be respected.

S. Mitra Kalita: Thanks for that thoughtful comment. I am wrapping up here so I
am just trying to post a few more comments now.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: I just wanted to pose a rarely-asked question to all of the
vociferously anti-illegal Americans out there. How sure are you that your
ancestors immigrated legally? Clearly as porous as our borders may be today,
they must have been more so a hundred or so years ago. To be honest I am not
even sure if my own ancestors had all the right paperwork - though no one is
going to question it now.

S. Mitra Kalita: I believe it wasn't until the 1920s that "paperwork" was even
required. My immigration history might be rough here.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va: One aspect of the issue no one seems to discuss is the
administrative mess at the State Department. Not only is the legal process for
immigrating to the U.S. unnecessarily complicated but anyone who has ever delt
with either the passport office or worse yet the immigration office quickly
learns that State Department employees are rude, disfunctional and totally
uninterrested in customer service. For many years the regional INS offices have
been a dumping ground for the worst slackers in the civil service. These people
make your local DMV look motivated! Part of reforming the immigration system has
to include cleaning up the mess at visa desks in our embassies and INS field
offices in the U.S.

S. Mitra Kalita: This is one area I wrote about in a story two weeks about about
a group called "Immigration Voice" lobbying for the green card processing
backlog to be fixed as part of this immigration overhaul.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Dissonant Voices Inside the Border , April 26, 2006

S. Mitra Kalita: Here is that story.

_______________________

McLean, Va.: Thank you for writing this article. It is very important to show
this side of the discussion. How or Why did you write this article? How did you
come about writing on this topic? How were you choosen to handle this issue?
What is your view on the immigration debate?

S. Mitra Kalita: I think this is a fitting question for me to end today's chat
on. I cover immigration for the financial desk of the Post. In the course of the
last few weeks, I have interviewed dozens of people on all sides and those
sitting right on the fence. Many of them on the side of wanting to curb
immigration were immigrants -- and I felt nobody's coverage was reflecting that.
I also am fascinated by the various movements at play in this surge of
all-around activism we are seeing. So I pitched a story to my editor and the
result is what you read today. I have written about a number of topics as a
journalist: business, education, crime, government. But immigration has been a
thread I keep coming back to. I suppose it is partly because I am the daughter
of immigrants from India; I was born in Brooklyn, lived in Puerto Rico as a
child, consider myself American. But I always tell people that when I write
about immigration, I consider myself a journalist first--and that requires me to
fairly look at the many facets, sides, complexities of this debate.

_______________________

S. Mitra Kalita: Okay, everyone, we are totally over our time and there are
still more than 100 questions in queue. But this has been a lively, interesting
chat and I hope we can do it again soon. Remember to stay in touch at
kalitam@washpost.com -- I await your ideas!

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 16, 2006 Tuesday 12:00 PM EST

President Addresses Border Control;
Immigration Policy the Subject of Address to the Nation

BYLINE: Roberto Suro, Director, Pew Hispanic Center, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2158 words



HIGHLIGHT: Roberto Suro , director of the Pew Hispanic Center , was online
Tuesday, May 16, at noon ET to discuss President Bush 's new proposal on border
control, the debate over immigration and its social, economic and political
impact within the U.S.


Roberto Suro , director of the Pew Hispanic Center , was online Tuesday, May 16,
at noon ET to discuss President Bush 's new proposal on border control, the
debate over immigration and its social, economic and political impact within the
U.S.

Pew Hispanic Center , ( May 15, 2006 )

The transcript follows.

____________________

Washington, D.C.: Have you polled permanent resident aliens and US citizens of
Hispanic descent to gage their thoughts on this issue? I am Puerto Rican (a U.S.
citizen by birth) and a professional. What I have found amazing about this
Latino mobilization is how so many people like me saw the House bill as a
personal affront, like we're not welcomed in this country, even though the bill
doesn't affect us personally.

Roberto Suro: We've conducted several polls over the years that find some
differences between native born Latinos and immigrants on immigration issues.
Put simply, the polls indicate that there is a significant minority--between a
quarter and a third roughly--of the native born who are anxious or worried about
levels of immigration in general and the effects of illegal immigration
specifically. Meanwhile, the foreign born take overwhelmingly positive views.

_______________________

Sterling, Va.: What drives people to come into the country "illegally" by
crossing the border on foot and avoiding being documented? Please help me
understand why they now want to become U.S. citizens now, and what they say to
those who did the right thing and filed a petition to become an immigrant.

Roberto Suro: The motives that bring people to this country illegally are pretty
much the same as those that bring people here legally: better jobs, better pay,
all of the benefits of living in our society, a brighter future for children and
the chance to be reunified with family members who are already here. I would
guess that almost all the people who come here illegally would come on a legal
path if one was available. But for certain types of persons from certain parts
of the world--in particular people with low skills from Latin America-- it can
be very very difficult, if not impossible to migrate here legally. Current laws
effectively limit the number of people in those categories who can come legally.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Does Bush still have enough political points to unite the
divergent House and Senate interests and get this multifaceted and comprehensive
immigration bill through committee?

Roberto Suro: That is the political question of the hour. We'll find out in the
next week or so as the Senate debates immigration.

_______________________

Annandale, Va.: The Senate Plan will allow for the deportation of millions of
illegals who have not been here for at least two years. How will this occur?
Will there really be a search for the millions of illegal immigrants who have
not qualified as a Guest Worker?

Roberto Suro: It is not clear what will happen to people who are still out of
status under this proposal or any of the others. There is no legislation that
envisions mass roundups or mass deportations. The prevailing theory among the
proponents of tough enforcement measures is that "attrition" will eventually
reduce the illegal population. In other words, if you make life difficult for
people who are here illegally in various ways, they will eventually go
home--that is the theory.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Have you done any research that suggests that the increase of
enforcement on the border - including overhauling the current "catch and
release" policy - will actually decrease the flow of illegal immigration?

Roberto Suro: There is no easy answer to that. "Catch and release" only applies
to people from countries other than Mexico who now account for about 15% of the
apprehensions on the border, if I remember the figure correctly. As to the great
majority who do come from Mexico, we do know that enforcement on the border has
been steadily increased since 1993 and that is now much more difficult to enter
the country across the border than it used to be. Nonetheless, the number of
illegal migrants from Mexico has steadily increased.

_______________________

Oxen Hill, Md.: Mr. Suro, thanks for the chat. My impression is that many
Hispanic immigrants come to the U.S. with the intention of working here for a
few years, sending money home but also accumulating enough money to return to
their home countries and live a higher standard of life than was previously
possible. Do you have any statistics as to how many actually do this? My
impression, again, is that it's relatively small.

Roberto Suro: There are only very rough estimates. About 800,000 people enter
the country to reside here on a more or less permanent basis every year, and
about 200,000 leave. Again these are very rough numbers. Another large number of
people which is very difficult to even guess at come here for a few months at a
time and go back.

_______________________

Anonymous: Do your polls differentiate between the public's view on immigration,
in general, versus its view on illegal immigration, i.e. respect for the rule of
law? It seems that many want to frame the debate as simply one of pro- or
anti-immigration.

Roberto Suro: The polls definitely show that the public's concern is focused on
illegal immigration and the rule of law, security concerns in general as well as
the economic effects are the major sources of those anxieties. Some of the
concern does seem to be spilling over to legal immigration however. The country
is split now on whether immigration in general helps or hurts the country and a
significant minority favors reducing the flow of legal immigrants.

_______________________

Dale City, Va.: We often hear about the illegal immigrants paying taxes. Is this
a reference to sales taxes or what? Does what they pay in sales tax cover what
they use is services, such as health care and schools? Why does this even count
as "paying taxes" since even tourists who purchase products in America have to
pay sales tax?

Roberto Suro: It is almost impossible not to pay some taxes. Sales taxes as you
mention. Property taxes as well, even if you are renting. In addition, many
illegal workers, it is hard to say definitively what share, have federal income
and social security taxes taken out of their paychecks. The Social Security
Administration actually has a specific fund of money that comes from people who
have paid in but will never collect.

Drawing a balance sheet for anyone in terms of taxes paid and the costs of
services received is also very difficult. Just thinking about the native born,
how do you do you figure the elderly who require a great deal of health care or
children who get public schooling?

_______________________

San Francisco, Calif.: If we take 12 million illegals this year, how many people
will come next year?

Roberto Suro: 12 million is the estimate of the total number of unauthorized
migrants now resident in the country on a more or less permanent basis. They
arrived over many years. The net number added to the US population each year has
been running about 500,000 in recent years.

_______________________

Woodbridge Va.: Has Pew or anyone else done a longitudinal study of the 3.5
million immigrants given amnesty in 1986? How many are still here? How many are
productive citizens? How many are on TANF? etc. I would think understanding the
answers to these questions would be critical to anyone trying to decide about
the current amnesty proposal. And no matter how much lipstick you put on the
pig, it is still amnesty.

Roberto Suro: It would be a great research project but very difficult to pull
off. Studies done in the years immediately after the 86 amnesty showed that they
experienced significant increases in earnings. Recent studies of TANF (the main
federal welfare program) tend to show that, aside from refugees, immigrants are
not more likely to qualify for the program than other people in the same income
levels, and indeed, federal law limits access to TANF for recently arrived
immigrants.

_______________________

Springfield, Va.: Isn't it true that if all the illegals in this country were
sent back home many American businesses would be severely hurt?

Roberto Suro: Illegal workers are a substantial part of the workforce in a few
industries: home construction, restaurants and hotels, some kinds of
agriculture. If they suddenly disappeared--not something that is likely--those
industries would be seriously affected in the short run. What is much hard to
project is how those industries would adapt over time if the supply of cheap
labor dried up gradually.

_______________________

Luray, Va.: Two quick questions if I may. First; It is commonly believed that
children born of an immigrant, legal or not, automatically become American
citizens. Is that true? Is that a constitutionally assured right or a
legislatively conferred status? Second; are the parents of such a child then
assured of being granted citizenship?

Roberto Suro: Under the 14th amendment anyone born in the U.S. is automatically
a U.S. citizen. A native-born citizen has to be 21 years old before he or she
can petition to get their parents permanent legal immigrant status.

_______________________

Orono, Maine: It's very easy to say that immigrants should learn English. But
what resources are available to allow that to happen? President Bush should put
some teeth in his policy and require that company's that hire immigrant workers
provide English-language training for them.

What do you think?

Roberto Suro: Generally, the best available research, and it is not very
complete, shows that there is a shortage of English instruction. Certainly there
is a great deal of anecdotal evidence and data from local studies that show that
there is much more demand than there is supply. Any legislation that required
applicants for a legalization program to learn English would obviously increase
that demand tremendously.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Can we expect the meat-packing, farming, and construction
industry employers to comply with a new "legal" ID card? Bush says that most
employers don't know for sure about their employees' documentation status, but
isn't there research that shows that many are fully aware that their businesses
would not run without this supply of cheap illegal labor?

Roberto Suro: There are very few details about what the president proposed last
night. It was a novel idea: an id card only for legal immigrant workers. In the
past, id card proposals have generally covered all workers, both immigrant and
native born. He said the goal was to discourage document fraud. It's not clear
what would discourage immigrants from seeking false documents that show they are
natives. Current law does not require employers to check the validity of
documents. None of the proposals before Congress would change that in the short
term. The bill passed by the House would create a database of eligible workers
in two years but give employers six years before they had to check current
employees. The Senate bill as it stands would not create a database for five
years.

_______________________

Madison, Wis.: I find it interesting that so much of our collective disapproval
is directed to the illegal immigrants, and not to the employers who invite them
to come work here. Efforts to enforce already existing laws (requiring employers
to prove that their workers have documentation) are met with protests from
employers who bemoan the obdurate burden of complying with the law. But they're
a major source of the problem. What gives?

Roberto Suro: I am afraid this is the last question I'll be able to take.

I was on the Charlie Rose Show recently with Rep. Tom Tancredo of Colorado, one
of the chief supporters of tough enforcement policies, and I asked him a similar
question. He said that the only way to get more border enforcement was with a
political tradeoff that essentially gave employers several years to start
obeying the 1986 law that bars the employment of illegal immigrants. It is no
secret that many businesses and whole industries lobbied very hard to secure
this "grace period."

Several of the proposals under consideration would increase penalties against
employers, but as per my response to the last question, the enforcement
mechanisms would only come on line gradually over several years. It has been a
part of the conventional wisdom on immigration policy that people will keep
coming as long as they can get jobs. But, the border has gotten much more
attention in the current debate that work site enforcement.

That wraps it up for me. Thanks to all for joining this forum.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 16, 2006 Tuesday 1:03 PM EST

State of (Political) Emergency

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2899 words



HIGHLIGHT: The urgency that led President Bush to make a rare prime-time Oval
Office address last night on the subject of immigration had absolutely nothing
to do with the state of the nation's borders, which are objectively no more
porous today than, say, a year ago.


The urgency that led President Bush to make a rare prime-time Oval Office
address last night on the subject of immigration had absolutely nothing to do
with the state of the nation's borders, which are objectively no more porous
today than, say, a year ago.

But politically, Bush suddenly finds himself facing an immigration emergency.

And he also finds himself in the unusual -- and awkward -- position of trying to
create a middle ground. For all his talk of being a uniter rather than a
divider, Bush has historically taken intensely partisan positions on most
issues.

Constructing a stable middle ground requires more skill and more political
capital than a pure partisan play. But it's not clear how much of either the
Bush White House can muster at this point.

Here is the text of Bush's speech.

Jim VandeHei and Jonathan Weisman write in The Washington Post: "President Bush
said last night that he will dispatch 6,000 National Guard troops starting next
month to help secure the porous U.S.-Mexican border, calling on a divided
Congress and country to find 'a rational middle ground' on immigration that
includes providing millions of illegal workers a new route to citizenship. . . .

"In conversations with lawmakers earlier in the day, White House Deputy Chief of
Staff Karl Rove made it clear that Bush supports, in principle, a Senate-backed
plan that would provide immigrants who have lived here for five or more years a
clear path to citizenship if they pay a penalty, according to participants. . .
.

"But the Republican-controlled House so far has been hostile to the emerging
Bush plan. Conservatives in that chamber are pushing for legislation that would
tighten the borders but would not allow any route to citizenship that does not
require first leaving the country."

Peter S. Canellos writes in the Boston Globe: "President Bush last night stood
in an unfamiliar place -- the political center -- and tried to persuade people
of firm, unyielding principles on both sides to embrace his multi-faceted
approach to handling illegal immigration. . . .

"Both the rhetoric of persuasion and the complicated program, seeking a middle
ground between opposing interests, seemed out of character for Bush, who has
prided himself on being a 'decider' who stakes out a position and gives little
ground to opponents."

Michael Tackett writes in the Chicago Tribune: "In recent months, President Bush
seems to have been steadily losing the public on one of the sturdy pillars of
his presidency: the benefit of the doubt.

"On Monday, he asked for it again on the most contentious domestic issue:
immigration."

Dan Balz writes in The Washington Post: "President Bush once saw the immigration
issue as an opportunity to expand the Republican Party by attracting more
Hispanic voters with a message of tolerance and inclusion. His nationally
televised speech last night was an admission that the issue has now become a
problem that, if not managed carefully, could quickly become a historic
liability for his party."

Tom Raum writes for the Associated Press: "President Bush stepped to the right
and left at the same time on immigration: courting conservatives with tough talk
of sending the National Guard to the border and seeking to reassure moderates
that a guest-worker program will be part of the mix.

" 'These are not contradictory goals,' he declared in a prime-time address to
the nation. Neither side seemed reassured."

John Roberts told Larry King on CNN: "I think that the president's trying to
walk a really fine line here unlike Solomon who divided the baby. The president
is trying to stick the baby back together again."

Elisabeth Bumiller writes in the New York Times: "What was remarkable to people
who knew Mr. Bush in Texas was how much he still believes in the power of
immigration to invigorate the nation."

Calvin Woodward of the Associated Press was a lonely voice fact-checking the
president: "President Bush took credit for a boost in border security that was
largely the work of Congress, and boasted about illegal aliens caught on his
watch even though those numbers have fallen for much of his presidency. . . .

"Bush's rationale for sending the guard is that the U.S. is not fully in control
of its borders, a point no one seriously disputes. In stating that challenge and
asking for more money to deal with it, however, he did not acknowledge any
lapses on his part. . . .

"Last year, for example, Bush's budget proposal to Congress would have provided
enough money only to pay for about 200 new border agents. This despite a 2004
law that required the addition of 2,000 agents a year."

Jim Rutenberg writes in the New York Times: "Some of the border state governors,
Democrats in Congress, and others immediately raised questions about the
practicality of the plan. Mr. Bush's broad approach also drew tepid reviews from
some House Republicans and conservatives, whose support he will need as he
grapples with a problem that has defied decades of proposed solutions: the
continued economic imbalances between the United States and its trading partners
to the south."

Monica Davey and Ralph Blumenthal write in the New York Times: "Mr. Bush managed
to disappoint people on both sides of the immigration debate on Monday night.
Each side said it had hoped to hear more encouraging words over an issue that
has become a showdown in Congress and on the streets of cities like Los Angeles
and Chicago. Each side saw hints of an extended fight ahead."

Carolyn Lochhead writes in the San Francisco Chronicle that "the Republican
president's calls for tougher border enforcement were all but dismissed by
members of the conservative wing of his party, who criticized Bush for
supporting what they call amnesty for illegal immigrants."

Frank James writes in the Chicago Tribune blog, quoting Sen. Richard Durbin
(D-Ill.): "This cannot turn into another long-term military deployment with no
clear plan."

John Koopman writes in the San Francisco Chronicle: "A proposal by President
Bush to send several thousand National Guard troops to help the Border Patrol is
raising questions about whether it would affect the Guard's missions at home and
abroad -- and whether it's even an appropriate use of the troops."

One of the most glaring problems with the plan, from a purely pragmatic
standpoint, burst out into the open at the briefing held yesterday afternoon at
the White House with counselor Dan Bartlett, homeland security adviser Fran
Townsend and others.

"MS. TOWNSEND: The hope is that you can do, by and large, it with the training
stints, the annual training obligation of National Guardsmen. Obviously,
depending on what expertise is required, it may not be able to do the whole
thing that way, but that is the planning assumption going in, is to be able to
do most of it that way.

"Q But that means you've got people rotating in and out every three weeks.

"MR. BARTLETT: Which is something that the Guard does routinely. There's guys
who rotate in and out of doing work in the war on terror overseas for three
weeks. This is a highly-coordinated, synchronized system. That's one role that
the National Guard at the bureau level can help coordinate and play, to rotate
people in and out based on need and based on capability. . . .

"Q You're making the argument that you've got 6,000 people rotating every two or
three weeks, trying to accomplish jobs to assist the Border Patrol? Hello? I
mean, can this really work?

"MR. BARTLETT: Hello? Yes. (Laughter.) Bill, this is a highly-sophisticated
enterprise, but that's what they deploy themselves to do. I mean, we do bombing
rotations from Missouri all the way to the Middle East and back."

Julian E. Barnes and Peter Spiegel write in the Los Angeles Times: "The two-week
deployments for each Guard unit will take the place of the units' normal
two-week summer training periods. The arrangement should alleviate stress on
Guard soldiers who already have done yearlong tours in Iraq, Afghanistan or
Kosovo. But by giving up the units' only block of sustained training time, it
will complicate the task of preparing Guard troops for their primary roles --
responding to natural and other disasters and conducting combat and peacekeeping
missions overseas."

Barnes and Spiegel also write that "the military and civilian officials who will
carry out the plan have deep misgivings about a real show of military force on
the border.

"As a result, the president's big initiative is heavy on symbolism but will be
small in scale -- and largely invisible on the ground."

New York Times editorial: "President Bush's speech from the Oval Office last
night was not a blueprint for comprehensive immigration reform. It was a victory
for the fear-stricken fringe of the debate."

Washington Post editorial: "[L]ast night was a good start. 'Our new immigrants
are just what they've always been: people willing to risk everything for the
dream of freedom,' the president said. 'We honor the heritage of all who come
here, no matter where they come from, because we trust in our country's genius
for making us all Americans, one nation under God.' Well said; now the president
will have to persuade his party to share in that trust."

Los Angeles Times editorial: "Six years have taught us that the president
employs talented speechwriters. The doubts are more about the gap between his
rhetoric and action."

USA Today editorial: "As is Bush's habit, he offered no plan to pay for his
ambitions, nor any estimate of the cost, which would be substantial."

Chicago Tribune editorial: "Bush's plan is a good one, practically and
politically."

New York Post editorial: "Bush's speech raises the hope that America finally may
be waking up to its border problem. But if the nation is to get this issue under
control once and for all, it'll need more resolve than Bush demonstrated last
night."

Marc Cooper in the Nation: "The real mission of the 6,000 National Guard troops
he has called out is to quell the rebellion on the President's right flank, the
flaring mutiny of his own conservative base."

Derrick Z. Jackson in the Boston Globe: "Bush is sending the Iraq-weary Guard to
the border to mollify hardline conservatives who are building their careers
around -- whether they say this explicitly or not -- a brown invasion from the
south."

Debra J. Saunders in the San Francisco Chronicle: "What a shoddy way to say
thank you to troops who have seen plenty of action in Iraq and after Hurricane
Katrina. It is also an insult to conservative and moderate voters, whom he
apparently thinks this feckless gesture will appease."

Dan Wasserman , Mike Luckovich and Ben Sargent weigh in on Bush's immigration
plan.

Kasie Hunts writes for the Associated Press: "President Bush was briefly caught
in the floodlights Monday night when NBC News, which was operating the
television camera in the Oval Office, gave him the cue to begin his speech too
early."

You Tube has the video, which shows Bush's eyes looking very confused.

Leave it to Washington Post TV critic Tom Shales to write about the elephant in
the room.

"Neither the president, in his customary pale blue tie, nor the network
commentators, for the most part, answered other questions that hung in the air
if not on the airwaves: Was the speech really prompted by the urgency of the
immigration issue, or by the severity of Bush's low ratings in popularity polls?
Was the real purpose to spur debate on immigration, or to push Iraq out of the
spotlight for the next few days, while pundits ponder immigration on op-ed pages
and cable news networks? . . .

"Anchors and commentators tended to play along, concentrating on the issue with
their usual grim faces and behaving as if there were no other news in the
world."

Tony Snow gives his first on-camera briefing today at 12:30. Hopefully, some
White House correspondents will use some of your wonderful questions for him.

Here's video of Karl Rove's "major policy address" at the American Enterprise
Institute yesterday.

Tom Raum writes for the Associated Press: "Presidential adviser Karl Rove blamed
the war in Iraq on Monday for dragging down President Bush's job approval
ratings in public opinion polls. 'People like this president,' Rove said.
'They're just sour right now on the war.'

" 'We're in a sour time. I readily admit it,' Rove, who rarely makes public
appearances, said at the conservative American Enterprise Institute think tank.
'Being in the middle of a war where people turn on their television sets and see
brave men and women dying is not something that makes people happy and
optimistic and upbeat.' "

Rove said the polls he believes are those conducted by the Republican National
Committee. "And I look at those polls all the time," he said. "The American
people like this president. His personal approval ratings are in the 60s. Job
approval is lower. And what that says to me is that people like him, they
respect him, he's somebody they feel a connection with, but they're just sour
right now on the war. And that's the way it's going to be."

If true, that would put the RNC polls in direct conflict with everything I've
seen. Pollingreport.com aggregates such numbers, and reports that Bush recently
got a 29 percent favorable rating in the CBS News/New York Times Poll; a 39
percent favorable rating in the USA Today/Gallup Poll; etc.

Michael McAuliff writes in the New York Daily News: "President Bush's political
wizard Karl Rove must be smoking a peace pipe if he really thinks his boss' only
problem with the public is the war in Iraq, many political observers said
yesterday."

ThinkProgress.org has a video clip of Rove failing to respond to a question
about the CIA leak investigation from David Corn of the Nation.

Corn: "Scott McClellan told the White House press corps, many are here today,
that he had spoken to you and that you were not involved in the CIA leak. Can
you explain why the American public, almost two and a half years later, hasn't
been given an explanation and don't you think it deserves one, for that
misinformation, because it does seem that you were, to some degree, though maybe
disputed, involved in that leak."

Rove: "My attorney, Mr. Luskin, made a statement on April 26th, I refer you to
that statement. I have nothing more to add to it. Nice try, though." (See my
April 27 column for Luskin's statement.)

Dana Milbank writes in his Washington Post column: "Presidential adviser Karl
Rove had almost finished his appearance yesterday at the American Enterprise
Institute when it happened. Discussing the Bush administration's record on
illegal immigration, he blurted out, 'We're doing a heck of a job.'

"D'oh!"

Anne Marie Squeo writes in the Wall Street Journal about the furor set off by
stories posted on a Web site called Truthout.org that claimed that Rove had been
indicted.

" 'The system for keeping unverifiable reports out of the news is totally broken
down when you look at the online world,' says Jay Rosen, a professor of
journalism at New York University and a blogger himself at www.pressthink.org ."

The author of the Truthout.org was Jason Leopold. Howard Kurtz wrote about
Leopold's earlier journalistic black eyes in The Washington Post last March.

So how is Rove holding up under all this pressure? Depends on who you ask.

Deb Riechmann writes for the Associated Press: "President Bush's top political
adviser, Karl Rove, arrives at the White House every day wearing a jovial smile
that masks his boss' political troubles and his own legal woes. . . .

"His friends and colleagues say he's not fazed by his precarious situation.

" 'Karl's focus is sharper than ever and his spirit is high,' said Dan Bartlett,
White House counselor, downplaying any claims that Rove is distracted. 'He packs
more work into one day than most of us get done in a week.' . . .

"Photo after photo of Rove, who is often seen walking behind Bush on the South
Lawn or sitting behind him at meetings, depicts the moonfaced adviser wearing
the same smile, one that suggests little about what he might be thinking or
feeling."

But Holly Bailey writes for Newsweek: "Behind the scenes, White House aides --
as well as other prominent Republicans in Washington -- are nervous that their
most valuable political player could be taken out of the game on the eve of a
crucial midterm election this fall. 'To see him back before that grand jury has
people very worried,' said a House GOP lawmaker and close ally of the White
House, who declined to be named talking about the case. . . .

"Privately, Rove's friends and colleagues tell Newsweek that the senior Bush
aide has struggled to maintain an upbeat front about his legal status in recent
weeks and that he has appeared distracted."

Jennifer Loven writes for the Associated Press: "President Bush and Vice
President Dick Cheney on Monday released the financial disclosure forms they are
required by law to file every year. They offer a broad portrait of both men's
not-insignificant wealth, showing Bush to possess a relatively safe portfolio,
with much of his money locked up in real estate and rock-solid investments in
government Treasury notes, while Cheney has a more diverse spread of assets. . .
.

"Among the awkward vagaries of being in high public office is that the forms
reveal how much each spent on the other for Christmas. Last year, for instance,
Cheney presented Bush with a $400 pair of binoculars, while the president bought
his second-in-command a $338 hammock on a steel frame."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 16, 2006 Tuesday 1:03 PM EST

State of (Political) Emergency

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2820 words



HIGHLIGHT: The urgency that led President Bush to make a rare prime-time Oval
Office address last night on the subject of immigration had absolutely nothing
to do with the state of the nation's borders, which are objectively no more
porous today than, say, a year ago.


The urgency that led President Bush to make a rare prime-time Oval Office
address last night on the subject of immigration had absolutely nothing to do
with the state of the nation's borders, which are objectively no more porous
today than, say, a year ago.

But politically, Bush suddenly finds himself facing an immigration emergency.

And he also finds himself in the unusual -- and awkward -- position of trying to
create a middle ground. For all his talk of being a uniter rather than a
divider, Bush has historically taken intensely partisan positions on most
issues.

Constructing a stable middle ground requires more skill and more political
capital than a pure partisan play. But it's not clear how much of either the
Bush White House can muster at this point.

Here is the text of Bush's speech.

text write in The Washington Post: "President Bush said last night that he will
dispatch 6,000 National Guard troops starting next month to help secure the
porous U.S.-Mexican border, calling on a divided Congress and country to find 'a
rational middle ground' on immigration that includes providing millions of
illegal workers a new route to citizenship. . . .

"In conversations with lawmakers earlier in the day, White House Deputy Chief of
Staff Karl Rove made it clear that Bush supports, in principle, a Senate-backed
plan that would provide immigrants who have lived here for five or more years a
clear path to citizenship if they pay a penalty, according to participants. . .
.

"But the Republican-controlled House so far has been hostile to the emerging
Bush plan. Conservatives in that chamber are pushing for legislation that would
tighten the borders but would not allow any route to citizenship that does not
require first leaving the country."

text writes in the Boston Globe: "President Bush last night stood in an
unfamiliar place -- the political center -- and tried to persuade people of
firm, unyielding principles on both sides to embrace his multi-faceted approach
to handling illegal immigration. . . .

"Both the rhetoric of persuasion and the complicated program, seeking a middle
ground between opposing interests, seemed out of character for Bush, who has
prided himself on being a 'decider' who stakes out a position and gives little
ground to opponents."

text writes in the Chicago Tribune: "In recent months, President Bush seems to
have been steadily losing the public on one of the sturdy pillars of his
presidency: the benefit of the doubt.

"On Monday, he asked for it again on the most contentious domestic issue:
immigration."

text writes in The Washington Post: "President Bush once saw the immigration
issue as an opportunity to expand the Republican Party by attracting more
Hispanic voters with a message of tolerance and inclusion. His nationally
televised speech last night was an admission that the issue has now become a
problem that, if not managed carefully, could quickly become a historic
liability for his party."

text writes for the Associated Press: "President Bush stepped to the right and
left at the same time on immigration: courting conservatives with tough talk of
sending the National Guard to the border and seeking to reassure moderates that
a guest-worker program will be part of the mix.

" 'These are not contradictory goals,' he declared in a prime-time address to
the nation. Neither side seemed reassured."

text told Larry King on CNN: "I think that the president's trying to walk a
really fine line here unlike Solomon who divided the baby. The president is
trying to stick the baby back together again."

text writes in the New York Times: "What was remarkable to people who knew Mr.
Bush in Texas was how much he still believes in the power of immigration to
invigorate the nation."

text of the Associated Press was a lonely voice fact-checking the president:
"President Bush took credit for a boost in border security that was largely the
work of Congress, and boasted about illegal aliens caught on his watch even
though those numbers have fallen for much of his presidency. . . .

"Bush's rationale for sending the guard is that the U.S. is not fully in control
of its borders, a point no one seriously disputes. In stating that challenge and
asking for more money to deal with it, however, he did not acknowledge any
lapses on his part. . . .

"Last year, for example, Bush's budget proposal to Congress would have provided
enough money only to pay for about 200 new border agents. This despite a 2004
law that required the addition of 2,000 agents a year."

text writes in the New York Times: "Some of the border state governors,
Democrats in Congress, and others immediately raised questions about the
practicality of the plan. Mr. Bush's broad approach also drew tepid reviews from
some House Republicans and conservatives, whose support he will need as he
grapples with a problem that has defied decades of proposed solutions: the
continued economic imbalances between the United States and its trading partners
to the south."

text write in the New York Times: "Mr. Bush managed to disappoint people on both
sides of the immigration debate on Monday night. Each side said it had hoped to
hear more encouraging words over an issue that has become a showdown in Congress
and on the streets of cities like Los Angeles and Chicago. Each side saw hints
of an extended fight ahead."

text writes in the San Francisco Chronicle that "the Republican president's
calls for tougher border enforcement were all but dismissed by members of the
conservative wing of his party, who criticized Bush for supporting what they
call amnesty for illegal immigrants."

text writes in the Chicago Tribune blog, quoting Sen. Richard Durbin (D-Ill.):
"This cannot turn into another long-term military deployment with no clear
plan."

text writes in the San Francisco Chronicle: "A proposal by President Bush to
send several thousand National Guard troops to help the Border Patrol is raising
questions about whether it would affect the Guard's missions at home and abroad
-- and whether it's even an appropriate use of the troops."

One of the most glaring problems with the plan, from a purely pragmatic
standpoint, burst out into the open at the text held yesterday afternoon at the
White House with counselor Dan Bartlett, homeland security adviser Fran Townsend
and others.

"MS. TOWNSEND: The hope is that you can do, by and large, it with the training
stints, the annual training obligation of National Guardsmen. Obviously,
depending on what expertise is required, it may not be able to do the whole
thing that way, but that is the planning assumption going in, is to be able to
do most of it that way.

"Q But that means you've got people rotating in and out every three weeks.

"MR. BARTLETT: Which is something that the Guard does routinely. There's guys
who rotate in and out of doing work in the war on terror overseas for three
weeks. This is a highly-coordinated, synchronized system. That's one role that
the National Guard at the bureau level can help coordinate and play, to rotate
people in and out based on need and based on capability. . . .

"Q You're making the argument that you've got 6,000 people rotating every two or
three weeks, trying to accomplish jobs to assist the Border Patrol? Hello? I
mean, can this really work?

"MR. BARTLETT: Hello? Yes. (Laughter.) Bill, this is a highly-sophisticated
enterprise, but that's what they deploy themselves to do. I mean, we do bombing
rotations from Missouri all the way to the Middle East and back."

text write in the Los Angeles Times: "The two-week deployments for each Guard
unit will take the place of the units' normal two-week summer training periods.
The arrangement should alleviate stress on Guard soldiers who already have done
yearlong tours in Iraq, Afghanistan or Kosovo. But by giving up the units' only
block of sustained training time, it will complicate the task of preparing Guard
troops for their primary roles -- responding to natural and other disasters and
conducting combat and peacekeeping missions overseas."

Barnes and Spiegel also write that "the military and civilian officials who will
carry out the plan have deep misgivings about a real show of military force on
the border.

"As a result, the president's big initiative is heavy on symbolism but will be
small in scale -- and largely invisible on the ground."

text editorial: "President Bush's speech from the Oval Office last night was not
a blueprint for comprehensive immigration reform. It was a victory for the
fear-stricken fringe of the debate."

text editorial: "[L]ast night was a good start. 'Our new immigrants are just
what they've always been: people willing to risk everything for the dream of
freedom,' the president said. 'We honor the heritage of all who come here, no
matter where they come from, because we trust in our country's genius for making
us all Americans, one nation under God.' Well said; now the president will have
to persuade his party to share in that trust."

text editorial: "Six years have taught us that the president employs talented
speechwriters. The doubts are more about the gap between his rhetoric and
action."

text editorial: "As is Bush's habit, he offered no plan to pay for his
ambitions, nor any estimate of the cost, which would be substantial."

text editorial: "Bush's plan is a good one, practically and politically."

text editorial: "Bush's speech raises the hope that America finally may be
waking up to its border problem. But if the nation is to get this issue under
control once and for all, it'll need more resolve than Bush demonstrated last
night."

text in the Nation: "The real mission of the 6,000 National Guard troops he has
called out is to quell the rebellion on the President's right flank, the flaring
mutiny of his own conservative base."

text in the Boston Globe: "Bush is sending the Iraq-weary Guard to the border to
mollify hardline conservatives who are building their careers around -- whether
they say this explicitly or not -- a brown invasion from the south."

text in the San Francisco Chronicle: "What a shoddy way to say thank you to
troops who have seen plenty of action in Iraq and after Hurricane Katrina. It is
also an insult to conservative and moderate voters, whom he apparently thinks
this feckless gesture will appease."

text , text and text weigh in on Bush's immigration plan.

text writes for the Associated Press: "President Bush was briefly caught in the
floodlights Monday night when NBC News, which was operating the television
camera in the Oval Office, gave him the cue to begin his speech too early."

text has the video, which shows Bush's eyes looking very confused.

Leave it to Washington Post TV critic text to write about the elephant in the
room.

"Neither the president, in his customary pale blue tie, nor the network
commentators, for the most part, answered other questions that hung in the air
if not on the airwaves: Was the speech really prompted by the urgency of the
immigration issue, or by the severity of Bush's low ratings in popularity polls?
Was the real purpose to spur debate on immigration, or to push Iraq out of the
spotlight for the next few days, while pundits ponder immigration on op-ed pages
and cable news networks? . . .

"Anchors and commentators tended to play along, concentrating on the issue with
their usual grim faces and behaving as if there were no other news in the
world."

Tony Snow gives his first on-camera briefing today at 12:30. Hopefully, some
White House correspondents will use some of your text for him.

Here's text of Karl Rove's "major policy address" at the American Enterprise
Institute yesterday.

text writes for the Associated Press: "Presidential adviser Karl Rove blamed the
war in Iraq on Monday for dragging down President Bush's job approval ratings in
public opinion polls. 'People like this president,' Rove said. 'They're just
sour right now on the war.'

" 'We're in a sour time. I readily admit it,' Rove, who rarely makes public
appearances, said at the conservative American Enterprise Institute think tank.
'Being in the middle of a war where people turn on their television sets and see
brave men and women dying is not something that makes people happy and
optimistic and upbeat.' "

Rove said the polls he believes are those conducted by the Republican National
Committee. "And I look at those polls all the time," he said. "The American
people like this president. His personal approval ratings are in the 60s. Job
approval is lower. And what that says to me is that people like him, they
respect him, he's somebody they feel a connection with, but they're just sour
right now on the war. And that's the way it's going to be."

If true, that would put the RNC polls in direct conflict with everything I've
seen. text aggregates such numbers, and reports that Bush recently got a 29
percent favorable rating in the CBS News/New York Times Poll; a 39 percent
favorable rating in the USA Today/Gallup Poll; etc.

text writes in the New York Daily News: "President Bush's political wizard Karl
Rove must be smoking a peace pipe if he really thinks his boss' only problem
with the public is the war in Iraq, many political observers said yesterday."

text has a video clip of Rove failing to respond to a question about the CIA
leak investigation from text of the Nation.

Corn: "Scott McClellan told the White House press corps, many are here today,
that he had spoken to you and that you were not involved in the CIA leak. Can
you explain why the American public, almost two and a half years later, hasn't
been given an explanation and don't you think it deserves one, for that
misinformation, because it does seem that you were, to some degree, though maybe
disputed, involved in that leak."

Rove: "My attorney, Mr. Luskin, made a statement on April 26th, I refer you to
that statement. I have nothing more to add to it. Nice try, though." (See my
text for Luskin's statement.)

text writes in his Washington Post column: "Presidential adviser Karl Rove had
almost finished his appearance yesterday at the American Enterprise Institute
when it happened. Discussing the Bush administration's record on illegal
immigration, he blurted out, 'We're doing a heck of a job.'

"D'oh!"

text writes in the Wall Street Journal about the furor set off by stories posted
on a Web site called Truthout.org that claimed that Rove had been indicted.

" 'The system for keeping unverifiable reports out of the news is totally broken
down when you look at the online world,' says Jay Rosen, a professor of
journalism at New York University and a blogger himself at text ."

The author of the Truthout.org was Jason Leopold. text wrote about Leopold's
earlier journalistic black eyes in The Washington Post last March.

So how is Rove holding up under all this pressure? Depends on who you ask.

text writes for the Associated Press: "President Bush's top political adviser,
Karl Rove, arrives at the White House every day wearing a jovial smile that
masks his boss' political troubles and his own legal woes. . . .

"His friends and colleagues say he's not fazed by his precarious situation.

" 'Karl's focus is sharper than ever and his spirit is high,' said Dan Bartlett,
White House counselor, downplaying any claims that Rove is distracted. 'He packs
more work into one day than most of us get done in a week.' . . .

"Photo after photo of Rove, who is often seen walking behind Bush on the South
Lawn or sitting behind him at meetings, depicts the moonfaced adviser wearing
the same smile, one that suggests little about what he might be thinking or
feeling."

But text writes for Newsweek: "Behind the scenes, White House aides -- as well
as other prominent Republicans in Washington -- are nervous that their most
valuable political player could be taken out of the game on the eve of a crucial
midterm election this fall. 'To see him back before that grand jury has people
very worried,' said a House GOP lawmaker and close ally of the White House, who
declined to be named talking about the case. . . .

"Privately, Rove's friends and colleagues tell Newsweek that the senior Bush
aide has struggled to maintain an upbeat front about his legal status in recent
weeks and that he has appeared distracted."

text writes for the Associated Press: "President Bush and Vice President Dick
Cheney on Monday released the financial disclosure forms they are required by
law to file every year. They offer a broad portrait of both men's
not-insignificant wealth, showing Bush to possess a relatively safe portfolio,
with much of his money locked up in real estate and rock-solid investments in
government Treasury notes, while Cheney has a more diverse spread of assets. . .
.

"Among the awkward vagaries of being in high public office is that the forms
reveal how much each spent on the other for Christmas. Last year, for instance,
Cheney presented Bush with a $400 pair of binoculars, while the president bought
his second-in-command a $338 hammock on a steel frame."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 25, 2006 Thursday 2:00 PM EST

Immigrant Screening

BYLINE: Griff Witte, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2573 words



HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post staff writer Griff Witte was online to discuss a
proposed new law that would make it mandatory for employers nationwide to use a
federally-run computer system that automatically checks employees' status
against government records. He addressed the issue in an article today.


Washington Post staff writer Griff Witte was online to discuss a proposed new
law that would make it mandatory for employers nationwide to use a federally-run
computer system that automatically checks employees' status against government
records. He addressed the issue in an article today.

A transcript follows.

____________________

Griff Witte: Good afternoon, and thanks for joining me. For those who haven't
yet had the chance to read my story this morning on employer verification, take
a minute to do that now. For those who have, I'm looking forward to a lively
discussion about a complex problem that's critical to the nationwide debate over
immigration. Let the questions begin...

_______________________

Washington, DC: Great and informative article. However, it made me VERY
pessimistic about the efficacy of this database, and its future success in
identifing undocumented workers. Is this feeling wrong?

Griff Witte: It depends on who you ask. Officials at the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services (part of the Homeland Security department) feel very
strongly that they can make this program work. They recognize that the pilot
program has had flaws, but they say they're busy fixing them and that they
ultimately will be able to create a fast, accurate system for determining which
workers are legal and which are not. In particular, they say they're taking
steps to cut down the amount of time between when immigrants enter the country
and when their information is updated in the databases.

Critics say the government has had nearly a decade to get this program right,
and the fact that it hasn't yet is a bad omen for what a mandatory, nationwide
system might look like. They point out that even if the program has a very small
error rate -- say, one or two percent -- there would be hundreds of thousands of
people who encounter problems. These problems could range from a simple delay in
being verified to the kind of situation I described today: The employer fires
the employee because of concerns that the employee is here illegally. Employers
aren't supposed to do that until they get the final word that an employee is
ineligible to work, but that doesn't mean they won't.

_______________________

Greenville, SC: Do you think the Employment Verification process will be changed
or altered when the Senate and House go into Committee meetings? What are the
House and Senate objectives when it comes to Employment Verification?

Griff Witte: There's no doubt this program is going to be a major point of
debate in conference. There's a significant chasm between what the House passed
and what the Senate is now on the brink of passing. For starters, the House bill
applies to all workers. The Senate bill generally only affects new hires. Under
the Senate version, the program would take effect 18 months after the funding
shows up. Under the House version, it's two years after the bill becomes law.
The Senate bill also has a number of concessions to the program's main critics
-- labor organizations, business groups and privacy advocates.

Overall, the House bill seems much more geared toward making sure that illegal
immigrants are kept out of the workforce. The Senate version has that goal as
well, but it doesn't take as hard a line. For instance, the Senate version will
give workers the benefit of the doubt until the program hits a certain accuracy
level. It also shields employers from liability in certain cases.

_______________________

East Chillum, Md.: Hello Griff,

I was glad to read in your story that

Employers would be forbidden from firing an employee until they receive a final
notice confirming that the worker is ineligible.

Unfortunately, that safeguard kicks in only after the applicant has been hired.
An employer could simply decide not to hire an immigrant who doesn't pass
initial verification. Too much hassle.

And the employer wouldn't have to disclose his reason for not hiring the
immigrant. "Sorry, Griff, you didn't get the job," is all you'd hear.

Griff Witte: Good question, but the program's leaders say they have the
solution: Employers would only run an individual's name through the program
after the person has been hired. In other words, this generally would not be
used as a pre-hiring screen. It would be used to verify that the worker really
is legal once the hiring decision has been made.

Business leaders say that's why they need the program to work quickly: If it's
going to take days or even weeks to verify that a worker is legal, they don't
want to be pouring money and time into training a worker who turns out to be
ineligible to work.

_______________________

Washington, DC: Excellent article. What happens to employers who simply don't
look up their employees in the database? Isn't there just as much opportunity to
knowingly hire illegal immigrants as there was before?

Griff Witte: There are stiff penalties for employers who simply decide not to
use the system. These include fines and, for repeat offenders who are found to
be employing illegal workers, possible jail terms.

The question, of course, is how vigorously these rules would be enforced. Up
until now, the government has done very little to crack down on employers who
are hiring illegal workers or otherwise circumventing the paper-based I-9
system. Proponents of an expanded Basic Pilot say it will be much easier to
detect those who are not complying since the whole system will be automated. But
tough enforcement is obviously going to take more resources in the form of more
people and more money spent tracking down employers who are skirting the rules.

_______________________

Riverside, CA: You mention that for every 100 queries, the initial verification
gives back an immediate response 97-98 times. 97-98% accuracy sounds pretty
good. What level of accuracy does the Senate bill require before taking away the
protections for employers?

Griff Witte: The Senate bill wants the program to hit 99 percent success before
workers stop receiving the benefit of the doubt and the burden of proof swings
onto them.

You're right that 97 percent or 98 percent accuracy sounds pretty darn good. A
pitcher who hits his target 97 percent of the time can start writing his speech
for Cooperstown. A hitter who even makes contact 97 percent of the time is
super-human. But with a database system that's essentially going to dictate who
works and who doesn't, critics say those levels just aren't good enough. In a
workforce of 140 million, even two or three percent is a large number.

_______________________

Greenville, SC: Based on your inside knowledge what is your best guess of what
the final employment verification process will be (assuming a bill does get
through the House and Senate)?

Griff Witte: I don't know that anyone has enough inside knowledge to predict
that. This provision is a real wild card.

_______________________

Anonymous: To what extent could the database -- and the records of its usage,
e.g., who has checked up on whom -- be used as a tool for more agressive
domestic anti-terror initiatives?

Griff Witte: Well, that's the concern of groups like the ACLU. This obviously
isn't the only massive government database that's been in the news lately.
Privacy advocates fear that an expanded Basic Pilot potentially gives the
government too much information in one place about who's working where, who's
employing whom. The government insists that this program will only be used to
verify worker eligibility, but given the news of the past few weeks, some have
their doubts.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Maryland: It is pretty obvious to a lot of people that the
Chamber of Commerce and the ACLU do not want this program. Would I be right in
interpreting that to mean that they favor the continued availability to illegal
immigrant workers? They may say that is not so but why would anyone be against
verifying that a person is legally entitled to work in the US?

Griff Witte: You raise an interesting question. It's no secret that businesses
all around the country, every day take advantage of the low-cost labor that
immigrants (especially illegal ones) offer. Do businesses really want to see
their access to the undocumented workforce completely cut off through a strictly
enforced electronic verification program? Probably not.

_______________________

Bethesda, Maryland: Griff--

Good discussion. Given the likelihood that the database will contain many flaws,
is there a provision in the proposed law that allows employers to use
alternative methods of authorizing identity and work documents?

Also, which workers need to be checked under the system? If a worker shows a US
passport or permanent resident card, does the employer need to run this person
through the database as well?

Thank you.

Bethesda.

Griff Witte: The program would apply universally -- to all employers and all
employees.

_______________________

Miami, FL: If a worker walked across the border, that means that they do not
have any immigration record. Assume now that the worker uses a fraudulent SSN,
how could the system verify identity theft? This verifcation system could very
well threaten american citizens whose identities are stolen.

Griff Witte: As the GAO and others have pointed out, vulnerability to identity
theft is a major weakness of this program. The advantage of this system is that
your document numbers really do have to match a real name or else the computer
will spit it back out. The disadvantage is that the name doesn't have to be
yours if you're willing to try to cheat. That's why some members of Congress
have called for a biometric-based card system that would link together things
like fingerprints with a name and with a number. Under that sort of system, many
feel it would be much tougher to steal someone else's identity. The downside is
that it could be very expensive, and it tends to get the public's Big Brother
anxieties going.

_______________________

Arlington, VA: Great. Another government data base, that no doubt will be
underfunded and undermanned. USCIS has a VERY poor track record, as does the
FBI. My wife is a LEGAL immigrant who has been waiting for a year for
citizenship AFTER she passed her final interview and test. Why? Because the FBI
doesn't seem to be able to complete a simple name check. There is plenty of
rhetoric about all the illegal/undocumented workers, but nobody is paying any
attention to the MILLIONS of legal immigrants who have been waiting literally
for years for their cases to be processed. What is going to happen to them with
yet another layer of bureaucracy and databases without fixing what has already
been broken for years?

Griff Witte: I don't have the answer, but thanks for posting.

_______________________

Olney, MD: Your article said that the verification system would dissuade legal
immigrants from applying for work. I don't see why anyone who is legally in the
USA would be dissuaded from working just because of a verification system. Can
you elaborate on the reasons that legal immigrants would, because of the new
system, be dissuaded from applying for work?

Griff Witte: A couple of reasons. The main reason is illustrated by Fernando
Tinoco's predicament. Here was a Mexican immigrant who had become a U.S. citizen
17 years ago. Yet when his name went through the verification check, it bounced
back that the program could not immediately confirm him. The employer became
suspicious and fired him, even though he had nothing to hide. Under the new law,
that kind of an action by an employer would be prohibited. But labor groups say
it's going to happen nonetheless, and that that will be a deterrent to applying
for jobs.

The second reason is that an employer may decide it's too risky hiring workers
who may be immigrants because they don't want to take the chance that they'll
turn out to be illegal. So someone who "looks" like an immigrant or who has a
foreign-sounding name may have more trouble getting the job in the first place.

_______________________

Washington, DC: Does it seem, given the significant problems with both the
government database and the protocal for using it, that a variant of the current
system will ever work? Or does it seem that we'll need to re-imagine an
enforcement mechanism for our employment and labor laws? What other ideas have
been proposed?

Griff Witte: That's the trouble. There aren't a huge number of options out there
that are seen as better alternatives. The government could start from scratch
and create a whole new system, but it would take a lot of time and money. This
system has been in the works for a decade. If it doesn't fly, it could be a
long, long time before the law against employing illegal immigrants actually
gets enforced. And for those who are trying to stop the flow of illegal
immigrants into the U.S., that's very bad news. Many believe that no amount of
border protection -- whether it's through fences, agents, technology, etc --
will solve the problem as long as the lure of jobs remains.

_______________________

Anonymous: Terrific work as usual. What are the potential social costs
associated with this new system? If, hypothetically, the databases system not
only worked but was aggressively enforced, what would happen to all the illegal
immigrants in the country who suddenly couldn't get work? And how would that
affect the nation as a whole, not just economically but socially and culturally?

Griff Witte: This is a bigger question than I can answer in one shot, but you
raise an important point. Expanding the program is designed to discourage people
who are not yet here from sneaking across the border. But it could also have the
effect of leaving millions of people who are already here without a place to
work. Of course, this is where things could get interesting with the so-called
amnesty provision on the Senate side.

_______________________

Hood River, OR: If I understand you right, as an employer I would have to hire a
person before running their information through the database, correct? As a
farmer who hires lots of people on the first morning of harvest, my fruit will
probably be off the tree and the worker paid before I know whether they are
legal (if there's a question of their legality). If they are found to be
illegal, I will pay them anyway, presumably....and, I guess I will have to
invest in a laptop to take into the field with me to do all of this?

Griff Witte: This is one of the main objections that people raise. Many
immigrants are doing short-term jobs where there's no time to wait around for
verification. That's why the verification would have to happen quickly. But
labor groups are also keen to make sure that it's accurate and that workers are
protected.

As for the laptop in the field, you can save your money for something else: It's
likely that you'll be able to verify your employees' status over the phone, in
addition to being able to do it online.

_______________________

Griff Witte: Well, I have to get back to my day job -- reporting. But thanks to
all for the great questions, and my apologies for not being able to get to all
of them. I'm sure this is an issue that won't go away, so you'll have more
chances...

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 30, 2006 Tuesday 3:00 PM EST

Book World Live

BYLINE: Michele Wucker, Author, "Lockout", washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 3681 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a season when the country has been caught up in a national
conversation about immigration, [ Michele ] Wucker, a fellow at the World Policy
Institute, has come out with a forcefully argued and informative book. It's far
from comprehensive, and some parts of her case are stronger than others. But the
overarching argument -- that, as her subtitle puts it, "America Keeps Getting
Immigration Wrong When Our Prosperity Depends on Getting It Right" -- is both
correct and important. -- Review: Coming to America (May 28).


In a season when the country has been caught up in a national conversation about
immigration, [ Michele ] Wucker, a fellow at the World Policy Institute, has
come out with a forcefully argued and informative book. It's far from
comprehensive, and some parts of her case are stronger than others. But the
overarching argument -- that, as her subtitle puts it, "America Keeps Getting
Immigration Wrong When Our Prosperity Depends on Getting It Right" -- is both
correct and important. -- Review: Coming to America (May 28).

Author Michele Wucker will be online to field questions and comments about her
new book, "Lockout," which examines current issues and debate over U.S. policy
and practice of immigration.

Michele Wucker is a senior fellow at the World Policy Institute at The New
School in New York.

Join Book World Live each Tuesday at 3 p.m. ET for a discussion based on a story
or review in each Sunday's Review: Coming to America section.

____________________

Michele Wucker: Hello, Thanks for joining me today. I can see by some of the
questions waiting that there are lots of thoughtful folk online, which is
exactly what this country needs at a moment when too often it seems that center
stage goes to the loudest folk, who often have the most extreme views.

I'd like to open this forum by telling you just a little bit about where I'm
coming from and the impact that I hope my book, Lockout, will have on the
immigration debate. I am a pragmatist above all. I believe immigration is, on
the whole, a very good thing. However, I also recognize that it has costs and
affects different groups in very distinct ways: many low-skilled U.S. workers,
for example, may feel that they are being pushed out by immigrant workers;
people who live on the Texas-Mexico border face high crime rates; and any
massive demographic change will create tension, no matter how tolerant the host
society. It's important not to ignore those costs, but to find ways to address
them. too many people want to throwing the baby out with the bathwater by
dramatically cutting back immigration. That would hurt everyone.

As heated as the immigration debate has become, many Americans --policy makers
and the public alike -- are asking sensible questions and trying to find
answers. I hope that my work helps to frame both the problems and solutions so
that the often-silent moderate Americans can formulate and express their own
informed opinions about this issue that is at the core of our nation's past,
present, and future.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I have read that uneducated immigrants to the U.S. contribute
more than they take in services and education in about 20 years, while their
children are net contributers far sooner, How would you frame your argument that
the net result is economic growth to Californians that pay for many services for
undocumented populations before they are established enough to be net economic
contributors?

Michele Wucker: This question about the relationship between what immigrants pay
in through taxes and what they receive is a complex one. In general, over the
course of their lifetimes, immigrants contribute more in taxes than they take
out. When they are young, they are more likely to consume more public services
since they also are more likely to have children. Many of the studies on
immigrants and taxes, however, do not measure the taxes paid by businesses that
would not exist if they did not have those immigrant workers at all. Finally,
public services like education are as much an investment as an expenditure, so
in calculating their total cost you need to look at the return you get over time
from the result of that education.

_______________________

Orlando, Fla: Would you agree that the true solution to immigration issues is to
combat economic disparity in Latin America. US coporations continue to turn in
profits. It's these profits that keep them from paying better salaries in Latin
America. We also want things for cheap here in the US regardless of negative
affects this may have abroad.

Michele Wucker: Economic disparity within other countries is a problem, as it is
in the United States. In fact, I believe that the growing economic disparity
within this country is part of the reason that the immigration debate has become
so heated. Politicians know that it's easier to get people hopped up about
someone who looks different, instead of taking on entrenched economic interests
or the government's own failings. Overall, however, the biggest driver of
immigration is economic disparity among nations. Until people in other countries
feel that it is not worth the cost of uprooting themselves, we will continue to
have migration. And the wider the gap between rich and poor nations, the heavier
migration will be.

_______________________

Oakton, Va: I am a native American near retirement and I am distressed at the
attitude of this author as depicted by the book review. In all my years and in
all aspects of my life, raising children, working in a professional position,
traveling to many companies to do business, and in personal interactions, I have
not experienced other American's exhibiting a xenophobic attitude to immigrants.
Rather, we all find them delightful additions to what makes America great, and
we have learned a lot from them. I grew up in the midwest and have lived on the
East Coast, and have known a lot of immigrants, educated and non-educated.

I'd like to know where the author gets such negative ideas about America. And,
why would she espouse such almost slanderous attitudes? People who love America
are willing to share our way of life with immigrants and even enhance it. Could
she be confusing the desire not to be forced to suddenly and radically change
the American culture as not liking immigrants? If we wanted to participate in
different cultural practices and do commerce in different languages, we should
be able to do so by traveling to those cultures or sharing in particular local
events, and, likewise, immigrants should not expect their cultural practices to
negate the American culture. Everyone is free to celebrate their culture in
their home and community, and the American culture should be free to exist in
the community at large.

Michele Wucker: It's very challenging in writing a short review to convey
everythink in a book accurately -sort of like that game of telephone where you
pass things along and they get distorted. In this case, Tamar Jacoby did a good
job overall, but one of the things I think she mischaracterized is my view of
Americans' views overall of immigrants. While the book documents many errors in
how America has treated immigrants recently and historically, it points out that
in many cases these are the result of bureaucratic messes or extraordinary
situation. There also are many examples of Americans who stand up for immigrants
and for what they believe is right. By and large, I think that most Americans
are sympathetic to immigrants, especially those they know in person (even the
Minuteman interviewed in the book is not frothing at the mouth). But we can't
ignore the growing number of people who do see immigrants as a threat, and we
need to focus on the positive attitudes that you so rightly point out.

_______________________

Portland, Ore: Getting lost in the hysteria over illegal immigrants is this one,
immutable reality--they are coming to this country for economic opportunity.
They see no chance for any kind of future for themselves or their children in
their homelands. They want to come to the U.S. so they can earn a decent living,
get their kids educated, and maybe even own a home and start a business. Their
migration is a massive vote of no confidence in their own nations. And what no
one here seems to realize is that the lion's share of the fruits of their
labor--in wages, economic activity and intrinsic asset value--is building the
U.S. economy. The businesses, roads, schools, hospitals, etc., that the
immigrants help build and staff are HERE--not in Mexico or Honduras or Colombia.
That $20 billion in wages that goes back to Mexico and is such a crucial part of
the Mexican economy? That's temporary, stop-gap chicken feed compared to the
PERMANENT wealth and value that the labor of the immigrants generates in this
country. If I were Vincente Fox or the leader of one of the other source
nations, I would be looking at the economic vitality of the migrant population
and wonder, "Why can't that happen here?"

Michele Wucker: Many leaders in migrant-sending countries are thinking just
exactly that. Indeed, remittances in the short run can prompt MORE people to
emigrate. That's why immigration policy MUST involve policies in migrant-sending
countries that promote development that over the long term can ease the need for
people to leave. Last year, Tom Tancredo proposed cutting foreign aid for the
countries that received the most remittances. But you know, those are the
countries that need the most help if the flow of migrants is to slow.

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: Would you please describe how the rate of retirement is higher
than the rate of new employees being created and the role that immigrants could
play in filling jobs that otherwise will be unfilled?

Michele Wucker: Sorry, my fingers can't go quite fast enough to keep up! The
aging of the Baby Boomers is a very big story in this country, as is the growing
need for health care personnel to attend to their medical care as they retire.
Because the U.S. birth rate in recent years has been much lower, not enough new
people are entering the work force. Some industries are already reporting
shortages --including, interestingly enough, in manufacturing-- and others
predict rapidly growing worker shortages, particularly in health care.
Immigrants generally come when they are at prime working age, so help to balance
some of the demographic trend.

_______________________

Gaithersburg, Md: It appears that the "amnesty" program touted by President Bush
may be what we're stuck with. Does the illegal/undocumented immigrant population
understand what is going on in Washington, DC, or would they continue to live
their lives as they have since arriving in the US until they're scooped up by
authorities or go back to the country of origin? Do you think it is right to
grant an "easier" bath to citizenship for people who have disrespected this
country over those who have worked tirelessly for ages to enter our country
legally?

Michele Wucker: The people who came here illegally certainly have not had an
"easy" path. Yes, they broke the law -but so have lots and lots of U.S.
employers, and that largely is because the 1986 immigration reform would never
have been passed if our legislators had meant for it to be enforced. Letting a
law go lax for many years sends the message that America itself doesn't respect
the law and that we don't expect others to do so.

_______________________

Baltimore, Md: Do you realize that at the core of this argument are millions of
Americans with millions of stories about their families, who came from Europe,
spoke no English, and generally acted differently than today's immigrants?
Absent of polls, and policies, figures, and economics, at it's core are a bunch
of people very proud of the sacrifices and enthusiasm our ancestor's had for
becoming patriotic, English speaking, civically involved citizens of every
stripe and political group. Simply put we have a hard time mustery sympathy for
these newer immigrants, their current status, activities, and "leaders" we see
on TV.

Michele Wucker: This question is what actually prompted me to start writing the
book. While researching my first book, Why the Cocks Fight: Dominicans,
Haitians, and the Struggle for Hispaniola, I was fascinated by Dominicans' and
Haitians' ties to the lands of their birth. I wanted to compare that to my own
ancestors. I found out that immigrants who came in the nineteenth and early
twentieth centuries maintained far closer ties to their homelands than most
Americans are aware of. I also spend a lot of time with many, many immigrants
from many countries today who are incredibly proud of America, what it has to
offer, and what they contribute. Immigrants today are far less different from
"established" Americans ancestors than you might think. Polls of today's
immigrants show that nearly unanimously they want to learn English and have
tremendous respect for and pride in America.

_______________________

Washington, DC: As you propose fine tuning our immigration and letting in more
educated people from around the world (which I agree will benefit us) I can also
see some people being angered by the potential increase in 'brain-drain' from
developing countries. Our gain is perhaps their loss. Do you agree with this
argument? Any other comments?

Michele Wucker: We need to be very careful not to promote 'brain drain' but
'brain circulation'. Migrant sending countries certainly can be hurt by the loss
of their most skilled populations, and wealthy countries have a responsibility
not to tip the scales even more dramatically against poor nations. In some
cases, however -like a Pakistani medical informatics specialist I mention in my
book-- professionals have no chance to gain or practice the specialized skills
they are most passionate about. In this case when they migrate, both countries
gain. But overall, it is important for migrant sending countries to attract
skilled professionals and entrepreneurs back once they have honed their skills
and perhaps come into contact with investors during their sojourns in wealthier
nations.

_______________________

Washington, D.C. : Since the USA has a population of about 300,000,000, and the
largest and best university system in the world, why can't it educate the
scientific workforce it needs? Why do we have to raid other countries for
brainpower?

Michele Wucker: The United States may be 300 million people, but that's still a
very small part of the total world population. Many of our brightest stars
--including many Nobel Prize winners-- have been immigrants. But you have a very
good point --our education system is not doing what it needs to produce home
grown American scientists and engineers.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va: Are our standards too high? Meaning, do we expect too much from
people coming to this country (understanding our history, the ability to read
and write, having a needed skill)? It seems that the numerous immigrants waiting
to enter the country legally meet our strict standards, but are forced to wait
in a line to verrify their intentions. However, while the highly skilled are
waiting in line, the low-skilled, under-educated are streaming across the border
with nothing standing in their way.

Can a lowering of standards to speed the processing of immigrants into the
country help the problem, or has the dam already broken?

Michele Wucker: The problem is not so much standards but more the working of the
bureaucracy coupled with quotas to prevent any one region from taking up too big
a share of migration. When I was at MIT interviewing some of these brilliant
people who had been backed up, they complained about the illegals coming across
the border too.

_______________________

Burke, Va: What is your opinion about the language issue? Can the US ever have
English as its official language, or will we continue to have a bilingual
society until the mass of hispanic immigrants push our nation to a Spnish-only
nation?

Michele Wucker: English as the most important language of the country is already
a fact, as most immigrants will tell you. However, skills in additional
languages are an economic asset --almost every job I've ever had, except for
selling cheap clothes in Waco TX in high school-- I got because I could speak
another language. What we do need are more resources for language classes,
especially on-site at businesses. There are huge waiting lists for classes
around the country, and many immigrants have a hard time getting to class when
they are working two or more jobs.

_______________________

Tampa, Fla: I'd like to see your comments on 2 points:

(1) You noted economic disparity in Latin America drives immigration to the US.
Our agricultural subisidies (welfare, more accurately) has destroyed the
livihoods of thousands of Mexican farmers. The US dumps subsidized corn on the
Mexican market, destroying the Mexican family farms. The US recetnly won a
NAFTA/WTO case against Mexico to allow us to dump subsidized sweetners onto the
Mexican market, destroying the livihoods of thousands of Mexican family
sugarcane farms. Where do all these Mexicans go? Here, of course.

(2) On one of the Sunday talk shows this past weekend, Rep. Sensenbrenner
admitted the "problem" of illegal immigration is simply part of the free market
system. Business will hire the least expensive labor available, legally or
illegally. Where's the worshipping of the free market system now? This also begs
the question of why he does not use employer sanctions as his primary weapon
against this "threat." Yet the House bill puts off emplyer sanctions until
Congress funds a database--which they will never do, of course.

Michele Wucker: 1- You are absolutely right that U.S. policy in other countries
drives migration here, and that's something we need to look at.

2- Our wink-wink-nod-nod laws that have created a huge population in the shadows
have pushed wages down even more than simple supply and demand. Unauthorized
workers are much less likely to be able to stick up for their rights, and so
tilt the playing field against U.S. workers. Oddly, laws criminalizing illegal
immigrants have been touted as ways to 'protect' low-wage U.S. workers when in
reality those laws hurt them.

_______________________

Rockville, Md: I am one of these potential immigrants caught in a waiting line
for Department of Labor aprroval of an employer-based application for permanent
residency. Here's the tall on my family because of this delay:

My wife - with a Master's in engineering, speaking four languages and having
worked in 3 counties - on a H-4 visa could not work legally in the USA. After
having to stay at home idle for years, she returned in our country where she
started immediately working as a manager in a large company.

She took our son, born in the USA, as I cannot take care of him while working.
He does not even speak English very much and he grows definitely as non-American
as one can be.

My daughter stays with me in the USA. If she is not the best student in her
middle school, she is one of the best. for sure. At the end of the 5 grade, she
was ranked in 98% and 99% in English and math, US-wide. If family laves she
leaves the USA, too.

My family lives a rather modest life, below our means. As I don't know what
future awaits me, I invest only up to what my employer matches in my 401k plan.
All money left - including a house equity loan - goes to buying property back in
my country. I can't put my money in a country where I will not be able to stay.

Apart from working, I am also studying in a distance learning MBA program in a
European-based university. I have my plans to start a business, but as I am here
on a work permit I cannot change my employer - so I will not be able to work for
my own company. There's no way out of this other than leaving the USA for a
place whre I could, once I finish my studies.

To make my case, if I knew I'd be allowed to stay legally in the USA, I can see
how my and my family actions would be much more beneficial to the USA than what
the prospects are now.

Michele Wucker: Your story is sad and all too typical of the examples of how
America squanders our greatest assets.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md: Hi Michele. This is a difficult question to phrase.
Naturally, recent immigrants from any one nation flock together. They share
experiences and cultures that make bonds easier to form. To some extent, just as
US Citizens would stick up for most of their countrymen if they were thrown into
a new place, recent immigrants will stick up for their own countrymen in this
new place. People worry that if lots of people are allowed to immigrate from any
particular nation that this large population will fuse together in a way where
racial lines are actually drawn more prominently than they were before. In a
sense, people might not act or vote as US Citizens or Residents first; they
might act as immigrants from country X first. What do you say to people who
worry that allowing a lot of any nation's population to immigrate will lead to
intensified racial conflict that might not be the fault of anyone in particular,
but just a side-effect of circumstances? At some point, diversity and awareness
trainings fails us, don't they?

Michele Wucker: We focus a lot on the characteristics of the people who come
here while failing to see that our own behavior and the messages we send shape
immigrants' likely attitudes when they arrive as well. If we send a positive
message about the importance of overcoming differences --instead of giving in to
those who say that X or Y type of immigrant will never fit in-- we'll go a long
way toward ensuring that newcomers embrace the American Creed above any other
view. This alone will reduce conflict

_______________________

Michele Wucker: Thank you so much to everyone for all of your thoughtful
questions. I'm sorry I couldn't answer them all, but I did the best I could and
tried to choose questions from a variety of points of view and subjects. This
has been as interesting for me as I hope it was for you, and I hope it's the
beginning of many more discussions.

I will be posting upcoming interviews and articles on my website,
http://www.wucker.com, so please feel free to visit.

All my best

Michele Wucker

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      June 7, 2006 Wednesday 12:45 PM EST

The Important Stuff

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 3148 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Bush is running around the country this week talking about
immigration, and on Monday he gave a much-hyped speech on gay marriage. In
neither case has he said anything remotely new, and yet the press coverage is
intense.


President Bush is running around the country this week talking about
immigration, and on Monday he gave a much-hyped speech on gay marriage. In
neither case has he said anything remotely new, and yet the press coverage is
intense.

But what about the stuff the White House doesn't want us talking about?

You know, the important stuff.

High on that very long list: The war in Iraq -- and particularly the atrocities
allegedly committed by U.S. troops; also, the continued expansion of executive
power -- including the administration's warrantless domestic spying.

Issues like immigration and gay marriage offer Bush a chance to look
presidential. Even though they are controversial, Bush can take a public,
proactive and starring role. That makes for great visuals, and generally good
press.

But when it comes to the important stuff, most everything's happening secretly,
and sometimes defensively. And the key player, not surprisingly, is Vice
President Cheney.

Far from the cameras, Cheney and others have been busy lately with such projects
as actively excluding Geneva Convention protections from the Pentagon's new
detainee policy, and stymieing congressional investigation and oversight into
domestic wiretapping.

Time and Newsweek both dedicate their covers this week to the apparent massacre
in Haditha.

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh write in Time: "Once again, the Bush
Administration finds itself on the defensive about a war that is now entering
its 40th unrelenting month."

Evan Thomas and Scott Johnson write in Newsweek: "As more accounts of civilian
killings come to light, the pressure is likely to grow on the Bush
administration to bring home the troops, not just to save their lives, but to
rescue their honor and decency."

But it's more than that. While atrocities in Iraq increase the pressure to bring
the troops home, they also raise the question: How far up the chain of command
does responsibility lie? And how much if any lies with the commander in chief?

How it came about that America became identified across the globe with torture
and other atrocities -- and what role the White House has played in that -- are
mysteries that need to be unraveled, and that are legitimately the subject of
constant, unrelenting inquiry and reporting. But so far, these infamies have
largely been covered as isolated acts.

Are there dots that journalists should be connecting here? Even the accusation
by former administration insider Lawrence Wilkerson that there was a "visible
audit trail" tracing the practice of prisoner abuse by U.S. soldiers directly
back to Vice President Cheney's office didn't seem to get the traditional press
riled up. (See my November 4 column .)

Essayist and blogger Andrew Sullivan weighed in with an important piece this
weekend in the Sunday Times of London: "I do not believe that this president has
ever acknowledged his own responsibility for the atrocities committed by
Americans on his watch and under his command. He simply cannot process the fact
that his own hand provided the signature that allowed torture to spread like a
cancer through the military and CIA.

"He cannot acknowledge that his own war policy -- of just enough troops to lose
-- has created a war of attrition in Iraq in which soldiers are often
overwhelmed and demoralised and stretched to the limit, and so more than usually
vulnerable to the psychic snaps that sometimes lead to atrocities.

"His obdurate refusal to change course, to provide sufficient troops, to fire
his defence secretary, to embrace, rather than evade, the McCain amendment has
robbed him of any excuse, any evasion of responsibility.

"And yet he still evades it. Last week he spoke of Abu Ghraib as something that
had somehow happened to him and to his country, almost as if he were not the
commander-in-chief or president of the country that had committed such abuse.
When the evidence is presented to him, he displaces it. He puts it to one side.
In his mind America is a force for good. And so it cannot commit evil. And if he
says that often enough it will somehow become true. In this way his powers of
denial kick in like a forcefield against reality."

Indeed, to the extent that the White House is responding to these atrocities at
all, it is to order a refresher course on "core values" for all troops -- while
at the same time, insisting that Geneva Convention protections be explicitly
dropped from its new detainee policy.

Julian E. Barnes broke that story in Sunday's Los Angeles Times: "The Pentagon
has decided to omit from new detainee policies a key tenet of the Geneva
Convention that explicitly bans 'humiliating and degrading treatment,' according
to knowledgeable military officials, a step that would mark a further,
potentially permanent, shift away from strict adherence to international human
rights standards.

"The decision could culminate a lengthy debate within the Defense Department but
will not become final until the Pentagon makes new guidelines public, a step
that has been delayed. However, the State Department fiercely opposes the
military's decision to exclude Geneva Convention protections and has been
pushing for the Pentagon and White House to reconsider, the Defense Department
officials acknowledged."

Amid a deafening silence from the reporting side of other news organizations,
the editorialists are speaking out.

The New York Times writes: "It defies belief that this administration is still
clinging to its benighted policies on prisoners after the horrors of Abu Ghraib,
the killings at American camps in Afghanistan and the world's fresh outrage over
what appears to have been the massacre of Iraqi men, women and children in the
village of Haditha."

The Boston Globe writes: "The Pentagon wants to have it both ways. It intends to
provide new training in core values to its troops after reports of an alleged
massacre of Iraqi civilians by Marines, but it also wants to ignore a Geneva
Convention rule against 'humiliating and degrading treatment' of prisoners. This
mixed message can only complicate the decision-making of US personnel at the
same time it further tarnishes the international reputation of the United
States."

John Diamond writes in USA Today about Cheney's astonishing short-circuit of a
promised congressional investigation into domestic spying.

"A last-minute deal Tuesday with Vice President Cheney averted a possible
confrontation between the Senate Judiciary Committee and U.S. telephone
companies about the National Security Agency's database of customer calling
records.

"The deal was announced by Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., the committee chairman,
and Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah. They said Cheney, who plays a key role supervising
NSA counterterrorism efforts, promised that the Bush administration would
consider legislation proposed by Specter that would place a domestic
surveillance program under scrutiny of a special federal court.

"In return, Specter agreed to postpone indefinitely asking executives from the
nation's telecommunication companies to testify about another program in which
the NSA collects records of domestic calls. . . .

"The deal prompted protests from Democratic lawmakers, who said the
Republican-controlled Congress had refused to challenge the administration's
expansion of presidential authority. 'Why don't we just recess for the rest of
the year, and the vice president will just tell the nation what laws we'll
have?' said Vermont Sen. Patrick Leahy, ranking Democrat on the committee."

And apparently Cheney didn't just offer a carrot. He used a stick, too.

Peter Szekely writes for Reuters: "Specter said he agreed to defer his earlier
plans to subpoena telephone executives after Vice President Dick Cheney said
they would be precluded on national security grounds from answering questions
about the reported disclosure of call records."

The White House press pool got a surprise opportunity to ask Bush some questions
yesterday in Laredo .

But due to a combination of attention deficit disorder and sunstroke (it was, in
fact, hellishly hot) they forgot to ask him anything about Iraq or domestic
spying.

I'm Live Online today at 1 p.m. ET.

I wrote at some length in yesterday's column about the broader issue of the Bush
administration's dramatic expansion of executive power (which of course suffuses
the two issues discussed above.)

A reader called my attention to Elizabeth Drew 's article on that very topic in
the current issue of the New York Review of Books.

Drew's piece serves as an important and comprehensive primer on the issue. Go
read it.

She writes: "During the presidency of George W. Bush, the White House has made
an unprecedented reach for power. It has systematically attempted to defy,
control, or threaten the institutions that could challenge it: Congress, the
courts, and the press. It has attempted to upset the balance of power among the
three branches of government provided for in the Constitution; but its most
aggressive and consistent assaults have been against the legislative branch:
Bush has time and again said that he feels free to carry out a law as he sees
fit, not as Congress wrote it. Through secrecy and contemptuous treatment of
Congress, the Bush White House has made the executive branch less accountable
than at any time in modern American history. And because of the complaisance of
Congress, it has largely succeeded in its efforts."

Among other things, Drew touches on the "heretofore obscure doctrine called the
unitary executive," which is one of the White House's key justifications for its
power grab: "The concept of a unitary executive holds that the executive branch
can overrule the courts and Congress on the basis of the president's own
interpretations of the Constitution, in effect overturning Marbury v. Madison
(1803), which established the principle of judicial review, and the
constitutional concept of checks and balances."

She concludes: "For the first time in more than thirty years, and to a greater
extent than even then, our constitutional form of government is in jeopardy."

But hey, let's write about something else, shall we?

White House press secretary Tony Snow sat down for a half-hour yesterday with
James C. Dobson, the chairman and founder of the prominent Christian
broadcasting organization, Focus on the Family.

The audio is available on Dobson's Web site. I've transcribed a few parts.

Snow talked a bit about his new job: "We make trouble for ourselves when we
don't get facts out. And the president's got a great story to tell on a whole
series of issues. . . . We serve our interests better by getting more
information out and that's one of the things I'm going to be doing as press
secretary."

The central issue for Dobson, of course, was Bush's position on gay marriage.

Dobson: "There are people who hate him for a lot of reasons, but this is one of
them, isn't it? . . . The fact that he has had the courage to stand up for
traditional marriage is both an object of great appreciation and a lot of
angst."

Snow suggested that Bush's position on marriage was the ineluctable product of
the president's faith -- something that Bush apparently talks about even more in
private than in public. Keep in mind that Snow has only been at the White House
less than a month.

Snow: "Faith teaches you that you're not the master of your own destiny. . . .
The president is absolutely nonchalant when he talks about his faith. I've seen
him do it behind closed doors, I've seen him do it with world leaders, I've seen
him do it with a lot of people. And it's not like faith is something where he
clears his throat and acts righteous. No, 'I have faith in Jesus Christ, he's my
lord and savior.' Boom! It's that simple."

Dobson: "He's hated for that, too, by the way."

Snow: "Well, but I think this is all of a piece. I think something that is
informed by his faith is something that a lot of people just necessarily don't
like or trust. That's one of the big cultural battles going on in the United
States of America."

Okay, but back to the marriage amendment.

Dobson: "This president is committed to this issue, is that right?"

Snow: "Yes. Yeah. He's said that many, many times."

Dobson: "Is he working the Hill, is he calling?"

(Snow, incidentally, was asked that repeatedly last week. It's obvious to anyone
inside or outside the White House that Bush has not made any such calls. And an
anonymous White House official explicitly told Newsweek last week that Bush had
in fact not made any. But Snow pleaded heartfelt ignorance.)

Tony: "I honestly don't know. I can't give you an answer for that and I'm not
going to lie to you."

Dobson: "That's unfortunate. Because, you know, when Lyndon Johnson wanted the
civil rights legislation, he didn't have the votes for it, and the Democrats in
the South didn't want it . . . and he made it happen. He got out there and beat
on people. He used the bully pulpit to make it happen. President Bush has not
done that yet, to our knowledge."

Snow: "Well, Dr. Dobson, today's political atmosphere, it's a little different
from Lyndon Johnson's time. Because in Lyndon Johnson's time, every once in a
while, people did set their partisanship aside. And I think what you're seeing
right now -- the president's not having that much difficulty with Republican
votes. And unfortunately, we've seen a number of situations where the Democrats
have simply said, 'No, we're not going to help you out.' So he doesn't have a
lot of persuasive power when it comes to people on the other side of the aisle."

Dobson, clearly irritated, asked about Laura Bush's Fox News interview last
month.

Dobson: "Why do you think the first lady made her comment about marriage not
being a campaign issue?"

Snow: "I have no idea. I don't know."

Dobson: "I don't remember her giving advice on any other issue."

Speaking of family, Snow showed off photos of his three children. "The only two
things I brought into this office were those three pictures and a Bible," he
said.

The Focus on the Family Web site published an article about the interview, which
included some of Snow's comments.

Blogger Steve Benen saw that article and responded:

" 'This is an issue on which George W. Bush has been very clear over the years
-- and he's spoken repeatedly about it,' Snow told Dobson.

"That's about half-true. Searching through White House transcripts, I found that
in 2004, Bush mentioned his support for a constitutional amendment 'defining and
protecting marriage as a union of a man and a woman' in public speeches over 100
times. In 2005? Zero. In 2006, before this past weekend's radio address? Zero.

"In other words, Bush has spoken about the amendment 'repeatedly' -- but only
when he needed to use his base to get a second term."

David Link writes in a Los Angeles Times op-ed piece: "Listening to President
Bush, you'd never know that the nation is having a debate over gay marriage. His
Saturday radio address to the nation had no mention of gay couples -- or even
homosexual individuals."

Link writes that "the irony gets thick when the president purports to be
evenhanded in conducting this half-debate. Bush said this in his most recent
address on the issue: 'As this debate goes forward, we must remember that every
American deserves to be treated with tolerance, respect and dignity. All of us
have a duty to conduct this discussion with civility and decency toward one
another, and all people deserve to have their voices heard.'

"What Americans is he talking about? The ones he consciously never named in his
speech? Does he seriously think lesbians and gay men are being treated with
'civility and decency' -- much less 'tolerance' or 'respect' -- when he will not
meet publicly with a gay or lesbian group on this issue and will not even
mention that the debate over same-sex marriage is about them?"

Courtney Kennedy and Michael Dimock write for the Pew Research Center for the
People &amp; the Press: "As public approval of George W. Bush languishes at
all-time low levels, supporters of the president are increasingly hard to find.
. . .

"While the decline in support transcends ideological and demographic lines, the
drop among one group -- moderate Republicans -- has been especially steep. . . .

"Looking at various population groups across all partisan lines, the decline in
Bush's approval rating is fairly consistent among various groups with the
largest drops coming from those who had supported him the most strongly and,
thus, had the farthest to fall."

Here are some of the poll details .

Sheryl Gay Stolberg writes in the New York Times: "Having nudged the Senate into
action, Mr. Bush is turning his attention to the House, where Republicans deride
the Senate plan as amnesty and are balking at the idea of compromise. . . .

"The image of Mr. Bush, his collar open and his starched blue shirt sleeves
rolled up, surrounded by Border Patrol agents and trainees clad in olive drab
uniforms in the dusty New Mexico desert, was carefully calibrated to sell the
president's plan to the American people -- and, by extension, their
representatives in Washington."

Michael Abramowitz writes in The Washington Post: "Bush broke little ground
substantively in his speech to border agents and agents in training, repeating
many of the same points he had made since announcing his general approach to
immigration in a nationally televised address last month. But aides say he is
trying to build grass-roots support in advance of negotiations aimed at
reconciling House and Senate bills that take sharply different approaches toward
undocumented workers."

Here's the text of Bush's speech.

Julie Mason writes in the Houston Chronicle that Bush also was in Texas,
briefly.

"While in Laredo, Bush made two unscheduled stops, pulling the motorcade over on
a main commercial street to visit briefly with schoolchildren, and stopping at a
Mexican-style barbecue joint to meet with residents and border guards.

"'Â¿Como estas?' Bush greeted patrons at Cotulla's, a restaurant decorated with
deer heads. . . .

"Such encounters, carefully planned but unannounced, are part of a larger White
House strategy to remind Americans why they once liked him so much and use his
personal popularity to help sell a controversial immigration program."

Bill Nichols writes in USA Today: "The Bush administration was cautiously upbeat
Tuesday about Iran's initial reaction to incentives aimed at persuading it to
freeze its efforts to make nuclear fuel.

" 'It sounds like a positive step to me,' President Bush told reporters in Texas
after visiting a Border Patrol facility. 'We will see if the Iranians take our
offer seriously.' "

Reading the transcript of Bush's comments makes one take Bush's reaction a
little less seriously, however.

"Q Yes, sir. Can you respond to Iran's initial reaction to the incentives
package today?

"THE PRESIDENT: Why don't you tell me what it was?"

On gay marriage: Tony Auth ; Mike Luckovich ; Ann Telnaes .

On executive power: Paul Conrad .

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      June 7, 2006 Wednesday 12:45 PM EST

The Important Stuff

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 3304 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Bush is running around the country this week talking about
immigration, and on Monday he gave a much-hyped speech on gay marriage. In
neither case has he said anything remotely new, and yet the press coverage is
intense.


President Bush is running around the country this week talking about
immigration, and on Monday he gave a much-hyped speech on gay marriage. In
neither case has he said anything remotely new, and yet the press coverage is
intense.

But what about the stuff the White House doesn't want us talking about?

You know, the important stuff.

High on that very long list: The war in Iraq -- and particularly the atrocities
allegedly committed by U.S. troops; also, the continued expansion of executive
power -- including the administration's warrantless domestic spying.

Issues like immigration and gay marriage offer Bush a chance to look
presidential. Even though they are controversial, Bush can take a public,
proactive and starring role. That makes for great visuals, and generally good
press.

But when it comes to the important stuff, most everything's happening secretly,
and sometimes defensively. And the key player, not surprisingly, is Vice
President Cheney.

Far from the cameras, Cheney and others have been busy lately with such projects
as actively excluding Geneva Convention protections from the Pentagon's new
detainee policy, and stymieing congressional investigation and oversight into
domestic wiretapping.

Time and Newsweek both dedicate their covers this week to the apparent massacre
in Haditha.

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh write in Time: "Once again, the Bush
Administration finds itself on the defensive about a war that is now entering
its 40th unrelenting month."

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh write in Newsweek: "As more accounts
of civilian killings come to light, the pressure is likely to grow on the Bush
administration to bring home the troops, not just to save their lives, but to
rescue their honor and decency."

But it's more than that. While atrocities in Iraq increase the pressure to bring
the troops home, they also raise the question: How far up the chain of command
does responsibility lie? And how much if any lies with the commander in chief?

How it came about that America became identified across the globe with torture
and other atrocities -- and what role the White House has played in that -- are
mysteries that need to be unraveled, and that are legitimately the subject of
constant, unrelenting inquiry and reporting. But so far, these infamies have
largely been covered as isolated acts.

Are there dots that journalists should be connecting here? Even the accusation
by former administration insider Lawrence Wilkerson that there was a "visible
audit trail" tracing the practice of prisoner abuse by U.S. soldiers directly
back to Vice President Cheney's office didn't seem to get the traditional press
riled up. (See my Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh .)

Essayist and blogger Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh weighed in with
an important piece this weekend in the Sunday Times of London: "I do not believe
that this president has ever acknowledged his own responsibility for the
atrocities committed by Americans on his watch and under his command. He simply
cannot process the fact that his own hand provided the signature that allowed
torture to spread like a cancer through the military and CIA.

"He cannot acknowledge that his own war policy -- of just enough troops to lose
-- has created a war of attrition in Iraq in which soldiers are often
overwhelmed and demoralised and stretched to the limit, and so more than usually
vulnerable to the psychic snaps that sometimes lead to atrocities.

"His obdurate refusal to change course, to provide sufficient troops, to fire
his defence secretary, to embrace, rather than evade, the McCain amendment has
robbed him of any excuse, any evasion of responsibility.

"And yet he still evades it. Last week he spoke of Abu Ghraib as something that
had somehow happened to him and to his country, almost as if he were not the
commander-in-chief or president of the country that had committed such abuse.
When the evidence is presented to him, he displaces it. He puts it to one side.
In his mind America is a force for good. And so it cannot commit evil. And if he
says that often enough it will somehow become true. In this way his powers of
denial kick in like a forcefield against reality."

Indeed, to the extent that the White House is responding to these atrocities at
all, it is to order a refresher course on "core values" for all troops -- while
at the same time, insisting that Geneva Convention protections be explicitly
dropped from its new detainee policy.

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh broke that story in Sunday's Los
Angeles Times: "The Pentagon has decided to omit from new detainee policies a
key tenet of the Geneva Convention that explicitly bans 'humiliating and
degrading treatment,' according to knowledgeable military officials, a step that
would mark a further, potentially permanent, shift away from strict adherence to
international human rights standards.

"The decision could culminate a lengthy debate within the Defense Department but
will not become final until the Pentagon makes new guidelines public, a step
that has been delayed. However, the State Department fiercely opposes the
military's decision to exclude Geneva Convention protections and has been
pushing for the Pentagon and White House to reconsider, the Defense Department
officials acknowledged."

Amid a deafening silence from the reporting side of other news organizations,
the editorialists are speaking out.

The Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh writes: "It defies belief that
this administration is still clinging to its benighted policies on prisoners
after the horrors of Abu Ghraib, the killings at American camps in Afghanistan
and the world's fresh outrage over what appears to have been the massacre of
Iraqi men, women and children in the village of Haditha."

The Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh writes: "The Pentagon wants to
have it both ways. It intends to provide new training in core values to its
troops after reports of an alleged massacre of Iraqi civilians by Marines, but
it also wants to ignore a Geneva Convention rule against 'humiliating and
degrading treatment' of prisoners. This mixed message can only complicate the
decision-making of US personnel at the same time it further tarnishes the
international reputation of the United States."

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh writes in USA Today about Cheney's
astonishing short-circuit of a promised congressional investigation into
domestic spying.

"A last-minute deal Tuesday with Vice President Cheney averted a possible
confrontation between the Senate Judiciary Committee and U.S. telephone
companies about the National Security Agency's database of customer calling
records.

"The deal was announced by Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., the committee chairman,
and Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah. They said Cheney, who plays a key role supervising
NSA counterterrorism efforts, promised that the Bush administration would
consider legislation proposed by Specter that would place a domestic
surveillance program under scrutiny of a special federal court.

"In return, Specter agreed to postpone indefinitely asking executives from the
nation's telecommunication companies to testify about another program in which
the NSA collects records of domestic calls. . . .

"The deal prompted protests from Democratic lawmakers, who said the
Republican-controlled Congress had refused to challenge the administration's
expansion of presidential authority. 'Why don't we just recess for the rest of
the year, and the vice president will just tell the nation what laws we'll
have?' said Vermont Sen. Patrick Leahy, ranking Democrat on the committee."

And apparently Cheney didn't just offer a carrot. He used a stick, too.

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh writes for Reuters: "Specter said he
agreed to defer his earlier plans to subpoena telephone executives after Vice
President Dick Cheney said they would be precluded on national security grounds
from answering questions about the reported disclosure of call records."

The White House press pool got a surprise opportunity to ask Bush some questions
yesterday in Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh .

But due to a combination of attention deficit disorder and sunstroke (it was, in
fact, hellishly hot) they forgot to ask him anything about Iraq or domestic
spying.

I'm Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh today at 1 p.m. ET.

I wrote at some length in Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh about the
broader issue of the Bush administration's dramatic expansion of executive power
(which of course suffuses the two issues discussed above.)

A reader called my attention to Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh 's
article on that very topic in the current issue of the New York Review of Books.

Drew's piece serves as an important and comprehensive primer on the issue. Go
read it.

She writes: "During the presidency of George W. Bush, the White House has made
an unprecedented reach for power. It has systematically attempted to defy,
control, or threaten the institutions that could challenge it: Congress, the
courts, and the press. It has attempted to upset the balance of power among the
three branches of government provided for in the Constitution; but its most
aggressive and consistent assaults have been against the legislative branch:
Bush has time and again said that he feels free to carry out a law as he sees
fit, not as Congress wrote it. Through secrecy and contemptuous treatment of
Congress, the Bush White House has made the executive branch less accountable
than at any time in modern American history. And because of the complaisance of
Congress, it has largely succeeded in its efforts."

Among other things, Drew touches on the "heretofore obscure doctrine called the
unitary executive," which is one of the White House's key justifications for its
power grab: "The concept of a unitary executive holds that the executive branch
can overrule the courts and Congress on the basis of the president's own
interpretations of the Constitution, in effect overturning Marbury v. Madison
(1803), which established the principle of judicial review, and the
constitutional concept of checks and balances."

She concludes: "For the first time in more than thirty years, and to a greater
extent than even then, our constitutional form of government is in jeopardy."

But hey, let's write about something else, shall we?

White House press secretary Tony Snow sat down for a half-hour yesterday with
James C. Dobson, the chairman and founder of the prominent Christian
broadcasting organization, Focus on the Family.

The Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh is available on Dobson's Web
site. I've transcribed a few parts.

Snow talked a bit about his new job: "We make trouble for ourselves when we
don't get facts out. And the president's got a great story to tell on a whole
series of issues. . . . We serve our interests better by getting more
information out and that's one of the things I'm going to be doing as press
secretary."

The central issue for Dobson, of course, was Bush's position on gay marriage.

Dobson: "There are people who hate him for a lot of reasons, but this is one of
them, isn't it? . . . The fact that he has had the courage to stand up for
traditional marriage is both an object of great appreciation and a lot of
angst."

Snow suggested that Bush's position on marriage was the ineluctable product of
the president's faith -- something that Bush apparently talks about even more in
private than in public. Keep in mind that Snow has only been at the White House
less than a month.

Snow: "Faith teaches you that you're not the master of your own destiny. . . .
The president is absolutely nonchalant when he talks about his faith. I've seen
him do it behind closed doors, I've seen him do it with world leaders, I've seen
him do it with a lot of people. And it's not like faith is something where he
clears his throat and acts righteous. No, 'I have faith in Jesus Christ, he's my
lord and savior.' Boom! It's that simple."

Dobson: "He's hated for that, too, by the way."

Snow: "Well, but I think this is all of a piece. I think something that is
informed by his faith is something that a lot of people just necessarily don't
like or trust. That's one of the big cultural battles going on in the United
States of America."

Okay, but back to the marriage amendment.

Dobson: "This president is committed to this issue, is that right?"

Snow: "Yes. Yeah. He's said that many, many times."

Dobson: "Is he working the Hill, is he calling?"

(Snow, incidentally, was asked that repeatedly last week. It's obvious to anyone
inside or outside the White House that Bush has not made any such calls. And an
anonymous White House official explicitly told Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and
Aparism Gosh last week that Bush had in fact not made any. But Snow pleaded
heartfelt ignorance.)

Tony: "I honestly don't know. I can't give you an answer for that and I'm not
going to lie to you."

Dobson: "That's unfortunate. Because, you know, when Lyndon Johnson wanted the
civil rights legislation, he didn't have the votes for it, and the Democrats in
the South didn't want it . . . and he made it happen. He got out there and beat
on people. He used the bully pulpit to make it happen. President Bush has not
done that yet, to our knowledge."

Snow: "Well, Dr. Dobson, today's political atmosphere, it's a little different
from Lyndon Johnson's time. Because in Lyndon Johnson's time, every once in a
while, people did set their partisanship aside. And I think what you're seeing
right now -- the president's not having that much difficulty with Republican
votes. And unfortunately, we've seen a number of situations where the Democrats
have simply said, 'No, we're not going to help you out.' So he doesn't have a
lot of persuasive power when it comes to people on the other side of the aisle."

Dobson, clearly irritated, asked about Laura Bush's Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk
and Aparism Gosh interview last month.

Dobson: "Why do you think the first lady made her comment about marriage not
being a campaign issue?"

Snow: "I have no idea. I don't know."

Dobson: "I don't remember her giving advice on any other issue."

Speaking of family, Snow showed off photos of his three children. "The only two
things I brought into this office were those three pictures and a Bible," he
said.

The Focus on the Family Web site published an Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and
Aparism Gosh about the interview, which included some of Snow's comments.

Blogger Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh saw that article and
responded:

" 'This is an issue on which George W. Bush has been very clear over the years
-- and he's spoken repeatedly about it,' Snow told Dobson.

"That's about half-true. Searching through White House transcripts, I found that
in 2004, Bush mentioned his support for a constitutional amendment 'defining and
protecting marriage as a union of a man and a woman' in public speeches over 100
times. In 2005? Zero. In 2006, before this past weekend's radio address? Zero.

"In other words, Bush has spoken about the amendment 'repeatedly' -- but only
when he needed to use his base to get a second term."

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh writes in a Los Angeles Times op-ed
piece: "Listening to President Bush, you'd never know that the nation is having
a debate over gay marriage. His Saturday Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism
Gosh to the nation had no mention of gay couples -- or even homosexual
individuals."

Link writes that "the irony gets thick when the president purports to be
evenhanded in conducting this half-debate. Bush said this in his most recent
Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh on the issue: 'As this debate goes
forward, we must remember that every American deserves to be treated with
tolerance, respect and dignity. All of us have a duty to conduct this discussion
with civility and decency toward one another, and all people deserve to have
their voices heard.'

"What Americans is he talking about? The ones he consciously never named in his
speech? Does he seriously think lesbians and gay men are being treated with
'civility and decency' -- much less 'tolerance' or 'respect' -- when he will not
meet publicly with a gay or lesbian group on this issue and will not even
mention that the debate over same-sex marriage is about them?"

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh write for the Pew Research Center for
the People &amp; the Press: "As public approval of George W. Bush languishes at
all-time low levels, supporters of the president are increasingly hard to find.
. . .

"While the decline in support transcends ideological and demographic lines, the
drop among one group -- moderate Republicans -- has been especially steep. . . .

"Looking at various population groups across all partisan lines, the decline in
Bush's approval rating is fairly consistent among various groups with the
largest drops coming from those who had supported him the most strongly and,
thus, had the farthest to fall."

Here are some of the poll Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh .

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh writes in the New York Times: "Having
nudged the Senate into action, Mr. Bush is turning his attention to the House,
where Republicans deride the Senate plan as amnesty and are balking at the idea
of compromise. . . .

"The image of Mr. Bush, his collar open and his starched blue shirt sleeves
rolled up, surrounded by Border Patrol agents and trainees clad in olive drab
uniforms in the dusty New Mexico desert, was carefully calibrated to sell the
president's plan to the American people -- and, by extension, their
representatives in Washington."

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh writes in The Washington Post: "Bush
broke little ground substantively in his speech to border agents and agents in
training, repeating many of the same points he had made since announcing his
general approach to immigration in a nationally televised address last month.
But aides say he is trying to build grass-roots support in advance of
negotiations aimed at reconciling House and Senate bills that take sharply
different approaches toward undocumented workers."

Here's the Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh of Bush's speech.

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh writes in the Houston Chronicle that
Bush also was in Texas, briefly.

"While in Laredo, Bush made two unscheduled stops, pulling the motorcade over on
a main commercial street to visit briefly with schoolchildren, and stopping at a
Mexican-style barbecue joint to meet with residents and border guards.

"'Â¿Como estas?' Bush greeted patrons at Cotulla's, a restaurant decorated with
deer heads. . . .

"Such encounters, carefully planned but unannounced, are part of a larger White
House strategy to remind Americans why they once liked him so much and use his
personal popularity to help sell a controversial immigration program."

Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh writes in USA Today: "The Bush
administration was cautiously upbeat Tuesday about Iran's initial reaction to
incentives aimed at persuading it to freeze its efforts to make nuclear fuel.

" 'It sounds like a positive step to me,' President Bush told reporters in Texas
after visiting a Border Patrol facility. 'We will see if the Iranians take our
offer seriously.' "

Reading the Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh of Bush's comments makes
one take Bush's reaction a little less seriously, however.

"Q Yes, sir. Can you respond to Iran's initial reaction to the incentives
package today?

"THE PRESIDENT: Why don't you tell me what it was?"

On gay marriage: Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh ; Michael Duffy, Tim
McGirk and Aparism Gosh ; Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh .

On executive power: Michael Duffy, Tim McGirk and Aparism Gosh .

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 12, 2006 Monday 11:00 AM EST

Outlook: Hope for the Democrats?

BYLINE: Michael Grunwald, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 4055 words



HIGHLIGHT: As rising gas prices, decreasing support for the war in Iraq, the
Abramoff lobbying scandal and a lack of progress on immigration reform cut into
support for the incumbent Republican party, Democrats see opportunity in the
upcoming midterm elections. In his Sunday Outlook piece, Washington Post staff
writer Michael Grunwald asks the question on everyone's mind: "How can the
Democrats use this to their advantage?" While pundits wonder what's wrong with
the party, Grunwald offers a novel answer: nothing. Does the battle between
liberals and centrists for the heart of the party really spell doom for the
Democrats?


As rising gas prices, decreasing support for the war in Iraq, the Abramoff
lobbying scandal and a lack of progress on immigration reform cut into support
for the incumbent Republican party, Democrats see opportunity in the upcoming
midterm elections. In his Sunday Outlook piece, Washington Post staff writer
Michael Grunwald asks the question on everyone's mind: "How can the Democrats
use this to their advantage?" While pundits wonder what's wrong with the party,
Grunwald offers a novel answer: nothing. Does the battle between liberals and
centrists for the heart of the party really spell doom for the Democrats?

Michael Grunwald was online Monday, June 12, at 11:00 a.m. ET to discuss his
Sunday Outlook article, How to Reconnect With Voters and Realize Your Dreams of
Victory , ( Post, June 11, 2006 ).

The transcript follows.

Grunwald is also author of How to Reconnect With Voters and Realize Your Dreams
of Victory .

____________________

Michael Grunwald: Hi there. I'll get right to it; I can see that a lot of you
spent the weekend consulting with your inner pundits. (It's fun, isn't it?) But
first I wanted to respond to the readers--and bloggers--who noticed that I
didn't really provide a step-by-step advice guide for Dems, but an analysis of a
lot of the self-serving advice bouncing around the punditocracy. In the
dead-tree form of the paper, it was pretty obvious that the headline was a joke;
the section was designed like one of those cheesy advice books, and the subhed
was "All the Tips You Really Need to Take on the GOP, Take Back Congress, And
Feel Good About Yourself, Too!" But there was really no way to catch the irony
online. Sorry about that. As a self-serving pundit, I'd say there's an important
lesson here about how vital it is to keep buying the print version of the Post.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: If the battle for the heart of the Democratic party between
liberals and centrists seems to doom it, why does the same not hold true for
Republicans? They seems to be able to hold their coalition of fiscal and
religious conservatives together well enough for one not to offend the other.
Thanks for your insights?

Michael Grunwald: I don't think the basic center-left Democratic schism dooms
the party; I actually suggested at the end of the piece that the Democrats are
in better shape than they seem to think. But you raise a fascinating question:
Why doesn't the Republican Party--which in my view has much more complex schisms
than the D's--engage in the existential self-flagellation that D's seem to enjoy
so much? The various R factions--social conservatives vs. moderates,
foreign-policy interventionists vs. realists, deficit hawks vs. porkers, Wall
Street vs. Main Street vs. K Street--squabble all the time, especially when
things are going badly for the party. But they seem to do it without questioning
their very purpose. The Democrats seem to act like one of those couples that
questions their relationship every time they have a fight.

_______________________

Baltimore, Md.: Is the Washington Post out of its collective minds?!? Even
though an analysis of Democratic Party strategy (and their failure thus far to
present a coherent, cohesive one other than a "Bush is evil" mantra) is most
certainly fair game and good fodder for editorial discussion, the way in which
it was presented--the whole title of the Outlook section, just for starts--is
practically a gift-wrapped present of a huge target for conservative and media
critics to claim liberal media bias in The Post. Think about it: what would the
Post editors say if someone (oh, say, myself) demanded "when was the last time
the Post outlined a step-by-step guide for Republicans to win when Democrats ran
the White House and/or Congress?" Will we see a balancing "how the GOP can
maintain its lead in the face of losing a president that can't be re-elected"
series of articles packaged as a step-by-step guide? Lord knows, the current
bunch calling themselves Republicans are not any better....

Michael Grunwald: That would be a good slogan: The Washington Post: Out of Our
Collective Minds Since 1877. But you're right: We're getting bashed all over the
place--especially, and I'm sure this will be a shock, by hard-left and
hard-right partisans. But we can take it. We thought there were some new and
interesting things to say about the age-old "Democrats in Disarray" cliche, and
I hope if you read the entire issue you agreed. Don't worry: We pay plenty of
attention to the Republicans, too.

_______________________

Bowie, Md.: How do the Democrats counter the image that their party is about
wealth re-distribution (via either government or private-sector mandates) to
blacks, gays and feminists. And that every American who isn't a member of those
groups, is part of the privileged power structure that owes them things?

Michael Grunwald: So many questions like this one; I'm going to take a wild
guess and say that this reader isn't a liberal, because liberals don't usually
complain about the D's tilting left. Of course, one could also ask: How do the
Republicans counter the image that their party is about wealth redistribution
from the middle class to the rich? In a 50-50 country, both teams take a risk
when they move away from the middle. But discouraging the base is a risk, too.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: I enjoyed your Outlook article but don't understand why you pose
the intraparty Democratic conflict as between liberals and centrists. How can
there be Democratic centrists if there is no Democratic right wing? What are the
"centrists" in the center between? In terms of voting behavior on key issues,
with few exceptions, centrists vote conservative; so why not call them that and
discuss the Democratic split as mainly between the liberal and conservative
wings of the Party? When Democratic senators like Lieberman and Nelson(either
one) give away crucial votes to pass the Republican conservative agenda on
judicial appointments, tax cuts or the invasion of Iraq it would help Democrats
to understand that they keep losing one vote after another because at least a
third of their own party is aligned with Republican conservatives. Calling
Democratic "centrists" conservatives would clarify that the "center" has moved
to the right and give Democrats a better picture of what their party really
stands for, making the choices Democrats face in 2006 clearer. Adopting this
approach would also put in perspective the MSM's hyping of the possibility of a
"Democratic" takeover in 2006 when in fact regardless of "Democratic" gains the
conservative would likely continue their one party control of our country.

Michael Grunwald: Now we hear from a liberal (I'm guessing) who wants the D's to
be more liberal. It's funny: Many of the liberals who get angriest at Democratic
centrists--and come on: There's a big difference between Lieberman/Nelson and
Bush/Inhofe--also seem to believe that the country is extremely conservative. If
that were true, then why would it be a good strategy for the D's to tack left?

_______________________

San Jose, Calif.: Thanks for your piece yesterday. It was very well thought out
and informative.

Do you think that the Democrats can appease both the liberals and the moderates
in their party? I believe that the trick is to do both. I believe that they can
talk tough about national security, both here and abroad and speak intelligently
about a plan for Iraq, as well as speak unapologetically and unwaveringly about
more liberal issues such as abortion and the environment.

One candidate that I have seen doing this as of late is Russ Feingold. His
talking points about Iraq and homeland security are right on and he speaks
without caveat about the marriage rights of the gay community. Do you think he
has the capacity to cast doom on the Republicans is '08?

Michael Grunwald: Thanks for your kind words. The answer is: I don't know. My
sense from the polling data over the last few elections is that America had a
problem with John Kerry, but not with Democrats in general. Feingold is a very
interesting character: voted for John Roberts, against the Patriot Act, voted
with the R's on some of the Clinton impeachment trial votes, left of most D's on
gay rights. I have no idea of his chances, but from the outside he appears to be
someone who actually says what he believes. (I don't know him well enough to be
sure if that's true. And full disclosure: He's one of the only Congressmen who's
pushed to reform the Army Corps of Engineers, my white whale.)

_______________________

Gwinn, Mich.: When are the Democrats going to finally start calling a spade, a
spade? This war was a stupid waste of blood and treasure from the git-go. Are
Feingold and Murtha the only alpha Democratic males left? Will Democrats have
the courage to campaign in the south?

Michael Grunwald: Lots of debate over the proper Democratic strategy for dealing
with the war. There's pretty broad agreement that Kerry's
every-side-of-the-issue approach was lousy--voted for the funding bill before I
voted against it, would have supported the war even if I knew there were no
WMD's but Bush conned us into this, etc. But centrists tend to say that the
Democratic strategy should be: competence and victory. Most liberals want a
full-throated attack on an increasingly unpopular war.

_______________________

Williamsburg, Va.: With all the corruption and all the scandals and guys like
Byrd remaining in the Senate for 500 years, why is it the we do not have term
limits on Congress the same way the President has limits?

Michael Grunwald: I believe that Byrd has only served for about 250 years.
Republicans said they wanted term limits in 1994, but somehow they never got
around to enacting them once they seized control of Congress.

_______________________

Sherman, Tex.: Do you think that the death of al-Zarqawi will have an effect on
the November election? While I feel sure it may have a temporary positive result
in better poll numbers for the President, in reality will any military events
have permanent results with a public that is strained by continuing costs in
lives and funds?

Michael Grunwald: Once again, I'm going to have to resort to the three words
pundits hate the most: I don't know. But Iraq is certainly the biggest thing
going. This happened far enough before the election that presumably we'll know
by November whether Zarqawi's death calms down the violence and eases American
anxieties about the war.

_______________________

Spring, Tex.: What can be done to give Democratic leadership some backbone? They
have been spineless in the face of Republican excesses.

A life-long, "Yellow Dog" Democrat from Texas

Michael Grunwald: Usually, it's liberals who attack the Democratic leadership
for being "spineless." Centrists tend to attack the Democratic leadership for
being "liberal." And of course everyone assumes that the American people agree
with them.

_______________________

Detroit, Mich.: In your Sunday piece, you state that a likely problem that
occurred in the early 2004 Democratic primaries was that people voted "like
pundits". Yet despite any faults of Kerry and his background, in the 2004
general election, voters were given what I think had to be one of the starkest
contrasts of candidates in the past few decades. Bush already had almost four
years of presidency behind him and it should have been obvious to voters how
lacking as a president he was. Yet he won. It certainly indicated to me how out
of step I am with much of the country. Those people who voted for Bush in 2004
who now give him poor ratings in polls have only themselves to blame as there is
nothing new about him that wasn't known before the last presidential election.
How Democrats can win over people who seem to be so blind is not obvious to me.

Michael Grunwald: Bush was unpopular--though not this unpopular--even in
November 2004. He had dangerously low approval ratings for an incumbent facing
reelection. But he succeeded in making the election as much about Kerry as it
was about him--and most Americans did not want to give Kerry the job.

_______________________

Avon Park, Fla.: As a Democrat, I am disturbed that many party operatives in
Washington seem to think that they don't have to have their version of the
Contract with America. They seem to think that negative national headlines
concerning Republicans will win the election. The Democratic vision needs to be
summarized on one paper. Why don't you and others who have written books about
the Democrats' problems actually tell Congressional members and strategists what
you write as opposed to just writing books and op-eds and hoping that Democrats
wake up one morning and somehow reach your conclusions?

Michael Grunwald: Oh, believe me, there's no shortage of pundits who write books
and advise Democratic leaders. (My book, incidentally, has nothing to do with
the fate of the Democratic Party.) Actually, though, the Contract with America
has been mythologized a bit--the R's didn't publicize it until late September
2004, and hardly any of their candidates actually campaigned on it. Maybe we can
post an article I wrote a month ago that talked about this, my stirring defense
of tired old ideas.

_______________________

Hampton, Va.: Poor Democrats. All the hand-wringing, whining, and gloom-and-doom
from the media has to hurt. This is your finest hour! Poised to put Nancy Pelosi
in charge of the House and Hillary Clinton in the White House, all your wildest
dreams are within your reach. So why do your media cheerleaders bad-mouth you?
Is it because even the most partisan journalist can see that Pelosi and Clinton
aren't what America wants?

Michael Grunwald: Here's an attack from the right--plenty of those today, too.

_______________________

Southern Md.: I think the liberals and centrists can find common cause by
jointly opposing the reactionary agenda being pushed by the GOP's social
conservatives. As I see it, the proposed amendments against flag burning and gay
marriage are traps for centrist Democrats, as well as ways to deflect voters'
attention from Bush and Iraq. Hillary Clinton has already given in by endorsing
the flag-burning amendment. These are traps because Democrats who voice sensible
objections are branded as anti-American and anti-family, both untrue. How can
both Democratic factions successfully combat this strategy?

Michael Grunwald: This is a thoughtful question, and I don't want to seem to be
mocking it, because in fact liberal and centrist D's do have a lot of common
ground--especially when it comes to opposing Bush on tax cuts, social issues,
Katrina, etc. But I often sense from liberals (and I'm guessing this writer is
one) that they think centrists are really liberals who only espouse moderation
because they think liberals can't get elected. Maybe that explains Hillary's
vote; on the flag I'd say that's probably a fair guess. But some moderates are
actually moderates.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: How to Reconnect With Voters and Realize Your Dreams of
Victory , ( Post, April 2, 2006 )

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Why did the article include two Republicans in the quotes
without identifying them as such? Mary Matalin and Frank Luntz are hardly the
most open and honest dispensers of advice on how the Democrats can do better.
(Or did you want to buy that bridge?)

Michael Grunwald: Oh, come on. We ran an entire issue about Democrats, with
three articles written by Democrats, plus two more articles by Post staffers
about the Democrats. Then we added something like 20 quotes from Democrats in
the margins around the stories. And you're complaining about two quotes from
Republican consultants?

_______________________

Crystal City, Va.: I did not see in any of your write ups a realistic plan for
the Democratic party to avoid losing the South in future presidential elections.
How can the party hope to regain the White House if they continue to write off
the fastest growing section of the country.

Michael Grunwald: This is an interesting question that I didn't really address
in the story. One of the fights going on within the Democratic Party is between
Howard Dean (who believes D's need to be competitive everywhere, including the
South) and Rahm Emanuel (who wants to start by focusing on swing states). I
don't want to speak for Emanuel, but what the hell: He'd probably say that in a
50-50 country, D's don't necessarily need to win the South to win the White
House. They just need to win a couple states (or one state!) more than they've
been winning. And Mississippi ain't gonna be that state.

_______________________

Alpharetta, Ga.: You bring up the centrists-liberals' quabbles. Although there
are many differences in terms of issues, it seems that a large part of the
squabble is style. The liberals really want to stand proud of being a Democrat
and progressive reform, whereas in their eyes the moderates are too
accommodating, timid, and inoculate more liberal beliefs.

Michael Grunwald: This is an interesting idea, but I think it's the other way
around. I sense that the complaints about style (too accommodating! too timid!)
are really proxies for ideological complaints (too moderate!).

_______________________

Dallas, Tex.: Why don't the Democrats go for the throat, corruption? 90% of it
is Republican so they can't do themselves any harm. Just follow the Public
Campaign Finance plan that Connecticut legislated last year. It included
outlawing gifts or campaign contributions to Congress, administration and
Judiciary, with limited campaign funds from the state, only.

Michael Grunwald: The R's will certainly try to throw William Jefferson into the
D's faces any time they mention corruption. I think there's a strong substantive
case to be made that the massive corruption scandal unfolding in Congress--the
Abramoff scandal--is a Republican scandal, inextricably linked to the Republican
machine that has controlled DC in recent years. Politically, I have no idea if
that's a winning case. It's hard to imagine if a Republican lobbyist was elected
to Duke Cunningham's seat, although that was a heavily Republican district.

_______________________

Harrisburg, Pa.: History has shown that whenever Republicans slide in
popularity, they grasp an easy to understand issue that makes Democrats look
like wimps that rallies the public behind them. Democrats were soft on
communism. Then Democrats were soft on crime. Shall I presume the gay marriage
issue is the next tactic that Republicans think will rally the public behind
them? Or do they fear the public is finally getting upset with useless Mom and
apple pie rhetoric and wants something different?

Michael Grunwald: Without judging the merits of the Republican attacks, my
historical sense is that they've worked better when there were at least elements
of truth to them. (At least about communism and crime, which were real concerns
for voters.) The gay marriage thing seems to be a play to the GOP base, which
has been mighty irked lately, and I don't know if it will work. Your handy
Outlook section on Sunday had some fascinating poll data about how Americans are
becoming less hostile to gay marriage and gay rights. At least that's what
they're telling pollsters.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: Please explain what you mean when you say there is a big
difference between "centrists" like Liberman and conservative Republicans. Bush
nominated right wing judges Roberts and Alito and Lieberman et al made sure the
Democrats couldn't use their only weapon, the filibuster, to stop those
appointments. Results the same, isn't it and now we have to live with it for
generations. God Bless the "centrists".

Michael Grunwald: I think Joe Lieberman has voted with Democrats and against the
president something like 85% of the time. If that's not a difference, I don't
know what is. I'm reminded of Nader voters who insisted there was no difference
between corporate-controlled Al Gore and corporate-controlled George Bush. It
turns out that actually there is a difference.

_______________________

Crawford, Tex.: Mr. Grunwald, What hope is there for this country when this
administration operates without checks and balance, and abuses executive power?

Michael Grunwald: Here's a view from the ranch.

_______________________

Philadelphia, Pa.: I think it's important for Democrats/liberals to once in a
while take risks and not be terrified of failure. I mean last year a lot of
pundits were trying to tell Dems to formulate a Social Security plan, but they
didn't, and they managed to stand together and unequivocally oppose it, and they
defeated the Bush social security plan. I mean, obviously, you do have to be
politically cautious at points, but once in a while risks pay off--look at
Reagan's win in 80 or Contract with America in 1994.

Michael Grunwald: Was opposing Bush's Social Security plan really a risk? I'd
say proposing that plan was probably more of a risk. Either way, I tend to agree
that some risk-taking would probably help.

_______________________

Tampa, Fla.: The Dems' power base seems to reside in Congress, especially the
Senate. This seems to favor decentralized authority, in contrast to the GOP.
Their power in 1994 rested in the marketing organizations (aka "think" tanks),
the religious right, and big business. All these are outside Congress and can
far more easily compromise and agree on a unified party line than Members who
have to worry about reelection and their own fundraising. Outfits like
MoveOn.org seem too diffuse to match the GOP machine. The GOP had a few bug
donors like Richard "I earned my money the hard way I inherited it" Scaife while
the Dems haven't had the long incubation period with patriots like George Soros
and others who actually worked for their money. And, of course, the Dems have
nothing like drug, I mean, talk, radio and Fox Commissariat of Propaganda. So
it's not surprising the Dems are having more trouble unifying now than the GOP
did 1994.

Whaddya think?

Michael Grunwald: I think...I'm not following you. But I'll post this, because
maybe someone out there has better reading comprehension than I do.

_______________________

Princeton, N.J.: In 1948 when I was 10, my Dad explained politics to me. "The
Republicans are the party of the Rich. The Democrats are the party for the rest
of us." Once you understand this, it is clear why the Repubs will always be more
cohesive than the Dems. On one side you have tiny group of the (super-) Rich
that control the Republicans party. On the other side you have poor, middle
income, upper middle income, etc. in great numbers.

But wait, you say. Why do the Repubs win elections? You say there are lots of
poor Repubs. My Dad had a saying for that, too. There's nothing dumber on the
face of this earth than a poor Republican." These are the dups. Read "What's the
matter with Kansas?" These suckers have nothing to do with running the
Republican party.

Michael Grunwald: Ah: What's the matter with Kansas? Here's a liberal who (like
Tom Frank) thinks working-class heartland voters are getting taken for a ride.
Centrist Democrats tend to argue that D's need to do a better job reaching out
to those voters by nominating less citified and elitist and liberal candidates
who assume that rural evangelicals are bigoted rubes. That's part of the
debate...

_______________________

Michael Grunwald: I'm out of time, and there are still a lot of questions I
didn't get to answer. It's amazing how this debate rolls on and on; it was a
long time ago that Will Rogers said he didn't belong to an organized political
party--he was a Democrat. I remember at the 1996 Democratic convention a very
wise political editor told me he didn't think there would BE a Democratic party
within a decade--and that was a pretty upbeat convention for the Democrats!
Somehow, I suspect that even if the Democrats take back the House in 2006 and
the presidency in 2008, we'll still be pondering what's wrong with the
Democrats.

And lest I forget: Hi Mom! Hi Dad!

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      June 14, 2006 Wednesday 1:30 PM EST

Mexico To Select New Leadership;
Nationwide Elections to Determine New President, Other Key National Offices

BYLINE: Jorge Castaneda, Former Foreign Minister for Mexico/Global Distinguished
Professor of Politics and Latin American and Caribbean Studies, NYU,
washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1633 words



HIGHLIGHT: Jorge Castaneda, former foreign minister for Mexico and a Global
Distinguished Professor of Politics and Latin American and Caribbean Studies at
New York University,Â was online Wednesday, June 14, at 1:30 p.m. ET to join
washingtonpost.com special correspondent Ceci Connolly for a discussion about
the upcoming nationwide elections in Mexico and what new leadership could mean
for the country. In addition to congressional and gubernatorial seats, Mexico's
approximate 71.4 million eligible voters will chose a successor for outgoing
President Vicente Fox . The July 2 vote comes amidst the ongoing problem of
poverty and inequality, and perceived corruption within the government itself.
The issue of immigration and a proposed fence along its border with the U.S. are
also on voters' minds as they head to the polls.


Jorge Castaneda, former foreign minister for Mexico and a Global Distinguished
Professor of Politics and Latin American and Caribbean Studies at New York
University, was online Wednesday, June 14, at 1:30 p.m. ET to join
washingtonpost.com special correspondent Ceci Connolly for a discussion about
the upcoming nationwide elections in Mexico and what new leadership could mean
for the country. In addition to congressional and gubernatorial seats, Mexico's
approximate 71.4 million eligible voters will chose a successor for outgoing
President Vicente Fox . The July 2 vote comes amidst the ongoing problem of
poverty and inequality, and perceived corruption within the government itself.
The issue of immigration and a proposed fence along its border with the U.S. are
also on voters' minds as they head to the polls.

Read washingtonpost.com's special report, Mexico Votes 2006

The transcript follows.

____________________

Ceci Connolly: Welcome to Campaign Conexion's inaugural live chat. Mexicans go
to the polls July 2 to elect a successor to Vicente Fox, who is barred from
serving a second term. Our guest today, Jorge Castaneda, served in the Fox
administration as foreign minister and contemplated running for president as an
independent. Before we get to questions from cyber world, I'd like to ask you to
give us your assessment of where the race stands today. Would you agree it is
now a two-way race?

_______________________

Jorge Castaneda: It is a two-way race. The PRI candidate for all practical
purposes is out of the running, although he may have a lot of influence on who
wins. And in the two-way race they seem to be tied in a dead heat, but Calderon
seems to be on the downswing and Lopez Obrador seems to be on the upswing.

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: Mr. Castaneda, what do you think the purported assassination
attempt on Carlos Ahumada's wife is all about? I read in El Universal (I think)
that if Ahumada arranged a fake attempt on his wife's life, as phone records
indicate, that would reflect poorly on Lopez Obrador. How would that harm AMLO?

Jorge Castaneda: It does seem like a fake attempt, or a staged attempt. It does
give that impression and it seems too, if that were the case, the only
explanation would be that at the end of the day, Ahumada decided not to make
public the video tapes he may or may not have that would reflect negatively on
Lopez Obrador. Consequently, not only does this not damage Lopez Obrador, but it
probably helps him since Ahumada was finally not able to produce any new
damaging evidence against him.

_______________________

Ceci Connolly: Why do you sense that AMLO is on the rise? Has the controversy
over Calderon's brother-in-law damaged his candidacy?

Jorge Castaneda: Yes, I think that AMLO is benefiting from the corruption
scandal, which while everything seems to indicate that the charges of corruption
against Calderon's brother in law are false, they seem to have taken quite a
toll and with the world cup in full swing, it's not clear that anybody is paying
attention anymore to Calderon's rebuttal of those charges. And also I would add,
his response has not been particularly effective.

_______________________

Dallas, Tex.: Mr. Castaneda,

I am not as fearful as others are about the possible win of Lopez Obrador,
though I wish he would not. But I am afraid of his party's grip on power, I
don't think they have the discipline it takes to run a country as big and
complex as Mexico. Is there a chance we could see a Mexican version of
"impeachment" if after a few years Lopez Obrador's clique seems to be loosing
its grip? Gracias

Jorge Castaneda: I think that is wishful thinking. If he wins, I have no doubt
he will serve for six years and I also have no doubt the results could be very
unfavorable for Mexico. But that is something that we will have to live with if
he wins, and that is why so many people are scared of his winning.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: What is the role, if any, of American political consultants in
the 2006 race? Do you think the involvement in 2000 of American consultants in
the campaigns of both Fox and Labastida had an "Americanizing" influence on the
style of the Mexican political campaign? Do the Mexican people pay attention to
use of American consultants, or is this "inside baseball?"

Jorge Castaneda: One, it is inside baseball. Two, their role in 2000 was very
important but didn't' Americanize things more than they already were. Carville
and Greenberg contributed greatly to Labastida's defeat, and Morris, Allyn and
Checa contributed greatly to Fox's victory. It has been sad that Spaniard
Antonio Sola and Dick Morris have been advising Calderon, rather successfully. I
don't know if Latin American consultants, particularly from Ecuador, have been
advising Lopez Obrador or Madrazo.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I found your argument that there are two lefts in Latin
America very insightful. Why do you think that the media is so fixated on Latin
America "shifting left." Don't you think this is a massive oversimplification
when the only country that really radically shifted left in the last year is
Bolivia?

Jorge Castaneda: Thank you. It is an oversimplification but at the same time,
there is a trend there, as nuanced as it may be. The media are fixating on this
because it does entail greater animosity towards the Bush administration and the
United States, and that is always a good story.

_______________________

Mexico City, Mexico: How probable is a violent post-electoral outcome, given
that most polls show an extremely tight race?

Jorge Castaneda: If Lopez Obrador wins, even by half a point, I have no doubt
Calderon will concede. If Calderon wins by less than three points, it seems
likely that Lopez Obrador will not concede and will contest the results in the
streets, in the courts, and in the political arena. It is hard to know now what
the outcome of that contestation will be.

_______________________

Ceci Connolly: How would you assess Lopez Obrador's record as mayor of Mexico
City? I ask because part of his campaign pitch is that he would bring similar
anti-poverty programs to the entire country.

Jorge Castaneda: Disastrous. Crime is up, employment is down, corruption is up,
debt is up and his white elephant road-building projects are the most
anti-environmental, inefficient and archaic thing that could have been done for
Mexico City's traffic. As far as his anti-poverty programs for the elderly, it
is important to note that they were financed largely -- over 90 percent -- with
federal tax revenues, whereby the question must be asked: are the elderly poor
of Mexico's richest city the most deserving of the Mexican equivalent of U.S.
welfare? Shouldn't those federal tax revenues have been spent instead on the
elderly poor of Chiapas, Oaxaca and Guerrero.

_______________________

Berkeley, Calif.: First, in a country where over half the population lives at or
beneath the poverty line, and who have not benefited materially from 25 years of
Washington Consensus policies, are you surprised that a left-leaning candidate
is front runner in the presidential election?

Second, define "populist" and explain how the label fits Ronald Reagan, Juan D.
Peron, and Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador. Please comment on the economic
underpinnings of "populism".

Jorge Castaneda: One, no, I'm not surprised. If anything, I would have expected
Lopez Obrador to be far ahead, which he is not. Secondly, I would never use the
word populist for Ronald Reagan. But as for Peron and the old PRI in Mexico,
where Lopez Obrador comes from, I think it is an appropriate label, which
essentially means that his policies are directed at establishing a direct link
between the leader and the masses, spending on the masses as much as possible in
the short term regardless of the implications for the long term, fanning
nationalist flames, preferably against the United States, exacerbating class
tensions between rich and poor, with the exception of the "right rich", and
generally speaking (Peron, Chavez, the PRI) encouraging if not participating in
corruption.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: How much of this election is a referendum on Vicente Fox? And
what precipitated PRI's rapid fall from grace?

Jorge Castaneda: I think that if Calderon and Fox are able to keep it as a
referendum on Fox, Calderon will win. And the PRI has imploded because at a
presidential level, the Mexican people do not want them back in power, whoever
their candidate would have been.

_______________________

Ceci Connolly: Unfortunately, we are running out of time. As a final question,
what should we watch for in the closing weeks of this campaign and what might
the outcome mean for the United States?

Jorge Castaneda: Watch if Calderon is still able at the last minute to reach out
to the center and PRI voters from the north of the country. This is the only
reserve of votes he has left. Watch if Madrazo begins to do something to help
either Calderon or Lopez Obrador, either publicly or surreptitiously. A Lopez
Obrador victory would mean, as I said in my piece in the New York Times op-ed
page and subsequently as David Rieff in his New York Times magazine piece said,
a populist on the border. It could be a nightmare.

_______________________

Ceci Connolly: Thanks to Jorge Castaneda for joining us today. To all of you who
did not get your questions answered, please keep in touch. We'll have many more
news makers from Mexico between now and July 2.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 26, 2006 Monday 11:06 AM EST

LÃ³pez Obrador on Immigration

BYLINE: washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 282 words



HIGHLIGHT: AndrÃ©s Manuel LÃ³pez Obrador ofÂ Mexico'sÂ Democratic Revolutionary
Party responds to a June 23 editorial in The WashingtonÂ Post:


AndrÃ©s Manuel LÃ³pez Obrador of Mexico's Democratic Revolutionary Party
responds to a June 23 editorial in The Washington Post:

Mexico has been taking a passive role on immigration. LÃ³pez Obrador is going to
change that. Thousands of hardworking, determined and driven Mexicans leave the
country instead of contributing to Mexican development and the economy. LÃ³pez
Obrador wants these Mexicans to stay in their home country.

Most of these Mexicans come from southern Mexico, a region that needs economic
and social development. LÃ³pez Obrador will invest in and develop the
underserved areas of southern Mexico, reducing poverty and therefore
immigration. LÃ³pez Obrador understands the security challenges of the United
States. Mexico will do more to secure its borders in North America, to increase
trade and to reduce poverty and migration.

LÃ³pez Obrador invites the United States and other countries to help in the
development of southern Mexico through international direct investment,
bi-lateral compensation funds and private sector investment in infrastructure
projects.

LÃ³pez Obrador, an impeccably honest and frugal leader, transformed the social,
political and economic landscape of Mexico City. A proven and effective
administrator of the largest metropolis in the world, he launched cost-cutting
measures, improved security and stabilized the city's debt. LÃ³pez Obrador
successfully improved Mexico City's transportation infrastructure and
significantly reduced traffic problems. As mayor, he also promoted
public-private partnerships to revitalize parts of the city. His experience in
dealing with the complex issues of Mexico City makes him an ideal candidate to
lead Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 15, 2006 Tuesday 1:00 PM EST

Area Immigrants: Census Survey;
Population Reaches 1 Million In Region

BYLINE: Audrey Singer, Demographer, Immigration Fellow, The Brookings
Institution, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2162 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Washington metropolitan region is home to more than 1 million
immigrants, solidifying its position as a gateway to America, according to
census figures released today.


The Washington metropolitan region is home to more than 1 million immigrants,
solidifying its position as a gateway to America, according to census figures
released today.

Read More: Area Immigrants Top 1 Million (Post, Aug. 15)

"Immigration to the United States has not slowed in the past five years as new
data by the 2005 American Community Survey shows, explains Audrey Singer , a
demographer and Immigration Fellow at The Brookings Institution. "However," she
continued in an interview with washingtonpost.com, "the latest trends show that
immigrants are settling in many new places around the country with implications
for local areas. Now Washington has joined the ranks of other major immigrant
destinations such as Miami, Chicago, Houston and Dallas."

Singer was online Tuesday, Aug. 15, at 1 p.m. ET to discuss the survey findings
and the significance for the Washington metropolitan area as well as across the
nation.

____________________

Audrey Singer: The new American Community Survey data released by Census today
tells us much about immigrants across communities in the United States today.
Looking forward to your questions.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: Do the results found for the D.C. metro area in this survey pretty
much mirror the other cities mentioned in the Post article?

washingtonpost.com: Area Immigrants Top 1 Million (Post, Aug. 15)

Audrey Singer: What's different about Washington is that it has a different mix
of immigrants from most other metropolitan areas. The largest group is from El
Salvador, but they are nowhere near the majority. Koreans, Indians, Vietnamese,
and Mexicans are the next largest groups. Washington is also attractive to
Africans from many countries, there are well over 100,000 in the regions.

Washington does share a similar trend with other metropolitan areas in where
immigrants are choosing to live, primarily in the suburbs.

They also are highly educated as the Post article pointed out. This is due
Washington's job market, which has abundant high-skilled jobs.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: It's no surprise that many legal immigrants have Bachelor's
degrees or higher, because immigration law requires a Bachelor's degree or its
equivalent for an H-1B visa. There are few options to come to the U.S. to work
besides the H-1B visa, unless you're an intra-company transferee or have a ton
of money to invest. The others that don't have the Bachelor's degree are people
who immigrated via the family route, asylum route, or via amnesties for the
undocumented. Otherwise they have work experience considered to be "equivalent
to" a Bachelor's degree.

Then again, I'm wondering what definition the survey used for the word
"immigrants" -- is it those who obtained permanent residence in this country, or
is it a general term used for people who were born outside the U.S. and
relocated here?

Audrey Singer: Actually, the majority of immigrants who come to the United
States with green cards are coming through the family unification policies of
U.S. law. They do not have to meet the educational requirement and neither do
refugees, who make up about 10% of entries. But many of them do hold higher ed
degrees, or they attain degrees in the United States.

The definition of immigrant here relates to the census question on birthplace.
Anyone who was born outside the united states (with the exception of those born
abroad to U.S. citizen parents) is considered 'foreign-born" or and immigrant.

_______________________

Chantilly, Va.: You have categorized the Washington metropolitan area as an
"emerging immigrant gateway" based on 2000 Census data. Today, you are quoted as
saying that it "has emerged." At what point is a destination considered
"emerged" and are there other metropolitan areas that have made this shift over
the past five years?

Audrey Singer: I think the answer is that Washington was already on the verge of
emerging when the 2000 census counted more than 800,000 immigrants residing in
the region, similar to Houston and Orange County CA. With over a million
immigrants now, and 1-in-5 being foreign-born, and immigration continuing, this
is conclusive.

Other metropolitan areas that are trending in this direction include Dallas-Ft.
Worth which has a similar size

and growth rate.

I'm flattered that you know my work so well!

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Is this data publicly available? Does it show other areas --
including smaller,less urban areas?

Audrey Singer: All the data are available online at the Census.gov Web site for
areas over 65,000 population. Look for the American Community Survey.

_______________________

Annandale, Va.: I'm the grandson of a Slovak immigrant who came here legally. He
never had more than a sixth grade education and he worked hard labor till the
day he died. I can appreciate the immigrants of this country working hard to be
good citizens. I can also appreciate the natural desire of people to better
their life and even come here as illegal immigrants. I can't abide giving them
citizen breaks, gifts, money, social security credits, etc., until they are
citizens. Educate their kids yes. Allow them to be citizens if they have been
here for a while. But no golden charity.

Audrey Singer: I agree with you and think most people living in the United
States, including immigrants would agree too. As you point out, most immigrants
come here for a better life, better job opportunities, better future for their
children and grandchildren. In fact, to become a U.S. citizen you have to meet
the requirement for U.S. residency, which is normally five years.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Area Immigrants Top 1 Million

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Is the full study available on The Bookings Institution Web
site? If so, can you provide a link? Thank you.

Audrey Singer: Sorry, Brookings has not yet analyzed the data released today.
(These are data straight from the Census Bureau's 2005 American Community
Survey.) But look for new publications in the near future, from the Brookings
Metropolitan Policy Program. We have many publications online addressing
demographic change, metropolitan change and immigration on our Web site which is
www.brookings.edu/metro

_______________________

Bowie, Md.: How much confidence does the Census Bureau have that they've
accurately counted the illegal population?

Audrey Singer: It is acknowledged that the Census Bureau does the best it can to
get accurate counts. But there are people that for various reasons, are not
counted including immigrants. There has been research recently that has made
statistical adjustments to include undocumented immigrants in a count for the
Washington metropolitan area. That research was done by authors at the Urban
Institute and Pew Hispanic Center.

_______________________

Ellicott City, Md.: Some immigrant groups seem interested in assimilating into
American culture and the English language and others don't. Are there any
cultural, linguistic or religious groups that are likely to have continuing
assimilation problems into the 2nd and 3rd generation (similar to what we have
seem in France with North African and Great Britain with South Asian
immigrants)?

Audrey Singer: I think one of the main differences between the United States and
immigrant-receiving countries in Europe is that the U.S. generally does a better
job of integrating immigrants economically and socially. This is particularly
salient for the children of immigrants or the "second generation."

Also many of Europe's immigrants are asylum seekers, and their motivation to
leave their home countries is often very different from the typical immigrant
that the United States receives.

_______________________

Columbia, Md.: Any data on immigrants from Spain? Most of the Spanish-speaking
immigrants I come across here in the area are from Central/South America and I
was wondering how many actually came from Spain. Thanks.

Audrey Singer: There are Spanish immigrants in the region, but they are not a
large group. The European immigrant groups that rank the highest are the UK and
Germany, but they each are less than 3 percent of the entire born population.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: An article today discussed the fact that many immigrants
possess advanced degrees yet are under-employed due to language or other
barriers. Do you know of any good policies or programs that are doing a decent
job of reducing these barriers so that highly-skilled immigrants can maximize
the use of their knowledge and talents?

Audrey Singer: This is a big issue for high-skilled immigrants that are
credentialed elsewhere but find they have to retool once in the United States. I
can't think of too many specific programs, but various institutions and private
firms try to assist in making the transition. Community colleges are often
involved with programs that work with refugees and other immigrants to move them
into jobs.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: Considering the large influx in our area of Spanish-speaking
immigrants and in the country in general, [the] Spanish language is increasingly
commonplace in business, services and other institutions. Do you see the U.S.
becoming a bilingual society if it is not already so? And how does this affect
the concept of the "melting pot" where newcomers are supposed to assimilate into
the culture and adapt the customs and language of the adopted country?

Thank you.

Audrey Singer: The language issue is one of the most important and complex
issues surrounding the integration of immigrants. On the one hand, local
governments need to get important information out to people and often publish
documents in other languages and use translation services to reach immigrants.

On the other hand, many adult immigrants come to this country with little
language ability and would like to increase their skills but have trouble
finding the time or venue.

What's clear is that the children of immigrants are English speakers. Those who
grow up here and attend school, watch TV, enjoy popular culture or all sorts are
largely doing this in English.

_______________________

West Orange, N.J.: Any consensus on whether any census, past or present, has a
uniform standard to reflect illegal immigrants? Might there be all sorts of
undercounts due to fear of enforcement? On the other hand, might immigration
advocates favor generous counts? What impact, if any, of the words in the
Constitution that congressional apportionment be based on "enumeration" as
opposed to estimates?

Audrey Singer: The census does not ask about legal status. It relies on a
question about birthplace to determine who is "foreign-born" which roughly
translates into immigrants. I say roughly because it includes all persons who
are foreign-born regardless of legal status. These persons can be naturalized
U.S. citizens, green card holders, H-1B and other "temporary" statuses, or
residing in the U.S. illegally.

So invariably there is an undercount (and there are overcounts too, for example
when people mistakenly fill out more than one form if they have more than one
residence).

Regarding the enumeration vs. estimates, I think we go round on this debate but
for now the enumeration method is here to stay.

_______________________

Aspen Hill, Md.: Can you give us any reliable figures on what percentage of
these million are admitted legally and are legally resident, and can you break
it down into categories such as percentage who are Permanent Legal Resident
Aliens, percentage who are Permanently Residing Under Color of Law (they are not
fully legal but their children are born-here citizens), percentage who are here
on long-term visas such as the H-1B Visa, percentage who are seeking citizenship
and the percentage who have actually obtained citizenship? Thank you.

Audrey Singer: Please see the last answer. Its impossible to know from the
census numbers about any legal status of the foreign-born except whether they
have become naturalized citizens or not.

The Pew Hispanic Center has done some estimates of the foreign born population
by various legal statuses, so you may want to check their web site.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Can you give the ethnic breakdown of the survey for the
Washington area?

Audrey Singer: Some of my earlier answers address part of your question. I don't
have the 2005 numbers handy, but you can look on the Brookings web site and find
that stats for country of origin for immigrants in the Washington region.

_______________________

Audrey Singer: We are out of time. Thank you all for your questions and for the
opportunity to answer them.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Area Immigrants Top 1 Million

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       October 6, 2006 Friday 3:00 PM EST

Supreme Court

BYLINE: Dahlia Lithwick, Slate.com Senior Editor, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1722 words



HIGHLIGHT: Abortion, immigration and the death penalty are just a few of the
hot-button issues the Supreme Court will address this term. Slate.com senior
editor Dahlia Lithwick was online Friday, Oct. 6 at 3 p.m. to discuss the cases
before the court.


Abortion, immigration and the death penalty are just a few of the hot-button
issues the Supreme Court will address this term. Slate.com senior editor Dahlia
Lithwick was online Friday, Oct. 6 at 3 p.m. to discuss the cases before the
court.

Read Dahlia's latest Supreme Court dispatch: Tequila Mockingbird-- Justice
Scalia opens the 2006 term with a bang. (Slate, Oct. 3)

More Supreme Court Tequila Mockingbird-- Justice Scalia opens the 2006 term with
a bang. .

A transcript follows.

____________________

Dahlia Lithwick: Hey out there.

This my first live chat believe it or not, so you will all learn my dirty little
secret: I type with two fingers! And sloooowly.

Looking forward to your thoughts and questions and wondering what folks think of
the laser-like focus on Anthony Kennedy as swing voter in the media coverage of
the new term?

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Do you think that the fact that this is an election year colors
how the court will act this term? Thanks.

Dahlia Lithwick: Hi Arlington.

That's an interesting question. I don't think the court is much worried about
this being an election year, for one thing they will only have heard a handful
of cases by Nov. 7 and none of the really controversial ones. (Oddly, the really
monster "partial-birth abortion" case will be heard Nov. 8.)

I do think the court still frets a bit about how it's viewed in the wake of Bush
v. Gore. But midterm elections seem a bit attenuated. Maybe the more interesting
question is whether voters are thinking about the composition of the high court
as they head to the polls next month?

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: I am sort of amazed by the coverage in various news sources
about the upcoming federal partial-birth abortion ban case. I think it is a
no-brainer that Kennedy will vote with the conservatives to uphold it given his
vote in Carhart. Call me skeptical, but I think that to say otherwise is wishful
thinking. Kennedy's dissent was pretty forceful in Carhart and he was very
strident that he saw the majority as not faithful to Casey.

I suppose implying this case could go either way makes a more interesting
article, but at the end of the day, I think it is more honest for reporters to
admit he will probably reverse Carhart given the language of his dissent.

To me, the more interesting story would be how Roberts and Alito square their
testimony regarding stare decisis with their likely vote to abandon the earlier
case (not that the average voter will really care what is in the opinion versus
the outcome of their vote, but it will be interesting to us legal nerds).

Dahlia Lithwick: Hi Arlington.

I'm not certain it's that cut and dried for Justice Kennedy. In part because I
think Kennedy finds it excruciatingly hard even to pick between the McNuggets
and the Filet O Fish.

There is, as you point out a very real stare decisis problem for him, for one
thing. You're right that he feels he was betrayed after Casey. But he has to at
least deal with that. There's also a real states rights/federalism problem for
him here. Is he really going to cede control of intimate medical decisions
(traditionally a state prerogative) to Congress?

Not that this makes it very close. I agree that after his dissent in the
Nebraska case, it's pretty clear that he views the procedure as horrible,
period.

_______________________

Dunn Loring, Va.: How is Scalia's reference to the national drink of Mexico when
addressing an issue concerning a person's alcohol use while in Mexico either
"careless" or "reckless"?

Dahlia Lithwick: Dunn Loring:

Thanks for the good question. I didn't see it as a mere reference to the
national drink of Mexico, although many, many of my angry readers did. I heard
it as a clunky attempt at a joke about a client who wouldn't stop drinking
despite probation conditions.

I didn't cry racism. I cried bad judgment. And several Mexican Americans who
were present were offended. Whether the comment was over the line or right on
it, it struck me as careless.

My larger point remains that whereas we are able to talk, as a country, about
George Allen's artlesness, we don't get to talk about Scalia's. Why is that?

_______________________

D.C.: Hi Dahlia -- I really liked "Me v. Everybody." Any chance you're going to
do another book like that? Or another book, period?

Dahlia Lithwick: Thanks D.C.

That book was terrific fun to write! I am working on a new book, but between two
small sons, a full time job and a rollicking term at SCOTUS last year, it's
going slower than I'd hoped.

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: Hi Dahlia,

A bit off topic, but any indications who may be on the short list if there is
another SC vacancy? Will Bush have to pick a woman or minority since he put two
white, Catholic men on? I've heard Janice Rogers-Brown's name floated, as well
as Karen Williams?

Also, are you hearing anything about Scalia retiring before Bush leaves office?

Dahlia Lithwick: Hey New York.

You know, I think Bush really and truly wanted to put a woman on the high court
last time round, and I suspect he still does. We know that Mrs Bush felt
strongly about it too. I have heard that several highly qualified women pulled
their names last time and I have to say I don't blame them. So the problem isn't
just finding qualified women. It's finding qualified women willing to be
brutalized.

Same is true for men.

I haven't heard any rumors about Scalia. I can't imagine why he'd want to retire
now, when, after 20 years on the court (this week was his anniversary), the
momentum has finally shifted his way.

_______________________

Charlottesville, Va.: Dahlia, I always enjoy your writing in Slate, and it was
great to see you yesterday at the debate over Virginia's proposed constitutional
amendment to ban gay marriage, civil unions and other "legal arrangements."

Any observations on that debate between Delegate Marshall and Evan Wolfson? I'd
love to hear what you thought.

Dahlia Lithwick: Hi Charlottesville.

Thanks for the kind words.

I moderated an incredibly interesting debate last night at the University of
Virginia Law School about the Marshall-Newman Amendment that will appear on
Virginia ballots on Nov. 7.

To my mind the most interesting part of these debates is often the extent to
which the two speakers almost didn't clash at all on the merits of the question.
And the audience was absolutely bristling. People's reactions were so swift and
extreme.

_______________________

Wynne, Ark.: Thanks for chatting today! What's the word among the professional
Court watchers on Justice Thomas's 7-figure advance for his
memoirs/autobiography?

Dahlia Lithwick: Hi Wynne.

It was a whopper wasn't it? I think I wrote about it at the time.

Yup I did. http://www.slate.com/id/2076680/

Hey, if the market supports it, I support it. And given that the other sitting
justices tend to write either dry historical books or thick academic ones, the
prospect of an autobiography from a sitting justice is incredibly thrilling. I
do think Thomas is the most interesting justice in a lot of ways and can't wait
to read what he has to say.

My concern at the time was that he asserted in advance that he would not sit for
a single interview with any media entity "unsympathetic" to his views. I think
that one of the reasons ideological debate in this country has become so
impoverished is that we think it's enough to read/talk to/hang out with people
who agree with us on all matters. But it's even more maddening when our leaders
do the same.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Tequila Mockingbird-- Justice Scalia opens the 2006 term
with a bang. (Slate, Jan. 12, 2003)

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Ms. Lithwick -- Love your work! As a 3L with a BA in
journalism, I was hoping you could give me some advice on how to find an
alternative legal career such as yours. Any tips? Thanks!

Dahlia Lithwick: Hello DC

I get asked this question a lot. I think my quick answer is that I have just
been unbelievably lucky to get to use my JD to do work I adore. Luck is a big
factor.

My advice is that you have to fight extremely hard to fight the centrifugal
forces at law school that suggest that there is a single path for absolutely
everyone. Sounds like you know that. I say write and send pitches and just
persist in getting things published. The world always needs more great legal
journalists. You just have to be proactive/aggressive and that's awfully hard at
law school isn't it? Persist, persist.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Hi Dahlia. Are there any cases coming up during this term
where you think that any judges will likely "jump sides" -- not stick with the
usual conservative/progressive way that they typically vote? Thanks!

Dahlia Lithwick: Hi D.C.

Lots and lots. The truth is that -- and this goes back to an earlier question --
sometimes we in the media fall too readily for the 5/4 shorthand in describing
the court. In fact in the majority of cases last term it wasn't a 5/4 liberal
conservative split at all. That's just an easy narrative to glom onto and sell.

One interesting thing to watch for? That unanimity trend from early last year.
Partly it was the new court's honeymoon period. But if Chief Justice Roberts
really means to focus in on the narrowest and humblest rationale in every case,
and to discourage big sweeping opinions, he may just have the persuasive ability
to get it. We may see a lot more narrowly decided cases yet.

_______________________

Dunn Loring, Va.: Have you ever described any liberal judge or judicial nominee
as a "nut job" as you have referred to Bush's judicial nominees earlier this
year (5/17/06)? Who do you think is the liberal equivalent of Roy Moore?

Dahlia Lithwick: Hi Dunn Loring:

I don't think I've ever described a liberal judge as a nut job but then I also
don't think I've ever described a conservative as Mr. Burns from "The Simpsons."

_______________________

Dahlia Lithwick: Thanks so much for the great questions and good insights. Hope
everyone has a great long weekend and I really do thank you for spending time
chatting.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Drops of Water in the Desert Help Immigrants on Their Way;
Tales of Dehydration and Death Motivate Volunteer Fliers

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1361 words

DATELINE: SANTA TERESA, N.M.


Flying 500 feet above the simple barbed-wire fence that marks the U.S.-Mexico
border, Armando Alarcon scans the desert below not just for a sign of life. He's
also looking for a signal of distress.

On this day, he sees only creosote bushes and ATV tracks in the dirt. He sees a
big buck loping through the brush and a Border Patrol truck parked north of the
border. He sees a cluster of cattle, a large field of black volcanic ash and the
huge crater formed when the volcano collapsed. Finally, Alarcon's  single-engine
Cessna buzzes past the open arms of the Cristo Rey (Christ the King) statue
built on a mountainside that straddles the end of the United States and the
beginning of Mexico.

It is down below where illegal immigrants take their first steps onto U.S. soil
and where many collapse to their deaths in the brutal desert heat.

Alarcon's goal is to try to prevent that, a quixotic project he calls Paisanos
al Rescate, or Countrymen to the Rescue. On summer weekends, this small group of
volunteer pilots and spotters take turns flying a 30-year-old refurbished
aircraft in search of migrants who need to be rescued or who just need a few
bottles of water parachuted their way.

"It's, basically, like looking for a needle in a haystack," said Alarcon, a
38-year-old customer service representative of an El Paso trucking company.
"We've got 2,000 miles of border, and what we're covering is like a speck of
sand on a beach. But we're just trying to help out our little corner of world."

This is Paisanos' third summer up in the air,  and this year  has seen the tenor
of the illegal immigration debate escalate. Polls say the  issue will decide
some contested midterm races. Congress has taken the divisive debate on the road
this month with public hearings from California to New Hampshire. The original
Minutemen Project has morphed into several factions, some of them patrolling the
Mexican border for illegal immigrants, others monitoring day-laborer sites up
north. Still, Alarcon and his little group plug along.

It's not that the rhetoric or proposed changes to federal immigration law or the
daily news coverage of "broken borders" is lost on them. They're neither for
illegal immigration nor against it, and they don't consider themselves political
activists. They're simply humanitarians, they say.

"My biggest concern is that people were dying in the desert," said Mario Luna,
the co-founder of Paisanos. "We're not telling them where to cross or how to
cross or to come over here or that we have a job for you.

"If you're encountering death, it's time to activate,"  Luna said. A corporate
pilot for an El Paso beer distributing company during the week, Luna pilots
Alarcon's Cessna 172 Skyhawk as a Paisanos volunteer on weekends.

A 2004 news report on the death of an 8-year-old girl trying to cross the desert
near El Paso  spurred Alarcon to action. He was much luckier than that child,
having entered the United States as an infant in his mother's arms when she
waded across Rio Grande into El Paso. Twenty years later, he became a U.S.
citizen while serving in the Army during the  Persian Gulf War.

"We give needles to our drug addicts," Alarcon said. "Why can't we give a bottle
of water to a fellow human being?"

With almost $70,000 of his own money, Alarcon bought the small plane and began
flying lessons. He subsequently met Luna and proposed his idea of dropping water
bottles to migrants on the desert floor.

"Armando was all excited, saying, 'Let's get it going; let's get it done,' "
Luna recalled. "I said, 'Hey, wait a minute. Let me see if it's legal.' " His
task was to check the Federal Aviation Administration regulations; Alarcon's, to
consult with the Border Patrol. Luna found that dropping objects out of an
aircraft is allowed at certain altitudes. Alarcon ran his plan by the local
office of the Border Patrol.

"We have no reason to think that his efforts are nothing other than
humanitarian," said Doug Mosier, spokesman for the El Paso sector of the Border
Patrol.

An agreement was made that Paisanos would call BORSTAR, the specialized search,
trauma and rescue teams operated by the Border Patrol, if anyone appeared to
signal for a desert rescue. The third summer into the project, no such call has
been made, although almost 300 bottles have been dropped to migrants. But lots
of other things have happened since June 2004.

The first few bubble-wrapped bottles of water burst upon impact, and the
intended targets in the desert responded by hurling back rocks. "They thought we
were trying to hit them  --  intentionally," Alarcon said.

An engineer in San Francisco, who read about the project, came up with a novel
idea: Attach small parachutes to the bottles. The engineer bought and donated
several hundred 36-inch-diameter surplus Army flare chutes. He also had them
silk-screened with information in Spanish on the symptoms of dehydration and
heat stroke; the distance from the border to Phoenix and other cities in the
West; the local telephone numbers of the Mexican and Salvadoran consulates and
instructions on how to signal the plane if a rescue was needed.

Midsummer last year, Paisanos ran out of money, grounding the airplane that
burns 10 gallons of fuel an hour at $5 a gallon. Then came a couple of lucky
breaks. Mexican businessman Pedro Zaragoza, who owns dairy and beverage firms in
Juarez, donated water bottles and fuel. Bruce Springsteen also read about the
project and mentioned it at a concert in Connecticut, inspiring one devotee to
post information on the rock star's official fan Web site.

That prompted donations ranging from $10 to $500. "Thank you for your good work.
Bruce sent me," read a note from a New Jersey Springsteen fan who enclosed a $25
donation. Wrote another who sent $50 from Woodstock, N.Y.: "As a member of a
group (Irish) with a history of unofficial entry to this country, I know
something of those who have lived with the fear of discovery and repatriation,
but at least not with the horror of dying of thirst."

Since Oct. 1, 34 migrants have died in the El Paso sector, which includes two
West Texas counties and New Mexico, according to the Border Patrol. During the
same period, 484 "migrants in distress" have been rescued by the Border Patrol.
One hundred forty-two migrants have died in the desert of the Tucson sector; 615
have been rescued.

"I go to work, and I'm always prepared mentally and with my equipment for this
to turn into something else," said Steve Aguilar, a senior agent in the Deming,
N.M., Border Patrol office. "I always ask a large group that I find, 'Did you
leave anybody behind?' I don't just want to catch somebody else. But I don't
want anybody to stay behind and die."

Aguilar said he doesn't object to the Paisanos project, but he sees it as
impractical. "People usually die from overheating, not from lack of water," he
said. "I understand what he's doing, and I have no problem with [it]. . . . But
it's not the most effective way to stop people from dying in the desert."

This year, Paisanos al Rescate received its nonprofit tax status, which Alarcon
hopes will help the group raise money. Paisanos wants to purchase and station at
least one plane and one helicopter in El Paso, Tucson and Calexico, Calif., and
keep them fueled and stocked with water bottles and parachutes.

Among the messages on the Paisanos parachute is one that asks migrants to write
the group to let it know about their journeys. To date no one has. But this
spring, Alarcon got a pleasant surprise. He was invited to the popular Univision
variety show "Sábado Gigante," filmed in Miami, where he thought he was going to
be interviewed about the project. Instead, the show's host introduced a Mexican
woman, then living in Chicago, who presented Alarcon with a plaque of
appreciation. She said she and her companions were able to finish their desert
trek in Arizona with water bottles dropped by the Paisanos plane. She brought
the parachute with her as proof.

"We're flying up there, and we have zero contact with anyone. So it was like,
wow! I didn't know what to do," Alarcon said. "It felt good."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              219 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 28, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Young Migrants Risk All to Reach U.S.;
Thousands Detained After Setting Out From Central America Without Parents

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1398 words

DATELINE: QUETZALTENANGO, Guatemala


Across Central America, growing numbers of impoverished children appear to be
setting out for the United States on their own, risking robbery, rape and death
as they try to sneak illegally through Mexico and across the U.S. border.

Last year, 6,460 underage illegal immigrants from Central America were detained
in the United States while traveling without their parents and sent to
government shelters, a 35 percent increase over the previous year. Many others
likely slipped in undetected.

The higher detention figures may reflect stepped-up enforcement by Mexican and
U.S. authorities. But social workers who help such child migrants say the
stricter enforcement might actually be causing more children to travel alone.
They note that many have parents who are already in the United States illegally
and are unwilling to fetch them now that the chances of getting caught have
increased.

Many of the youths never make it to the border. Mexico reported deporting 3,772
unaccompanied Central American minors bound for the United States in 2005,
compared with fewer than 700 in 2003.

Mexican immigration authorities were catching and deporting so many Guatemalan
children trying to sneak through Mexico to the United States that the Guatemalan
government opened a 50-bed shelter last year to receive them until they could be
picked up by their parents. It was quickly overwhelmed.

"Many nights there were not enough beds for everyone," said Ivone Rivera,
director of the shelter, which is in a large, cement-block house in this
mountain city about 45 miles from the Mexican border. "We had to lay down extra
mattresses across every bit of floor space."

Delia Barrientos, a soft-spoken 15-year-old deportee on a bus taking her from
Mexico to the shelter on a recent afternoon, said she had been thrilled when her
mother finally agreed to let her head for Atlanta.

"My mother left when I was  4 or  5. . . . I just want to get to know her. Every
day I've been asking God for the chance," said Barrientos, who was caught with
two older cousins while they waited to stow away on a freight train.

Shelter workers say parents often pay smugglers to  take children as young as 4
to the United States. The vast majority of underage migrants, however, appear to
be teenage boys like Luis Santos, a short, almond-eyed 16-year-old sitting a few
rows behind Barrientos. He said he is the youngest of six siblings and has been
working since he was 7 years old.

"My father was a policeman. He was shot to death when he was following a car
that was smuggling cocaine," Santos said. "After that, my mother couldn't have
supported me even if she'd wanted to. . . . She sells vegetables in the market.
She has no money."

For the last five years, Santos had been living and working on a cattle ranch,
barely covering expenses with his $66-a-week paycheck and finding it
increasingly tough to find time for schoolwork. He was drawn to the United
States by the same hopes of higher wages that attract adults.

"I just wanted to finally have something of my own," Santos said as tears began
to roll down his cheeks. "To show everyone in my family that I can do this. That
I can have things, too."

For all their grown-up dreams and responsibilities, youngsters like Santos often
lack the maturity and experience vital to surviving an overland journey fraught
with danger  --  including not just the risk of death from heat exhaustion on
the final trek across the desert into the United States, but also robbery, rape,
or murder by bandits and corrupt authorities all the way through Mexico,
immigrant advocates say.

Santos said he was beaten and robbed of all his clothes by uniformed police just
a few miles into Mexico. He turned himself in to immigration authorities the
next day.

Betsy Wier  of Catholic Relief Services in Honduras said it could have been
worse.

"There are so many ways that migrating as a vulnerable kid can go wrong," said
Wier, who is overseeing a year-long, multi-nation survey of child migrants for
the aid group. "There are trafficking gangs that prey on people who've lost all
their money  --  especially kids who are too ashamed to go home. They may use
them as forced labor or for prostitution."

Also of concern, Wier added, is the haphazard manner in which  children are
received by their home countries after being deported from Mexico.

Mexican buses carrying Honduran deportees frequently drop them off at the border
town of Agua Caliente, 18 miles from the nearest shelter.

"There's nobody there to greet them, no Honduran official checking off any list,
no security watching," Wier said. "And it's such a porous border that oftentimes
the kids just scramble back over the mountain towards Mexico."

Workers in the Quetzaltenango shelter are so pressured by the need to free up
bed space that they barely have time to check parents' identification, let alone
assess why a child left home and whether it is safe to turn him back over to the
parent.

Still, at least Guatemala has a structured system for receiving children
deported from Mexico: Twice a week a large purple coach carrying the minors
pulls into the hot, bustling border crossing of El Carmen. Two staff members
from the Quetzaltenango shelter, Edgar Gutierrez and Enrique Lopez, are always
there to greet it.

Upon boarding the bus carrying Santos and Barrientos on a recent afternoon,
Gutierrez made a point of reassuring the 29 youngsters aboard.

"Don't worry. Because you are minors, we have to take you to the shelter to wait
for your parents," Gutierrez said. "But you're in Guatemala now. You are welcome
here."

"Woo-hoo! We're home. Here they can't do anything to us!" shouted Adan Mejia, a
tall 17-year-old sitting next to Santos.

Santos gave a wry smile. "Yeah, but here there's no money."

The bus lurched forward and began winding through verdant mountains shrouded in
misty clouds.

Santos stared out the window at a pickup truck packed with laborers heading
toward Mexico. "I wish I could just jump into that pickup," he muttered. "As
soon as I get home, I'm going to start saving up 3,000 quetzales [about $400]
for another try."

Christian Villegas, a psychologist at a shelter for detained underage migrants
in the Mexican border town of Tapachula, said almost all the minors he has
encountered are determined to try again  --  even when they've been caught
multiple times. "It's this fixed idea that they have that you just can't get out
of them," he said.

As the bus wended its way to the shelter, Gutierrez and Lopez asked for home
phone numbers to call in to the shelter so staffers there could begin contacting
parents.

The youngsters' responses offered a glimpse of how isolated some of the
communities they had left behind were.

"But my mother doesn't speak Spanish," said an ebony-haired 17-year-old who
belongs to one of the more than 20 indigenous Mayan groups in Guatemala that
speak their own language.

"But my family doesn't have a phone," a boy sitting next to him interrupted.

Nonetheless, by the time the bus pulled in front of the shelter three hours
later, several mothers and fathers were already waiting anxiously by the door.

Villegas, the psychologist in Mexico, said that even after handling dozens of
cases, he finds it hard to fathom why parents who clearly love their children
would permit them to make such a dangerous journey. "I ask them," he said. "But
I've never really heard an answer that I can understand."

The parents waiting to pick up their youngsters from the Quetzaltenango shelter
gave a variety of explanations.

"Yes, I know how dangerous it is for him. And I've felt such anguish since he
left," Alfonsina Hernandez, a 39-year-old widow wearing a purple Mayan skirt,
said of her 17-year-old son, Sergio Salalxot. "I can't keep him by force. If I
had said no, he would have gone anyway without even telling me."

Perfecto Morales, 41, who spoke in halting Spanish, said that he had helped his
16-year-old son Miguel get across the border into Mexico to join a sister who is
working in a poultry plant in Delaware.

"I have a sickness in my fingers," the elder Morales said, holding up hands that
were bent like claws. "I can't work in the fields anymore. . . . When my son
told me he wanted to help earn more money for us, I felt so proud, like I was
being lifted up. . . . He is so young and he's already looking out for us."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              220 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 30, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Costs and Remedies

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 444 words


As the Senate debates the impact of its immigration bill on government spending,
which the Congressional Budget Office has estimated ["Cost of Senate Immigration
Bill Put at $126 Billion," front page, Aug. 22], it would do well to consider
increasing and improving the targeting of foreign aid.

The United States continues to rank at the bottom of the list for foreign
giving, even though such aid could significantly contribute to improved living
standards in developing countries. The United States gave away just 0.22 percent
of its gross national income (GNI) in 2005, well below the United Nations'
target of 0.70 percent of GNI for rich countries.

Studies show that for aid to be effective, it must be targeted toward the
improvement of social policies and institutions. One standout example is Costa
Rica, an early beneficiary of U.S. aid. Partly as a result of its investment in
education and health care, Costa Rica now ranks high on the United Nations'
development index and, consequently, is not a top source country for U.S.
immigration, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.

By comparison, Mexico, El Salvador and the Dominican Republic  --  which rank
low on the U.N. development list  --  rank high on the immigration center's
list.

Increasing and improving the targeting of foreign aid would help eliminate the
immigration problem at its source, something that increased spending on border
enforcement and fence-building will never do.

MICHAEL NUNES

Annapolis

*

Jonathan Weisman's otherwise fine Aug. 22 front-page article on  S. 2611, the
Senate immigration bill, presents a confusing comparison of analyses of the
legislation's impact. He notes that a new Congressional Budget Office study
estimates the bill would generate 24.4 million legal immigrants over the next 20
years and contrasts that with a Heritage estimate of 103 million.

This comparison overlooks two key facts. First, our estimate of 100 million
immigrants reflected the original version of S. 2611  --  not the final,
significantly amended version of the bill analyzed by the CBO. Weeks ago,
Heritage published its analysis of the final bill, estimating that it would open
the door to "only" 61 million legal immigrants.

Second, the Heritage figure explicitly includes 20 million new immigrants who
will enter the United States under current law, no matter what the fate of S.
2611. The CBO figure excludes these individuals. Including them would raise the
CBO estimate to 46 million new immigrants over 20 years  --  a figure far closer
to Heritage's estimate of 61 million.

JIM WEIDMAN

Director, Editorial Services

The Heritage Foundation

Washington

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              221 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 1, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Deadline Comes Today for Salvadorans To Renew Residency, Work Permits

SECTION: Metro; B09

LENGTH: 149 words


About 45,000 Salvadoran immigrants nationwide are in danger of losing their jobs
and legal status today because they have not renewed the permits that allow them
to live and work in the United States.

With the deadline at the end of today, about one-fifth of those eligible to
renew the permits  --  offered under the Temporary Protected Status program, or
TPS  --  still have not done so, the U.S Citizenship and Immigration Services
said.

The permits were granted to Salvadorans who were in the United States when two
earthquakes devastated their homeland in 2001. If renewed, the permits would be
extended for another year. TPS beneficiaries who do not renew could lose their
jobs or be deported.

The agency estimates that 225,000 Salvadorans are eligible to renew the permits
this year. About 180,000 had applied by yesterday, USCIS spokesman Dan Kane
said.

--   Karin Brulliard

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              222 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 2, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A30

LENGTH: 532 words


CHICAGO  --  Pro-immigration activists took to the streets of Chicago on Friday
in the first of a week of marches nationwide to step up pressure on a returning
Congress to move forward with a stalled immigration overhaul.

Dozens of marchers waving U.S., Mexican and other flags set off from Chinatown
at the start of a four-day trek to the district offices in Batavia, Ill., of
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R).

Organizers said they planned to make the 50-mile trek in stages, holding rallies
along the way. They hope to pressure Hastert to push a bill favorable to
immigrants through Congress after it returns from recess on Sept. 5.

Activists plan  rallies over the  weekend in Portland, Ore.; Phoenix; and
Knoxville, Tenn., culminating Thursday with a march through Washington that
organizers hope will attract 1 million participants.

*  PITTSBURGH  --  Mayor Bob O'Connor, who learned he had a rare form of brain
cancer only seven months into his term, died at age 61, his spokesman said.
O'Connor had been hospitalized since July, when he was diagnosed with four brain
tumors. City Council President Luke Ravenstahl was to be sworn in as mayor.

*  LOUISVILLE  --  A federal judge rejected a gag order that could have kept
lawyers and even President Bush from publicly discussing the rape and murder of
a 14-year-old Iraqi girl and the slaying of her relatives. U.S. District Judge
Thomas B. Russell said there is "no reason to believe" that former Pvt. Steven
D. Green's right to a fair trial would be jeopardized.

*  CLEVELAND  --  A federal judge threw out  state rules governing
voter-registration drives, saying they appear to violate the First Amendment.
The rules required those who register people to vote to submit the forms in
person or by mail to the local board of elections. They also mandated online
training for those paid to register voters.

*  PHILADELPHIA  --  A couple found a man raping a young woman in their driveway
and tried to rescue her, but they were shot to death by the attacker, police
said. The teenage rape victim was also shot but was expected to recover, police
said. A suspect was arrested.

*  LEXINGTON, Ky.  --  The family of a woman killed when Comair Flight 5191 took
off on the wrong runway and crashed in flames sued the airline, accusing it of
negligence. The only survivor among the 50 people on the flight, the co-pilot,
remained hospitalized but was upgraded to serious condition.

*  BOSTON  --  A connector tunnel that was closed after a fatal ceiling collapse
in July was reopened, restoring an important link from Interstate 90 eastbound
to Logan International Airport  for the holiday weekend.

*  PHOENIX  --  The two men charged in a series of shootings flagged down police
officers arriving at the site of one of the attacks to point out a man they are
now charged with shooting, authorities said.

*  ALLENTOWN, Pa.  --  The city of Hazleton agreed to delay enforcing its
crackdown on illegal immigrants. The law, which was to take effect Sept. 11,
fines landlords $1,000 for renting to illegal immigrants, denies business
permits to companies that give them jobs, and makes English the city's official
language.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              223 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 8, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

22 Charged In Probe Of Sham Marriages;
Citizenship the Goal, Authorities Allege

BYLINE: Jerry Markon and Jamie Stockwell, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 957 words


The clerk at the Arlington County courthouse was growing suspicious. People who
seemed to barely know one another were getting married. The same people kept
showing up to help them get a license.

Alerting the authorities, the clerk set in motion a three-year investigation
that resulted yesterday in federal charges against 22 people in what officials
called a major marriage fraud scheme. The sham nuptials were intended to speed
the route to U.S. citizenship for illegal immigrants, prosecutors said.

In all, almost 1,000 phony marriages might have been performed, mostly in
Arlington but also in Alexandria, Fairfax County, Manassas, the District and
Maryland, according to the charges. The immigrants, mostly from Western Africa,
would pay as much as $6,000 to be introduced to their "spouse," usually on the
day of the marriage. They would then be coached on how to lie to immigration
inspectors.

"That's a pretty big number of marriages when you're talking about a relatively
small geographic area," U.S. Attorney Chuck Rosenberg said as he announced the
charges at a news conference in the Arlington courthouse where the scheme began
to unravel. "We think this is a very, very big problem."

The case is part of an intensifying federal crackdown, which began after the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, on marriage and other immigration document frauds. In
the past six weeks alone, federal officials have broken up or obtained guilty
pleas in at least four marriage fraud rings across the country, including a
California scheme dubbed "Operation Newlywed Game" in which 44 people were
charged.

In the Northern Virginia case, those charged include nine people accused of
arranging the marriages, 10 illegal immigrants who married and three U.S.
citizens who married them. Law enforcement officials said the investigation is
continuing.

Although authorities said there is no terrorism connection in the Arlington
scheme, terrorists have on occasion married U.S. citizens to stay in the
country, including seven men convicted of plotting to blow up New York landmarks
in the 1990s. "It's a vulnerability in our immigration system that is available
to terrorists and other criminals," said William F. Reid, acting assistant
director of the office of investigations for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

The crackdown grew out of the attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon,
but experts said marriage fraud has been a problem for years. "Just look at our
culture. See the movie 'Green Card,' " said Crystal Williams, deputy director of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "For many years, fraudulent
marriages for immigration purposes were treated as something light and kind of
funny. But there is nothing comical about it. It's a felony."

Nineteen of the 22 people charged were arrested yesterday, and 17 of them
appeared in U.S. District Court in Alexandria. Fifteen were ordered detained
pending further hearings, prosecutors said. The charges include immigration
fraud, conspiracy to commit immigration fraud and marriage fraud.

Attorneys for the defendants had not been appointed late yesterday afternoon.
Fifteen of the defendants are men, and 16 of the 22 were born in Ghana. Five are
American-born, and one was born in Kenya.

Law enforcement officials praised the unidentified Arlington clerk who uncovered
the scheme, saying the clerk observed the same brokers standing beside people
who appeared to barely know each other getting marriage licenses. Officials
declined to provide further details.

The clerk told Arlington police, who started an investigation but quickly
concluded that they would need federal assistance. "We definitely were not aware
of the scope and depth of the fraud," Arlington County Police Chief M. Douglas
Scott said.

Using cooperating witnesses and undercover officers, authorities unraveled a
scheme in which immigrants paid $2,500 to $6,000 to the brokers, who would find
U.S. citizens willing to marry them. The U.S. citizens were paid about $500 on
the day of the marriage and $300 more a month from the immigrant for about a
year. Authorities said male and female immigrants participated in the marriages,
but they could not provide a breakdown.

The immigrants were then coached on how to answer questions from immigration
inspectors. They were instructed to learn false stories about how they met their
sham spouse and prepare answers about which side of the bed their partner slept
on. Some of the couples obtained state identification documents and utility
bills listing a false shared address.

Immigrants who marry U.S. citizens can get a visa to stay in the country
immediately, instead of having to wait years, and can shave several years off
gaining citizenship.

Law-enforcement officials said the scheme took advantage of marriage laws they
called lax in Virginia compared with those of the rest of the Washington region.
Couples can apply for and be granted a license within minutes  --  and can get
married the same day. The District has a three-day waiting period between the
application and the issuance of the license. In Maryland, the wait is two days.

Yesterday, at the Arlington clerk's office, for example, a young couple, arm in
arm, applied for a marriage license. Ten minutes later, a clerk asked them to
raise their right hands and handed them a license. A sign nearby said: "Marriage
licenses are $30 cash only. No checks, debit or credit cards."

Rosenberg said federal authorities are "going to take a very close look" at
whether the difference in Virginia law is making the state a haven for marriage
fraud. But Bruce Hirsch, a family lawyer based in Reston, said Virginia falls
"within the normal range" of marital waiting periods nationally.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              224 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 8, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Rally's Low Turnout Disappoints Advocates;
Fear of Blacklash, Mixed Messages, Timing Are Cited

BYLINE: Darryl Fears and N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 911 words


A pro-immigration rally that promised to bring tens of thousands of marchers
from across the nation to Washington yesterday managed to draw only a paltry
number of demonstrators, raising questions about the movement's tactics and
staying power.

With fewer than 5,000 people attending, organizers from other localities
expressed two worries about the turnout: that they were losing the momentum
built up by the huge marches in the spring, and that the movement's national
organizers in Washington have lost touch with the people.

"I could have told you last week that there would not be that many people," said
Ricardo Diaz, an organizer for A Day Without an Immigrant Coalition in
Philadelphia. "Our meetings were low-energy."

Diaz said that the movement has failed to achieve any gains in Congress since
the initial marches and that the people who attended them are disappointed.

"What did we have that was new?" he asked. "Why were we doing this?"

The We Are America Alliance of immigration rights groups billed the march as a
post-Labor Day demonstration to show Congress that undocumented workers still
want an immigration reform bill that would allow them to work in the country
legally.

But, in contrast to spring's huge rallies  --  which brought an estimated
100,000 to 300,000 people to the streets of Washington, and even larger turnouts
in Los Angeles, Dallas, Phoenix and Chicago  --  yesterday's march was the
latest in a string of protests that drew paltry crowds in the past week.

In anticipation of a crush of people, Metro had planned to start its rush-hour
service an hour early, at 2 p.m. But by early afternoon, "there were not enough
people in the system" to warrant the extra rush-hour service, and none was
added, spokeswoman Lisa Farbstein said.

Fifteen minutes before the march was scheduled to begin, only a few hundred
demonstrators were milling before the stage.

Despite the poor showing, Deepak Bhargaba, executive director of the Center for
Community Change, which helps fund and organize the alliance, said yesterday's
march was important because it propelled the movement forward.

"I will say honestly that we continue to be amazed that people come by the
thousands in spite of raids against immigrants," he said. "This was done without
a lot of money and with a whole lot of guts."

It was also done in a climate that has markedly changed since spring.

In the four months since the first marches, competing immigration bills have
stalled in the House and the Senate.

The House bill, favored by opponents of illegal immigration, would force
undocumented workers currently in the country to return home before being
allowed to work. The Senate bill would permit illegal immigrants to pay a fine
and gain permission to work.

House Republican leaders made it clear yesterday that they are not about to move
forward with any immigration measure that includes a guest worker provision or
avenues for undocumented workers to find lawful employment and citizenship. They
prefer smaller provisions that would fund border fences, surveillance equipment
and tamper-proof identification cards.

"We're at war, and we need to act like it," House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert
(R-Ill.) said. "We need to close the borders."

State legislatures, county boards and city governments throughout the country
have ratcheted up enforcement this year, enacting measures that restrict illegal
immigration and entering into agreements that allow local authorities to arrest
illegal immigrants.

Advocates who want to limit legal immigration and clamp down on illegal
immigration cheered yesterday's rally turnout.

"The attempt to recreate the atmosphere in the spring has completely failed
because the illegal aliens and their supporters have gotten the message that the
American people aren't going to roll over for this amnesty bill," said Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, referring
to the Senate legislation.

Grace Rivera-Oven, 37, a Germantown resident who attended the rally in April but
stayed home this time, said she fears that the movement has lost some of its
momentum, noting that none of the roughly 40 friends with whom she attended the
April event planned to go this time.

"I just think people are a little disappointed. Politically, it doesn't seem
like we've made a dent" since the previous rally, Rivera-Oven said.

Clara Sabogal, 47, who left Miami early Wednesday and slept in her car at a
Virginia rest stop en route to Washington, said she is not surprised that not
many people attended yesterday's rally, given the backlash.

"People are afraid," she said. "They've been listening to the news, and they
don't want to leave home. Even employers are cracking down."

Janet Murguia, president and chief executive of the National Council of La Raza,
the nation's largest Hispanic civil rights organization, said the movement is of
two minds.

"I think there have been a lot of mixed messages in the community," she said.
"You have people who want to concentrate on marches, and other people who want
to concentrate on voter mobilization and education in their communities."

Rick Swartz, an immigration rights advocate, said the timing of yesterday's
rally was also at fault.

"It's a Thursday," he said. "People work. Even immigrants have lives."

Staff writers Ernesto Londoño, Allison Klein, Joshua Partlow, Nick Miroff, Karin
Brulliard and Tom Jackman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              225 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 9, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Stalled Bills Might Have Cut Mall Rally Crowd, Some Say

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman and Allison Klein, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 692 words


In April, Jose Martinez was among the giddiest participants in a pro-immigration
rally that attracted more than 100,000 demonstrators to the Mall.

Spurred by promotions on his favorite Spanish radio program, the Salvadoran-born
mechanic persuaded nearly every co-worker at his Southeast Washington auto
repair shop to march with him. He brought along T-shirts emblazoned with
American flags for his friends to wear. And he vowed to treasure his own shirt
forever "as a memory of this day."

But Thursday afternoon, while immigrants and their supporters were convening on
the Mall for a reprise of the April 10 rally, Martinez, 43, was back in the auto
shop, working out the dents in the door of a silver Chevrolet Monte Carlo.

"No, I'm not going. I'm not motivated this time," said Martinez, who is a legal
permanent resident but who has friends in the country illegally. "I really
expected a change to the immigration law by now, but we haven't gained anything
since [the spring]. . . . All I've seen is an increase in the arrests of
immigrants."

It was a refrain repeated across the Washington region as immigrants sought to
explain how a demonstration that organizers had predicted would mobilize
hundreds of thousands fizzled into a gathering of less than 5,000 demonstrators,
most from out of town. Rallies in other cities this week drew similar numbers.

Many locals who did participate Thursday appeared to be union members bused in
by their leaders.

Maya Bhullar, who, like many in the crowd, wore the orange cap of the Service
Employees International Union, speculated that fewer people might have shown up
because a restrictive immigration bill that loomed large in the spring had
stalled after winning House approval.

That legislation, which, among other measures, would make it a felony to be in
the country illegally or to assist illegal immigrants, alarmed many previously
apolitical immigrants. They appeared by the hundreds of thousands at rallies in
cities across the country in the spring.

"I don't think people's anger has died down," said Bhullar, 31, who is a U.S.
citizen of Indian descent and lives in Northwest Washington. "[But] last time
our message was so much about the [House] bill."

Meanwhile, a Senate bill that would permit illegal immigrants to legalize their
status after paying a fine also stalled, causing some immigrants to lose faith
in rallies as engines of change.

"At the beginning, I thought [demonstrating] was positive," said Enrique Torres,
26, an Arlington resident who chose to work rather than attend the rally
Thursday. "Then I realized they were increasing deportations. So it's been
negative, too."

The subdued mood also seemed to have affected local Spanish-language radio
shows, which had played a pivotal role in urging listeners to go to the rally in
April.

"Last time, I heard about the rally everywhere  --  even on TV," said Rene
Garcia, 22, a Mexican construction worker living in Falls Church who attended
the demonstration Thursday. "For this rally, I didn't even hear about it on the
radio. I don't know what happened."

Michael Ahn Paarlsberg, 26, a Korean American living in Fairfax, said there was
little promotion in the Asian media, despite outreach efforts by organizers that
yielded at least a few articles about the rally in Korean-language newspapers.

Rally organizers said they were satisfied with the turnout, which they estimated
at 50,000.

Jaime Contreras, chairman of the National Capital Immigration Coalition, who
organized the rally, said, "We're very proud of the people that came out despite
the fact that [President] Bush's scare tactics of sending [immigration agents]
to our neighborhoods has put some fear in people's minds."

Contreras said advocates have shifted their focus from rallies to voter
registration drives and cautioned politicians not to conclude that the movement
has lost steam just because its rallies are attracting fewer demonstrators.

"If they do, they're going to be sadly mistaken come election time," he said.

Staff writers Ernesto Londoño, Josh Partlow, Nick Miroff, Tom Jackman and Karin
Brulliard contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              226 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Haitian Refugees Chide U.S. Policy;
Unequal Treatment of Immigrants Cited

BYLINE: Pauline Arrillaga, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 1236 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The conference room at the law offices of Kurzban, Kurzban, Weinger and Tetzeli
was crammed tight.  Lawyers took turns at the microphone, their faces etched
with frustration. The question they kept coming back to: Why?

Why, they asked, are Haitian immigrants singled out by the U.S. government for
unequal treatment?

On this day, earlier in the year, the topic was temporary protected status, a
designation the federal government can grant to foreigners allowing them to
remain part time in the United States because of political unrest or
environmental disasters at home.

Central Americans have repeatedly been granted protected status following
hurricanes and earthquakes in Nicaragua, Honduras and El Salvador. Immigrants
from Burundi, Liberia, Somalia and Sudan also enjoy such protections.

But Haitians have never obtained relief, despite decades of political turmoil,
kidnappings and killings, and tribulations from tropical storms.

"Why aren't Haitians good enough for the same basic protections?" demanded Steve
Forester, of the group Haitian Women of Miami.

The question has long haunted Haitians seeking refuge in the United States. But
underlying it is a more provocative issue, one that some say reflects how
ill-designed and blatantly discriminatory the U.S. immigration system has
become:

Are Haitian immigrants treated differently  because they are black?

Ernso Joseph, an orphaned Haitian boy, was among hundreds of migrants who waded
ashore after their sailboat grounded off Miami in 2002. Though just 15 when he
arrived, Joseph spent almost three years battling Department of Homeland
Security officials who insisted he was older than 18 and thus eligible for
deportation. Even after a judge granted him asylum in 2003, the government kept
Joseph in detention while it appealed the decision.

Last summer, after a juvenile court ruled that Joseph was a minor, an
immigration judge granted him permanent residency.

"I feel like I went through a lot, but it was worth it,"  said Joseph, who lives
in Miami and is going to school to learn English. Still, he  said: "All the
Haitians and all of the nationalities should get equal treatment when they come
here."

At the news conference earlier this year, 6-year-old Stephann Jasmin sat curled
like a kitten in his mother Jeannette's lap. Jeannette Jasmin lives under a
deportation order, having escaped Haiti seven years ago after being kidnapped
and beaten by political foes. Denied asylum in the United States, she and her
American-born son face separation now.

Renes Ledix was there, too. His daughter, 28-year-old Renette, remains in
detention after fleeing storm-ravaged Gonaives, Haiti, to join her family in
Florida last year. Her father, a U.S. resident, sought to bring Renette here
under provisions of a 1998 law allowing Haitians with legal status in the United
States to apply for admission of their minor children.

But Renette "aged out"  --  turned 21  --  while the application was being
processed, making her ineligible for admission. Now asylum has been refused, and
officials won't release Renette during her appeals process.

What accounts for the treatment of these Haitians?

Some,  such as former  attorney  general John Ashcroft, have said Haitian
restrictions are a matter of national security  --  that migrants from countries
such as Pakistan have used Haiti as a staging point for entry into the United
States.

Haiti is not on the list of nations the U.S. Border Patrol considers of "special
interest" because of alleged sponsorship or support of terrorism.

But while Haitians are uniformly detained or turned back, at least 148
immigrants from Pakistan, Iran and other listed countries were arrested in
2004-05  --  and then released on their own recognizance, according to the U.S.
Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Meanwhile, the Border Patrol apprehended 30,843 Brazilians at the Mexican border
in fiscal year 2005, an increase of 258 percent over the previous year. Brazil's
border region with Paraguay and Argentina has been labeled a source of
fundraising for radical Islamic groups by U.S. officials, yet more than 20,000
of these immigrants were released on their own recognizance.

Consciously or unconsciously, says Alex Stepick, director of the Immigration and
Ethnicity Institute at Florida International University, the American policies
on Haitians are driven by racism.

But such "specific, restrictive and repressive" policies, he says, also derive
from negative stereotypes of Haitians as poor, uneducated and diseased because
they hail from the Western Hemisphere's most impoverished nation.

"We have this perception of Haitians being basically pathetic. It's a
misperception, and it simplifies the reality of Haiti extraordinarily,"  said
Stepick, whose book "Pride Against Prejudice" examines the backlash against
Haitians who immigrate to  the United States. "Nevertheless, it's a perception
that does lie behind many of the actions of the U.S. government and general
public opinion."

Immigration officials  say race has nothing to do with their rules.

Jan Ting, an assistant commissioner for refugees, asylum and parole at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service during the George H.W. Bush
administration, acknowledges policies have singled out Haitians for "undeniably
harsher treatment." However, he holds that such measures are warranted to deter
dangerous  surges by sea.

"The government has a genuine fear of triggering a mass migration. Because Haiti
is so close to the United States and because there are so many people in Haiti
who would like to come to the United States, there is a fear . . . that if we
treat people too nicely or too gently and give them release from detention too
quickly that will simply encourage lots of people in Haiti to make the effort,"
Ting  said.

One such exodus occurred in 1980, when an estimated 25,000 Haitians joined
125,000 Cuban exiles in the outflow known as the Mariel boatlift. From 1991 to
1994, the U.S. Coast Guard intercepted another 69,000 Haitians.

Since then, however, the numbers have plunged. From 2000 on, the Coast Guard has
discovered more Dominicans making the journey by sea than Haitians: more than
14,000 Dominicans, compared with  12,000 Haitians. Interdictions of Cubans are
not far behind, at more than 10,245.

Some Haitian rights advocates argue that the government's
deterrence-for-safety's-sake argument also carries little weight in light of its
open-door policy toward Cubans, allowing most Cubans who reach U.S. shores to
apply for permanent residency one year later.

"It doesn't make any sense,"  said Marleine Bastien, who heads Haitian Women of
Miami. "Does that mean that the Department of Homeland Security is more
concerned about Haitians' lives than Cubans' lives?"

Nowhere are these inequalities more glaring than in South Florida, where even
Haitians and Cubans arriving on the same beach at the same time in the same
manner are treated differently.

In April, authorities detained 44 Haitians after they landed on a beach north of
Miami in a 45-foot cabin cruiser. Also aboard was a Cuban man. The Haitians were
processed for removal.

The Cuban, said Border Patrol spokesman Steve McDonald, "by virtue of the fact
that he's Cuban and eligible to adjust his status under the Cuban Adjustment Act
will . . . have the opportunity to request to stay."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              227 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Rally In L.A. Attracts 200 Demonstrators

BYLINE: Peter Prengaman, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 501 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES Sept. 9


Only 200 people turned out Saturday for a rally demanding amnesty for 11 million
illegal immigrants, the latest sign of pro-immigrant groups' struggle to regain
momentum after hundreds of thousands marched for the cause in the spring.

Local bands played rock music, vendors offered chicken tacos, and dozens of
activists set up information booths in a downtown field. But more than an hour
after the rally started, most of those in the paltry crowd were organizers and
journalists.

Organizers, who had expected about 5,000 participants, played down the low
turnout.

"This community has shown it wants a solution, so we shouldn't have to show it
with half a million people each time we do it," said Maria Elena Durazo,
secretary-treasurer of the Los Angeles County Federation of Labor, AFL-CIO.

This was the finale of a week full of immigration reform rallies. Advocates hope
to pressure Congress to take up the issue when it returns to work on Tuesday,
much as huge protests had spurred action from lawmakers in March.

But in city after city, the turnout was well below what organizers had hoped.
Rallies in Batavia, Ill., San Francisco and Phoenix drew about 2,000 people
each; hundreds marched in Dallas and Portland, Ore.; and in Washington, where
organizers said they expected to draw a million protesters to the Mall on
Thursday, fewer than 5,000 came.

In Los Angeles, where 400 people had turned out on Monday for a labor solidarity
march,  the Saturday rally was to have been the culmination of this week's
National Latino Congreso, billed as one of the largest gatherings of Hispanic
leaders in decades.

Sessions included speeches and workshops on registering Hispanic voters, running
for office, the wage gaps between Hispanics and whites, environmental issues and
a lack of access to health care in immigrant communities.

But the week's central issue was the creation of new strategies to urge
lawmakers to offer illegal immigrants a path to citizenship.

"We need to frame this as a national security issue," said Peter Schey,
president of the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law in Los Angeles.
"It's ridiculous to have immigrants at airports giving their fingerprints when
there are 12 million people in the country illegally."

The House passed legislation in December that would add hundreds of miles of
fencing along the U.S.-Mexico border and criminalize any assistance given to
illegal immigrants.

That bill created a groundswell of anger in immigrant communities, leading to a
500,000-strong rally in Los Angeles in March that was followed by hundreds of
other demonstrations across the country.

The Senate rejected the House bill when it took up immigration reform in April,
instead passing a measure that would strengthen border security and create a
limited legalization program. Since then, however, Congress has all but shelved
immigration legislation. And efforts by pro-immigrant coalitions to register
thousands of new voters have yet to take shape.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              228 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 17, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Transit-Worker ID Program Stalled;
Years of Trouble in National Effort Bodes Ill for High-Tech Licenses, Passports

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1489 words


A Bush administration initiative to secure the nation's ports is bogged down in
industry opposition, technology flaws and evidence that it fails to safeguard
workers' privacy, according to industry and government analysts.

The rocky launch of the Transportation Worker Identification Credential
threatens to delay what Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff declared
his highest priority after the Dubai port controversy in February: starting by
year's end to screen the backgrounds of 750,000 U.S. workers at critical sea,
air and land transportation facilities, and issuing them microchip-equipped ID
cards.

More broadly, the long-overdue ID program foreshadows concerns that hundreds of
millions of Americans soon may encounter as the government starts issuing
similarly equipped driver's licenses, passports, federal-worker badges and
immigrant-guest-worker cards in coming years.

"It's discouraging to see how really difficult it is to implement this sort of
thing," said Doris Meissner, a former commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service who tracks identification measures as a senior fellow at
the Migration Policy Institute.

"And it's probably going to get more complicated before it gets simpler," she
added.

The transportation credential, one of the first security measures initiated
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, was envisioned as a model for new,
"smart" ID cards. But a familiar list of hurdles has tripped up the program,
including poor administration, indifferent oversight by Congress, insufficient
funding, technological glitches and resistance from the private sector, said
industry and government officials.

President Bush signed the worker-ID program into law in November 2002 as part of
broader maritime security legislation. It called for vetting workers at more
than 300 ports and 3,700 cargo and passenger terminals using technology that
incorporates fingerprints, iris scans or digital photographs.

The program would streamline checks of criminal-background files, terrorist
watch lists and immigration status for truckers, stevedores, rail and airport
terminal employees, and other transit workers, among others. The new "biometric"
data would make it virtually impossible for anyone other than the cardholder to
use the ID.

Department of Homeland Security officials initially told port operators that
they expected to start issuing credit-card-size ID cards to transportation
workers by the end of 2003.

Then the troubles began.

Management turnover and indecision delayed prototype testing until late 2004.
Instead of the 200,000 cards planned for the pilot program, only 4,000 were
issued, even as the cost rose from $12 million to $23 million.

Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee
that oversees the department, insisted that the TSA adopt technology currently
used for U.S. "green cards," which are produced in his district. The TSA paused
to complete a study concluding that its alternative to the green-card technology
was superior. Prototype card production was delayed again in 2005 so it could be
moved to the Kentucky plant.

It took an election-year political furor over the attempt by a Dubai company to
take over operations at six U.S. seaports to jump-start the project. Faced with
a reminder of how little has been done to secure facilities from infiltration by
potential terrorists, lawmakers called the administration's bungling of the
transportation-worker IDs the Achilles' heel of the nation's port security.

But when Homeland Security officials rushed out long-delayed rules in May, labor
and the nation's port operators, truckers, barge companies and tugboat companies
revolted.

Industry groups and technology providers warned that complex systems for
personal identification numbers and card reading could be prone to
time-consuming breakdowns in saltwater environments on boats and docks. Marine
executives said requiring new workers to wait as long as 60 days to clear
security checks would cripple small and seasonal operators that already face
worker shortages. Unions warned that without strict limits and an appeals
process, workers could be denied jobs because of mistaken identity or past
offenses unrelated to terrorism.

"It just doesn't make any sense given the real-world operations of the tugboat
industry," said Thomas A. Allegretti, president of American Waterways Operators,
which represents 500 tug and barge firms.

In July, the Homeland Security inspector general reported that hundreds of
critical security vulnerabilities in proposed cards, card readers and other
parts of the system posed unacceptable risks of the theft of sensitive data.
Other problems include evolving federal technology standards and a projected
cost to industry and workers of $2 billion to $3 billion.

Officials said these concerns are a preview of what could happen on a much
larger scale with the broader government use of "smart" cards.

"You have to have a single way of identifying people as who they are that is
authentic, that maintains their confidentiality and that is secure," said David
Heyman, director of the homeland security program at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies.

Experts caution that Americans may not want to submit their fingerprints and eye
and facial scans to the government. Privacy advocates want to know who will be
in charge of keeping and discarding sensitive personal information, and how that
data will be kept secure.

They are concerned about the types of government databases that would be linked
to such ID records and who would see them. And even if there is consensus on the
security needs, others are skeptical that the technology can be implemented
without creating bottlenecks and backlogs.

"There's this idea that an ID card or ID credential is this kind of panacea,"
said Lee Tien, senior staff attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
"But they are difficult to design and implement . . . and what we're seeing is
every attempt to do so is fraught with serious, serious problems."

The questions are not hypothetical. By year's end, Homeland Security is expected
to roll out national standards for driver's licenses, which would affect 200
million Americans when the rules take effect by May 2008. The change was
mandated by the Real ID Act, which was enacted to make it more difficult for
criminals and potential terrorists to obtain driver's licenses.

Last month, the State Department began small-scale production of the first
microchip-equipped "e-passports" that over the next 11 years will replace all 60
million U.S.-issued passports and could be upgraded to include fingerprints or
other biometric data.

Up to 4 million federal workers and contractors are to be next, receiving new
IDs over two years starting in October. Then will come cards allowing tens of
millions of residents of the United States, Canada, Mexico and many Caribbean
nations to cross each other's borders without a passport. And the White House
has proposed issuing similar tamper-proof biometric cards to 2 million guest
workers under its contested immigration overhaul.

Analysts cite clear lessons from the transportation-worker ID program's
struggles as warnings for programs such as Real ID, which they say will have to
be delayed given its far greater size, cost and complexity.

As for the Transportation Worker Identification Credential program, Homeland
Security announced last month that after missing a July deadline, it will
postpone the installation of card readers. Critics say that for now the
department has simply created a $150-per-worker photo ID. The Senate on Thursday
passed port-security legislation that would force the department to ease
requirements for certain short-term workers and issue rules for card readers by
Dec. 31, start more test programs and report back in 2008.

"It's clear the department seems unable to complete the task and control access
to our ports, which is a fundamental aspect of security," said Sen. Susan M.
Collins (R-Maine), chairman of the Senate homeland security committee and
co-sponsor of the bill.

Chertoff maintained that conducting background checks and issuing conventional
ID cards are progress. "The fact that we may not have the full-blown perfect
system doesn't mean we can't take a big step forward," he said earlier this
month.

In a Sept. 8 speech, he went further, blaming the lack of progress on unnamed
critics who object to tamper-resistant IDs as too burdensome or expensive, or
say they amount to a national ID card.

"That kind of backsliding runs directly contrary to the lessons of 9/11,"
Chertoff said, noting that nearly all the Sept. 11 hijackers had obtained IDs,
in some cases through fraud. He contended that a secure ID system would have
prevented the attacks. "If we'd had it five years ago, there would not have been
a 9/11," Chertoff said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              229 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 17, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Worker ID Project Hits Gridlock;
Troubles Bode Ill for Licenses, Passports

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1478 words


A Bush administration initiative to secure the nation's ports is bogged down
amid industry opposition, technology flaws and evidence that it fails to
safeguard workers' privacy, according to industry and government analysts.

The rocky launch of the Transportation Worker Identification Credential
threatens to delay what Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff declared
his highest priority after the Dubai port controversy in February: Starting by
year's end to screen the backgrounds of 750,000 U.S. workers at critical sea,
air and land transportation facilities, and to issue them microchip-equipped ID
cards.

More broadly, the long-overdue ID program foreshadows concerns that hundreds of
millions of Americans soon may encounter as the government starts issuing
similarly equipped driver's licenses, passports, federal-worker badges and
immigrant-guest-worker cards in coming years.

"It's discouraging to see how really difficult it is to implement this sort of
thing," said Doris Meissner, a former commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service who tracks identification measures as a senior fellow at
the Migration Policy Institute. ". . . And it's probably going to get more
complicated before it gets simpler."

The transportation credential, one of the first security fixes initiated after
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, was envisioned as a model for new,
"smart" ID cards. But a familiar list of hurdles has tripped up the program,
including poor administration, indifferent oversight by Congress, insufficient
funding, technological glitches and resistance from the private sector, said
industry and government officials.

President Bush signed the worker-ID program into law in November 2002 as part of
broader maritime security legislation. It called for vetting workers at more
than 300 ports and 3,700 cargo and passenger terminals using technology that
incorporates fingerprints, iris scans or digital photographs.

The program would streamline checks of criminal-background files, terrorist
watch lists and immigration status for truckers, stevedores, rail and airport
terminal employees, and other transit workers, among others. The new "biometric"
data would make it virtually impossible for anyone other than the cardholder to
use the ID.

Department of Homeland Security officials initially told port operators that
they expected to start issuing credit-card-size ID cards to transportation
workers by the end of 2003.

Then the troubles began.

Management turnover and indecision delayed prototype testing until late 2004.
Instead of the 200,000 cards planned for the pilot program, only 4,000 were
issued, even as the cost rose from $12 million to $23 million.

Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee
that oversees the department, insisted that the TSA adopt technology currently
used for U.S. "green cards," which are produced in his district. The TSA paused
to complete a study concluding that its alternative to the green-card technology
was superior. Prototype card production was delayed again in 2005 so it could be
moved to the Kentucky plant.

It took an election-year political furor over the attempt by a Dubai company to
take over operations at six U.S. seaports to jump-start the project. Faced with
a reminder of how little has been done to secure facilities from infiltration by
potential terrorists, lawmakers called the administration's bungling of the
transportation-worker IDs the Achilles' heel of the nation's port security.

But when Homeland Security officials rushed out long-delayed rules in May, labor
and the nation's port operators, truckers, barge companies and tugboat companies
revolted.

Industry groups and technology providers warned that complex systems for
personal identification numbers and card reading could be prone to
time-consuming breakdowns in saltwater environments on boats and docks. Marine
executives said requiring new workers to wait as long as 60 days to clear
security checks would cripple small and seasonal operators that already face
worker shortages. Unions warned that without strict limits and an appeals
process, workers could be denied jobs because of mistaken identity or past
offenses unrelated to terrorism.

"It just doesn't make any sense given the real-world operations of the tugboat
industry," said Thomas A. Allegretti, president of American Waterways Operators,
which represents 500 tug and barge firms.

In July, the Homeland Security inspector general reported that hundreds of
critical security vulnerabilities in proposed cards, card readers and other
parts of the system posed unacceptable risks of the theft of sensitive data.
Other problems include evolving federal technology standards and a projected
cost to industry and workers of $2 billion to $3 billion.

Officials said these concerns are a preview of what could happen on a much
larger scale with the broader government use of "smart" cards.

"You have to have a single way of identifying people as who they are that is
authentic, that maintains their confidentiality and that is secure," said David
Heyman, director of the homeland security program at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies.

Experts caution that Americans may not want to submit their fingerprints and eye
and facial scans to the government. Privacy advocates want to know who will be
in charge of keeping and discarding sensitive personal information, and how that
data will be kept secure.

They are concerned about the types of government databases that would be linked
to such ID records and who would see them. And even if there is consensus on the
security needs, others are skeptical that the technology can be implemented
without creating bottlenecks and backlogs.

"There's this idea that an ID card or ID credential is this kind of panacea,"
said Lee Tien, senior staff attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
"But they are difficult to design and implement . . . and what we're seeing is
every attempt to do so is fraught with serious, serious problems."

The questions are not hypothetical. By year's end, Homeland Security is expected
to roll out national standards for driver's licenses, which would affect 200
million Americans when the rules take effect by May 2008. The change was
mandated by the Real ID Act, which was enacted to make it more difficult for
criminals and potential terrorists to obtain driver's licenses.

Four weeks ago, the State Department began small-scale production of the first,
microchip-equipped "e-passports" that over the next 11 years will replace all 60
million U.S.-issued passports and could be upgraded to include fingerprints or
other biometric data.

Up to 4 million federal workers and contractors are to be next, receiving new
IDs over two years starting in October. Then will come cards allowing tens of
millions of residents of the United States, Canada, Mexico and many Caribbean
nations to cross each other's borders without a passport. And the White House
has proposed issuing similar tamper-proof biometric cards to 2 million guest
workers under its contested immigration overhaul.

Analysts cite clear lessons from the transportation-worker ID program's
struggles as warnings for programs such as Real ID, which they say will have to
be delayed given its far greater size, cost and complexity.

As for the Transportation Worker Identification Credential program, Homeland
Security announced last month that after missing a July deadline, it will
postpone the installation of card readers. Critics say that for now the
department has simply created a $150-per-worker photo ID. The Senate is set to
vote on port-security legislation that would force the department to issue rules
for card readers by Dec. 31, start more test programs and report back in 2008.

"It's clear the department seems unable to complete the task and control access
to our ports, which is a fundamental aspect of security," said Sen. Susan M.
Collins (R-Maine), chairman of the Senate homeland security committee and
co-sponsor of the bill.

Chertoff maintained that conducting background checks and issuing conventional
ID cards is progress. "The fact that we may not have the full-blown perfect
system doesn't mean we can't take a big step forward," he said last week.

In a speech Friday, he went further, blaming the lack of progress on unnamed
critics who object to tamper-resistant IDs as too burdensome or expensive or say
it amounts to a national ID card.

"That kind of backsliding runs directly contrary to the lessons of 9/11,"
Chertoff said, noting that nearly all the Sept. 11 hijackers had obtained IDs,
in some cases through fraud. He contended that a secure ID system would have
prevented the attacks. "If we'd had it five years ago, there would not have been
a 9/11," Chertoff said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              230 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 18, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Migrating To Modernity

BYLINE: Sebastian Mallaby

SECTION: Editorial; A17

LENGTH: 866 words


After the terrorist attacks of 2001, voters understood that poor failed states
could hurt them. President Bush launched a smart new foreign aid program and
multiplied the U.S. commitment to fighting HIV-AIDS, and rich countries around
the world boosted development spending. But our approach toward poor countries
remains confined, idiotically, to the debt-aid-trade box. People don't see that
other policies in rich countries have a major impact on poor ones.

Consider immigration. Just about all rich countries are arguing about border
enforcement, employer sanctions and so on, but nobody relates this stuff to the
parallel arguments about development. Contemplating the noisy immigration
politics in the United States, Gawain Kripke of Oxfam confesses, "we've been
mostly bystanders in the debate, and I really regret that."

Development charities  such as Oxfam certainly should feel sorry. In "Let Their
People Come," a new book published by the Center for Global Development, Lant
Pritchett reports that if rich countries permitted extra immigration equivalent
to 3 percent of their labor force, the citizens of poor countries would gain
about $300 billion a year. That's three times more than the direct gains from
abolishing all remaining trade barriers, four times more than the foreign aid
given by governments and 100 times more than the value of debt relief.

It's true that there's a downside to immigration from poor countries. This isn't
that it depresses wages in the United States; researchers find that this effect
is small or nonexistent. Rather, it's that when doctors, nurses and other
skilled people leave Africa, they hit the development process in its weak spot.
A lack of trained workers is a more serious obstacle to poverty reduction than
any lack of money.

Still, Pritchett's numbers show that the development gains from migration swamp
the brain-drain problem. For the migrants themselves, a ticket to the rich world
is the fast track out of poverty: A laborer who moves from San Salvador to
Phoenix can multiply his income without altering the type of work he does or how
good he is at it. And this process benefits developing countries, too. Migrants
send home remittances, which exceed aid flows and are probably more effective,
since the migrants ensure that their hard-earned cash is used productively by
relatives. After a few years the migrants may return home armed with savings and
ideas. The brain drain becomes a brain gain.

So migration ends up as a net plus for development. But a development-friendly
migration debate would sound different from the current one. Immigration
advocates in the rich world feel most comfortable making the case for allowing
in skilled workers.  Skilled migrants, however, trigger the biggest brain-drain
concerns; allowing in unskilled workers does more to reduce global poverty.
Equally, immigration advocates tend to want arriving workers to assimilate. But
the best way to promote development is to allow a rolling cohort of poor workers
to amass savings and experience  --  and then return to their own countries.

Many immigration experts insist that a guest-worker program isn't feasible: As
the old saying goes, there's nothing more permanent than a temporary worker.
This is where Pritchett gets really interesting. Germany's Turkish guest workers
have put down roots, he concedes, but Singapore, Hong Kong and the Arab Gulf
states have taken in vast numbers of foreign workers who leave after a few
years. Perhaps this is only possible in authoritarian states? Pritchett's answer
is partly no, and partly that there are worse things than authoritarianism.

If the United States offered Mexico a million temporary work visas, it could
attach conditions. It could stipulate that these workers be recruited by
agencies in Mexico, which would screen candidates for criminal records, require
minimal English skills  --  and ensure repatriation. The agencies could do that,
for example, by withholding some of the migrants' pay until they returned home.
An agency that failed to bring people back could be ejected from the program.

Enforcing repatriation would still require tough government action. The United
States would have to decide what to do about migrants who marry Americans, which
is one obvious way in which temporary guests turn permanent. Singapore deals
with this problem by denying guest workers the right to marry citizens. That is
beyond the  pale, you say? But if desperately poor migrants accept the
no-marriage condition in exchange for a visa, who are we to second-guess them?

Pritchett is getting at a ticklish issue. Because the immigration debate is
conducted without reference to development, it is couched in terms of American
ideals; we don't want to let people in and then treat them harshly, for that
would offend our own self-image. But if you bring development into the picture,
it's obvious that extremely harsh poverty afflicts billions of people and that
opportunities to alleviate this suffering are few and precious. An expanded
temporary worker program is one such opportunity. If American ideals stand in
its way, what does that say about them?

smallaby@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              231 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Task Force on Immigration Fraud Becomes a Model;
U.S., Local Agencies Attacking Visa Scams

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Fairfax Extra; T04

LENGTH: 951 words


After the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the U.S. attorney's office in
Alexandria zeroed in on what seemed like an obvious target: immigrant-document
and identity fraud.

Seven of the 19 hijackers had fraudulently obtained Virginia identity cards,
taking advantage of a loophole in the state's rules for issuing driver's
licenses and state identification cards. Northern Virginia, authorities
believed, had become a hub for criminal rings that produced such documents.

"There was a combination of shock and urgency out of the notion that the 9/11
hijackers were right in our midst, that there was a sleeper cell that was
operating in significant part in and around Northern Virginia," said Paul J.
McNulty, then the U.S. attorney in Alexandria. "We knew we had a problem."

So McNulty started the nation's first document- and benefit-fraud task force,
establishing a unique combination of federal and state agencies. This month, the
Alexandria-based task force broke one of its biggest cases: a marriage fraud
ring that authorities said arranged scores of phony marriages, mostly in
Arlington, to help illegal immigrants speed their route to U.S. citizenship.

And the crackdown that began on the edge of Old Town is now a model for the
nation: Identical task forces recently opened in 10 cities across the country,
and federal officials hope to blanket the nation with them by the end of next
year.

"Many people don't view it as very glamorous, but our mandate is to work to
regain the integrity of the immigration system, and this really does go to the
heart of it," said Matthew Allen, deputy assistant director of the smuggling and
public safety unit for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Law enforcement officials said that approaching immigration cases through a task
force is more effective because it provides more agents and a broader
perspective on what charges can be brought. In the past, ICE or its predecessor,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, investigated cases alone or with the
help of one or two other agencies.

"It's more bodies and more law," McNulty, now U.S. deputy attorney general, said
in an interview last week. "Task forces, pure and simple, allow you to get more
done."

The task forces on document and benefit fraud bring together a variety of
agencies in a collaboration that federal officials said is extraordinary. The
regular members of the Alexandria-based unit, which began operations in January
2002, are the U.S. attorney's office, ICE, the Department of Labor, the Social
Security Administration, the State Department, the IRS, the Postal Inspection
Service, the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles and the Fairfax County Police
Department.

Other Northern Virginia police departments, primarily Arlington, participate on
a case-by-case basis. Fairfax is a regular member because the immigration office
for Northern Virginia is located there.

Officials said the benefits became clear as they worked on what became the task
force's first big case: the conviction of Samuel G. Kooritzky, an Arlington
lawyer sentenced to 10 years in prison in 2003 for a massive labor-certification
fraud scheme that targeted immigrants. More than $6 million in seized funds and
assets was eventually forfeited to the federal government in that case,
including more than $4.6 million in restitution for Kooritzky's victims.

"Every agency brought something different to the table," said James Spero, chief
of ICE's identity and benefit fraud unit. "The IRS helped us focus on
money-laundering charges, because, prior to that, we were just kind of learning
how to do money-laundering-style cases. Labor brought their expertise in the
labor fraud itself. Citizenship and immigration services helped us analyze and
collect the data found in the immigration files."

The task-force approach has also proved beneficial because it gets prosecutors
involved from the start of each investigation, officials said, unlike in many
cases in which they are brought in toward the end. "Instead of being reactionary
to the cases themselves, this is more of a proactive approach, where we can
actually analyze and discuss how to attack the vulnerabilities and shore up
loopholes in the system," Spero said.

In the marriage-fraud case, 22 people were charged in U.S. District Court in
Alexandria in what authorities called a scheme that may have arranged as many as
1,000 phony marriages, mostly in Arlington but also in Alexandria, Fairfax
County, Manassas, the District and Maryland. According to the charges, illegal
immigrants, mostly from West Africa, would pay as much as $6,000 to be
introduced to their "spouse," usually on the day of the marriage. They would
then be coached on how to lie to immigration inspectors to gain citizenship
faster, according to the charges.

Immigrants who marry U.S. citizens can immediately get a visa to stay in the
country, instead of having to wait years, and can shave several years off
gaining citizenship.

Attorneys for several of the defendants declined to comment on the case after a
recent court hearing.

In April, ICE and the Justice Department launched task forces using the
Alexandria model in Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, Los Angeles, New
York, Newark, Philadelphia and St. Paul, Minn. Several more are being launched
in the coming months, and ICE officials said they hope by the end of next year
to have task forces operating in all 26 ICE field offices, which would cover the
entire country.

"It's working extremely well," said Tony Rouco, ICE's supervisory special agent
in Denver, where authorities said immigration-document fraud has been a major
problem. "The flow of information is a lot easier."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              232 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Task Force on Immigration Fraud Becomes a Model;
U.S., Local Agencies Attacking Visa Scams

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Alexandria - Arlington Extra; T03

LENGTH: 950 words


After the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the U.S. attorney's office in
Alexandria zeroed in on what seemed like an obvious target: immigrant-document
and identity fraud.

Seven of the 19 hijackers had obtained fraudulent Virginia identity cards,
taking advantage of a loophole in the state's rules for issuing driver's
licenses and state identification cards. Northern Virginia, authorities
believed, had become a hub for criminal rings that produced such documents.

"There was a combination of shock and urgency out of the notion that the 9/11
hijackers were right in our midst, that there was a sleeper cell that was
operating in significant part in and around Northern Virginia," said Paul J.
McNulty, then the U.S. attorney in Alexandria. "We knew we had a problem."

So McNulty started the nation's first document- and benefit-fraud task force,
blending a unique combination of federal and state agencies. This month, the
Alexandria-based task force broke one of its biggest cases: a marriage fraud
ring that authorities said arranged scores of phony marriages, mostly in
Arlington, to help illegal immigrants speed their route to U.S. citizenship.

And the crackdown that began on the edge of Old Town is now a model for the
nation: Identical task forces recently opened in 10 cities across the country,
and federal officials hope to blanket the nation with them by the end of next
year.

"Many people don't view it as very glamorous, but our mandate is to work to
regain the integrity of the immigration system, and this really does go to the
heart of it," said Matthew Allen, deputy assistant director of the smuggling and
public safety unit for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Law enforcement officials said that approaching immigration cases through a task
force is more effective because it provides more agents and a broader
perspective on what charges can be brought. In the past, ICE or its predecessor,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, investigated cases alone or with the
help of one or two other agencies.

"It's more bodies and more law," McNulty, now U.S. deputy attorney general, said
in an interview last week. "Task forces, pure and simple, allow you to get more
done."

The task forces on document and benefit fraud bring together a variety of
agencies in a collaboration that federal officials said is extraordinary. The
regular members of the Alexandria-based unit, which began operations in January
2002, include the U.S. attorney's office, ICE, the Department of Labor, the
Social Security Administration, the State Department, the IRS, the U.S. Postal
Service, the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles and the Fairfax County Police
Department.

Other Northern Virginia police departments, primarily Arlington, participate on
a case-by-case basis. Fairfax is a regular member because the immigration office
for Northern Virginia is located there.

Officials said the benefits became clear as they worked on what became the task
force's first big case: the conviction of Samuel G. Kooritzky, an Arlington
lawyer sentenced to 10 years in prison in 2003 for a massive labor-certification
fraud scheme that targeted immigrants. More than $6 million in seized funds and
assets was eventually forfeited to the federal government in that case,
including more than $4.6 million in restitution for Kooritzky's victims.

"Every agency brought something different to the table," said James Spero, unit
chief of ICE's identity and benefit fraud unit. "The IRS helped us focus on
money-laundering charges, because, prior to that, we were just kind of learning
how to do money-laundering-style cases. Labor brought their expertise in the
labor fraud itself. Citizenship and immigration services helped us analyze and
collect the data found in the immigration files."

The task-force approach has also proved beneficial because it gets prosecutors
involved from the start of each investigation, officials said, unlike in many
cases in which they are brought in toward the end. "Instead of being reactionary
to the cases themselves, this is more of a proactive approach, where we can
actually analyze and discuss how to attack the vulnerabilities and shore up
loopholes in the system," Spero said.

In the marriage-fraud case, 22 people were charged in U.S. District Court in
Alexandria in what authorities called a scheme that may have arranged as many as
1,000 phony marriages, mostly in Arlington but also in Alexandria, Fairfax
County, Manassas, the District and Maryland. According to the charges, illegal
immigrants, mostly from West Africa, would pay as much as $6,000 to be
introduced to their "spouse," usually on the day of the marriage. They would
then be coached on how to lie to immigration inspectors to gain citizenship
faster, according to the charges.

Immigrants who marry U.S. citizens can immediately get a visa to stay in the
country, instead of having to wait years, and can shave several years off
gaining citizenship.

Attorneys for several of the defendants declined to comment on the case after a
recent court hearing.

In April, ICE and the Justice Department launched task forces using the
Alexandria model in Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, Los Angeles, New
York, Newark, Philadelphia and St. Paul, Minn. Several more are being launched
in the coming months, and ICE officials said they hope by the end of next year
to have task forces operating in all 26 ICE field offices, which would cover the
entire country.

"It's working extremely well," said Tony Rouco, ICE's supervisory special agent
in Denver, where authorities said immigration-document fraud has been a major
problem. "The flow of information is a lot easier."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              233 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 22, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Gonzales Revisits Deportation Remarks;
Department Aims to Clarify Comments on Case of Canadian Sent to Syria

BYLINE: Karen DeYoung, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 712 words


Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales's claim this week that the Justice
Department was not responsible for sending Canadian software engineer Maher Arar
to a Syrian prison in 2002 was the result of imprecise wording by Gonzales and a
misunderstanding by those who reported his remarks, according to a Justice
Department spokeswoman.

The matter turns on  the meaning of the word "we."

On Tuesday, a day after a Canadian government commission concluded that the
Syrian-born Arar was "interrogated, tortured and held in degrading and inhumane
conditions" for 10 months after being falsely accused of terrorist ties,
Gonzales was asked whether the department owed him "an apology."

"Well, we were not responsible for his removal to Syria," Gonzales replied. "I'm
not aware that he was tortured, and I haven't read the commission report."

Gonzales was aware that in 2002 the Immigration and Naturalization Service
arranged Arar's removal from the United States and his delivery to Syria after
he was accused of ties to al-Qaeda, spokeswoman Tasia Scolinos said. The INS has
since been transferred from the Justice Department to the new Department of
Homeland Security and is known as U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Since Arar was officially deported, Scolinos said, his case was "an
immigration-related issue." She said Gonzales was trying to "make that point"
because "immigration matters are no longer handled by the [Justice] Department."

On the question of torture, Scolinos said, "My understanding is that the U.S.
government received what they believed to be reliable assurances that he would
be treated humanely, consistent with international treaties and conventions."
Gonzales, she said, was "emphasizing that point."

Arar, now 36 and living in Canada, sued the U.S. government in federal court,
but the case was dismissed on national security grounds. He filed a notice of
appeal Sept. 12, according to the Center for Constitutional Rights, a legal
group that is handling his case.

The possibility of further litigation may have limited what the Justice
Department is prepared to say on the matter, said some U.S. officials who spoke
on the condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to discuss the
matter.

Canada's House of Commons unanimously agreed Wednesday that "apologies should be
presented" to Arar on behalf of Canada. Prime Minister Stephen Harper, who
earlier acknowledged that Arar had been done "an injustice," balked at going
that far, saying it might influence negotiations with Arar's lawyers over
possible compensation.

Arar's ordeal began in New York City on Sept. 26, 2002, a year after the
al-Qaeda attacks there. Changing planes on his return trip to Canada after
visiting Tunisia with his family, he was arrested on what the commission
concluded was false information, provided to the FBI by Canadian law
enforcement, that he had al-Qaeda connections. After being held for 12 days, he
was flown in a government plane to Jordan and transported over land to Syria,
the nation he had left as a 17-year-old.

U.S. officials later confirmed that the order to deport him was signed by
then-Deputy Attorney General Larry D. Thompson. They said it would be
"prejudicial to the interests of the United States" to send Arar home to Canada,
despite his Canadian citizenship.

The Canadian government was not informed until he was gone.

U.S. law prohibits sending anyone, even on national security grounds, to a
country where he or she is likely to be tortured. Although the State Department
has long branded Syria a human rights violator, then-Attorney General John D.
Ashcroft responded to Canadian protests by saying the Syrian government had
assured that Arar would be treated humanely.

On Tuesday, Gonzales also repeated the administration's denial that Arar's
removal was part of the practice of secret "renditions" of terrorism suspects to
third countries where they could be more aggressively interrogated. "That is not
what happened here," he said. "It was a deportation."

Even if Arar "had been rendered to Syria," he said, "we would have sought those
same kind of assurances" against torture.

Correspondent Doug Struck in Toronto and staff researcher Julie Tate in
Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              234 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 24, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A Task Force That Launched a Trend;
U.S., Local Agencies Attack Visa Scams

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Prince William Extra; T01

LENGTH: 949 words


After the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the U.S. attorney's office in
Alexandria zeroed in on what seemed like an obvious target: immigrant-document
and identity fraud.

Seven of the 19 hijackers had obtained fraudulent Virginia identity cards,
taking advantage of a loophole in the state's rules for issuing driver's
licenses and state ID cards. Northern Virginia, authorities believed, had become
a hub for criminal rings that produced such documents.

"There was a combination of shock and urgency out of the notion that the 9/11
hijackers were right in our midst, that there was a sleeper cell that was
operating in significant part in and around Northern Virginia," said Paul J.
McNulty, then the U.S. attorney in Alexandria. "We knew we had a problem."

So McNulty started the nation's first document- and benefit-fraud task force,
blending a unique combination of federal and state agencies. This month, the
Alexandria-based task force broke one of its biggest cases: a marriage fraud
ring that authorities said arranged scores of phony marriages, mostly in
Arlington, to help illegal immigrants speed their route to U.S. citizenship.

And the crackdown that began on the edge of Old Town Alexandria is now a model
for the nation: Identical task forces recently opened in 10 cities across the
country, and federal officials hope to blanket the nation with them by the end
of next year.

"Many people don't view it as very glamorous, but our mandate is to work to
regain the integrity of the immigration system, and this really does go to the
heart of it," said Matthew Allen, deputy assistant director of the smuggling and
public safety unit for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Law enforcement officials said that approaching immigration cases through a task
force is effective because it provides more agents and a broader perspective on
what charges can be brought. In the past, ICE or its predecessor, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, investigated cases alone or with the
help of one or two other agencies.

"It's more bodies and more law," McNulty, now U.S. deputy attorney general, said
in an interview last week. "Task forces, pure and simple, allow you to get more
done."

The task forces on document and benefit fraud bring together a variety of
agencies in a collaboration that federal officials said is extraordinary. The
regular members of the Alexandria-based unit, which began operations in January
2002, include the U.S. attorney's office, ICE, the Department of Labor, the
Social Security Administration, the State Department, the IRS, the U.S. Postal
Service, the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles and the Fairfax County Police
Department.

Other Northern Virginia police departments, primarily Arlington, participate on
a case-by-case basis. Fairfax is a regular member because the immigration office
for Northern Virginia is located there.

Officials said the benefits became clear as they worked on what became the task
force's first big case: the conviction of Samuel G. Kooritzky, an Arlington
lawyer sentenced to 10 years in prison in 2003 for a massive labor-certification
fraud scheme that targeted immigrants. More than $6 million in seized funds and
assets was eventually forfeited to the federal government in that case,
including more than $4.6 million in restitution for Kooritzky's victims.

"Every agency brought something different to the table," said James Spero, unit
chief of ICE's identity and benefit fraud unit. "The IRS helped us focus on
money-laundering charges, because, prior to that, we were just kind of learning
how to do money-laundering-style cases. Labor brought their expertise in the
labor fraud itself. Citizenship and immigration services helped us analyze and
collect the data found in the immigration files."

The task-force approach has also proved beneficial because it gets prosecutors
involved from the start of each investigation, officials said, unlike in many
cases in which they are brought in toward the end.

"Instead of being reactionary to the cases themselves, this is more of a
proactive approach, where we can actually analyze and discuss how to attack the
vulnerabilities and shore up loopholes in the system," Spero said.

In the marriage-fraud case, 22 people were charged in U.S. District Court in
Alexandria in what authorities called a scheme that might have arranged as many
as 1,000 phony marriages, mostly in Arlington but also in Alexandria, Fairfax
County, Manassas, the District and Maryland. According to the charges, illegal
immigrants, mostly from West Africa, would pay as much as $6,000 to be
introduced to their "spouse," usually on the day of the marriage. They would
then be coached on how to lie to immigration inspectors to gain citizenship
faster, according to the charges.

Immigrants who marry U.S. citizens can immediately get a visa to stay in the
country, instead of having to wait years, and can shave several years off
gaining citizenship.

Attorneys for several of the defendants declined to comment on the case after a
recent court hearing.

In April, ICE and the Justice Department launched task forces using the
Alexandria model in Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, Los Angeles, New
York, Newark, Philadelphia and St. Paul, Minn. Several more are being launched
in the coming months, and ICE officials said they hope by the end of next year
to have task forces operating in all 26 ICE field offices, which would cover the
country.

"It's working extremely well," said Tony Rouco, ICE's supervisory special agent
in Denver, where authorities said immigration-document fraud has been a major
problem. "The flow of information is a lot easier."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              235 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 25, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Anti-Immigration Movement Finds an Articulate Voice

BYLINE: Steven A. Holmes

SECTION: A Section; A19 , WASHINGTON BOOKSHELF

LENGTH: 1071 words


STATE OF EMERGENCY

The Third World Invasion and Conquest of America

By Patrick J. Buchanan

Thomas Dunne Books, St. Martin's Press,

308 pp., $24.95

Man, is Pat Buchanan mad. He is virtually sputtering with rage. He can hardly
contain himself. The subjects of his ire are the immigrants  --  nearly 2
million a year, about 500,000 of them illegal  --  crossing the country's
borders and the bumbling or unpatriotic elite who are letting them in.

It's not just any immigrant that sets Buchanan's blood a-boiling. It's the
brown, yellow and black ones that make up 90 percent of the new arrivals. While
some people, including President Bush, may view these newcomers as decent,
hardworking people whose desire is to provide for their families, Buchanan sees
them as something much more sinister  --  a threat to United States.

"We are witnessing how nations perish," he writes in his latest book, "State of
Emergency: The Third World Invasion and Conquest of America."

"We are entered upon the final act of our civilization. The last scene is the
deconstruction of the nations. The penultimate scene, now well underway, is the
invasion unresisted."

His list of grievances is long  --  and stark. The United States cannot absorb
the sheer mass of migrants. They are driving down wages and ratcheting up crime.
They are endangering the Republican Party and conservative, small-government
ideology. They are threatening U.S. sovereignty. But, for Buchanan, perhaps the
most unforgivable sin is that they challenge the supremacy of white European
culture.

"Can anyone say today that we Americans are 'one united people?' " he writes.
"We are no longer descended from the same ancestors. The European core of the
country  --  almost 95 percent of Americans as late as 1965  --  has fallen well
below 70 percent and will be less than half the nation by 2050."

One has to give Buchanan credit. He is a muscular writer, fully in command of
the English language he feels is under siege. He is adept at linking history,
statistics and the writings of philosophers and economists to proffer forceful
arguments.

His book crackles. Words leap off the page to bludgeon the reader to submit to
his views. Analyzing the 1994 passage in California of Proposition 187 that
ended welfare benefits to illegal immigrants, Buchanan thunders, "The voters of
California were saying that no matter what ideas these illegal aliens brought
with them, they were not Americans, they were not part of our nation, they did
not belong here, they were not entitled to the benefits of American citizens,
and they ought to go back where they came from."

Some books are enlightening, some exciting. This one is exhausting. After
reading chapter after chapter of invective, rabid Buchanan-haters may long for a
shower. Me? I need a nap.

Buchanan's stridency will tend to turn anyone who picks up "State of Emergency"
into either a cheerleader or a debater. And there are a host of assertions in
this work that are highly debatable.

In Buchanan's view, immigrants are unleashing a deadly reign of crime on
America. While Latino gangs are a violent presence in some cities, most notably
Los Angeles, the premise is questionable. After all, as the wave of immigrants
has crested, overall violent crime rates have plunged. On a per capita basis,
the number of rapes has dropped by 85 percent since the 1970s, robberies by 38
percent. We have the lowest homicide rate since the late 1960s. The murder rate
was higher in the 1930s and 1940s  --  a time of exceedingly low immigration  --
than it is now.

Buchanan argues that today's immigrants maintain a much stronger grip on the
culture and language of their homelands than that of previous waves. "There is
little evidence that the scores of millions who have come in the last forty
years from Asia, Africa and Latin America are assimilating as the European
immigrants once did," he writes.

But what's his proof? Are today's immigrants really not assimilating? Did
European immigrants meld into the American fabric as rapidly as is assumed in
the gauzy and nostalgic view of earlier immigration? No one really knows. There
is no hard census or other research data on the assimilation rates of these
early immigrants.

Buchanan laments that "of the 9 million living in Los Angeles County, 5 million
do not speak English at home." But no one can say with accuracy how many people
spoke Italian or Yiddish or Polish at home in the 1920s  --  or how long it took
for that to stop. German was virtually the official language in Wisconsin, used
in public schools, for decades before World War I. "There were more
German-language newspapers then than there are Spanish-language newspapers now,"
said George Borjas, an immigration expert who Buchanan cites often in his book
--  though not on this point.

Buchanan argues forcefully that immigration will tear the country apart. He is
particularly worried that Mexicans  --  the largest immigrant bloc  --  are, in
effect reconquistas, identifying more strongly with Mexico than with the United
States, and bent on retaking the territories of Texas, California and the
Southwest that were seized from Mexico in the 19th century. His evidence? The
appearance of Mexican flags at rallies, and the writings of some Mexican
American intellectuals longing for the establishment of Aztlan, an appendage of
Mexico that runs from Texas to Oregon.

But given the opportunity for the first time to vote in last summer's Mexican
elections  --  a clear chance to show solidarity with Mexico  --  only an
estimated 41,000 Mexicans out of 4.1 million living here bothered to cast a
ballot.

It's easy to quibble with Buchanan, but it would be a mistake to ignore him. New
York Times columnist David Brooks posits that our political landscape is
increasingly being defined as a fight between what he terms "progressive
globalists" and "populist nationalists." The former are multilateral
interventionists, placing great faith in market-oriented solutions and holding
liberal social values. The latter are distrustful of multinational corporations,
conservative in social values, wary at intervening in other countries and angry
at immigration and the outsourcing of jobs.

Buchanan may be their most articulate spokesman. We would dismiss him and the
anger embodied in "State of Emergency" at our peril.

Holmes is a deputy national editor of The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              236 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 28, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

More Refugees Are Settling in Mid-Size Cities, Study Finds

BYLINE: Lyndsey Layton, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 677 words


Political refugees coming to the United States are increasingly putting down
roots in metropolitan areas without large immigrant populations, according to a
study being released today by the Brookings Institution.

The study, the first of its kind to analyze refugee settlement patterns in
metropolitan regions, found that while traditional immigrant gateways such as
New York, Chicago and Los Angeles still absorb most refugees, that flow has
slowed in the past several years, and refugees are increasingly settling in
Seattle, Atlanta, Sacramento, Minneapolis-St. Paul and Portland Ore., said
Audrey Singer, a Brookings demographer who co-wrote the study.

"These are places that are taking on more refugees proportionally than they have
in the past, and it's helping to change the face of these cities," Singer said.

The State Department determines the first settling place for refugees, whose
ranks are limited by annual caps set by the president and Congress. The ceiling
for 2006 is 70,000, with 30,000 allotted to Africa.

About two-thirds of refugees are settled in places where they have a relative or
friend. The remaining third are sent to communities based on availability of
social services, housing and jobs.

Some states, such as Iowa, Pennsylvania and North Dakota, have been lobbying for
refugees, Singer said. "Iowa is experiencing population decline and looking into
its future and sees refugee resettlement as a vital way of keeping up
population," she said.

In Los Angeles, Vietnamese and Cambodian refugees of Chinese ethnic origins are
credited with revitalizing Chinatown. As older Chinese immigrants left the city
for the suburban San Gabriel Valley, the newly arrived refugees moved into the
city and now run Chinatown businesses once owned by the older generation, the
study found.

But there have been problems as well.

The researchers point to Wausau, Wis., where church groups helped Hmong refugees
from Laos and Thailand resettle over the past two decades. About 1,600 came to
the Wausau area from 1983 to 2004. Public services were strained, and tensions
were high. Property taxes were raised to help pay for welfare programs for the
Hmong, and schools had to scramble to try to meet the needs of children who did
not speak English.

But as the Hmong assimilated, stresses on the local government abated. State
officials report that 96 percent of the Hmong in Wausau are now employed and 60
percent own homes.

More than 2 million refugees have arrived in the United States since 1980, when
Congress passed the Refugee Act. Those fleeing war or other trauma in their
countries have arrived in three waves: from Southeast Asia and the Soviet Union
during the Cold War  in the 1970s and 1980s, from Europe during the Kosovo
conflict in the 1990s, and from Africa during the current decade of civil
conflict.

Refugees make up about 7 percent of foreign-born residents in the United States,
but the federal government spends more money integrating them into American life
than any other immigrant group. Qualifying refugees are entitled to Social
Security, food stamps, state child health insurance, Medicaid benefits and other
assistance for their first seven years. Those who do not meet income eligibility
requirements for those benefits can get cash and medical care for the first
eight months. In addition, private agencies can tap federal money for a variety
of social services for refugees.

More than half the refugees admitted from 1983 to 2004 came from the former
Soviet Union. The next biggest group was Vietnamese, totaling about 400,000.
Refugees from other countries registered in much smaller numbers. A total of 125
countries were represented during the 20-year period.

The metropolitan areas that received the largest number of refugees over the
past 20 years are also the country's two largest immigrant gateways  --  New
York and Los Angeles. Most of the newcomers to New York were from the former
Soviet Union, and those who moved to Los Angeles came from Southeast Asia,
Russia, Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              237 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 2, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Party Without Principles

BYLINE: Sebastian Mallaby

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 829 words


After years of single-party government, the prospect of a Democratic majority in
the House ought to feel refreshing. But even with Republicans collapsing in a
pile of sexual sleaze, I just can't get excited. Most Democrats in Congress seem
bereft of ideas or the courage to stand up for them. They clearly want power,
but they have no principles to guide their use of it.

On Friday, Harry Reid, the Democratic leader in the Senate, correctly denounced
a border-fence bill as a concession "to the radical anti-immigrant right wing"
of the Republican Party. It's absurd to fence off 700 miles of the border and
leave the other  1,300 miles open; besides, the government lacks the manpower to
prevent  migrants from defeating the fence with tunnels or ladders. But if
blowing billions on this symbolism is a sop to right-wing nuts, why did 26
Senate Democrats vote for the bill while only 17 opposed it?

The day before the immigration vote, the majority of Senate Democrats summoned
up the courage to oppose the Bush assault on the nation's traditions of justice.
Of course they were right; you don't win a war of ideas by abandoning your most
appealing ones. But if the Democrats had made common cause with the bill's
Republican opponents, they could have filibustered  the president's bill. Why
vote against something and simultaneously allow it through? On an issue as basic
as access to justice, can't Democrats stand on principle?

These battles dominated last week's headlines, but the Democrats'
under-the-radar behavior was even more depressing. A conservative group
circulated a petition calling for bipartisan talks on Social Security, with all
potential solutions to be part of the discussion. Rather than embracing this
eminently sane idea, top Democrats in Congress loudly slammed the door on it.

There's a long tradition of demagoguery on entitlement reform, but refusing even
to discuss the challenge plumbs new depths of cynicism. A decade ago, Democratic
centrists such as Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska argued that runaway entitlement
spending would rob the rest of the budget, draining money from social programs
that liberals are supposed to care about. Today, a pragmatic Republican such as
Sen. Bob Bennett of Utah can propose a progressive fix to Social Security that
does not involve personal accounts. But Democrats won't come forward to support
him.

In rejecting Social Security discussions last week, the Democrats painted the
conservatives' petition as a Trojan horse designed to get personal accounts back
onto the table. Even if that were true, since when was all mention of personal
accounts taboo for Democrats? A decade ago, a majority of the appointees to Bill
Clinton's Social Security commission came out in favor of personal accounts.
Even the dissenting minority was open to the idea of investing Social Security
funds in the stock market.

If today's Democratic leaders were even a little bit awake, they would realize
that the case for Social Security reform has grown stronger since the Clinton
era. It's not just that the budget outlook has deteriorated or that the
squandering of a decade renders a solvency fix more urgent. A new body of
research shows how the lack of reform threatens core Democratic constituencies.

Social Security benefits were designed in the 1930s to protect traditional
couples. But married couples make up a declining fraction of the adult
population, particularly among minorities. Since 1970 the married share of the
adult population has dropped by 10 percentage points for whites, 14 percentage
points for Hispanics and an astonishing 22 percentage points for African
Americans. Because Social Security benefits were not designed to protect
singles, these changes in family structure are driving up poverty rates among
the old. In the early 1990s, 2.4 percent of married retirees lived below the
poverty line, according to the Urban Institute. But fully 21.2 percent of
divorced retirees were poor, and the rate among never-marrieds was 16.2 percent.

If Democrats cared about poor women and minorities, they would be clamoring to
reform Social Security. But instead they get a childish gratification out of
stamping their feet and refusing to discuss the subject. They can't muster the
courage to block the suspension of habeas corpus. But when it comes to blocking
entitlement reform, the Democrats ride out to battle.

I'm not saying that Republicans are at all better, and of course elections breed
some policy timidity. But the infuriating thing about the Democrats is that,
just a decade ago, they knew how to empathize with voters' economic insecurities
without collapsing into irresponsibility; they combined attractively progressive
social policies with sensible pro-market fiscal responsibility. Now many in the
party have lost interest in this necessary balance. If the Democrats win a
measure of power next month, it's hard to see what they will do with it.

smallaby@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              238 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Ehrlich Seeks Driver's License Limits

BYLINE: John Wagner, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 730 words


Maryland Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. yesterday called for quick action on
tightening identity requirements for driver's licenses, prompting Democratic
lawmakers to accuse him of preying on fears about immigration to motivate his
conservative base.

"It is clear that Maryland is becoming a magnet for illegal immigrants living on
the East Coast who are using fraud to prove legal residence in the state,"
Ehrlich (R) wrote in a letter urging the chairman of a legislative panel to hold
a hearing on proposed state regulations before the Nov. 7 election.

The Ehrlich administration sent the panel emergency proposals in July to
eliminate what the governor termed "the most unreliable documents" as proof of
identity when seeking a driver's license, including foreign baptismal
certificates and foreign school records.

Sen. Paul G. Pinsky (D-Prince George's), chairman of the panel that reviews
state regulations, said he considered it impractical to pull together 20
lawmakers, most of whom are running for reelection, before November for a
hearing on a complex issue that has proven controversial and is drawing renewed
concerns from advocates for immigrants.

"I wanted this to be a thoughtful process and not be bullied into something that
is campaign fodder," Pinsky said yesterday.

Ehrlich spokesman Henry Fawell said politics was not driving Ehrlich's sense of
urgency. Rather, he said, the state's Motor Vehicle Administration has
experienced a dramatic increase recently in fraudulent applications for driver's
licenses. He also pointed to last week's indictment of five people who were
allegedly part of a ring that sold 150 fraudulent licenses.

"Those are two very good reasons to move forward quickly," Fawell said. "If
anyone is concerned about politics entering this debate, they should turn to
Senator Pinsky. It's astounding that a senior lawmaker would drag his feet like
this."

A spokesman for Baltimore Mayor Martin O'Malley (D), who is seeking to unseat
Ehrlich in November, said the mayor supports Pinsky's desire for careful
deliberations and would not take a position on the regulations until after a
hearing. "It's amazing how many issues Bob Ehrlich has discovered five weeks
before the election," O'Malley spokesman Rick Abbruzzese said. "It makes you
wonder what he's been doing for the last four years."

Maryland is one of a few states that do not require applicants to prove they are
legal immigrants before seeking a driver's license. States are preparing to
comply with a sweeping federal law passed last year that will tighten rules on
driver's licenses and other forms of identification. In his letter, Ehrlich said
the state regulations he has proposed were "common sense changes" that could be
made before complying with those requirements.

The governor could ultimately change the regulations without the legislature's
consent, but it can be done more quickly with legislative input.

Del. Jean B. Cryor (R-Montgomery), who sits on the review committee, said it was
unfair for lawmakers to question Ehrlich's motive on an issue that should have
been addressed some time ago.

"In this environment, in the month before an election, if you ordered a bowl of
oatmeal at a diner, you'd be accused of being political," Cryor said.

Del. Richard S. Madaleno Jr. (D-Montgomery), another committee member, said
Ehrlich's lack of past urgency on this issue, however, showed that "this is all
a political gimmick."

"They're looking to use illegal immigrants as a scapegoat in this election," he
said. "When you have no record, you must dwell on people's fears to motivate
voters."

Although Ehrlich does not talk often about immigration on the campaign trail, he
has had several clashes with advocates during his term. He drew fire last year
for trimming Medicaid services to newly arrived legal immigrants. In 2004,
Ehrlich roiled minority communities by declaring that "multiculturalism is
bunk."

Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA of Maryland, an immigrant advocacy
group, said Ehrlich's letter risked stirring the same kind of feelings.

"My first reaction is that we are in elections, and he wants to use the issue of
anti-immigrant feelings," Torres said. "It's not going to be a good thing for
him to use it because people will be very upset; our community will be very
upset."

Staff writer Nancy Trejos contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              239 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Literacy Triumphs, Challenges Largely Borne by Volunteers

BYLINE: Pam Saussy

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T04

LENGTH: 638 words


Since 1963, the Literacy Council of Montgomery County has been helping adults to
improve their literacy skills. At a time when immigration, consideration of
English as the "official" language and standards of learning are key issues, the
council works with hundreds of adults, native and foreign-born, to improve their
levels of reading, writing and speaking English. Council Executive Director
Pamela Saussy of Potomac began volunteering with the organization in 1997 and
became its director in 2001. She writes about the organization and the people it
serves.

Try to imagine going through life unable to read, write or speak English.
Imagine struggling to understand package labels, bus schedules, medication
instructions, bills and bank statements. Imagine trying to be understood by a
doctor, a police officer or your child's teacher. Applying for a job  --  and
keeping it  --  might be the most difficult task of all. That's the situation
facing thousands of American and foreign-born adults in Montgomery County.

Because Montgomery County is home to almost half of Maryland's immigrant
population, it's easy to assume that this alone accounts for low literacy levels
in the county. However, within our well-educated county lives a virtually
invisible group of native-born Americans who might be able to read well enough
to decode simple words, yet not well enough to understand a news article or even
the back of a cereal box. Many have kept their problem hidden for years. They
may be highly intelligent but have special needs that prevented them from
learning in a traditional classroom environment. Whether foreign- or
native-born, all of these adults need basic literacy skills to get better jobs,
support their children's education and participate fully in society.

For nearly 43 years, the Literacy Council of Montgomery County has helped adults
obtain essential literacy and English skills. We train volunteers to provide
free, one-on-one or small-group tutoring in our English-as-a-second-language and
basic literacy programs. In the past year, more than 500 literacy council
volunteers donated more than 37,000 hours of service, teaching close to 800
students. That's the good news. The bad news is that there are 350 more people
still on our waiting list. More arrive at our door nearly every day.

Our students may have had little or no formal education in their native country,
while others have completed high school or even college before coming to the
United States. They cite a variety of goals for learning English: to help their
children in school, get a driver's license, open their own businesses, become
U.S. citizens.

The council's students present us with new challenges every day, such as
figuring out how to fit tutoring sessions between multiple jobs and helping a
woman living under the veil learn English without sacrificing her privacy.
Students come to us because they can't afford tuition-based classes, because
they require flexible scheduling to accommodate work or family obligations, or
because they need individualized instruction to learn.

Accomplishments that we take for granted, such as conversations with store
clerks, bank tellers, pharmacists and landlords, are significant achievements
for our students. Literacy council students proudly tell us how they mastered
the bus system, negotiated a home purchase, completed a job application,
attended a parent-teacher conference or read a book to their child.

Literacy changes lives, and volunteers are the key to our success. Any adult who
can read, write and speak English fluently can become a tutor. No teaching
experience or knowledge of a foreign language is necessary. As literacy council
tutors will tell you, watching students and their families move forward with new
hope and confidence is incredibly rewarding.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              240 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 9, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Broader Sense of Home;
As Numbers Grow, More Area Indians Are Splitting Lives Between Countries

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1551 words


Growing up in the United States, Rajeev Sharma viewed India as a something of a
"backwater." Now the Rockville resident goes there for business each month, and
he feels respect for his birthplace  --  and a bit more Indian.

When Rahul Ghate arrived from India for graduate school a decade ago, he met few
Americans familiar with his culture. Now the Fairfax County technology executive
finds that Americans often strike up chats about his country.

Things have changed fast for Indians in the Washington region, most strikingly
their sheer presence. After doubling in the 1990s, the area's Indian population
--  immigrants and Indian Americans  --  grew an additional 50 percent in the
past five years, from about 70,000 to nearly 107,000. Foreign-born Indians now
rival Koreans as the area's most populous immigrant group after Salvadorans.
Nationally, the Indian population soared in the past five years from more than
1.6 million to 2.3 million, second only to the Chinese among Asian ethnic
groups.

That growth naturally has smoothed the cultural transition for Indians; some
joke that there are more Indian cultural events in the Washington suburbs than
in Mumbai. More recently, the population boom has accompanied strengthening
economic bonds between India and the United States and rapid development in
India. Together, the trends have reshaped the Indian American and Indian
immigrant experience in ways subtle and deep  --  influencing, some say, their
plans and senses of identity and home.

While noting that their affection for India has never flagged, some Indians say
they now feel more proud of their heritage. More immigrants who planned to stay
in the United States for good are reconsidering. And as India sprouts
Western-style shopping malls and gleaming outposts of U.S. companies, a small
but growing number of Indians  --  particularly affluent male technology workers
and retiring baby boomers  --  are leading dual lives in the countries.

Mrinalini Sadananda is one. She arrived in the area in 1971. Americans were
welcoming, she said, but Indians were so rare that she often fielded questions
about the dot on her forehead and how she, a dancer, could sustain herself on a
meatless diet.

In the early 1990s, Sadananda began teaching kuchipudi, a classical Indian
dance, in her garage. She later opened a school in Fairfax City that now has
about 60 students, mostly daughters of rich Indian high-tech workers.

Three years ago, her husband, also Indian and a retired scientist, took a
visiting professorship in India. Soon he was raving about their homeland's
newfound livability. A year later, the Sadanandas sold their Fairfax County home
and rented two apartments  --  one walking distance from Springfield Mall, the
other at a complex in Chennai, India.

Both U.S. citizens, they spend six months in Virginia and six months in India.

"It's like my two eyes. Which do you love more? That is the way I feel about
India and America," Sadananda, 58 and petite, said while sitting on her sofa in
Springfield one recent morning. Two stuffed suitcases sat on the white carpet,
prepped for her return to India. "I have the best of both worlds."

In an era of webcams and discount airfares that help expatriates keep close ties
to their homelands, researchers say Indians retain some of the closest, thanks
in part to Indian media, which are particularly pervasive around the globe.

But few other immigrants live such "transnational" lives  --  yet, said Muzaffar
Chishti, director of the Migration Policy Institute at the New York University
School of Law.

"Living in two places is going to be more of a phenomenon than we've seen in the
past," Chishti said. "It raises, obviously, the very difficult question, a
social and psychological question: What becomes home?"

Some Indians say that sounds melodramatic. But they agree that mingling the two
cultures has changed their perspectives in unexpected ways.

On a recent night, a group of friends  --  tech workers, a doctor, a
restaurateur  --  reflected on this over plates of tandoori shrimp and a lentil
dish called dal makhani at Bombay Tandoor, a Tysons Corner restaurant. Indian
pop music sailed through a room decorated with plush floral carpet and tables
covered in white cloths.

Among them was Sreedhar Potarazu, 41, who was born to some of the Washington
region's first Indian immigrants and who left a career in medicine to start a
McLean software company that now has offices in Bangalore, India, which he
visits several times a year. More than ever, he sees both India and the United
States as home.

Also in the group was Sudhir Anandarao, one of Potarazu's vice presidents. He
left India a decade ago for graduate school, then found work in Northern
Virginia's technology sector. Working and living as an adult in India would be
"alien," he said. But changes in India have made him contemplate doing just
that.

"I wouldn't have thought about that five or 10 years ago," said Anandarao, 34.
"I would think about it now."

Indians have come to the United States in distinct stages. The first major group
arrived in the late 1960s and early '70s, most armed with stellar academic
credentials and headed for graduate schools. Many who stayed sponsored
relatives, bringing a second wave of immigrants in the 1980s, some of whom had
less schooling and took working-class jobs. As the U.S. technology industry
surged in the 1990s, companies brought in thousands of highly skilled Indian
workers.

Today, community leaders say, the growth is the result of skilled workers,
foreign students and family members  --  including many parents of immigrant
professionals.

Indians have made homes throughout the region, particularly in Fairfax and
Montgomery counties. More recently, census surveys show, they have moved in
greater numbers to the outer counties.

So many flock to Chantilly's Rajdhani Mandir, a Hindu temple, that worshipers'
donations have nearly paid a $1.6 million mortgage after six years, its head
priest boasts  --  something leaders expected to take 30. In the Loudoun County
enclave of South Riding, near Northern Virginia's tech corridor, Indians have
formed their own association. After six years in business, Bombay Tandoor now
caters as many as three Indian weddings  --  often with guest lists hovering
around 500  --  each weekend.

Community leaders say many poor Indians live in places such as New York and
Chicago, and federal data indicate that the population of illegal Indian
immigrants has skyrocketed in recent years. Still, Indians are the nation's most
highly educated and richest ethnic group.

That affluence and education is even more pronounced in the Washington region,
census data show, in part because of technology companies and international
organizations. In the 2000 Census, 72 percent of Indians in the area had a
bachelor's degree or higher, and their median household income was more than
$75,000. The wealth makes the intercontinental lifestyle more common in this
region, Indians say.

Such changes, and the new calculations they bring, carry their own set of
complications. Beyond the edges of India's pristine developments, some Indians
note, remain grinding poverty and poor infrastructure that can be hard to deal
with for those accustomed to life in U.S. suburbs. And although working in both
places can deepen professionals' attachment to two countries, some say it also
can accentuate alienation from both.

"You're in sort of a no man's land," Potarazu said. "You never quite fit in. . .
. It's always a middle zone."

Anandarao said his parents, seeing that it is possible in a way it was not
before, are pressuring him and his wife to move with their two children to
India. He is torn.

"Will our daughter embrace the American culture? Will she embrace the Indian
culture?" he asked, referring to his 3-year-old. "Will she do both?"

When he hears his daughter say, "shut up," he cringes at what he thinks this
country's less conservative culture has done, and could do, to her. For now, he
said, "we're sort of balancing the two."

So, more than ever, is Sharma, the Rockville businessman.

He grew up feeling Indian on the outside and American on the inside. His family
visited India once. The next time he returned was to marry a fellow University
of Maryland graduate  --  who also left India as a child  --  in "what Indians
melodramatically call a love marriage, as opposed to an arranged marriage," he
said, speaking by phone from New Delhi. Still, the country felt foreign.

Eventually, business made him see India differently. In 1997, he started a
technology services company, ABSi. Two years ago, he opened an office in
Hyderabad, India. Now Sharma, 45, who immigrated to the United States when he
was 3, spends five days a month in India.

By the end of this year, Sharma, his wife and their two sons  --  whom they have
taught to speak Hindi  --  will have made three visits to India. The boys, ages
6 and 13, feel quite at home there, Sharma said.

"A lot of the time when people are raised in the United States and try to come
back here, there's that kind of disconnect," he said. "Now that transition is
eased. I guess I do feel very Indian when I'm here."

Database editor Dan Keating contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              241 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 10, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Fence Meets Wall of Skepticism;
Critics Doubt a 700-Mile Barrier Would Stem Migrant Tide

BYLINE: John Pomfret, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1410 words

DATELINE: CALEXICO, Calif.


Legislation passed by Congress mandating the fencing of 700 miles of the U.S.
border with Mexico has sparked opposition from an array of land managers,
businesspeople, law enforcement officials, environmentalists and U.S. Border
Patrol agents as a one-size-fits-all policy response to the nettlesome task of
securing the nation's borders.

Critics said the fence does not take into account the extraordinarily varied
geography of the 2,000-mile-long border, which cuts through Mexican and U.S.
cities separated by a sidewalk, vast scrubland and deserts, rivers, irrigation
canals and miles of mountainous terrain. They also say it  seems to ignore
advances in border security that don't involve construction of a 15-foot-high
double fence and to play down what are expected to be significant costs to
maintain the new barrier.

And, they say, the estimated $2 billion price tag and the mandate that it be
completed by 2008 overlook 10 years of legal and logistical difficulties the
federal government has faced to finish a comparatively tiny fence of 14 miles
dividing San Diego and Tijuana.

"This is the feel-good approach to immigration control," said Wayne Cornelius,
an expert on immigration issues at the University of California at San Diego.
"The only pain is experienced by the migrants themselves. It doesn't hurt U.S.
consumers; it doesn't hurt U.S. businesses. It only hurts taxpayers if they pay
attention to spending on border enforcement."

Congress has decreed that five sections of reinforced fencing  --  most probably
a double fence with stadium lighting  --  will be built along a third of the
border, in California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. The biggest section is
planned from east of Calexico stretching more than 300 miles to west of Douglas,
Ariz.

There also are questions of whether the fence will be more of a symbol to be
used in elections than a reality along the border. For one thing, shortly before
Congress adjourned, the House and Senate gave the Bush administration leeway to
distribute the money allocated for the fence to other projects, including roads,
technology and other infrastructure items to support the Department of Homeland
Security's preferred option of building a "virtual fence."

Currently, less than 100 miles of the border is fenced, primarily in populated
areas. San Diego has become a symbol for the efficacy of fences, but a closer
look at the experience of that seaside city also illustrates the potential
pitfalls.

In the mid-1990s, the city was awash in illegal immigrants. Hundreds would
gather by a soccer field near Otay Mesa, east of San Diego, and rush into the
United States on what the Border Patrol termed "banzai runs." During those
years, Border Patrol agents routinely apprehended 200,000 illegal entrants a
year in the sector. Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.) got funding to build a fence
and thousands more Border Patrol officers were dispatched to the area. The
number of crossers plummeted.

But the fence, originally estimated at $14 million, incurred huge cost overruns
and logistical and legal hurdles. It took $39 million to build the first nine
miles, and the fence has yet to be finished. For a decade, litigation has
delayed construction of 3.5 miles of the structure because environmental groups
have opposed a federal plan to lop the tops off two mesas and pour 5.5 million
cubic feet of dirt into a valley, called "Smuggler's Gulch," to flatten the
terrain. Environmental groups lost the case when the Department of Homeland
Security invoked a law exempting it from federal and state regulations in the
interest of national security. DHS recently appropriated an additional $35
million to complete the fence  --  for a total of $74 million, or more than $5
million a mile.

The fence in San Diego forced illegal traffic into the deserts to the east,
leading thousands of migrants to their death. In response, the Border Patrol
shifted thousands of agents to Arizona to deal with the flow. But many of those
agents came from the San Diego and El Centro sectors. So once again, the number
of crossers in San Diego and El Centro is  increasing even though the two
sectors are the most heavily fenced in the nation.

"Tucson now has 2,600 agents. San Diego has lost 1,000 agents. Guess where the
traffic is going? Back to San Diego." said T.J. Bonner, the president of the
National Border Patrol Council, the main union for Border Patrol agents. "San
Diego is the most heavily fortified border in the entire country, and yet it's
not stopping people from coming across."

There are  concerns along the border that the congressionally mandated fence
could overshadow new, cheaper technologies that show some promise. For example,
30 miles of reinforced vehicle barriers, which cost on average $1 million a
mile, have reduced by 95 percent road traffic from drug and migrant smugglers
into the Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, where a park ranger was shot and
killed by narcotics traffickers in 2002, said Kathy Billings, superintendent of
the territory. "We used to have two to three high-speed chases a month," she
said. "Now we have less than six a year."

But even the vehicle barriers, posts in the ground connected to each other by
railroad ties, need year-round maintenance. The barriers at Organ Pipe have
already been breached four times since they were completed this summer. A
full-scale double fence in the Arizona desert, where summer rains cause flash
floods that often rip up anything in their path, would be extremely costly to
build, let alone maintain, Billings said.

The ecological effect of a fence would be significant, according to Roger Di
Rosa,  manager of the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge in Arizona, which
runs along about 50 miles of the Mexican border. Efforts to protect pronghorn
sheep and encourage the jaguar to return to the United States could be seriously
affected, he said. "If it doesn't fly, it's not getting across," he said. "The
law is pretty straightforward but the border is very unique."

Marine Corps officers in the region also have questioned the need for a fence.
Using a combination of vehicle barriers and ground-based radar, they had blocked
a significant portion of smuggling traffic through their land on the Yuma
Proving Ground, which runs along 30 miles of the border, Di Rosa and others
said. In recent months, however, the Pentagon for unknown reasons ordered the
base to install a fence. Marine Corps officers at the facility did not return a
call seeking comment.

Di Rosa and others cited other potential unintended consequences of
fence-building. In some regions along the border, the nearest main road can be
80 miles away. So to build the barrier, roads must  be created. That could end
up facilitating movement into the United States rather than blocking it.
Officials along the border challenged optimistic timelines that the wall could
be built in two years, citing the high probability of lawsuits from
environmental agencies and land owners.

In Texas, which is to get 200 miles of fencing, opposition to the plan has  come
from law enforcement and city governments. The City of El Paso has officially
opposed the plan, as has the Texas Border Sheriff's Association.

Maverick County Sheriff Tomas S. Herrera predicted ranchers would sue the
federal government to fight the installation of a fence on their property. One
reason is that  ranchers want access to the Rio Grande, which snakes 1,254 miles
along the border, to water their herds and for sport fishermen who pay to use
the waterway.

Perhaps because of these objections, Congress, in a late-night concession just
before adjournment, pledged that Native American tribes, members of Congress,
governors and local leaders would get a say in "the exact placement" of any
structure, and that Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff has discretion
to use alternatives "when fencing is ineffective or impractical."

Herrra thinks flexibility might be needed. He echoed a widespread skepticism
about federal programs, hatched in Washington, designed to deal with the border
problems.

"A few years ago, they installed cameras and said the cameras would solve
things," he said. "Those cameras can pick up a tick on a cow's back. But when
half the monitors are all busted like they are now, they don't work."

His prediction for how illegal immigrants would deal with the wall: "They will
get ladders made out of mesquite and climb it."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              242 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 16, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Paul, Hastings's D.C. Office Adds Seven

SECTION: Financial; D08

LENGTH: 200 words


Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP added seven lawyers to its District
office, including former Supreme Court clerk Matthew Stowe.

Stowe, who clerked for Justice Sandra Day O'Connor in 1997 to 1998, has been
deputy solicitor general for the state of Texas. He will be of counsel.

The firm recruited Daniel Brown, an official at U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, to counsel clients on immigration and enforcement issues. And it
brought on five patent litigation lawyers from Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman
LLP. Lawrence J. Gotts and Michael D. Bednarek will be partners. Aslan Baghdadi,
Mark Koehn and Elizabeth Roesel will be of counsel.

At other major firms:

*  Holland and Knight LLP said three lawyers joined its syndication and bond
practice group from Hawkins Delafield & Wood LLP. Anthony S. Freedman, a former
official at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and Florence A.
Wood, join as partners. Jill Chessen Cork be senior counsel.

*  Fish & Richardson PC said Jeffrey R. Whieldon, who was with the U.S.
International Trade Commission, has joined the firm's litigation group to
specialize in ITC and patent litigation. He will be of counsel.

--  Larry Liebert

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              243 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

General Speaks of Immigrant Father;
Congressional Hearing Turns Personal

BYLINE: Glenn Frankel and Daniela Deane, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: MIAMI July 10


A congressional hearing on immigration came to a dramatic pause Monday when Gen.
Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, choked up as he talked
about his Italian immigrant father and the opportunities that America had given
to his family.

A hush fell over the auditorium at Miami Dade College as Pace, a Marine who was
born in Brooklyn, N.Y., and grew up in Teaneck, N.J., was overcome with emotion
and struggled to continue reading from his statement as the opening witness at
the field hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee.

Pace was explaining his family's origins to the committee and the opportunities
he and his three siblings enjoyed in America when he lost his composure, much to
the surprise of the 150 people gathered in the hearing room and to the five
senators, who sat riveted as the general paused.

After he composed himself, Pace described his older sister, who went to law
school, and his older brother, who, like himself, attended the Naval Academy and
was a Marine.

"There is no other country on the planet that affords that kind of opportunity
to those who come here," Pace concluded. The audience burst into applause.

Pace's father was born in Italy in 1914, immigrated to the United States and
became an electrician in New York City, raising four children there. The first
Marine to be named chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Pace has been chairman since
September 2005 after serving as vice chairman for four years.

Pace, whose last name means "peace" in Italian, is a 1967 graduate of the Naval
Academy and has served in Thailand, Korea and Japan.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who was at the hearing, said Pace made an
"enormously moving comment and statement" and added: "We just hope our
colleagues in the Congress can hear it."

Field hearings are being held around the country on the separate House and
Senate immigration bills currently before Congress. The subject of the Miami
hearing, chaired by Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John W. Warner
(R-Va.), was the contributions immigrants have made to the armed forces.

The House bill calls for tighter border controls, 700 miles of fencing along the
U.S.-Mexico border and funding for local law enforcement agencies along the
border. It also calls for tougher deportation standards and stringent
enforcement of rules governing employers who hire undocumented workers.

The Senate's immigration bill, co-sponsored by Kennedy and Sen. John McCain
(R-Ariz.), includes similar provisions. But it also outlines a method for an
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants to become U.S. citizens and calls for a
guest-worker program that would provide legal residency status for as long as
six years.

In recent weeks, the White House and Senate Republicans have indicated a
willingness to tackle border security first, but only if the action later
triggers some or all of the Senate bill's residency-related provisions.

House GOP leaders have dismissed such features as the guest-worker program as an
unacceptable "amnesty" for lawbreakers. They were the first to call for field
hearings as a means of showcasing popular support for their approach while also
delaying negotiations with senators on a final bill.

After Pace's emotional testimony, Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) asked the
general whether his parents were still living. Pace replied that his mother was
still alive.

"When you have Italian blood in you, sometimes it wells up and grabs your
heart," he told Graham.

Graham said, "It takes a strong Marine to cry."

Deane reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              244 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Reflections on the Immigration Rallies

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 535 words


I watched  the immigration rallies in Washington ["Marchers Flood Mall With
Passion, Pride," front page, April 11], and on the news I heard Rep.  James P.
Moran Jr. (D-Va.) speaking passionately in favor of "immigration rights" and of
making those who are in this country  illegally or without documentation legal
citizens, with all the rights and privileges that citizens enjoy.

As an immigrant who came to this country legally  and was naturalized last
summer after years of bureaucratic hassle and expense  --  in other words, who
went by the book  --  I find it unfathomable that the Senate would consider
assisting those who have ignored U.S. laws. What about the rights of Americans?
And whose needs and interests come first, illegal immigrants or U.S. citizens?

I know this is a nation of immigrants, but it is a nation of legal immigrants,
who agreed to live within and abide by the laws of the land. If we reward those
who break our laws with the privilege of citizenship, we are undermining our
sovereignty as a nation.

SARAH JANE LAURIE

Potomac Falls

*

None of the strident anti-immigration remarks bothers  me more than hearing that
immigrants will change the fabric of U.S. society. What is meant is that they
will stay separate and the country will be diminished by this.

My experience tells me that by the third generation, and maybe sooner, today's
immigrants will become as American as all previous immigrants.

My grandparents were poor, uneducated Mexicans who came to the United States to
escape the Mexican Revolution of the early 1900s. My father, the second
generation, volunteered for the Army in 1941. He was turned down because of a
medical problem, but he had the problem surgically corrected. He then was
accepted into the Army Air Corps and went on to become a lieutenant colonel.

Give today's immigrants time, and they will become PTA presidents, Cub Scout
leaders, Little League coaches, and, of course, taxpayers and voters. Their
children will speak English as their first language, and their allegiance to the
"old country" will become an occasional nostalgic occurrence.

At La Marcha, my daughter and I saw a young Latina from Virginia carrying a
placard that said: "I was born in the USA, my GPA is 4.2 and I am in the
National Honor Society  --  What else do you want?"

My feelings exactly.

MILTON J. HERNANDEZ

Montgomery Village

*

Many legislators refuse to consider amnesty for undocumented immigrants on the
grounds that it would condone an illegal act, but why not offer amnesty to the
children  they brought with them?

These children  came to this country because of someone else's decision. To the
credit of the U.S. government, they are offered a high school education. But
most states then deny them in-state tuition, severely limiting their opportunity
to attend college.

By offering citizenship to these children, we would benefit. They would not
become part of the underground economy but, instead, taxpaying citizens. These
are individuals who have overcome great odds  --  learning English, completing
high school, adjusting to a new culture. Instead of punishing them, let's invest
in their success.

HELEN ACKERMAN

Clifton

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              245 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Bill Fallout May Hurt House GOP;
Strict Provisions Are Uniting Critics

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1156 words


In the wake of this week's massive demonstrations, many House Republicans are
worried that a tough anti-illegal-immigration bill they thought would please
their political base has earned them little benefit while becoming a lightning
rod for the fast-growing national movement for immigrant rights.

House Republicans rushed through legislation just before Christmas that would
build hundreds of miles of fence along the U.S.-Mexico border, require that
businesses verify the legality of all employees' status through a national
database, fortify border patrols, and declare illegal immigrants and those who
help them to be felons. After more lenient legislation failed in the Senate last
week, the House-passed version burst into the public consciousness this week, as
hundreds of thousands of protesters across the country turned out to denounce
the bill.

Yesterday, House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) and Senate Majority Leader
Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) issued a joint statement seeking to deflect blame for the
harshest provisions of the House bill toward the Democrats, who they said showed
a lack of compassion. "It remains our intent to produce a strong border security
bill that will not make unlawful presence in the United States a felony,"
Hastert and Frist said.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) fired back that "there's no running away from
the fact that the Republican House passed a bill and Senator Frist offered one
that criminalizes immigrants."

House Democrats acknowledged they helped block Republican efforts on the floor
in December to soften the Republican-crafted section declaring illegal
immigrants to be felons, but they said ultimate responsibility for the bill
rests with the Republicans, who voted overwhelmingly for its passage.

"The Democrats were not going to do anything to make it easier for Republicans
to pass an atrocious bill," said Jennifer Crider, a spokeswoman for House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.).

Yesterday's maneuvering underscores how the immigration issue has mushroomed
into a fierce political debate with potentially large stakes heading into the
November congressional elections. The hundreds of thousands of protesters in the
streets Monday vividly demonstrated the power of the issue, which some
strategists say threatens to undercut President Bush's long-standing hope of
making Hispanic voters a GOP constituency.

"There was political calculation that they could make this the wedge issue of
2006 and 2008, but it's not playing out that way," said Rep. Raul M. Grijalva
(D-Ariz.). "This has galvanized and energized the Latino community like no other
issue I have seen in two decades, and that's going to have electoral
consequences."

Republicans say they could accept that sentiment if they believed they had won
political points from the GOP's restive base. But for all the negatives, they
don't have many positives to show for their efforts.

"From the standpoint of those who would applaud the House's stand, I'd say we
have not gotten sufficient credit," said Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-Ga.), a reliable
supporter of House leaders. "I'm somewhat distressed that they have not gotten
word of what we've done."

The politics of the issue have shifted markedly since the House acted.
Republican lawmakers are increasingly saying they will now consider some avenue
to grant illegal immigrants access to lawful employment. And Democrats who voted
for the House bill with an eye on their political futures or to preempt feared
attacks from conservatives are rethinking their position.

Rep. Ted Strickland (D-Ohio), a supporter of the bill, was greeted by protesters
and shouts of "Migration is not a crime" in February when he opened his Ohio
gubernatorial campaign office in Cleveland. Now, he regrets his vote, campaign
spokesman Jess Goode said.

The 36 Democrats who voted for passage included Rep. John T. Salazar (Colo.)  --
whose brother, Sen. Ken Salazar (D-Colo.), has railed against the House measure
--  and Rep. Harold E. Ford Jr. (Tenn.), who may find it difficult to tap into
the mobilizing Latino vote in his run for the Senate this year.

Although much has been made of the failed efforts in the Senate last week to
forge a bipartisan measure to toughen border security while creating a system to
allow many of the 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants here to achieve
legal status or citizenship, the actions in the House late last year have
received little attention until now.

House GOP leaders had rushed lawmakers back to Washington for a rare December
session to vote on the immigration measure, hoping to give their members an
accomplishment to brag about over the long winter recess. But it was the deft
maneuvering of Democrats that preserved the bill's most infamous provision,
declaring illegal immigrants felons, and that provision has helped turn the bill
into a political albatross for some Republicans, Democrats say.

The bill, written by House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner
Jr. (R-Wis.), was passed in a matter of hours, nine days before Christmas. Just
seven amendments were allowed to come to a vote, none of them fundamentally
altering the legislation.

Sensenbrenner's committee bill included the felony provision, but when he took
it to the House floor Dec. 16, he offered an amendment to downgrade the offense
of being an undocumented worker from a felony to a misdemeanor.

The Democratic leadership pushed its members to vote against the amendment, and
191 Democrats did. Only eight Democrats voted with Sensenbrenner.

"It was an ugly bill in most respects, the felony stuff, the wall and no
amendments," said Rep. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), who tried to add a guest-worker
provision but was not allowed a vote. "The leadership saw this more as a
statement than a policy, but I think in the end we would have been better off
had we been more deliberative."

With so little debate, media coverage was minimal, and what coverage there was
got little notice in the holiday bustle, Republicans say.

"We're victims of our own success," said Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.).

Sensenbrenner's bill is getting attention now, not so much from Republican-base
voters but from Spanish-language radio shows and Latino activists who have made
it the focus of marches that have drawn more than a million protesters. One sign
on the Mall Monday read "Sense, not Sensenbrenner."

In a letter to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops last week, Sensenbrenner
charged that all but eight Democrats "decided to play political game by voting
to make all illegal immigrants felons."

But Democratic votes alone did not seal the defeat. Sixty-five Republicans voted
against it, too, including anti-immigrant firebrands such as Rep. J.D. Hayworth
(Ariz.) and moderates such as Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (Va.). Rep. John A.
Boehner (Ohio) voted against the amendment and the bill just weeks before he was
elected majority leader.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2006



CORRECTION: An April 12 article misstated the number of amendments brought to a
vote as the House debated an immigration bill. It was nine, not seven.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              246 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 14, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

My Immigration Solution

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: Editorial; A17

LENGTH: 758 words


I've written several columns arguing that our society should welcome the current
influx of immigrants, not brand them as felons or build a fortress wall along
the Mexican border. Quite a few readers have written to ask, often not quite
this politely, "Okay, so what's your solution?" That's a fair question, so I'll
try to answer it.

The easy part, for me, is how to deal with the  estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants already in the country. I think the thing to do is put
them on track to citizenship  --  all those who want to become citizens, at
least, and whose only crime is being here without the required documents. The
word "amnesty" is politically radioactive, so we can call it something else, but
at the end of the day that's what it's going to be.

After all, we invited these people to come here and pick our strawberries, clean
our offices, pluck our chickens, bus our tables, wash our cars and perform a
host of other jobs for which our society no longer wants to shell out
working-class wages and reasonable benefits such as health insurance. By
"invited" I mean that we left the Mexican border essentially open, gave
employers the luxury of no-questions-asked hiring without any credible threat of
sanctions, and failed to make clear who was supposed to enforce the immigration
laws and how. That adds up to an invitation.

The economic counterargument that gets made is that undocumented immigrants
depress wages for all low-skilled labor. But I don't hear the claim that there's
an actual glut of unskilled workers  --  just that the undocumented, because of
their precarious position, will work cheap. Shouldn't it follow, then, that
wages will rise when these workers are legitimized, enfranchised and unionized?

Some readers have written to argue that the amnesty, whatever it's
euphemistically called, would "reward illegal behavior." Let's be real: We're
talking about behavior that our society has encouraged and exploited. It would
be like a police officer who flags you down, says it's an emergency, asks you to
drive him across town as fast as possible and then writes you a ticket for
speeding.

Now for the hard part: What to do about the border?

The U.S.-Mexico border is not like most frontiers. It's true that in satellite
photos you can see the line in some places where the world's richest country
ends and its less affluent neighbor begins  --  one side is lit up like a
Christmas tree, the other is in shadow. But from ground level, the border is
less a line than a zone extending many miles north and south. The border between
the Southwestern United States and northern Mexico has always been transcended
by family ties, common economic interests and cultural kinship. Cleaving these
linkages apart with an impenetrable wall would be a radical step, and ultimately
self-defeating.

So I don't want to see an Adobe Curtain, with watchtowers and Dobermans. I also
don't want to see would-be migrants used, abused and sometimes left for dead in
the desert by ruthless coyotes  --  the people-smugglers who are the only
unalloyed villains in this whole affair.

The alternative I'm left with, then, is sanctioning enough of a flow of Mexican
immigrants across the border to change the current incentive equation. At
present, it makes more sense to thousands of people each month to risk their
lives with the coyotes than to "get in line" to come in legally. People wouldn't
take that risk if they had the realistic hope of being able to enter someday,
say within a year or two, by air-conditioned bus.

I don't have a specific number for "enough," but it would meet the demand. You
could set the limit comfortably below the numbers now crossing illegally and
still expect the border "crisis" to shrink back into a manageable "issue," since
fewer people would choose a perilous dash through the desert. We wouldn't need a
new wall.

It does not diminish America's sovereignty to decide to let more immigrants come
in legally. Border cities would need some federal help to fulfill their role as
welcome centers. Some migrants would eventually go home, some would stay and
become Americans, some would go back and forth. It would be just like what
happens now, only without the drama.

We should give the migrants some sort of official status so they can participate
in the economy  --  and so it would be harder for unscrupulous employers to take
advantage of them. But don't call them "guest workers," which sounds Orwellian.
Call them by their names.

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              247 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Effect of Immigration on Jobs, Wages Is Difficult for Economists to Nail Down

BYLINE: Nell Henderson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 1185 words


According to the economic models, it's a no-brainer: a surge of low-skilled
immigrants should increase the supply of such workers, driving down wages at the
expense of working-class Americans.

Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.), explaining why he opposes legislation to allow
more legal immigration, said recently: "I don't think you need a professor to
understand that when you import substantial cheap labor, it displaces American
workers."

But recent research suggests that the economic impact of immigration is not so
simple. The effects are difficult to disentangle from other factors that have
dampened wage growth for most workers in recent decades, including new
technologies, the decline in manufacturing jobs, the drop in unionization,
globalization and recessions.

Yes, an influx of immigrants has helped depress the incomes of the
lowest-skilled workers in recent decades, many economists agree. But they argue
about the magnitude of the effect; some say it's big while others see it as
slight.

Meanwhile, increased immigration  --  legal and illegal  --   helps keep
inflation low, boosts rents and housing values, and benefits the average U.S.
taxpayer while burdening some state and local governments, other research finds.

"Immigration provides overall economic gains to a country," wrote economist
Albert Saiz, summarizing the literature in a 2003 article for the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. "Indeed, the U.S. experience as an immigrants'
country is one of phenomenal economic growth. However, there are winners and
losers in the short run."

The primary losers in this country are workers who do not have high school
diplomas, particularly blacks and native-born Hispanics, according to George J.
Borjas, a Harvard University economist who has studied immigration for years.

From 1980 through 2000, immigration reduced average wages for the nation's 10
million native-born men without high school educations by 7.4 percent, Borjas
wrote in 2004. They earned an average of $25,000 a year in 2000.

Other economists contend that the effect is much smaller  --  a wage reduction
of close to 1 percent  --  and has dissipated as Americans have become better
educated. The proportion of the adult labor force, including immigrants, without
high-school diplomas has dropped to just 10 percent.

The proportion of immigrants in the  U.S. adult urban population nearly doubled
from 1980 to 2000, from 9.5 percent to 18 percent, according to census figures
cited by David Card, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley,
in a paper presented at a Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia conference last
year. The Washington area mimicked the national trend, with the immigrants'
proportion growing from 9.6 percent to 20.6 percent during those two decades.

And immigrants are, on average, less schooled than native-born Americans.
Looking at census data from hundreds of the nation's urban areas where
immigrants cluster, Card found that in both 1980 and 2000, more than a third of
adult immigrants did not have high school diplomas. But the proportion of
working-age natives at that education level fell from 23 percent to 13 percent
from 1980 to 2000, "more than offsetting the inflow of less-educated
immigrants."

The wage gap between high school graduates and dropouts stayed relatively
constant from 1979 to 2000, with the graduates earning 25 to 30 percent more,
Card wrote.

The "evidence that immigrants harm native opportunities is scant," he concluded,
observing "a surprisingly weak relationship between immigration and less-skilled
wages."

Immigration also has made up for population losses in some parts of the country.
In New England and the Mid-Atlantic, the labor force would have declined from
1990 to 2000 without immigration, according to a report released in February by
Northeastern University's Center for Labor Market Studies.

Other economic trends have had much more impact on wages, analysts say. Perhaps
the biggest is the general health of the economy.

During the 1990s, the surge in immigration coincided with an economic boom
driven in large part by investment in new technology and rising stock prices.
Unemployment fell below 4 percent in 2000, for the first time in three decades,
and wages rose for workers at all skill levels.

Since 2000, increasing immigration has coincided with the 2001 recession, an
initially weak recovery and a period of lackluster wage growth for most workers.

In the 1990s, "you saw all boats being lifted, whether foreign-born or native,"
said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute.

The recent downturn also coincided with a steep loss of manufacturing jobs  --
more than 2.7 million shed from the start of the recession in March 2001 through
last month, accelerating a trend that began in 1979, according to Labor
Department figures.

The quarter-century decline in manufacturing jobs, which often paid middle-class
wages and benefits, is one factor that has contributed to the fall during that
period in average hourly earnings, adjusted for inflation, economists say.

Those losses were part of the long-term evolution of an industrial-based economy
into one based more on services and information. Those jobs have been lost to
international competition or erased by new technologies that have boosted
overall worker productivity.

The shrinking of the manufacturing sector has also corresponded to a drop in
union membership to 13 percent of the workforce currently from 24 percent in
1979, weakening labor's power to bargain for better wages.

"An extra million immigrants a year cannot possibly explain why the vast
majority of workers in a labor market of 150 million workers have had stagnant
wage growth," said Harry J. Holzer, an economist at Georgetown University. "All
these other factors matter more."

To the extent that cheap low-skilled labor helps hold down prices, there is more
demand for some services, fostering economic growth. Lower menu prices encourage
consumers to dine out more, leading to the opening of more restaurants. Lower
construction costs make home-building more profitable and home remodeling more
affordable.

Low-wage immigrant labor generally has helped keep inflation low in recent
years, for items other than energy and housing, economists say.

The nation's 34 million immigrants also collectively pay more in taxes than they
consume in public services and benefits, according to a National Research
Council study. A high proportion of them work and pay federal, state and local
taxes. Many return to their home countries before retirement and never claim
Social Security payments or Medicare coverage.

But the effects vary locally. In states such as New Jersey and California, with
high proportions of immigrants and relatively generous social services,
immigrants pay less in taxes than they use in government services such as public
schools, the NRC study found.

Such burdens "cannot be ignored," Saiz wrote, "although which mix of
distributive or immigration policies is better for dealing with them is a matter
of opinion."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              248 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Close, Yet So Very Far Apart;
Duncan and John Hunter Are Immigration Opposites

BYLINE: Elliot Spagat, Associated Press

SECTION: Style; D01

LENGTH: 1495 words

DATELINE: OCOTILLO, Calif.


Growing  up in Southern California, Duncan Hunter and his younger brother, John,
shot geese together and fished for bass.

As adults, they chat by phone nearly every day and meet up for an occasional
round of golf. They remain close even though their views are sometimes at odds
--  notably on the latest hot-button topic before Congress, immigration.

Many siblings agree to disagree on politics; the Hunter brothers' divide goes
deeper than arguments around the dinner table.

Duncan Hunter, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, is a hero to
immigration hard-liners. The California Republican is almost single-handedly
responsible for a super-fortified stretch of border  --  a 14-mile barrier in
San Diego that is nearing completion.

John Hunter, toy inventor and physicist, is trying to prevent the deaths that
many consider an unintended consequence of his brother's fence. His pioneering
work providing water in the California desert to illegal border crossers is
revered by liberals.

Their differences underscore the complexity of the immigration debate as
Congress tackles the most sweeping reforms in 20 years.

In December Duncan Hunter joined a House majority that approved a tough
enforcement bill including a measure to expand the definition of migrant
smugglers to people who help them  --  potentially even his younger brother. If
the House bill became law, John Hunter says, he would disobey it.

Behind the wheel of a white Ford F350 pickup, stopping every mile to plant water
stations, John said: "Rosa Parks broke the law. We would break the law. I'm not
going to let someone die because of some dumb law."

Behind the fancy tombstones in the California desert town of Holtville, about
400 plain, white wooden crosses are marked with black lettering: "No Olvidados"
--  Not Forgotten. Next to the crosses, bricks read John Doe, Row 9-29; John
Doe, Row 10-29; John Doe, Row 11-29.

These are the graves of unidentified migrants who died crossing the border. John
Hunter takes his volunteers here to show them why what they do matters.

Laura Hunter, one of his first volunteers  --  who was raised in Mexico and
became his third wife in 2004  --  leads a prayer. John holds hands with people
singing alongside him but says nothing. He doesn't understand Spanish.

More than 3,000 migrants have died crossing the border since U.S. authorities
beefed up enforcement in California in the mid-1990s. Last year, 460 people
perished, surpassing the record of 383 set in 2000.

John Hunter was horrified by news reports of migrant deaths in the late 1990s.
His pleas with the Border Patrol to install cameras in remote areas got nowhere.

Over dinner with frustrated migrant advocates at a Wendy's restaurant in 1999,
he came up with the idea for Water Stations Inc., a nonprofit group that has
about 150 dispensaries.

Now in his seventh season, John places 19-foot flagpoles in the California
desert topped with blue streamers designed to catch the eyes of thirsty
migrants.

Alongside the flags, he places blue plastic barrels that hold about seven
gallon-sized water jugs. Throughout the summer, as temperatures soar into triple
digits, John, 50, replenishes the barrels with jugs every week or two.

A PhD in particle physics who drives around with a notebook full of his
scribbled equations, John says he's a pro-military Republican, "the token
redneck" in a crowd of liberals. He has helped design and build an Army truck
that withstands roadside bombs and other war-fighting hardware.

But playing political roles does not interest him. He doesn't hold news
conferences and shares his views on immigration policy only when pressed.

"We're actionists, not activists," he told 35 volunteers one Saturday morning in
Ocotillo, a desert hamlet about 70 miles east of San Diego. "Everyone has an
opinion [about immigration] but that's not why we're here. Our only issue is
survival."

At Tyler's Taste of Texas, catfish and mesquite-smoked ribs are the house
specials and a portrait of President Bush hangs next to the cash register. A
poem in the menu skewers politicians as lazy spendthrifts.

"Of course, this does not apply to my good friend, Congressman Duncan Hunter,"
writes owner Roy Tyler.

This eatery in the working-class San Diego suburb of El Cajon is the heart of
the congressman's district. On a recent Friday, Duncan sipped morning coffee at
Tyler's and recalled that before he first ran for the House in 1980, immigration
wasn't on his radar.

The decorated Vietnam War veteran had a law practice in a former barbershop in
Barrio Logan, a Hispanic enclave in San Diego, and said he worked free for
clients who couldn't afford to pay.

One client was a Hispanic man accused of selling marijuana on a trip to Mexico.
In return for sparing the man prison time, Duncan got a bowl of Mexican pudding
and his wife got some lingerie.

At 32, Duncan rode Ronald Reagan's coattails to unseat a nine-term Democratic
congressman. His parents helped direct his first campaign, and John knocked on
thousands of doors.

He recalled how his district turned into a "war zone" of human and drug
smugglers who made daily runs across a wide-open border. He championed a 1990s
crackdown that dramatically reduced border crossings and violence in San Diego
and pushed traffic into deserts.

In San Diego, the government erected two fences about 150 feet apart with a
patrol road in between. A mesh fence rises 14 feet and tilts at the top. Even
John Hunter credits Duncan's fence with helping to restore order in San Diego.

Americans for Better Immigration, a group that advocates tighter immigration
controls, gives Duncan an A-plus.

In December, Duncan, 57, slipped an amendment into the immigration bill approved
by the House that called for 698 miles of fencing along the U.S.-Mexico border.
It was a partial victory: He wanted to wall the entire 1,951-mile border, from
the Pacific Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico.

The fencing has angered Mexicans, with President Vicente Fox calling it
"shameful."

Duncan is unapologetic.

"The real question for the politicians in Mexico is what are you doing to your
people to make them want to cross burning deserts to get away?" he said.

Currently, the Border Patrol has fencing on less than 4 percent of the
U.S.-Mexico divide, or about 70 miles.

Let Freedom Ring, a group that advocates tighter border security, pegs the cost
of building a fence along the entire border at $8 billion. An AP-Ipsos poll in
late March found that two-thirds of those surveyed do not think it would work.

Duncan reluctantly acknowledges that tougher enforcement in San Diego pushed
some migrants into the desert, where many have died. His remedy: Extend San
Diego's steel-and-mesh barriers along the entire border.

"If you had 400 high school students dying in a canal each year, the first thing
you'd do is fence it," he said.

John said he has never voted for Duncan, figuring that his brother didn't need
the support. But he has called on his brother to help his effort to save lives.
Duncan once joined him in the desert and, according to John, gave $3,000 to
Water Stations from his campaign fund.

"John Hunter is real people," Duncan said. "He's a great guy with a big heart
who has saved a lot of lives."

When the U.S. Bureau of Land Management balked at giving permits for the water
stations, Duncan made some calls and got John a green light. John remains bitter
toward BLM.

"They were worried that we might hurt bones that were 12,000 years old but
didn't care about bodies that were 48 hours old," John says.

Duncan declined to support John's $7 million plan to build 18 cellphone towers
along the border in the desert to allow stranded migrants to call for help.

The brothers don't air their differences publicly, though John faulted the
barrier Duncan backs as an "Iron Curtain-type" fence.

Both men are over 6 feet tall, natural athletes and gifted storytellers.
Duncan's graying hair is more closely cropped than John's thick mane of black
hair. Duncan's paunch is a little bigger.

Their differences on immigration are hardly irreconcilable to those who know
them.

Their sister, Bonnie Kane, understands both Duncan's position, considering the
strain that illegal immigration poses in California, and John's desire to save
lives.

Roberto Rubio, 67, signed up to help John in 2000 because he knew Duncan's
record on immigration and feared that the water stations were really a trap to
capture border crossers. The would-be spy became one of John's most reliable
volunteers.

"That's what a family is  --  you have different kids with different thinking,"
said Rubio, a retired building contractor.

The Rev. Robin Hoover, who heads Humane Borders Inc., a group that maintains
water stations in Arizona and works closely with John, said family friction is
normal.

"I'm close to my brother," he said, "but I tell him he's full of it all the
time."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              249 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
April 9-15

SECTION: Metro; C04

LENGTH: 594 words


Demonstrators crowded the Mall for a pro-immigration rally that featured
impassioned speeches, American flags and an oft-repeated cheer: "Hoy, marchamos;
mañana, votamos." Today, we march; tomorrow, we vote.

The demonstration was among scores of rallies across the country that signaled
the passions of the immigrant community, which wants Congress to approve
comprehensive immigration reform that includes a path to citizenship. The D.C.
crowd was heavily Latino, including a contingent that marched to the Mall from a
staging area at Meridian Hill Park. "We are just starting this movement," said
Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA of Maryland.

U.S. Park Police officials declined to estimate the size of the crowd, saying
they no longer do so because of past controversies over numbers.

A father whose daughter disappeared during a custody fight will finally get to
see the girl  --  nearly 13 years later.

Carl Dodd, a Metrorail worker from Fort Washington, has been looking for his
daughter, Marilyn, since the summer of 1993, when she vanished with her mother,
Mary Jane Byrd. Dodd and Byrd were not married and were in a custody battle at
the time; he later won full custody.

Federal marshals located the mother and daughter Wednesday in Wilmington, Del.,
more than 100 miles from the home they once shared with Dodd in Southeast
Washington. Byrd, charged with parental kidnapping, is in custody pending a
hearing May 3 in D.C. Superior Court. Marilyn, 17, is staying with Byrd's mother
pending a reunion that Dodd hopes will happen Monday.

The Washington Nationals drew more than 40,000 fans to RFK Stadium for their
home opener. But the mood was not nearly as celebratory as it was for last
year's inaugural game at RFK. For starters, the Nationals won the game last
year, delighting fans in baseball's return to Washington; this year they got
thumped 7-1 by the New York Mets. And fans grumbled that Major League Baseball
should have selected an owner for the franchise a long time ago. They weren't
buying promises that the decision is imminent.

"We're ready for an owner, a real D.C. owner," said William Washburn, one of
many who expressed unhappiness with baseball commissioner Bud Selig.

Mayor Anthony A. Williams is reconsidering his plan to join Howard University in
building a $400 million hospital on the banks of the Anacostia River. He said he
is not abandoning the National Capital Medical Center but wants to study
alternatives. "I would say my position is evolving," he said.

The waning enthusiasm of Williams (D) has raised concerns at Howard. University
President H. Patrick Swygert recently wrote the mayor to express "consternation"
over his shifting positions.

American University's public safety officers are drawing protests as they carry
out an off-campus mission: They're cracking down on students, faculty and others
who park in nearby neighborhoods while doing business at the Northwest
Washington university. Last year, AU police wrote more than 1,000 tickets for
off-campus parking violations. The fines are $75  --  doubling to $150 if not
paid in 15 days  --  with the money going to the university.

Not everyone getting the tickets goes to AU, however, and that's what is driving
the complaints. Northwest Washington resident Lisa Madison got two of them even
though she has no affiliation with the university. An AU official said that
neighbors and others who receive tickets by mistake can call to have them
voided. The university says it received authority from the D.C. government to
issue the tickets.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              250 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 17, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Behind the Debate: Propelled to Protest, Driven to Migrate;
Mexican Deportee's U.S. Sojourn Illuminates Roots of Current Crisis

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1692 words

DATELINE: CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico


Beanfields and a stooped back, callused hands and an empty wallet were all Jose
B. Flores could envision for himself in Salvatierra, a dusty smudge of a place
in the central Mexican state of Guanajuato. Such was the lot of his father, a
weary sort who collapsed each night of exhaustion and died young, and such was
the lot of his father's father.

Flores escaped his certain fate 10 years ago, slipping  --  at the reckless age
of 15  --  across the U.S. border south of San Diego. It all seemed too easy
until a traffic stop earlier this month in Wisconsin set off a chain of events
that led to his deportation and landed him in a church-run help center in this
windy desert city across the West Texas border from El Paso.

Flores's return to Mexico comes at a time when immigration is dominating public
discourse in Washington, but it is his original flight a decade ago that helps
explain how the current immigration crisis came to be. He left Mexico in the
mid-1990s when the country's already troubled economy was being overwhelmed by
young men who were reaching working age but had little or no hope of finding
decent employment.

Conventional wisdom has long explained the flood of migrants with a simple
formula: Mexicans and other Latin Americans come to the United States for
better-paying jobs. But the calculus is more complex because of pressure caused
by Mexico's population explosion, which turned Flores's generation into one of
the most desperate for work in modern Mexican history. Mexico's failure to
create enough jobs after the enactment of the North American Free Trade
Agreement pushed countless young people to migrate to the United States, while a
growing U.S. demand for labor pulled them north.

Flores, born in 1979, is a product of Mexico's 1970s baby boom, a time when
Mexican President Luis Echevarría said, "Gobernar es poblar"  --  to govern is
to populate. Since 1970, Mexico's population has doubled. More important, the
population of 15- to 34-year-olds  --  the prime migrating years  --  has
swollen to 38 million, according to U.S. Census figures on foreign populations.
That age group is projected to exceed 40 million in 2015. Mexican economists say
this is almost certain to push more Mexicans across the border, further
intensifying the United States' already heated immigration debates, unless
Mexico's economy dramatically improves.

"You can't put a brake to it," said Jorge Santibáñez, president of El Colegio de
la Frontera Norte, a Tijuana-based research institute. "The central point is
that migration is going to continue at the rhythm we have now, or increase."

NAFTA was supposed to be more than a trade deal. One of the big selling points
before it was approved  --  emphasized in a White House launch featuring
then-President Bill Clinton and three of his predecessors, Republicans George
H.W. Bush and Gerald Ford and Democrat Jimmy Carter  --  was that the pact could
stem illegal immigration. Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari made the
same pitch.

The presidents got their deal in 1993. But immigration surged anyway.

By 1999, about five years after NAFTA's implementation, 656,000 undocumented
migrants were streaming into the United States  --  a 66 percent increase over
1992  --  according to a study by the Pew Hispanic Center. Overall, the center
found, nearly 1.6 million immigrants crossed the border that year, and more than
one-third of them were Mexican. In 2003, the overall flow slipped back to about
1 million  --  including 417,000 undocumented  --  but the figure has been
climbing since, and neared 1.2 million  --  with 455,00 undocumented  --  in
2004, the center found.

Pew now estimates the undocumented population in the United States at a record
level, between 11.5 million and 12 million. More than half, about 6.2 million,
are Mexican, according to Pew. Mexicans account for even larger majorities in
border states and in some large urban centers far from the border such as
Chicago. But they make up only a small fraction of the migrant population in the
Washington area, where Central Americans, particularly Guatemalans, Salvadorans
and Hondurans, predominate.

The overall Hispanic population has also been growing, with nearly 38 million
Hispanics in the United States, of whom two-thirds  --  or 25.3 million  --
were Mexican, according to a 2002 U.S. Census report. The increase has knitted
the United States more tightly to its southern neighbors as more and more
Hispanics lead dual-country existences, legally working or studying in the
United States while maintaining family and business ties in their home
countries.

The money generated by Latinos working in the United States seals the bond:
Remittances from legal and illegal Mexican immigrants in the United States top
$20 billion a year, close to double the foreign business investment in Mexico,
according to Rafael Fernandez de Castro, a Mexico City international relations
specialist.

Even as the number of illegal immigrants in the United States was growing, the
NAFTA trade pact was off to a roaring start. It pumped up the Mexican economy in
its first years and stoked commerce with maquiladoras, the assembly plants that
sprang up along the U.S.-Mexico border. Foreign investors were pouring money
into the country.

But while NAFTA's early promise heartened Mexico's leaders, an economic
earthquake that would push migrants north was beginning to rumble.

In December 1994, the government of the new Mexican president, Ernesto Zedillo,
sharply devalued the peso in hopes of stabilizing the country's wobbly currency.
The opposite happened. Foreign investors fled, and Mexico slipped into a deep
economic recession for two years. It took a bailout by the International
Monetary Fund and the United States to stop the slide, and even with that,
Mexico's recovery was slow.

As a result, Mexico's troubles pushed workers north just as the growing U.S.
economy was creating new demand for labor.

The peso crisis proved a troubling distraction, diverting the attention of a
government that had hoped to be capitalizing on NAFTA to stimulate widespread
growth but instead was bogged down in crisis management, said Luis Rubio,
director of the Center for Development Research in Mexico City. Not enough roads
or ports were built, and business networks did not expand beyond border areas.

"The objective was to develop a supplier's industry in Mexico" to feed
NAFTA-stimulated manufacturing, Rubio said. "What happened after the peso crisis
was that everybody forgot about that."

What Mexico's leaders surely did not forget at the time was that the nation's
huge flow of workers to the United States created an "escape hatch," said
Fernandez, the international relations specialist. With as many as half a
million Mexicans leaving for the United States each year  --  400,000 of them
illegal migrants  --  Mexican politicians felt little pressure to create jobs,
he said.

"There's not a huge pressure to stop the flow to the U.S.," Fernandez said. "The
U.S. needs it and Mexico needs it."

Mexico's big informal economy  --  the legions of street vendors and other
laborers  --  is another disincentive for politicians to stimulate growth of
better-paying jobs in the formal economy, economists say. The informal workforce
accounts for 32 percent to 48 percent of Mexico's economy, Rubio estimated.

Already struggling, Mexico was forced to contend with competition from China at
the end of the 1990s. Price advantages granted to Mexican producers by NAFTA
were being phased out, and suddenly Mexico wasn't looking so cheap anymore. From
2000 to 2004, China's vast manufacturing zones  --  offering even less expensive
labor  --  siphoned off business and shaved employment opportunities for
Mexicans who might have stayed home rather than risk an illegal migration to the
United States.

During the same period, 895 maquiladoras closed, with many moving to China,
while others downsized, according to Global Insight, an economic consulting
firm.

Guatemala also picked off business that might have gone to Mexico, and even
Costa Rica  --  seldom thought of as a source of very cheap labor but buoyed by
a relatively high literacy rate  --  scored a coup, enticing Intel to locate
there instead of in Mexico.

Still, the past 13 years haven't been all bad economic news for Mexico. Spurred
by NAFTA, Mexico's gross domestic product has ballooned, multiplying nearly
seven-fold, from $108 billion in 1993, the year before NAFTA implementation, to
$748 billion in 2005. But Mexican economists say that enviable growth rate
wasn't enough to overcome the seismic impact of baby boomers flooding the job
market and that employment created by NAFTA often did not pay enough to dissuade
migration.

"It was not the magic wand," Rubio said.

People in impoverished rural areas found their already limited choices
shrinking: Move to the big city to sell chewing gum on the street, move to a
border town to work in a maquiladora or migrate to the United States. So, while
the border cities grew on the strength of NAFTA-generated business, whole towns
in central and southern Mexico were emptying of working-age men, a trend that
had been developing for years and accelerated in the past decade.

Flores thought he would stay in the United States forever. It was easy for him
to find jobs. He worked in a Santa Barbara, Calif., home for the elderly before
making his way to the Midwest. In Chippewa Falls, Wis., he said, he landed a
$13-an-hour job at a chemical company, earning in one hour more than he would
have made in 21/2 days working for minimum wage in Mexico.

Sometimes he thought about his brothers back home in Salvatierra. He hasn't seen
them since he flipped open a phony ID for a border patrol agent a decade ago.

"I imagine they're in the fields," he said.

Stooped backs. Empty pockets.

Flores can't imagine rejoining them. There is nothing for him back in
Salvatierra, nothing like the life he grew accustomed to in the United States.
All he wants now, he said, is a second chance.

Staff researcher Robert Thomason in Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 30, 2006



CORRECTION: *  An April 17 article about economic forces driving migration from
Mexico gave incorrect figures on the country's gross domestic product. In terms
of 2005 dollars, Mexico's GDP grew from $767 billion in 1993 to $1 trillion in
2005.The Washington Post is committed to correcting errors that appear in the
newspaper. Those interested in contacting the paper for that purpose can send an
e-mail to corrections@washpost.com or call the main number, 202-334-6000, and
ask to be connected to the desk involved  --  National, Foreign, Metro, Style,
Sports, Business or any of the weekly sections. In addition, the ombudsman's
number is 202-334-7582.


PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              251 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 17, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Hurdling the Language Barrier

SECTION: Editorial; A12

LENGTH: 401 words


Am I supposed to feel sorry for Ramiro Games because he was incarcerated for six
months ["Without English, Inmate Was Trapped; Prince George's Defender's Office
Never Met With Immigrant on Misdemeanor," front page, April 10]?

Mr. Games has been in this country for six years, and he still can't speak
English. He came here illegally  --  or, as euphemistically reported, "without
documentation." He has been convicted of a crime in addition to illegal entry
into the country, and he still hasn't been deported.

Should I be critical of the Prince George's County public defender's office
because it doesn't have a bilingual staff? Maybe we should put more emphasis on
people learning to speak English than we do on government agencies hiring
bilingual employees.

JAMES D. ASHLEY

Dunn Loring

*

The incarceration of Ramiro Games shows how much Maryland needs to improve
delivery of public services to those with limited English proficiency.

The Washington-Baltimore corridor is heavily populated with speakers of other
languages. Spanish is the most common language, but some schools can count more
than 100 languages among the student body. Regardless of what happens with
immigration policy at the national level, every state must wrestle with
providing language access to public services.

Public employees need initial training and continuing education in what U.S. and
Maryland laws require regarding language access and, above all, in how to
provide it. Maryland has statewide contracts with language-service providers
through which interpreters can be obtained, but if a state employee doesn't know
that or if the employee has no record of who needs language-access support,
these resources go unused.

A tiny number of committed state employees are trying to provide information and
training to many public servants whose knowledge of these issues and needs for
support vary widely.

States such as California, Washington and New Jersey are further along in
supporting their agencies' language-access implementation.

Even modest increases in Maryland's staffing and funding of this function could
lead to significant improvement in the language-access performance of a state
that takes pride in promulgating enlightened and effective public policies.

CATHERINE W. INGOLD

College Park

The writer is acting director of the National Foreign Language Center at the
University of Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              252 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 19, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

'Honor Our Immigrants';
Nice line. Now let's see the GOP walk the walk.

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 454 words


THE 60-SECOND spots, paid for by the Republican National Committee, are to air
on Spanish-language radio stations this week in Phoenix and Tucson, Reno and Las
Vegas. They attack Senate Democratic leader  Harry M. Reid (Nev.) for blocking
movement on the immigration bill and House Democrats for, they say, voting to
treat immigrants "como criminales." The English translation: "Reid's Democrat
allies voted to treat millions of hardworking immigrants as felons, while
President Bush and Republican leaders work for legislation that will protect our
borders and honor our immigrants."

Spare us the "honor our immigrants" line. We've criticized Mr. Reid and other
Senate Democrats for their role in blocking movement on the immigration bill.
But House Republicans  --  backed by President Bush  --  are to blame for the
mean-spirited, enforcement-only bill that they passed last year.

One of the most controversial provisions in that bill  --  and the one that's
referred to in the radio ad  --  would make it a felony to be in the United
States in violation of immigration laws. Currently such unlawful presence is a
civil violation, not a crime. Republicans, having crafted the felony provision,
thought better of it and, on the House floor, offered an amendment to reduce the
crime to a misdemeanor, punishable by up to six months in prison. Democrats
voted en masse (191 no, 8 yes) against that amendment. Yes, they had their
political reasons (why help Republicans make a bad bill slightly less cruel?).
But they also sensibly did not want to support criminalizing such behavior.

Mr. Bush, apparently, does. According to a report by Ronald Brownstein in the
Los Angeles Times, the original idea for the criminal provision came from the
Bush Justice Department  --  a provenance that House Judiciary Committee
Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) noted on the House floor during the
December debate. Most House Republicans do, too  --  in fact, 65 of them voted
not to downgrade unlawful presence from felony to misdemeanor. And in the
Senate, Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) sponsored a bill with the criminal
misdemeanor provision. So it takes a pile of cynicism to spin this one as
Democratic callousness.

There's fault to go around for the descent of the immigration debate to spin
war. Sadly, Mr. Bush, instead of showing leadership, has joined in the
finger-pointing, accusing Mr. Reid last week of "single-handedly thwarting the
will of the American people" on immigration reform. If Mr. Bush wants to achieve
results, rather than score points, this isn't the way. And if Republicans want
to "honor our immigrants," they ought to defy those in their caucus who feel  --
and vote  --  otherwise.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              253 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Is Not in the Script For Hollywood's Cause Celebs

BYLINE: Darragh Johnson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C01

LENGTH: 1167 words


Here's  how it goes, pretty much: Controversy hits. Celebrities chime in.

You've got your Kanyes trash-talking Bush after Katrina, and your Martin Sheens
railing against the war in Iraq. You've got Susan Sarandons and Tim Robbinses
agitating for Haitian refugees at the Academy Awards, and your Marlon Brandos
no-showing for his "Godfather" Oscar to protest treatment of Native Americans.
You've got Hanoi Jane. (And, on a really good day, you've got Gulf Coast Savior
Sean Penn on TV, commandeering a small boat, not just talking the talk, but
rowing the row.)

Now the immigration debate is hot. But the celebrity squawk is, well, not.

Where are the celebrities?

Hello, Hollywood? Hellooo?

Okay, Salma is on board. Last week, Salma Hayek became the first Big Name to
Speak Out. She told the New York Daily News:

"As a human being, I find this situation intolerable. As an immigrant, I find it
offensive. And as an American citizen, I find it disheartening. The work that
these immigrants do directly affects the health of the U.S. economy." She closed
her production company last week "in solidarity with the immigrants" and will
close it again May 1, "in observance of the protests."

And Eva Longoria, who's traveling the country promoting her new movie, has been
speaking  --  carefully  --  about the debate:

"We're a land of immigrants and nobody is from here," she told the Houston
Chronicle this week. "I do understand the economic value of illegal workers. If
you deport all the Mexicans at once, there'd be a serious dent to our society
and economic structure," she said, on the one hand. But then there was her other
hand: ". . . I understand the need for stricter borders because of bigger issues
like terrorism. So, I don't think our administration can afford for this to end
badly." (Maybe she's an adviser to Celebrity Governor Schwarzenegger, whose
statements sound strikingly similar.)

Many famous lips have remained zipped. It's not that Latino entertainers are not
interested in the subject, their publicists said. What they are is: unavailable
in Maui (Carlos Santana), or mid-divorce (director Robert Rodriguez), or "so
busy . . . her mind is on other things" (Lynda Carter), or "just busy doing
other things and isn't paying too much attention" (Jimmy Smits).

"Nobody is speaking out on their behalf, including myself," says Esai Morales of
"NYPD Blue," "and I feel guilty."

But the only reason he's now talking is: "You called to ask me a question." But,
he adds quickly, "I've been actively supporting immigrants." He explains: "It's
almost like . . . I'm constantly speaking out on Latino issues . . . and I get a
little tired of hearing myself talk."

And others spoke up, once we called.

Susan Sarandon: "It's very easy to blame immigrants for the disastrous state of
our economy, the failure of the health care system, the educational crisis, the
disappearing middle class and just about every ill that makes this country
unwelcoming to the immigrants. That is a smoke screen to distract us from the
real sources of these problems. I stand with the founders of this country and
the sentiment written on the Statue of Liberty."

Ron Silver: "I think President Bush, on this issue, is on the right side of
history, and the Republicans should think long and hard about which side they're
on."

Elizabeth Avellan (production partner and soon-to-be-ex-wife of filmmaker Robert
Rodriguez): "I'm very proud of Bush for standing up. . . . He's saying, 'You
guys are being irrational'  --  and racist, if you ask my opinion. . . . He's
standing up and saying, 'We have to find a good solution for these people.' "

Not that immigration is easy. It's one thing to come out in favor of eradicating
breast cancer or raising money for childhood leukemia  --  who could argue with
that? Immigration is a whole lot mushier.

"It's early, it's complicated and it's political," says celeb expert Joe Dolce,
editor in chief of  Star, "and stars don't need to have political viewpoint."

Not only do they not need one, having one can be hazardous.

"On polarizing issues such as immigration, [they] say, 'I'm going to alienate 50
percent of my fan base. This directly affects my bottom line,' " notes Us Weekly
Editor in Chief Janice Min.

And in all likelihood, many celebs employ illegal help, a fact that encourages
the silence: "You'd be hard-pressed to find a celebrity in Hollywood who has a
legal cleaning woman [or] gardener, pool boy, nanny," says Min.

Yet  --  if we look at this in the crassest light possible, doesn't the
businessperson in every Hollywood star realize that those hundreds of thousands
of people who have marched, day after day, across the country  --  that all of
those people are consumers, moviegoers and CD and DVD buyers, ripe for an
outspoken hero to court them?

Daddy Yankee, the Puerto Rican pop star, apparently does: When he performed with
Snoop Dogg last month, in front of 18,000 fans in Los Angeles, he wore onstage
his "ALTO A LA HR4437" T-shirt  --  a cry to Stop House Resolution 4437, the
bill that would make it criminal to help illegal immigrants, make it a felony
(rather than a civil infraction) for them to be here and add more walls along
the Mexican-American border.

The celebrity silence, though, is a far cry from the courageous voices that
decried the Vietnam War and rallied support for the civil rights movement  --
people like Ossie Davis and Harry Belafonte, whose careers suffered. People like
Dick Gregory and Eartha Kitt, who found themselves on Nixon's infamous enemies
list.

At the same time, the groundswell of immigrant rights marches have surprised not
only mainstream America, but the politically minded inside Hollywood, too.

"It really is like spontaneous combustion," noted Ralph G. Neas, president of
Washington-based People for the American Way. "Everything has been organized
virtually from the ground up, and I think everybody, including the celebrities,
is just catching up with this movement."

Which is where Felix Sanchez, the pro bono chairman of the National Hispanic
Foundation for the Arts, comes in. He's trying to connect organizations working
for immigration reform with "a number of senior high-level Latino celebrities."

"Generally, it's not the actor/celebrity trying to find the organization, it's
the organization trying to reach out," he said. But because this issue was led
by lesser-known grass-roots groups, he adds, "neither could find each other."

The question now is: Can the celebrities make a difference? Will the people who
care about the designers behind Eva Longoria's sunglasses or about Salma Hayek's
latest film  --  will they care about a much more serious side of their
Hollywood stars?

Maybe not.

Us Weekly recently posted on its Web site an item about Hayek on the immigration
issue, Min said, and an item on a fight between Lindsay Lohan and Jessica
Simpson.

Responses to the Lindsey-Jessica fracas: 180.

Responses to Salma Hayek and immigration: zero.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              254 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 21, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Walking the Talk

BYLINE: Al Kamen

SECTION: A Section; A21 , IN THE LOOP Al Kamen

LENGTH: 642 words


At a Christian Science Monitor breakfast with reporters Wednesday, a leading
politician opined on immigration policy and on how we're all immigrants.

"Most of us weren't born in America at some point in our lives," he said.

Another "Bushism of the week"?

Think again. It was Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean. A couple
more of those and we may need to start monitoring "Dean-o-bites of the week."

Despite President Bush's strong endorsement this week of Defense Secretary
Donald H. Rumsfeld, the sniping from folks who've left  --  especially from
those working on their memoirs  --  is bound to continue.

For example, Robert Scheer, a columnist for liberal magazine the Nation, wrote
last week that he chatted with former secretary of state Colin L. Powell at a
reception in Los Angeles.

Scheer writes that he noted to Powell that "the October 2002 National
Intelligence Estimate showed that his State Department had gotten it right on
the nonexistent Iraq nuclear threat. I asked why did the President ignore that
wisdom in his stated case for the invasion?"

"The CIA was pushing the aluminum tube argument heavily and [Vice President]
Cheney went with that instead of what our guys wrote," Powell said, according to
Scheer.

And what about the reference in Bush's State of the Union address to Iraq's
Saddam Hussein trying to buy enriched uranium in Niger? "That was a big
mistake," Powell said. "It should never have been in the speech. I didn't need
[former diplomat Joseph C.] Wilson to tell me that there wasn't a Niger
connection. He didn't tell us anything we didn't already know. I never believed
it."

Scheer wrote that he pressed Powell as to why Bush played up the Iraq nuclear
threat. "Powell said it wasn't the President: 'That was all Cheney.' "

Michael D. Brown, who "resigned" from FEMA after the botched Katrina recovery
effort, had some advice for Rumsfeld. "I think I should call the secretary," he
told FOX News Channel's Neil Cavuto the other day, "and say watch your back,
because you never know. . . . We laugh about this in Washington and you serve at
the pleasure of the president, but that's the absolute truth  --  here today,
gone tomorrow."

Still unclear how a phrase "I think you're an [a seven-letter expletive
beginning with a vowel]" ended up in correspondence from Rep. Jo Ann Emerson
(R-Mo.) to a constituent.

The letter was a straightforward response to a query about oil. Emerson, in a
statement to the Associated Press, which first got the letter, said she couldn't
explain what happened, and "every apology has been made to" Bill Jones of
Centerville, Mo., the recipient. "We cannot determine whether the" insulting
language was added by someone in the office or with access to it, she said, but
it's on office letterhead.

A spokesman said Emerson signed the Feb. 15 letter and included a message at the
bottom: "PS  --  please forgive the delay in responding."

Well, sometimes you want to get the wording just right.

With his new post as White House deputy chief of staff, Joel D. Kaplan continues
his climb in the administration that began when he was a key part of the
legendary Brooks Brothers Riot that helped persuade Miami election officials to
stop the recount.

This didn't sit well with some in the Senate when he came up for confirmation as
deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget. We recall Sen. Frank
Lautenberg (D-N.J.) was critical of his participation in the event, but
Lautenberg didn't put a hold on the nomination.

No confirmation needed this time.

Correction: for Peace Corps Director Gaddi Vasquez, who is said to be the next
ambassador to the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome. The restaurant
he wants is Dal Bolognese, not Da Bologna. And his predecessor, former
congressman Tony P. Hall (Ohio) is, of course, a Democrat.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              255 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 22, 2006 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Momentum for a New Fight;
Housing Activists Enlist Energized Immigrants

BYLINE: Annie Gowen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1041 words


Tenant organizer Juan Samperio was handing out fliers in Arlington's Buckingham
community the other day when a middle-aged Latino carpenter approached him
excitedly.

Was he with The March? the man wanted to know. Was something new happening?

No, Samperio said, he was not with The March. The new fight, he said, is right
in the man's back yard.

Housing activists throughout the region are hoping to channel the spirit ignited
in the Latino community during the recent national immigration protests to
invigorate one of the most pressing local issues for immigrants: the loss of
affordable housing.

"They're really in the spirit right now, because La Marcha just happened," said
Samperio, a leader in an effort to spare a South Arlington complex called
Buckingham Village from being converted from apartments to upscale townhouses.
"Before, we didn't have any motivation from tenants here. There was a lack of
interest."

Since the national immigrant rights rallies, including one April 10 in
Washington, La Marcha's esprit is being felt by activist groups around the
region.

In nearby Alexandria, the telephone is ringing constantly at Tenants and Workers
United, according to director Jon Liss. He is enlisting the newborn activists in
the group's latest battle: trying to preserve the 5,208 apartments and 919
mobile homes along Route 1 in Fairfax County that are still affordable but that
he says are threatened by redevelopment.

In Montgomery County, officials fear that the county will lose more than 10
percent of its apartments in the next five years to condominium conversions.
Action in Montgomery, a housing advocacy group, has been working with Latino
tenants in garden apartment complexes in Gaithersburg that are slated to be torn
down.

"People get renewed political spirit and can see there is power in numbers,"
said Alisa Glassman, the lead organizer.

Perhaps nowhere has the loss of affordable rental housing been felt as keenly as
in Arlington, which has a thriving Latino community and has lost half of its
affordable apartments in the past five years to upscale development and rising
rents. About 10,000 remain.

The latest blow came in February, when hundreds of tenants of Buckingham Village
learned they faced eviction to make way for a luxury townhouse development. For
countless immigrants over the years, the shabby garden apartment complex off
George Mason Drive was their introduction to the United States. The 456 units
slated for the wrecking ball would represent one of the county's biggest losses
of affordable apartments since the bruising community battle over the Arna
Valley complex in 1999, when 3,000 families, mostly immigrants, were displaced.

A group of more than 100 housing advocates and tenants  --  85 percent of whom
are Latino  --  rallied Thursday at a nearby school, hoping to add momentum to a
"save Buckingham" movement. The school where they rallied, Kate Waller Barrett
Elementary, has undergone dramatic change in the past five years because of
soaring housing costs. Enrollment has plummeted from nearly 500 to 340, and the
school could lose dozens more, because 181 Arlington public school students live
in Buckingham Village.

A colorful hand-painted sign tacked up above the stage said "Imagine," but the
tenants are contemplating a grim reality. Some had already been forced to move
two or three times because of condo conversions in nearby neighborhoods.

Others, like Roberto Andrade, 36, a construction worker, are in this country
illegally. Andrade said it would be hard to find another place to rent that did
not require applicants to give a Social Security number.

"If we follow this path, soon Arlington will only be for rich people," said
William Silva, president of the Buckingham area tenants group BU-GATA, before
leading the crowd in a rousing chant of the now-familiar rallying cry "¡Sí, se
puede!"(Yes, we can!)

Developer Stanley Sloter, president of Paradigm Development Co. of Arlington,
said  the buildings have aged to the point that repairs are not reasonable, have
limited capacity for air conditioning and need to be replaced. The company is
planning to tear down the first buildings in a matter of months to construct 69
townhouses priced from $600,000 to $900,000.

Yet, in a later phase, Sloter emphasized, Paradigm wants to build 208 affordable
apartments with a likely infusion of county funds. Those would be roomy units of
three bedrooms, the kind suitable for families, which are often in short supply,
he said.

"I'm very confident we can come up with a solution that makes sense," Sloter
said. "We're doing a site plan with the county because we think we can do a good
affordable housing program. That's our goal."

Charles Rinker, a member of the Save Buckingham coalition, said the group is
urging the county to use a historic preservation designation to stave off the
demolition. Buckingham Village is the last vestige of a large housing complex
built in the 1930s and 1940s; Eleanor Roosevelt once toured the site.

Other parts of the original complex have been named historic sites while
renovated and saved with some affordable housing  --  including Historic
Ballston Park at Buckingham, which Paradigm renovated in a partnership with the
county's nonprofit housing organization, AHC Inc.

The Save Buckingham group is scheduled to lobby the County Board on the matter
at its meeting this morning. Board member Walter Tejada (D) said the board was
willing to listen to creative solutions.

"I'm willing to leave no stone unturned to preserve our community's character,"
said Tejada, a Salvadoran immigrant who cites the battle to save Arna Valley as
one of the principal reasons he entered politics.

In recent years, the county has preserved 5,800 affordable apartments amid the
widespread development, and it has $12 million in a trust fund for projects.

Neighborhood resident Emily Vazquez, a former member of Arlington's housing
commission and a mother of three, said she expected the Latino community's new
activism  --  infused with the spirit of La Marcha  --  to help sway the board.

"I think we can make a difference," she said. "If you can make it on a national
issue, you can make a change in your own community."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 4, 2006



CORRECTION: An April 22 Metro article incorrectly said that the Buckingham
Village apartment complex is in South Arlington; it is in North Arlington. Also,
a graphic incorrectly indicated that the complex is slated for conversion to
upscale housing; it will be torn down.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              256 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For Herndon, No News Is the Best News

BYLINE: Marc Fisher

SECTION: Metro; C01 , MARC FISHER

LENGTH: 796 words


Shockingly, Lou Dobbs, the CNN anchorman with a passion for protecting America
from illegal immigrants, is not a candidate in next week's Town Council election
in Herndon.

The Minutemen aren't on the ballot, either. Nor are the folks from Casa of
Maryland, the immigrant advocacy group across the Potomac.

No, when the voters of Herndon go to the polls May 2, they'll have to do without
the agitators who descended on the town last year to turn a local dispute over
Latino day laborers hanging out in a 7-Eleven parking lot into a symbol of the
national debate over immigration.

For that bit of grace, many in the quiet town of 22,000 just east of Dulles
International Airport are saying a blessing.

The intense period of media attention that made Herndon the focus of radio talk
shows and congressional speeches last year has done its damage.

"It's pit neighbor against neighbor," says Dennis Husch, who has served on the
Town Council since 1994 and is running for another term. "We've always been a
town where people talked to each other even if they disagreed. Now, one
candidate's father-in-law wouldn't even sign his petition to get on the ballot.

"We're at a crossroads in Herndon," says Husch, who was on the losing side of
last summer's 5 to 2 council vote to use tax dollars to get the day laborers out
of the 7-Eleven lot on Elden Street by creating a facility where employers can
find immigrant workers for lawn and house work. "I go door-to-door campaigning,
and I'm hearing a lot of 'Throw the bums out.' But whichever way it goes, I just
hope the outcome is clear. We need to just say it: We're either not going to
allow illegal immigrants to use town services, or we are."

We live, of course, in a world in which reality is increasingly a matter of
point of view: Not an hour after Husch said Herndon's "silent majority" would
stand tall against illegal immigrants, six other residents gathered at Jennifer
Boysko's house to tell me about the "silent majority" that will use their votes
to send a message that we were all once immigrants who needed a break.

The residents came together through the letters column in the local weekly, the
Herndon Observer, each having written to defend immigrants as people who should
be admired for their courage in giving up lives in another country to come here
and work for their children's future. Together, these residents created HEART
--  Herndon Embraces All with Respect and Tolerance  --  and endorsed candidates
supporting the immigrants.

"With all the divisiveness after this influx of national, ideologically driven
groups, we wanted to come together," says Leila McDowell, who sought to counter
the notion that immigrants are bringing crime to Herndon. "This is still a place
where people leave their doors unlocked. Nothing has changed that."

Suzanne Flegal, who volunteers teaching English as a second language at the
day-laborer center, says the town's decision to support the immigrants has
already paid off. She recalls an incident in which the center staff persuaded
two immigrant workers to report to police a robbery that they otherwise would
have kept to themselves for fear of being deported. With the workers' help,
police caught the robbers and solved a series of crimes.

HEART's members do not deny that the influx of immigrants has caused problems.
Some blocks have to cope with overcrowded houses and out-of-control parking. And
the situation at the 7-Eleven was untenable.

But Boysko looks at the anger the immigration issue has generated and sees fear.
"People see people who aren't like me, and they get nervous," she says. "And
then that got manipulated by outsiders. You do get nervous about people you
don't know if you don't reach out and learn about them."

No one in the group has won over any neighbors whose sentiments run toward
tighter restrictions on illegal immigrants. But Boysko still hires the teenager
next door to baby-sit, even though the two families' lawns are peppered with
signs for opposing candidates. "We're not going to change each other's minds,
but we're still friendly and we talk about everything else," Boysko says.

Long after the cable shows move on to the next topic, after the advocacy groups
plot their next publicity stunt, the residents of Herndon have to live with one
another.

"This is a town problem, and we will solve it as a town," says Les Halpern, an
engineer who has lived in Herndon for three decades. "I'm an immigrant,
Hungarian. My father's a Holocaust survivor. I've seen what happens when people
focus on one group and demonize them. This is my town and I love it. "

Next week, Herndon voters get to show the outsiders that they'll spend their tax
dollars as they see fit, thank you very much.

E-mail: marcfisher@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              257 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 24, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Last Rites, Tailored to Immigrant Customs;
Funeral Homes Learn The Traditions of a Diversifying Clientele

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1535 words


On a recent gray day, the earth next to the Islamic Garden at National Memorial
Park near Falls Church was upturned for expansion. There, deceased Muslims are
often propped on one shoulder inside their coffins so they face Mecca.

Nearby, workers placed stones in a creek bed bordering the Asian Garden.
Originally, the creek was going to be drained and filled in  --  until sales
manager Scott Sagman, who consults feng shui masters about each change to the
section, put a stop to it. He knew running water is considered good energy.

"If they cover that, not so good," Quang Duc, one of the cemetery's feng shui
consultants, said as he gazed at the creek. "We need water, and we need trees."

Inside the cemetery's funeral home, closets hold the white shrouds, Egyptian
spray perfume and carbolic soap Muslims use to wash and dress the dead. In one
room, incense ash from Buddhist funerals has left marks on the brown carpet.

As immigrants have transformed the way of life in the Washington region and
across the nation, they also have influenced the way of death, adding customs to
long-standing traditions. In recent decades, many cemeteries and mortuaries  --
whose directors are mostly white  --  have adapted services for a diversifying
clientele, designing special burial sections, providing rooms for Muslims and
others to wash the deceased and allowing mourners to participate in cremation,
as Hindus and Buddhists often request.

"This is what people want: to observe their customs," said Robert M. Fells of
the International Cemetery and Funeral Association. "If you say, on the one
hand, 'What are you talking about?' or worse, 'We don't do that,' you're not
serving the needs of the public. . . . That's not acceptable anymore."

Service Corp. International, which operates nearly 1,100 funeral homes
nationally and owns National Memorial Park, recast 24 homes last year in Los
Angeles, Chicago and the Rio Grande Valley in Texas to cater to Hispanics.
Heeding the advice of Latino focus groups, the funeral homes now offer 24-hour
viewings and coffins bearing the image of the Virgin of Guadalupe.

Because Islamic tradition dictates that the washing be done by members of the
same sex, National Memorial Park's funeral home manager, Rick Caillier, makes
sure women are working on days female Muslims are washed in case an employee has
to enter the prep room. He tries to hold Buddhist services in the funeral room
farthest from the crematory so mourners have time to finish chanting while
processing to the cremation.

In the basement of Fairfax Memorial Funeral Home, near the crosses for Christian
services, a table holds bells, incense, a tea set and other necessities for
Buddhist funerals. Michael H. Doherty, vice president of the family-owned
business, said he is considering building a second chapel with removable pews so
mourners can sit on the floor during funerals, as Hindus and Buddhists sometimes
request.

For much of the past century, urban ethnic neighborhoods often had mortuaries
that catered to their communities, said Gary Laderman, an Emory University
associate professor of religion who wrote a book on U.S. funeral homes. But as
new immigrant groups have arrived and spread out, traditional funeral homes have
become more all-purpose, he said.

Funeral and cemetery directors say such adaptations come with the territory in a
service-oriented business.

Huyen Le, a Fairfax resident and Vietnamese Buddhist, recalls planning funerals
for her mother- and father-in-law in the 1990s. No funeral home she contacted
knew anything about Buddhist services, she said.

"I was running around. I had to borrow. I went to the temple for the Buddha
picture, the bell, everything," Le said.

In 1999, Le approached the new National Funeral Home and offered advice. Three
years ago, Le drove by Fairfax Memorial Park and saw that it, too, had opened a
funeral home. Inside, she approached funeral director Archer Harmon.

He told her, " 'You answered my prayers,' " Le recalled.

Harmon, who belongs to a Buddhist meditation group, had worked in funeral homes
for several years. He had often seen Buddhists arrive with "carloads of stuff"
because the home did not have what they needed.

Harmon and Doherty met with monks and nuns at Le's home, where, over tea and
Vietnamese sweets, they learned about Buddhist funeral customs. Later, Le bought
supplies and framed portraits of Buddha from a large temple in Houston and
presented them to the home. She made a reference folder for funeral directors so
they could advise second- and third-generation Vietnamese families that might be
unsure of the rituals.

"You've got to have somebody to help you," Harmon said. "She recommended us to
her temple and her people, and all of a sudden it took off."

About 15 years ago, All Dulles Area Muslim Society leaders met with Loudoun
Funeral Chapel directors to discuss Muslim funeral rites. Now it is one of two
funeral homes the Sterling mosque recommends on its Web site, and it hosts about
40 Muslim services a year, funeral director Bill McDonough said.

"It took me 20 years to set up all those things," Amar Nath Gupta, chief priest
at Rajdhani Mandir temple in Chantilly, said about his efforts to educate
funeral homes about Hindu traditions. He has worked closely with Arlington
Funeral Home, which, he said, now offers discounts for Hindus and stores ashes
until families can return to India to scatter them in the Ganges River.

As they have adapted, funeral directors have evolved into lay anthropologists,
said Laderman, the Emory religion professor.

"These funeral directors, in addition to all these other things they provide,
are sort of these . . . cultural repositories, in the sense that they know these
traditions," Laderman said.

Even so, dying in the United States can require compromise on the part of
immigrants.

Hindus and Muslims prefer to complete services within 24 hours. But getting a
death certificate or a slot at the funeral home in that time is not always
possible. Mohamed Magid, imam of the Sterling mosque, said many recent Muslim
immigrants struggle to understand why they cannot take a body from a hospital to
their home.

Scheduling also can be tricky for Buddhists, whose monks sometimes consult lunar
calendars to select auspicious funeral dates  --  which might not be available
at a funeral home.

Facilities can be problematic, too. Both National Memorial and Fairfax Memorial
get requests from Muslims and Hispanics for overnight visitations, which they do
not provide  --  although Caillier said National Memorial is considering it. Le
said some mortuaries refuse to remove mirrors in service rooms, as some Asians
want, and instead cover them with a cloth. Others, such as Fairfax Memorial, do
not provide common rooms where Buddhists, whose funerals sometimes last several
days, can gather to snack and chat.

National Memorial prohibits thick incense sticks during services because they
can trigger fire alarms.

But more funeral homes and cemeteries seem willing to do what they can, Magid
said  --  even if only out of practicality.

"At the end of the day, it's business," he said. "If they don't accept us, I'm
not going to send people to them."

Religious leaders say that although their communities are grateful for
adaptations, some immigrants would prefer to run their own cemeteries and
funeral homes.

One Northern Virginia group, the All Muslim Association of America, already
does. About a decade ago, members bought a $36,000, five-acre parcel in Stafford
County for a Muslim cemetery. There, graves point east, plots are free and
burials always happen quickly, volunteer S. Javed said.

Gupta, the Hindu priest, said his temple hopes to build a center that would
include a library, education center and funeral home.

On a Saturday morning last month, Great Falls resident Tung Yap, 39, distributed
programs as family members in white Buddhist funeral clothing flowed into the
chapel at Fairfax Memorial. The programs told the story of his late father,
Chorn Yap, 82: a popular general-store owner in a Cambodian village, a father
who toiled in Khmer Rouge labor camps and lived to have 27 grandchildren, a man
with a fourth-grade education who raised doctors and accountants.

"Some Cambodian people went there before," Tung Yap said, explaining why his
family chose Fairfax Memorial. "So they are familiar with our traditions."

Later, four monks swathed in orange led a procession into the crematory.

"Can we put the flowers in there?" asked Sovan Tun, president of Yap's Silver
Spring temple, as funeral assistants Bryan Allison and Jennifer Thomas pushed
the coffin into the large metal retort, or cremation chamber. The funeral home
workers nodded, unfazed, as family members placed a cascade of yellow flowers, a
plate of incense sticks and tiny sacks of rose-scented potpourri at the foot of
the coffin.

If they had been in Cambodia, Yap's eldest son, Thong Kim Yap, 50, might have
lighted his funeral pyre. Here, he pushed a green "Start Cycle" button on the
side of the retort. A loud whir penetrated the room, and with that, the service
was over.

Tung Yap said it was everything he had wanted for his father.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              258 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Interactions

SECTION: Health; F02

LENGTH: 1065 words


My experience as the daughter of a three-year resident of Greenspring in
Springfield ["An Abundance of Care," April 18] has been exemplary. It was my
mother, Miriam Ruemele, who tragically died in her apartment fire on April 2.
The Greenspring response to this painful situation was personal, comforting and
supportive. Her death occurred on Sunday morning; when my husband and I arrived
at noon, we were surrounded by patient, loving and helpful staff members, most
of whom came in on their day off.

I rate my mother's total experience at Greenspring as an A+. In spite of its
size at 2,000 residents, Greenspring maintains a very personal connection with
its residents and their families. Greenspring is a model indeed for the elderly.

Shirley Bloomquist

Great Falls

Abigail Trafford was exactly right when she said "Immigration Is an Aging Issue"
[My Time, April 18].

I recently spent two months caring for someone quite ill, and over the last
three years my mom and both my fiancée's parents died. I am so grateful for the
tremendous, kind care African, Asian, Middle Eastern and Latin American
immigrant workers gave to our parents. I can't understand the anger against
immigrants to which some legislators seem sympathetic.

Of course we need to protect our borders, but we also need some kind of system
to treat hardworking immigrants with the respect they deserve.

As senators work on immigration legislation, I hope they will think about the
many ways they and their families  --  and the families of their voters  --
benefit from good, hardworking immigrants and pass a well-crafted, balanced
bill.

Pat Phibbs

Alexandria

I was concerned to note that "Screening Boom" [April 18] lists fecal occult
blood test (FOBT) as a recommended screening for colorectal cancer, citing the
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force July 2002 recommendations.

In highlighting FOBT over other colorectal screening modalities, such as
sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy, you created a dangerous misimpression that FOBT
alone is sufficient for colorectal cancer prevention and, more important,
ignored recent scientific developments as well as newer consensus guidelines by
the U.S. Multisociety Task Force on Colorectal Cancer. You perpetuated an
outmoded screening recommendation that could create the wrong impression that
colonoscopy is not recommended.

The American College of Gastroenterology recommends colonoscopy every 10 years
for average-risk patients. For those with a family history of colorectal cancer,
testing should begin at 40 years of age or 10 years younger than the age of the
youngest affected relative, whichever is earlier. African Americans should begin
screening at 45 because of the high incidence of colorectal cancer and a greater
prevalence of proximal or right-sided polyps and cancerous lesions in this
population.

Medicare and many private insurers cover colonoscopy for average-risk patients.
Colonoscopy is unique among colon cancer tests in that it is the only one that
can screen for cancer with early detection of early cancerous lesions as well as
precancerous polyps, with the latter being removed before they ever become
cancerous.

There are substantial limitations to FOBT alone in its effectiveness for cancer
prevention, particularly the number of false negatives: We know that most
patients with adenomas in their colons will have negative FOBTs.

The ability of FOBTs, as currently available, to discover a cancer are quite
limited in sensitivity. The evidence demonstrates that the tests most commonly
used in the United States identify only in the range of between 30 and 40
percent of the cancers. Their ability to find large polyps is even lower, at
just 15 percent. Because the FOBT test is premised upon the presence of
bleeding, to the extent the test identifies colorectal cancer it is generally at
a more advanced stage.

Contrast these results with colonoscopy, where cancers and precancerous lesions
are detected at a much earlier stage, and detection and reduction in colorectal
cancer mortality is achieved in more than 90 percent of cases. Perhaps the most
compelling evidence for colonoscopy is that positive or inconclusive findings on
FOBT, or any other accepted colorectal screening test, will generally lead to a
follow-up colonoscopy.

Jack A. DiPalma, MD, FACG

President

American College of Gastroenterology

Bethesda

The article mentions just about every reason a person might not be getting
routine, regular physicals but the most important one: expense.

To most people, the doctor's time isn't the problem  --  it's the patient's
expense, and out-of-pocket expenses for preventive care are astronomical. Add in
the possibility that a test might turn up something that requires more and more
tests, and the patient might have to write a blank check and go bankrupt,
whether anything is wrong or not.

Millions of Americans have absolutely no health care, and many of those with
some coverage have no coverage for preventive care. If a routine physical had a
predictable cost, maybe we would get them more often  --  but they don't, so we
don't.

Karen Porter

West Chester, Pa.

"Liver Success" [April 18] was particularly interesting to me as a retired
clinical chemist. The issue of variations in adverse drug reactions is fairly
well-known in the medical profession, but it appears to face some resistance
from the pharmaceutical industry. The accepted use of medicines is based on
effectiveness in the average patient, and not on restrictions related to the
variability of metabolism.

To make the situation somewhat more complicated, the metabolism of one drug may
affect another drug used at the same time. Back in 1997 there were some serious
illnesses and some deaths from the widely used antihistamine Seldane. The Food
and Drug Administration took this drug off the market as a result.

The problem turned out to be related to simultaneous administration of the
antifungal drug ketoconazole. Both of these drugs were metabolized by the same
liver enzymes, and resulted in cardiotoxic levels of ketoconazole. Subsequently
a new version of Seldane was put on the market as Allegra, which is a liver
metabolite of Seldane with antihistamine properties. By using the liver
metabolite as the drug, Allegra could be taken more safely with other
liver-metabolized drugs.

Nathan Gochman, PhD

Anaheim, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              259 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Skilled Immigrants Turn to K Street;
High-Tech Workers Awaiting Green Cards Hire Lobbyists, Hit the Hill

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 1445 words


On the December day when Congress killed a budget amendment that might have
allowed him to become an American a little sooner, Aman Kapoor started a
movement.

He did not march through streets, carry signs, wave a flag from here or there.
He did not walk off the job or file out of school. The computer programmer
simply went online to a message board tracked by thousands of people in his
predicament: highly skilled foreigners waiting years for their green cards.

"I think we can do better and really create the impact with organized effort,"
he wrote. "To achieve this we need a group of individuals who have shown
commitment and motivation in this forum."

The next night, a dozen people living across the United States shed their
Internet handles  --  Kapoor's was "WaldenPond," a nod to his hero, Henry David
Thoreau  --  and addressed one another by name on a conference call that lasted
an hour. Today, just four months later, the organization they dubbed Immigration
Voice boasts 3,000 members; a fundraising goal of $200,000; and, most notably, a
partnership with a high-powered lobbying firm, Quinn Gillespie & Associates LLC.

The group's transformation from an insular circle to a politically active
movement offers a window into an alternative immigrant campaign being waged as
the Senate this week resumes its work on immigration laws.

Most members and all the core organizers of Immigration Voice hail from India,
though Chinese membership numbers in the hundreds and is on the rise. Most
arrived on an international student visa or a visa known as the H-1B, reserved
for highly skilled workers who can stay for up to six years  --  unless an
employer sponsors their green cards, which grant immigrants permanent residence
in the United States and the right to live and work here freely. Over the past
decade, the largest numbers of H-1Bs have been awarded to high-technology
workers from India and China.

Thus, while the passage of a strict border-security bill introduced by Rep. F.
James  Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) mobilized many other immigrants in December,
members of this high-tech group had their eye on another: a budget
reconciliation bill that, in the Senate version, would have allowed those
waiting in line for a green card to proceed even if the quota had been
exhausted. The provision was cut in conference committee, stirring many to
action and leading to the founding of Immigration Voice.

While hundreds of thousands of protesters took to the streets to get Congress's
attention, Immigration Voice took a decidedly different approach. Shortly after
the group was established, Kapoor and other volunteers began interviewing
lobbyists, relying mostly on Google searches and data from the Center for Public
Integrity's Web site.

"If it was not going to be big, it would not be worth the effort," said Kapoor,
who works for Florida State University and has traveled to Washington nine times
in the past three months. "Most of us have reached that point, having waited for
eight or nine years, where individual lives are on hold."

Neither Quinn Gillespie nor Immigration Voice would disclose the amount being
paid for the firm's services. Kapoor said it is "less than five figures."

"This is a sympathetic story," said Nick Maduros, a lobbyist for Quinn
Gillespie. "For this group, their issues are very technical and are frankly not
that controversial, but they have been overshadowed."

Immigration Voices also enlisted the help of Rick Swartz, who has his own firm
and has long been a leading lobbyist for immigration groups. Swartz gathered
members of the group at his home one January weekend for a crash course in
American politics, teaching them to position themselves as the "new Cubans for
the Republicans."

Although their numbers are far smaller  --  fewer than 2 million Indians live in
the United States, according to the 2000 Census  --  the group is among the more
affluent immigrant communities. And because their numbers are smaller than those
of Hispanics, they are trying to focus on other ways they can exert power  --
through their wealth, their positions of influence in the high-tech and business
communities, and their alliances with more established advocacy groups such as
one for Indian physicians and an Indian political action committee.

While the immigrant marchers' demands have covered a range of issues, including
allowing immigrants to gain legal status and eventually citizenship, the members
of this association are more narrowly focused: They want Congress to pass
measures that would end the years-long wait for a green card. In fact, they warn
that efforts to enable millions of illegal immigrants to remain here permanently
would result in the same bureaucratic nightmare legal immigrants are now facing.

"If you're going to reform, reform across the board," said Bharati Mandapati,
who oversees content for the group, which means she has learned how to word and
pitch legislative amendments.

The group has refrained from taking a stand on the fate of the undocumented
workers, though it monitors chatter on its Web site to ensure that frustrated
high-tech workers don't disparage lower-skilled laborers such as landscapers and
restaurant workers. It also has stayed mum on raising the cap on H-1Bs, the
visas that made most of their passages possible.

Under a proposal introduced by Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), the number of
employment-based green cards being issued would increase from 140,000 to
290,000. Currently, no one country is supposed to take up more than 7 percent of
the allotment, though unused green cards can be redistributed to countries that
have already met their quota. That has made possible migrations in excess of 7
percent from nations such as India, China, Mexico and the Philippines. Under the
proposal, the per-country cap would be increased to a hard and fast 10 percent.
Proponents say this would prevent one country from dominating the category and
would retain jobs for native-born Americans.

But Mandapati, a California-based economist, argues that the restriction would
hurt the United States because the demand for skills changes. "It just so
happens that computer technology and certain technical skills are in great
demand here and all over the world. It just so happens that there are two
countries that have invested a lot of resources in educating people in these
fields . . . India and China."

About a half-million immigrants are caught in the green-card backlog, some as
they wait for Labor Department approval or because quotas have been exceeded. In
that time, they cannot be promoted or given substantial pay increases because
that would mean a change in job description and salary. They turn to Web sites
to compare their wait times with others, and their Internet handles, such as
"stucklabor" and "waiting_labor," exude their frustration.

During meetings on Capitol Hill, Maduros and at least one Immigration Voice
representative lay out the group's platform, weaving in the personal stories of
members. Shilpa Ghodgaonkar, a Germantown housewife, has become a staple
anecdote  --  and a frequent visitor on the Hill.

For four years, she and her husband have been waiting for their green cards.
Ghodgaonkar's husband arrived on an H-1B visa, and she followed as his
dependent, unauthorized to work here. To pass the time, she learned to cook.
Then she volunteered as a career counselor in Montgomery County. Last year, she
earned her MBA from George Washington University. In December, around the time
Kapoor sent out his e-mail plea for mass mobilization, Ghodgaonkar had run out
of options.

"I just couldn't keep quiet anymore," Ghodgaonkar said. "I cannot be depressed
anymore."

She keeps a spreadsheet that lays out appointment times and the senators'
offices she has visited or still plans to: Specter, Frist, Schumer, Brownback,
Bingaman, Feinstein, Feingold. Wednesdays bring a weekly call with Quinn
Gillespie. And every few nights, there are conference calls among Immigration
Voice's core team.

Now the group plans to closely watch the debate resuming in the Senate Judiciary
Committee. Earlier this month, Sen. Sam Brownback (R-Kan.) proposed amendments
with all of the group's provisions. Other lawmakers confirm that they are still
meeting with the group to hear their concerns.

Immigration Voice leaders say the past few months have focused and politicized
Indian immigrants in a way that was not apparent in the past. "There is a very
'Mr. Smith Goes to Washington' quality" about the current effort, Mandapati
said. "It's been a journey, a loss of naivete and getting to know about American
politics."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              260 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Melting Pot Bubbles in All Corners of County;
Newest Wave Of Immigrants Moves Upcounty

BYLINE: Katherine Shaver, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T03

LENGTH: 1214 words


Children in Montgomery County public schools speak 134 different languages.
Cricket players from Jamaica and soccer players from Latin America fill county
parks and athletic facilities. Almost half of Maryland's Latino and Asian
populations call Montgomery home.

Once a mostly white, wealthy bedroom community to Washington, Montgomery now
boasts one of the most culturally, ethnically and economically diverse areas in
the region  --  a trait that many residents say drew them here and keeps them
here.

The international feel is no longer limited to communities such as Silver Spring
and Wheaton, home to many of the county's early immigrants. In the past few
years, affluent, highly educated immigrants have increasingly filled
mini-mansions in North Potomac and Rockville, while many of those struggling
with the county's high housing costs have moved upcounty, sparking a boom in
ethnic food stores and specialty restaurants in Gaithersburg and Germantown.

Monica Barberis-Young, 51, said she's seen the county soak up the increasingly
international flavor. When she moved from Ecuador to the White Oak area of
Silver Spring 40 years ago, she said, hers was the only Latino family she knew
of in the area.

"You never heard another accent," said Barberis-Young, who is first vice
president of the Montgomery County Latino Lions Club. "It was a very white
county. Now there's nowhere you can go without hearing different accents and
seeing ethnic restaurants and stores and hearing ethnic music. It's a tremendous
culture. It's a very different world in the county."

People from other countries are drawn to Montgomery for the same attributes that
have attracted residents for years: a top school system, robust job growth, good
medical care and abundant services such as libraries and parks. As the different
ethnic communities have grown in recent years, activists say, so too has
Montgomery come to feel more welcoming.

Lisa Lee, 32, estimates that about half of the people who live in her Germantown
subdivision are Asian. In just the past few years, Lee said, she's noticed the
county adapting to the Asian population's booming growth, particularly in the
northern reaches. Niche Asian restaurants now specialize in everything from
Shanghai cuisine to Cantonese food to dumplings. Two gourmet ethnic food stores,
carrying both Latino and Asian foods, that opened in Germantown and Gaithersburg
over the last few years seem to do a brisk business, Lee said.

For many Montgomery children, Saturdays mean classes at one of about 75 Chinese
language and cultural schools, while Chinese seniors can take advantage of
painting and dance classes in their native languages.

Lee said her parents, whose Mandarin Chinese is far better than their English,
have no trouble getting by in Montgomery.

"They don't even need to speak English," said Lee, community liaison for the
Upcounty Regional Services Center and an active volunteer in several Asian
community organizations. "They have plenty of services in their language  --
doctors' offices, attorneys, hair stylists, accountants."

The changes that Barberis-Young and Lee have seen are supported by census data.
In 1980, non-Hispanic whites comprised 83 percent of the county's population. In
2003, the year of Montgomery's most recent census update survey, they made up 60
percent. The survey also found that almost half of the residents who had arrived
in the previous five years spoke a language other than English, according to the
Montgomery County Department of Park and Planning.

Montgomery attracts more immigrants than any other county in Maryland, planners
said. Of residents who moved to Maryland from other countries between 2000 and
2003, almost half  --  47 percent  --  chose to live in Montgomery.

Latinos make up the fastest growing ethnic group. Since the late 1990s,
Montgomery's Latino population has grown annually by almost 8 percent, compared
with Asians at 3.7 percent, blacks at 3.1 percent and non-Hispanic whites at a
"negligible" 0.3 percent, according to the planning department.

Most Latinos in Montgomery  --  65 percent  --  came from another country, with
Salvadorans comprising the largest group at 19 percent, according to 2000 Census
data. Many of them work hard to afford the county's high cost of living, said
Barberis-Young, who is also director of mentoring and family support services
for Community Ministry of Montgomery County, a private provider of social
services.

"The expense of living in this county is tremendous," she said. "A lot of people
are really struggling to make ends meet."

Between 1990 and 2000, the county's black population grew by 43 percent  --
almost double the percentage growth in the rest of Maryland.

In the Washington region, the size of Montgomery's Asian community ranks second
only to Fairfax County's. By 2000, it had more than quadrupled in the previous
20 years. Three out of four of the county's Asian residents were foreign-born.
Most came from India, China, Korea and Vietnam, according to 2000 Census
figures.

The county's changing makeup hasn't come without some problems and tensions. In
January, police concluded that racial slurs and hate symbols spray-painted on
two Gaithersburg schools, two predominantly African American churches and the
historic Boyds Negro School stemmed from an organized effort. In Gaithersburg,
some residents complained recently that a site chosen as an employment center
for day laborers, many of them Latinos, was too close to their homes.

Some immigrants get shut out of English classes that have long waiting lists,
activists say, and those seeking county services sometimes have trouble finding
translators. Moreover, despite the fact that nearly half of the county's
residents are members of racial minorities, the vast majority of elected
decision makers are white. Still, county officials say they are taking steps to
include more of Montgomery's diverse residents and to help them adjust to their
new home.

Last summer, the county Department of Recreation offered a one-month tennis
class for Latino youth in Wheaton and two bilingual summer camps, in
Gaithersburg and Wheaton, with Spanish-speaking staff. The Gilchrist Center for
Cultural Diversity in Wheaton, which opened five years ago, offers programs
geared toward immigrants, including English classes and information on
citizenship, basic legal aid and how to start a small business. The county also
helps operate two day laborer centers, in Wheaton and Takoma Park, that assist
many Latino workers.

The Montgomery police department also recently added a Spanish-speaking liaison
to its media office to reach out more to the county's Latino population. Blanca
Kling, who joined the office in October, said she does two programs on Spanish
radio stations every month, trying to address concerns in the Latino community.

For example, Kling said, the department has worked with Spanish media to seek
the public's help on runaways and suspects thought to be in the Latino community
and to recruit more Latino officers and dispatchers. She said she also works to
spread the word that officers will not press victims and witnesses, such as
those in domestic violence cases, about their visa statuses if they turn to
police for help.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              261 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 28, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

REGULATORS SEC Seeks Budget ...

SECTION: Financial; D02

LENGTH: 713 words


REGULATORS

Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Christopher Cox told Congress
yesterday that the agency needs more flexibility to decide how to spend its
money to ensure it gets maximum benefit from its budget. "I would like to offer
to work with you to explore ways that the agency could be provided with
additional authority to ensure we manage our limited budget resources wisely,"
he told members of a House Appropriations subcommittee.

Cox said he did not know if Congress needs to pass a new law to give the SEC the
spending discretion it seeks, or if the agency can implement the policy on its
own. But if no new legislation is needed, Cox said, he wants the backing of key
committees before he starts shifting funds around to where they are most needed.

AGRICULTURE

Tyson Foods, the worlds largest meat producer, plans to close five of its nine
U.S. beef plants and four of six pork plants Monday because it expects many
workers will be attending immigration rallies. Immigration rallies April 10
reduced U.S. meat production. The meat industry relies on immigrant labor and is
concerned about a bill passed in the U.S. House that would declare illegal
immigrants felons. Cargill, another meat-packer, said this week that it would
close some plants for the rallies.

LEGAL

A former Army acquisition official and two executives at a defense contractor
were indicted by a federal grand jury in Virginia in connection with an alleged
bribery scheme, according to a statement from the Justice Department. The former
Army official, Kenneth N. Harvey, 50, is accused of receiving $35,000 from
Bentonville, Va.-based Program Contract Services in exchange for recommending
the company for a $4.7 million contract.

Michael G. Kornstein and Karla R. Kornstein, president and chief executive,
respectively, of Program Contract Services, also offered Harvey a job at the
company, according to the department's statement. Each of the accused faces two
counts of wire fraud and one count of bribery. If convicted on all charges, they
could face up to 55 years in prison. Harvey could not be reached, and a message
left at the Kornsteins' home was not returned.

Preliminary approval has been given to a $39 million settlement of a
class-action lawsuit over H&R Block's use of refund-anticipation loans. U.S.
District Judge Elaine Bucklo scheduled an Aug. 2 hearing to hear any objections
and give the deal her final approval. The refund loans are short-term,
high-interest payments to tax clients who don't want to wait for refunds to
arrive from the government.

CONSUMER SAFETY

About 55,000 children's necklaces have been recalled by their importer, Selected
Trading of Miami, because their high levels of lead pose serious poisoning
risks, the Consumer Products Safety Commission said. The choker-style necklaces
have silver-colored hearts, crosses and clovers hanging on a blue, maroon or
black cord. They were sold for $1 each by Dollar General Stores from January
2003 through December 2005. The necklaces should be returned to the retailer for
a refund, the CPSC said.

Countrywide Financial said first-quarter net income fell 1 percent, to $683.5
million, from $688.9 million a year earlier. Countrywide sold $89.7 billion in
loans in the quarter, up from $75.4 billion a year earlier. Competition limited
its profit per loan, as its total gain from loan sales declined to $1.16 billion
from $1.24 billion.

Kellogg said first-quarter profit grew 8 percent, to $274.1 million, from $254.7
million a year ago. Revenue rose 6 percent, to $2.73 billion. The company's
sales in North America grew 8 percent, to $1.87 billion.

Phelps Dodge said first-quarter profit fell 14 percent, to $333.8 million, from
$386.7 million a year ago. Revenue grew 18 percent, to $2.22 billion. The copper
producer lost $300 million on hedges to protect it from a slump in copper. The
metal doubled in price in the past year.

Raytheon said first-quarter profit jumped 73 percent, to $287 million, from $166
million a year ago. Revenue rose 4 percent, to $5.15 billion. Results included a
$14 million one-time gain from Raytheon's sale of the company's stake in a
space-imaging venture.

Compiled from reports by Washington Post staff writers, Associated Press and
Bloomberg News.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              262 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

President Wants Anthem Sung in English

BYLINE: Jim VandeHei, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1011 words


President Bush yesterday said "The Star-Spangled Banner" should be sung in
English, not Spanish, and condemned plans by some immigrant groups to stage a
work protest on Monday to sway the debate over the nation's immigration laws.

With passions running high over the release of "Nuestro Himno," a
Spanish-language version of the national anthem, Bush told reporters that people
who want to be citizens of the United States should learn English and "ought to
learn to sing the national anthem in English."

He called on immigrants and activist groups to rethink plans to walk out of work
on Monday in protest of congressional efforts to crack down on illegal
immigration. "You know, I think it's very important for people, when they do
express themselves, they continue to do so in a peaceful way, in a respectful
way  --  respectful of . . . how highly charged this debate can become," he
said, in a Rose Garden news conference he called to tout new figures showing
robust economic growth in the first quarter of this year.

In answers that ranged widely over problems confronting him at home and
overseas, Bush urged Sudan to let more multinational peacekeeping forces into
the country to help halt what he called genocide in the Darfur region.

The Sudanese government opposes a plan to send 20,000 United Nations
peacekeepers into the country. Bush, who has been criticized for not intervening
more effectively, has proposed sending a U.N. force into Darfur to assist the
estimated 7,000 African Union soldiers battling tribal and ethnic violence.

"My message to [Sudan] is we expect there to be full compliance with the
international desire for there to be peace in the Darfur region," Bush said.
"We're very serious about getting this problem solved."

Later in the day, Bush met with a diverse group of Sudan advocates. Large "Save
Darfur" rallies are planned tomorrow in Washington and in other U.S. cities.

Bush also rejected calls by lawmakers, including some Republicans, to tax oil
company profits to help reduce gas prices, but he said the companies should
consider investing some of their record profits to reduce U.S. dependence on
foreign oil. "These oil prices are a wake-up call," Bush said. "We're dependent
on oil. We need to get off oil."

Less than a week after ordering price-fixing investigations, Bush said he has no
proof that companies are overcharging consumers for gasoline. "I have no
evidence that there is any rip-off taking place," he said.

The president held the news conference to trumpet reports of strong economic
growth and low unemployment, but was deluged with questions about high gas
prices, which aides partly blame for his sagging popularity. A new Wall Street
Journal-NBC poll shows Bush's approval rating at 36 percent and indicates he is
being blamed for high gas prices and economic anxiety.

Of the positive economic data, Bush, flanked by his top two economic advisers,
said, "This good news cannot be taken for granted." The economy grew at 4.8
percent in the last quarter, the fastest rate in more than two years.

Bush this week called for a series of policy changes to slow the rise in gas
prices, but indicated he did not have any regrets about not more aggressively
pursuing changes, such as a large increase in fuel economy standards, during his
first term. He has asked Congress for authority to study an increase in fuel
economy standards for all cars, but officials caution that the president has not
decided that such an increase is wise or necessary.

With the hurricane season about a month away, Bush reacted coolly to a
bipartisan congressional plan to abolish the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and replace it with a more powerful organization. He said it is important to
focus on the storm season ahead.

"We're much more ready this time than last time. And we're taking very seriously
the lessons learned from Katrina," he said. "I've looked at all suggestions, but
my attitude is, let's make it work."

On the escalating conflict between Western nations and Iran, Bush cautioned that
the United States is in the early stages of using diplomacy to keep Tehran from
becoming a nuclear power. He spoke shortly after the International Atomic Energy
Agency reported that Iran has enriched uranium, and after Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, in his latest defiant stand, said the U.N. Security Council
could not make Iran give up its nuclear program.

The world, Bush said, "is united and concerned about their desire to have not
only a nuclear weapon but the capacity to make a nuclear weapon or the knowledge
to make a nuclear weapon."

But it was immigration  --  an issue that has sharply divided his party on
Capitol Hill and in many regions of the country  --  on which Bush had to tread
most delicately.

The president renewed his call for changes in the immigration system that would
provide tighter border security and better enforcement of current laws, and
provide the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants living in the United States
with a pathway to citizenship.

To prevail on what Republicans consider the biggest domestic issue of the year,
Bush is trying to appeal both to conservative activists who oppose amnesty for
illegal immigrants and to the fast-growing Hispanic population, which is
demanding comprehensive changes with a citizenship option. With Congress locked
in heated debate over the issue, Bush is pushing for a middle-ground deal that
would allow illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship, but only if they pay a
stiff penalty, learn English and go to "the back of the line," as he put it at
yesterday's appearance.

On the national anthem controversy, Bush, who speaks Spanish, was pulled into
the debate after British music producer Adam Kidron released the Spanish version
yesterday. Kidron said he wanted to honor U.S. immigrants.

In a statement released after Bush spoke, Kidron said: "The intention of
recording 'Nuestro Himno' (Our Anthem) has never been to discourage immigrants
from learning English and embracing American culture."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              263 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Some Companies Plan to Close To Allow Workers to Join Rally;
Employers of Immigrants Cite Solidarity, Practicality

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 650 words


A few days ago, Dennis Cotter thought just a few employees at James G. Davis
Construction Corp. would boycott work on Monday. Then foremen started reporting
a groundswell of support for the idea.

So today, usually a day of rest for the firm's 250 workers, many will pound
nails and mix concrete in downtown offices and high-rise apartment buildings.
And then they will skip work on Monday  --  with their employer's blessing.

"This was something where the momentum grew within the community," said Cotter,
executive vice president of the District-based firm. "It's something we need to
respect."

Yesterday, as immigrant workers solidified plans for Monday, some businesses
decided to close or scale back hours. Most did so in solidarity with their
employees, joining the protest against legislation tightening U.S. borders and
defining illegal immigrants as felons. Others said it would be pointless  --
and profitless  --  to stay open if those expected to boycott actually did.

Cargill Meat Solutions, a subsidiary of Cargill Inc., will shut down five beef
plants and two pork plants. "We're doing this because we share some of the same
concerns many of our employees have about immigration reform," said spokesman
Mark Klein. "We're in this together with them."

Tyson Foods Inc., the world's largest meat processing company, will close about
a dozen beef and pork processing plants because of the demonstrations expected
Monday and market conditions. In the weeks after Easter, many pork processing
plants have shorter work weeks. Of its 114,000 U.S. employees, one-third are
Hispanic, said spokesman Gary Mickelson.

"Most of the more than 100 plants we own will be in operation," Mickelson said.
"We are asking workers not to take unauthorized time off or to seek approval
from supervisor. We understand the sentiments behind the planned events for
Monday but we are not encouraging workers to participate."

Virginia-based Smithfield Foods Inc. issued a statement saying it has been
following the congressional debate over new immigration legislation closely
because it has many immigrant employees. The company said it plans to help
immigrant workers write to members of Congress for new laws that would protect
documented workers and their employers and provide a path to citizenship for
immigrants. "We believe this is the most effective action our employees can take
to persuade Congress to make the right choices."

Because so many of the planned closures have come from meat-processing
companies, at least one counter-protester is calling for a boycott of meat
products on Monday.

"Don't buy or eat meat that day in protest of these companies, whose employees
knowingly hire illegal aliens, collude with immigrant smugglers, break the law
with impunity, and give these same illegal aliens the day off so they can demand
amnesty as a reward," wrote Dan Stein, director of the nonprofit Federation for
American Immigration Reform, in his blog yesterday.

Yesterday morning, coffee shop owner Marina Stoev, a Brazilian emigre who became
a U.S. citizen in October, informally polled customers on whether she should
close her Sparky's Espresso Cafe in the District. Her findings: They need their
morning coffee.

"We will close by 1 or 2 o'clock," she said. "We are going to put signs on the
windows and talk to the customers. Then five of us are going to the protest at
Malcolm X Park," the site of one immigration rally on Monday.

Other businesses said they have made no contingency plans because nobody has
asked for the time off.

Marriott does not expect a significant impact to their operations on Monday,
although a spokesman said the company would give employees time off to
participate without punishment.

Still, said Marriott spokesman Roger Conner, "We think it will be business as
usual for our hotels."

Staff writer Michael Rosenwald contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              264 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Latino Catholics Increasingly Drawn To Pentecostalism;
Shift Among Immigrants Could Affect Politics

BYLINE: Sonya Geis, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1068 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


When Fabiola Briones entered a Pentecostal church for the first time, she was in
crisis, recently divorced and bitter from abuse she suffered as a child. A
Mexican-American Catholic, she had never seen anyone fall to the ground while
praising God or speak in tongues, which is common at Pentecostal services.

But she liked the church and she went back. On an Easter Sunday two months
later, she was transformed.

"A hand went inside of me, and I felt God was pulling out roots," she said from
the pew of a Pentecostal service here last week.  "I know now that they were the
roots of bitterness. I forgave my ex-husband, and I was healed from the abuse."

Briones is one of thousands of Latino immigrants who have left behind the ritual
and perceived formality of the Roman Catholic Church for the personal
experiences and boisterous services of Pentecostalism. The mass migration of
Latinos to charismatic Christian movements, such as Pentecostalism, is more than
a religious transformation. It also could have strong political ramifications.

Democrats once counted on lockstep support from Latino  voters, but the GOP has
been making inroads,  and analysts say that Latino voters who switch religion
tend to be more conservative.

National surveys show that Latino Catholics are more likely to vote for
Democratic candidates than Republicans. The reverse is true for Latino
evangelicals, including Pentecostals.

"Because Latinos, both Catholic and Protestant, tend to have strong family
values, they're much more morally conservative overall," said Edwin Hernandez,
director of the Center for the Study of Latino Religion at the University of
Notre Dame in Indiana. "But the Pentecostals and evangelicals are much more
conservative than the Catholic Latinos are."

Thirty years ago, about 90 percent of Latinos in the United States were
Catholic, sociologists estimate. Today that number is about 70 percent, and it
remains steady only because of high birth rates and new immigrants filling the
pews. Most other Latino Americans  --  9.5 million of them  --  are Protestant,
usually Pentecostal or another  evangelical denomination. Their numbers are fed
by the conversion of second- and third-generation immigrants, whose families
become more likely to convert the longer they are in the United States.

The Pentecostal movement was sparked in Los Angeles on April 12, 1906, when
William J. Seymour preached a sermon for a small group of followers and was so
overcome that he spoke a strange babbling language. Seymour taught that the Holy
Spirit could enter into anyone, giving the believer power to heal others and
communicate directly with God. He told followers that "end times" were near and
that God would soon "do a great shaking," said Anthea Butler, an assistant
professor of religion at the University of Rochester, N.Y.,  at an academic
panel on Pentecostalism here.

Six days after that sermon, the San Francisco earthquake struck. African
Americans, whites, men and women flocked to a month-long series of meetings. One
of the hallmarks of the Pentecostal movement from the beginning was evangelism.
Enthusiastic believers spread  across the globe.

Today, Pentecostalism has between 250 million and 500 million adherents, most of
them in developing  nations such as Brazil, China, the Philippines and Nigeria.
It is the fastest-growing Christian movement in the world. Thirty years ago,
Pentecostals or similar charismatic groups represented 6 percent of all
Christians; today that figure is 25 percent, according to the World Christian
Encyclopedia.

More than 31,000 Pentecostals visited Los Angeles last week to commemorate the
centennial of the movement's beginning here.

Researchers have found that Latinos have been drawn in by aggressive
proselytizing and the practical help small Pentecostal churches offer.
Protestant evangelicals were twice as likely as Catholics to say that their
church has helped them or a family member get a job, or provided money, housing,
food or clothing, according to a recent survey of hundreds of churchgoers in
Chicago.

"It's not that the Catholic Church does not serve the needs," Hernandez said.
But "Catholic parishes in large cities are connected to these large bureaucratic
social service organizations. . . . It suggests that one of the ways people are
brought in is, if you help somebody get a job, that's a connection people make.
It's a personal relationship they establish."

As a part of Pentecostal services, church members are urged repeatedly to greet
one another, lay hands on one other, call out and communicate directly with God
as they feel moved to do so. At a  memorial service last week, believers wept
and embraced one another in the aisles.

For Catholics used to less  demonstrative services, the experience can be
overwhelming.

"In the Catholic Church, they teach you the word of God, but it's a different
type of language that's not understandable to the people," said Marcos Roman of
Santa Ana, Calif. Roman converted from Catholicism to Pentecostalism 16 years
ago. He attended a Spanish-language rally at the Los Angeles Convention Center
with his wife, two daughters, sister-in-law and her husband. "This is the word
of God."

Latinos who move to Pentecostal churches usually take their children. According
to research by Notre Dame's Latino religion center, 15 percent of
first-generation Latino immigrants to the United States are Protestant. By the
third  generation, that number climbs to 29 percent.

The trend has not gone unnoticed by the Catholic Church. "I think that the
evangelicals and Pentecostals, among other groups, were doing something that was
very important: They were reaching out," said Alejandro Aguilera-Titus,
associate director of the Secretariat for Hispanic Affairs at the U.S.
Conference of Catholic Bishops. "They were being missionary. The Catholic Church
was not doing that as intentionally as it needed to."

During  the past 20 years, the Catholic Church has increased the number of
Masses said  in Spanish, and encouraged the spread of apostolic movements, which
feature small-group worship and music to create community within larger
parishes,  Aguilera-Titus said.

But Notre Dame's Hernandez said the defections continue. The Catholic Church has
had some success in reaching out to its Latino adherents,  he said. "But whether
that has reversed the tide? No. Absolutely not."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              265 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration's Bottom Line;
How a Restaurant and Its Workers Ripple Through the Economy

BYLINE: Neil Irwin and Dana Hedgpeth, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1791 words


At table 10 of the Oval Room, a high-price lawyer slurped an $8 bowl of
asparagus soup. Over at table 71, a crowd of Office and Management and Budget
staffers toasted a retiring colleague, while at table 76, a White House
correspondent leaned in to hear what her lunch partner was saying.

In the kitchen of the restaurant, there was a different kind of kaleidoscope.
The sous-chef, a Panamanian immigrant, directed two cooks from El Salvador, one
from Guatemala and one from Honduras. A Salvadoran immigrant ran the food to the
tables. All the activity was monitored by the general manager, an Austrian by
birth, who needs to satisfy the owner, originally from India.

Just as all of those workers depend on the swirl of official Washington business
for their livelihood, official Washington depends on them. Tomorrow, immigrant
groups plan to boycott workplaces and stores to prove just that point. But one
day of activity at the Oval Room, a sleekly designed spot a block from the White
House, shows how difficult it is to make any kind of simple calculation.

The tangled web of economic connections among immigrants and those born in the
United States creates jobs at a Philadelphia seafood distributor and revenue for
the local cable company, even as it causes a financial drain on local hospitals
and schools. The impacts are so intertwined that significant changes to
immigration laws could change the nation's commerce in unforeseen ways.

"We would not exist without immigrant labor," said Ashok Bajaj, owner of the
restaurant. "If the laws change, the entire economics of the restaurant industry
would change, too."

Bajaj, a New Delhi native who moved here from London in 1988, was willing to
invest a million dollars here because of the availability of labor at attractive
prices. His dishwashers make about $10 an hour, line cooks about $14 an hour,
and sous-chefs $20 or so. About 70 percent of the restaurant's employees were
born outside the United States; overall in the Washington region, about 45
percent of food-service workers are immigrants, according to an analysis of
federal data by the Pew Hispanic Center.

If those workers in the Washington area hadn't been available, Bajaj said, he
probably would have opened the restaurant somewhere else, perhaps in London,
Sydney or New York. About 85,000 immigrants work in the region's leisure and
hospitality sector, according to Pew, out of 215,000 total workers in that
sector. There are about 86,100 unemployed people in the region, many of whom are
just between jobs; were it not for immigrant labor, there would not be enough
workers to staff the city's hotels and restaurants at their current levels.

A wide range of other businesses profit from the restaurant industry's immigrant
labor. Thursday morning, the bread guy dropped off $32.75 worth of ciabatta and
other items. Restaurant supplier Adams-Burch pulled up with $79.20 worth of
brandy snifters. Keany Produce pushed $97.10 worth of arugula and other produce
down the long, dim corridor to the kitchen, and the delivery guy from Samuels &
Son unloaded $305.26 worth of salmon, cod and other seafood.

The booming restaurant business in Washington has rippled through to
Philadelphia-based Samuels, which has been around since the 1920s. It has
expanded from about 25 employees a decade ago to 150 today on the strength of
the increasing numbers of high-end restaurants. Those are union jobs paying $12
to $19 an hour, and Samuel D'Angelo, the company president, figures that about
75 percent of his workforce was born in the United States.

"If there weren't all these immigrants out there to staff these white-tablecloth
restaurants, things wouldn't have progressed the way they have in the last five
or 10 years," D'Angelo said. "If we had to go backward, there would be a
downturn in our business."

D'Angelo employs cutters who fillet fish. Machines can do the same work more
cheaply, but they often tear up the meat. If there were fewer immigrants,
forcing D'Angelo to pay more to attract workers, he would probably pass those
costs on to customers. If restaurants were to balk at higher prices and settle
for machine-filleted fish, they might find seafood suppliers who employ fewer
people for each serving of fish.

Back at the kitchen in the Oval Room, René Hernandez stood at a station,
preparing food for the looming lunch rush. The 22-year-old Salvadoran immigrant,
who arrived in the United States four years ago, picked one long, fat, cluster
of fava beans after another out of a huge bowl and began the laborious task of
removing a handful of beans from each cluster, then peeling each individual bean
from its hard shell, a task that can take an hour to yield a small bowlful of
shelled beans.

He is paid $10 an hour so that customers can order a $20 plate of Alaskan
halibut with fava beans, English peas and mint. He likes the job, and it beats
the $5 a day he made as a car mechanic back in El Salvador. The customers like
the fresh, subtle taste of fava beans. Had he been unable to immigrate, there
wouldn't necessarily be one more job for a U.S.-born worker. Instead, Hernandez
might have the less desirable job back home, and the customers less tasty, but
easier to prepare, beans.

The power-lunch crowd started trickling in just after noon; it wasn't until
12:22 that the first order spat from the printer back in the kitchen. Sous-chef
Ruben Ortega-Vieto called out, "One foie gras, one crab cake salad, one chicken
salad, one turkey club." The line cooks hurried into action. A few minutes
later, when the first two items were prepared, Walter Velasquez, a 40-year-old
man with a ponytail, narrow goatee and crisp white shirt, dashed the appetizers
out to the first two customers of 72 who would eat lunch at the Oval Room that
day.

In the political world, a great distinction is made between legal and illegal
immigrants. In economic terms, the difference is, in many cases, more limited.
Velasquez came to the United States from El Salvador illegally in 1985, worked
as a drywall finisher in California, then moved to Washington in 1991 to be near
his family. He worked as a dishwasher and advanced to his current job as
food-runner.

Years later, he married a U.S. citizen, getting a green card and becoming legal
himself. (He and his wife later divorced.) But even after getting the green
card, he was still doing the same work, for the same money, for the same
employer. All that changed was he had a real green card instead of a fake one.
"I require a Social Security card from all my employees," Bajaj said. "But
there's no way to verify that they're real."

As the lunch crunch reached its peak, Velasquez wiped his forehead of sweat as
he lugged one tray after another to the tables. By the time the crowd waned at
2:30, he was eager to take a break.

He hopped into his Toyota Corolla and made his way across the city to Zola,
another stylish restaurant, where his girlfriend, Nancy Avila, prepares salads.
He picked her up, then drove to the day-care center in the basement of a Mount
Pleasant church to pick up their 3-year-old daughter. He dropped them off in
Arlington, where they live in a three-bedroom apartment off Columbia Pike with
their daughter and two children from Velasquez's marriage. Velasquez almost
immediately turned around to get back to the Oval Room for the dinner shift.

Their household finances show how immigrants support the U.S. economy  --  but
also incur costs for public services. He makes about $30,000 a year. Avila, who
works fewer hours, earns about $18,000. They pay $1,300 a month in rent and pay
Comcast $140 a month for cable television and high-speed Internet service.
Comcast has added more than 30 foreign-language channels in the past eight
years. The couple spends $150 a week on groceries, much of it at the Giant Food
store on Columbia Pike, which has a large selection of ingredients that are
common in Central America.

Velasquez's family also exacts costs on the economy. He sends about $100 a month
home to family in El Salvador, which does not create new economic activity here.
According to the Pew Hispanic Center, in 2000, such remittances amount to $10.2
billion for Mexico and four Central American nations.

If the uninsured Velasquez were to have a serious medical problem, the cost
would probably be borne by the hospital that treated him. ("We just can't be
sick," he said.) Inova Fairfax Hospital, near Velasquez's home, provided $75
million in health care last year to people who were too poor to pay and had no
insurance, many of them immigrants, said Ron Ewald, the hospital's chief
financial officer. "It can be very volatile and extremely costly," he said.

Immigrant families help the federal government's finances in the long run.
Growth in the U.S.-born population is slowing, which is one reason Social
Security faces a future deficit. But immigration increases the working-age
population that pays into Social Security. Furthermore, illegal immigrants who
give employers fake Social Security numbers cannot receive benefits from the
system. Between Velasquez and Avila, and their employers' matches, they pay
$5,630 into the Social Security system each year.

According to calculations by the Center for Economic and Policy Research based
on data from the Social Security Trustees report, if U.S. immigration averages
1.3 million people a year in the future instead of 900,000, it will reduce
Social Security's long-term deficit by 14 percent.

There are local costs too. The Arlington County school system is spending
$16,464 per pupil this year, or more than $32,000 for his school-age children.
School spending is supported partly by state and federal governments but most
significantly by property taxes, which Velasquez pays indirectly with his rent.

An official in his apartment complex's management office declined to discuss the
property tax for Velasquez's apartment. But real estate research firm Delta
Associates said the average property tax bill for similar apartments is $865 a
year. Velasquez and Avila's combined federal and state income taxes are on track
to be about $1,700 in 2006, based on the amount withheld from their paychecks
and their 2005 tax refunds.

But what the school system spends on his children's education can also be viewed
as an investment in the next generation of U.S. workers. On Thursday, as
Velasquez gathered his things to head back to work, his 17-year-old daughter,
Alma, described her plans. After high school, she plans to go to a community
college for two years, to save money, then transfer to a four-year university.
Ultimately, she wants to be an immigration lawyer. "It came to me because my
parents went through so much to get here," she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              266 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

An Immigrant DJ's Morning in America;
Eduardo Sotelo Crosses Over, Again

BYLINE: Darryl Fears

SECTION: Style; D01

LENGTH: 1469 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


It's two hours before dawn, and Eduardo Sotelo, the star of America's top-rated
morning radio show, greets the massive workforce that feeds and builds and
spruces up the nation's second-largest city. "¡Despiertese!" he shouts. Wake up!

Maids get out of bed and slip on their uniforms, landscapers load leaf blowers
into rusty flatbed trucks before chugging up the freeway and cooks turn on
restaurant stoves to make flapjacks. They, like other listeners, know Sotelo as
El Piolin, or Tweety Bird, and they regard him as a Mexican immigrant hero,
someone like them, a role model. Twenty years ago, Sotelo sneaked across the
Mexican border into California by hiding in the trunk of a car, and now his
Spanish-language radio show, "El Piolin por la Mañana," has made him a
rags-to-riches story, a DJ who beats Howard Stern, Rush Limbaugh and Tom Joyner
every weekday morning, according to Arbitron ratings.

Tweety Bird in the Morning is probably the biggest radio show that most
Americans have never heard of, and its quiet triumph over English language shows
speaks volumes about the living arrangement between Americans and the estimated
11 million to 12 million immigrants who reside in this country illegally. These
immigrants are hidden in plain sight, even as their numbers and purchasing power
grow ubiquitously day by day.

Advertisers, however, have recognized their value  --  "Forty million people,
spending $700 billion  --  it will be $1 trillion by 2010," says Moses Frenck,
managing editor of Adweek's Marketing y Medios, which follows the
Spanish-language industry, and "if you advertise on Piolin's radio show, you
will have a whole cross section of people buying your product."

Sotelo downplays the attention, saying, "I just felt like another person that's
putting a brick on the dream for 11 million people, living without papers. I
went through it. I know the feeling, and you feel terrible. I don't want no one
to go through that. It's painful."

Last month, Piolin pushed more than product on his show. He is credited for
supersizing the city's March 25 immigration rallies to more than a half million,
making America sit up and take notice of immigrant demands for reforms that
would give them a chance to become citizens.

As a result, Sotelo's name crossed over to English-language media for the first
time. He was the cover boy of LA Weekly's March 25-31 issue, in a staged photo,
appearing frantic as he peeked out of a half-open car trunk. "Despiertese,
Despiertese!" read the headline. "Piolin breaks out."

Sotelo's publicist, Georgia Carrera, says he's just been invited to the White
House for its Cinco de Mayo celebrations.

"He's the biggest," says one fan, the Puerto Rican singer Noelia Lorenzo.
"Whatever he says is like the word of God."

When alarm clocks go off at 4 a.m., Sotelo's high-pitched wake-up is the first
word of the day for many of his listeners. It is followed by that crazy Looney
Tunes music, mixed with a Mexican flair, playing off the Tweety Bird nickname.
He broadcasts for seven hours, Monday through Friday, on KSCA (101.9 FM).

His show is heard in 17 markets and features your typical morning radio fare,
entirely in Spanish. Aided by a five-man crew, Sotelo cold-calls area
businesses, disguising his voice, asking for what can only be described as dumb
stuff, until they're let in on the gag or hang up in frustration. He tells
bromas   --  jokes  --  to canned laughter and devotes chunks of time to callers
who dish their own. Here and there he plays wildly popular Mexican ranchero
music, with its oompah-like sound.

Music, fun and games are a kind of medicine for listeners with difficult lives.
His audience is full of people who risked life and limb to enter a foreign
country illegally, and now find themselves alone, penniless, jobless and a step
away from deportation. Grown men weep because they miss their mothers. Children
wail because they can't find their parents.

And then there are people like Maria from Guatemala, who come to the studio to
tell their stories to Sotelo and his listeners. Her 14-year-old daughter was
raped by two guides in the city of Oaxaca in Mexico during their trip to the
States, she says. The girl, Rosa, sits beside her, eyes down, hands on her
swollen, pregnant belly.

Sotelo, like his audience, is riveted.

But the singer Lorenzo, who is also in the studio and agreed to donate money,
notices something: Rosa's stomach. Didn't the mother say the baby was about due?

"The belly is bigger at that stage," Lorenzo whispers.

Sotelo stares into the mother's crying eyes. Part of his charm is his big heart,
and sometimes people take advantage. He opens the phones to 500,000 upset
listeners.

"Mentirosa!" cries the first caller. Liar! Caller after caller says the same.
Lorenzo voices her doubts about the timeline. Finally, Sotelo weighs in. "Es un
gran contradicion, mami," he says to the mother. That's a big contradiction.
"¿No hay novio, esposo?" Is there no boyfriend, husband?

The show's over, and one by one, Sotelo, Lorenzo and the crew push past the
disgraced mother to hug Rosa.

"This happens a lot," Sotelo says. "And it's sad, because so many people really
need help. I want to help them."

In 1986, when he arrived in the United States from his home of Ocotlan, in
Jalisco, Mexico, at age 16, Sotelo crossed over from Tijuana and clawed through
the desert. He was almost captured by the Border Patrol when a helicopter
hovered over him with a searchlight.

"I prayed to God to make me invisible," says Sotelo. The helicopter flew away.

Sotelo ran and jumped in the trunk of a waiting car. "At one point I couldn't
breathe, so I lifted up the carpet and breathed through that tire hole," he
says. "There were so many fumes. I thought I was going to die there."

He made his way to Santa Ana, attended Saddleback High School, where he was
suspended several times for cutting up in class. He settled down, played varsity
soccer, took theater classes, got a part-time job at a photo lab where his
father worked, and graduated.

But there were few jobs available for a high school graduate with no green card.
Sotelo picked up aluminum cans for recycling and washed cars. He listened to
radio day and night, wondered what it would be like to become a DJ, and started
practicing his radio persona by taping his voice on a clunky black cassette
recorder.

He went from station to station, trying to get his break. Finally, he got a call
from one in Corona, Calif., far out in the desert, in the Inland Empire. Sotelo
could barely afford gas to drive there.

"Have you done news before?" the station manager asked. "Yes," answered Sotelo,
who came in the next day and flopped. He says they let him stay because he
worked for free, sleeping in his car, washing his face at a nearby park. Then
one day he was fired for not having proper documentation.

Sotelo made his way to Sacramento, where the legend of Piolin truly began.

"We went to number one. Nobody thought we would ever do that," he says. "We were
so young." He slept in an apartment with no furniture, and had gas money for the
first time. But a competitor told immigration officials to check on the new DJ,
he recalls. And one day when he left work, police were waiting outside.

Sotelo was detained and released pending a hearing. He went back home, told his
father he was on vacation, and started picking up aluminum cans again. Months
later, he went to San Francisco for his hearing. The judge listened to his
story, expressed sympathy, but said, "You still have to go back."

As police were about to lead him away hours later, a clerk walked up to Sotelo
and said, "Here's your work permit." He was told to stay in Sacramento. "Be
careful. We're going to keep an eye on you."

A year passed before Sotelo set foot out of Sacramento. He says he never told
his family that he was almost deported. "I told them that I was working so hard
that I couldn't take a vacation."

These days, with the newfound success, that old lie is his new truth. Piolin is
always working, even now, at 9:30 on a Friday night. El Circo, the Mexican
circus, is in L.A. He's a headliner. His fans are waiting when he steps out the
van.

"Piiiiiiooooooolin!" the children yell. Dust kicks up as mothers drag them over
for pictures. Digital video cameras come out, followed by digital cameras, and
finally, camera cellphones. Sotelo stops for almost every one of them, at least
200, mostly immigrants like him, many illegal.

Under the big top, his act, a comedy classroom skit, flops, mostly because it's
plain not funny.

But no one gets bigger applause during the curtain call  --  not the hilarious
clowns, the death-defying acrobats, the nimble teenage juggler, or the
stunningly beautiful sword balancing ballerina  --  than El Piolin.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              267 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

In Herndon, Latinos Urged To Get to Polls;
Town Elections Polarized By Day-Laborer Center

BYLINE: Bill Turque, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 807 words


When Jorge Rochac decided to run for Herndon Town Council, he studied voter
lists from the last municipal election in 2004. Of the 500 or so registered
voters with Hispanic surnames, he said he found 24 who went to the polls.

To Rochac, the poor turnout is about more than voter indifference to local
elections.

"There's a big fear factor," the 67-year-old businessman and police department
translator said. He is trying to become the town's first Hispanic council member
Tuesday, when Herndon and 19 other Northern Virginia cities and towns elect
local officials.

Herndon's contest for mayor and six at-large council seats will be the first
since the council voted to establish a center where immigrant day laborers can
connect with employers. The plan was heatedly contested in the town of 22,000
near Dulles International Airport, where Latino immigrants make up about a
quarter of the population. It also thrust Herndon to the front of the turbulent
national debate on illegal immigration and turned the coming election into what
is widely regarded as a referendum on the issue.

Rochac said the debate has had a chilling effect on Hispanics who are legal
residents of Herndon and made them reluctant to participate in local politics.
"I may be a citizen, but my friends and relatives are not," said Rochac,
paraphrasing their sentiments. "So keep a low profile. Don't get involved."

To draw out the reluctant voters, Rochac has enlisted the Alexandria-based
Construction and Master Laborers Union Local 11, whose largely Latino membership
of 600 is scattered throughout Northern Virginia. Yesterday morning, they
concluded an intense outreach effort, knocking on doors and distributing fliers
in the Chandon Park neighborhood, not far from the 7-Eleven parking lot that
once served as an informal gathering place for day laborers. The sometimes
chaotic conditions there created the impetus for an official hiring site.

The field of candidates has essentially broken into two de facto slates on
opposing sides of the labor center. There are Rochac and four incumbents who
voted to open the center: Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly and council members Carol A.
Bruce, Steven D. Mitchell and J. Harlon Reece. And there are incumbent council
member Dennis D. Husch, who voted against the measure, and five challengers who
want changes in where and how the center operates when its permit comes up for
renewal in 2007. They are: mayoral candidate Steve J. DeBenedittis and council
candidates William B. Tirrell, Charlie D. Waddell, Connie Haines Hutchinson and
David A. Kirby. Some want the site to accommodate only documented workers.

Members of the laborers union, founded in 1903 by Italian and German immigrants,
said they became involved after Rochac spoke to them about the new Herndon
Official Workers Center and the intervention of the Minuteman Project, a
national group organized to fight illegal immigration.

"It's important that we keep the  [elected officials] who will be there to help
us, not hurt us," said Local 11 business manager Hugo Carballo.

"We're trying to raise a voice," said Oscar Mendes, 49, of Alexandria.

The numbers involved are small enough that even a handful of extra votes could
be significant. Slightly more than 2,000 ballots were cast in Herndon in 2004.
One candidate, Ann V. Null, won a council seat with 791 votes.

"It's a niche thing," said union political director Clayton Sinyai, who said the
effort also was aimed at encouraging Latino immigrants who are ineligible to
vote this year but likely to gain citizenship in the future.

Few doors were opened yesterday for union members, who wore greenish-yellow
vests with "Action Team" emblazoned across the back. They attributed the spotty
response to the large number of Latinos who opted to work yesterday to take
Monday off in observance of the planned national boycott for immigrant workers'
rights.

Those doors that did open revealed disparate points of view.

"This will give me my wake-up call," said Ali Eyou, 40, a Kenyan immigrant and
sleep technician at Fairfax Hospital, as he read the flier enthusiastically.

Miguel Carballo, Hugo's cousin and a union organizer, approached a house on
Missouri Avenue when the occupant, a middle-aged woman, pulled up in her car.
The former teacher of English as a second language, who declined to give her
name, chatted amiably in Spanish with Carballo but made it clear where she
stood.

"The ones who are here illegally need to not be welcomed by this town," she
said. "Let's help the legal ones get jobs and help the illegal ones find their
way back to Mexico."

She finished by telling Carballo in a soothing tone: "I appreciate that you are
participating in the process. Have a good day. Adios."

Carballo said he wasn't fazed. "Fight the ignorance," he said later, "not the
immigrants."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              268 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Latinos Urged to Get Out the Vote;
Council and Mayoral Contests Polarized by Day-Laborer Center

BYLINE: Bill Turque, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C07

LENGTH: 807 words


When Jorge Rochac decided to run for Herndon Town Council, he studied voter
lists from the last municipal election, in 2004. Of the 500 or so registered
voters with Hispanic surnames, he said, he found 24 who went to the polls.

To Rochac, the poor turnout is about more than voter indifference to local
elections.

"There's a big fear factor," the 67-year-old businessman and police department
translator said. He is trying to become the town's first Hispanic council member
Tuesday, when Herndon and 19 other Northern Virginia cities and towns elect
local officials.

Herndon's contest for mayor and six at-large council seats will be the first
since the council voted to establish a center where immigrant day laborers can
connect with employers. The plan was heatedly contested in the town of 22,000
near Dulles International Airport, where Latino immigrants make up about a
quarter of the population. It also thrust Herndon to the front of the turbulent
national debate on illegal immigration and turned the coming election into what
is widely regarded as a referendum on the issue.

Rochac said the debate has had a chilling effect on Hispanics who are legal
residents of Herndon and made them reluctant to participate in local politics.
"I may be a citizen, but my friends and relatives are not," said Rochac,
paraphrasing their sentiments. "So keep a low profile. Don't get involved."

To draw out the reluctant voters, Rochac has enlisted the Alexandria-based
Construction and Master Laborers Union Local 11, whose largely Latino membership
of 600 is scattered throughout Northern Virginia. Yesterday morning, they
concluded an intense outreach effort, knocking on doors and distributing fliers
in the Chandon Park neighborhood, not far from the 7-Eleven parking lot that
once served as an informal gathering place for day laborers. The sometimes
chaotic conditions there created the impetus for an official hiring site.

The field of candidates has essentially broken into two de facto slates on
opposing sides of the labor center. There are Rochac and four incumbents who
voted to open the center: Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly and council members Carol A.
Bruce, Steven D. Mitchell and J. Harlon Reece. And there are incumbent council
member Dennis D. Husch, who voted against the measure, and five challengers who
want changes in where and how the center operates when its permit comes up for
renewal in 2007. They are: mayoral candidate Steve J. DeBenedittis and council
candidates William B. Tirrell, Charlie D. Waddell, Connie Haines Hutchinson and
David A. Kirby. Some want the site to accommodate only documented workers.

Members of the laborers union, founded in 1903 by Italian and German immigrants,
said they became involved after Rochac spoke to them about the new Herndon
Official Workers Center and the intervention of the Minuteman Project, a
national group organized to fight illegal immigration.

"It's important that we keep the [elected officials] who will be there to help
us, not hurt us," said Local 11 business manager Hugo Carballo.

"We're trying to raise a voice," said Oscar Mendes, 49, of Alexandria.

The numbers involved are small enough that even a handful of extra votes could
be significant. Slightly more than 2,000 ballots were cast in Herndon in 2004.
One candidate, Ann V. Null, won a council seat with 791 votes.

"It's a niche thing," said union political director Clayton Sinyai, who said the
effort also was aimed at encouraging Latino immigrants who are ineligible to
vote this year but likely to gain citizenship in the future.

Few doors were opened yesterday for union members, who wore greenish-yellow
vests with "Action Team" emblazoned across the back. They attributed the spotty
response to the large number of Latinos who opted to work yesterday to take
Monday off in observance of the planned national boycott for immigrant workers'
rights.

Those doors that did open revealed disparate points of view.

"This will give me my wake-up call," said Ali Eyou, 40, a Kenyan immigrant and
sleep technician at Fairfax Hospital, as he read the flier enthusiastically.

Miguel Carballo, Hugo's cousin and a union organizer, approached a house on
Missouri Avenue when the occupant, a middle-aged woman, pulled up in her car.
The former teacher of English as a second language, who declined to give her
name, chatted amiably in Spanish with Carballo but made it clear where she
stood.

"The ones who are here illegally need to not be welcomed by this town," she
said. "Let's help the legal ones get jobs and help the illegal ones find their
way back to Mexico."

She finished by telling Carballo in a soothing tone: "I appreciate that you are
participating in the process. Have a good day. Adios."

Carballo said he wasn't fazed. "Fight the ignorance," he said later, "not the
immigrants."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              269 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Sentencing Expected Today in Terror Case of Former Fla. Professor

BYLINE: Mitch Stacy, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: TAMPA April 30


The long terrorism conspiracy case of Sami al-Arian is drawing to a close, and
the former Tampa college professor could soon walk out of his jail cell and into
the hands of immigration officers to be deported.

Al-Arian, 48, a former computer engineering professor at the University of South
Florida, is expected to be sentenced Monday morning after pleading guilty April
14 to supporting members of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a terrorist group
responsible for hundreds of deaths in Israel and the Palestinian territories.

Although a jury did not convict al-Arian of any of the 17 charges against him
after five months on trial last year, he took the plea deal, family members
said, to get out of jail and end their suffering.

It is still not clear where al-Arian will be sent, said Linda Moreno, one of his
lawyers. Born in Kuwait to Palestinian refugee parents, he was reared mostly in
Egypt before coming to the United States 30 years ago. He has been jailed since
his arrest in February 2003.

He may spend more time behind bars before leaving the country. The plea deal
calls for prison time, but Moreno said she hoped the sentence would end up being
"near time served."

As part of the plea agreement, al-Arian admitted to being associated with the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad from the late 1980s and providing "services" for the
group, which included filing for immigration benefits for key members, hiding
the identities of those men and lying about his involvement.

Those men included Ramadan Shallah, a colleague at al-Arian's Palestinian think
tank in Tampa who later emerged as the head of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in
the Middle East.

Al-Arian admitted to considerably less guilt than prosecutors tried to prove at
trial. They described al-Arian as the leader of a North American cell of the
Palestinian group, raising money for suicide bombings and spreading the word in
what was described as a "cycle of terror."

In December, al-Arian was acquitted of eight of the 17 federal charges against
him and  the jury deadlocked on the rest. He pleaded guilty to one count in the
indictment that charges him with "conspiracy to make or receive contributions of
funds, goods or services to or for the benefit of the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad."

Throughout the trial last year, al-Arian's lawyers argued that although he and
his co-defendants were vocal advocates for the Palestinian cause in the United
States, the government had no proof that they planned or knew about specific
acts of violence. They said the money they raised and sent to the Palestinian
territories was for legitimate charities.

Two of his co-defendants were acquitted of all charges. The other, Hatem Naji
Fariz, was acquitted on 25 counts while the jury deadlocked on eight others. The
case against him on the remaining counts is pending.

"We are continuing to negotiate and hope we can resolve the case without going
to trial, but until it's done there's always that possibility," said Kevin Beck,
one of Fariz's lawyers.

The failure to convict  al-Arian was a stinging rebuke for the federal
government. His case was once hailed by authorities as a triumph of the USA
Patriot Act, which allowed secret wiretaps and other information gathered by
intelligence agents to be used in criminal prosecutions.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              270 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Rift Could Diminish Boycott's Strength;
Area Immigrant Groups Argue Over Movement's Path

BYLINE: Krissah Williams and Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1232 words


Some local activists predicted that thousands of Washington area immigrants
would participate in a national economic boycott today, but immigrant groups who
have spoken out against the boycott said they fear that the immigration reform
movement is being commandeered to promote political causes beyond immigration.

The public tug of war, which continued in the Washington area yesterday on
Spanish-language radio, could result in more limited participation in the region
than is expected in Dallas and Los Angeles, where the organizers of last month's
massive protests have been more unified in support of today's boycott, which
asks immigrants to refrain from buying goods and to stay home from work and
school.

Police in Los Angeles said they expect a rally that could draw as many as a
half-million people. Some major national firms that rely heavily on immigrant
labor said they would close for the day. Perdue Farms said about half of its
chicken processing plants would close, and Tyson Foods Inc. said nine of its 15
beef and pork plants will not operate.

Local business owners said they did not know what to expect. Some said they
would close, and several construction firms said they would allow their
employees to take the day off.

Ricardo Juarez, coordinator of Mexicans Without Borders in Northern Virginia,
and a local leader of the boycott, predicted that "real economic impact" would
be felt in the Washington area.

But Jaime Contreras, president of the National Capital Immigration Coalition,
said he continues to encourage people to conduct business as usual so that they
don't risk their jobs. And the Rev. Jose E. Hoyos, director of the Arlington
Catholic Diocese's Spanish Apostolate, said he believes people will heed his
message to go to work.

"A lot of people have said to me that their lives are going to be normal," Hoyos
said.

The disagreement over the boycott played out last week in a series of news
conferences. Many leaders of the April 10 immigration rally on the Mall
cautioned against participation in the boycott, and  some activists from the
Washington region and elsewhere encouraged immigrants to stay away from work,
schools and stores.

"What we don't want is for people to go around and confuse the community around
the country. And that is exactly what has happened," Contreras said. "Sadly,
there are those who claim that they own the movement. The folks that came here .
. . would say that they were the people who held the gran marcha, the [March 25
rally] in L.A., when in reality that was not the truth."

The discord, Contreras said, is not over whether boycotting is a valid tactic.
But with Congress just back from a recess after a contentious debate on the
subject  --  and with a recent CNN poll showing that 77 percent of Americans
favor allowing some illegal immigrants to apply for citizenship  --  he said
most local activists feel it is best to wait to see how Congress reacts.

Some local Latino leaders said they worry about being associated with a Los
Angeles-based group, Act Now to Stop War and End Racism (ANSWER), that has been
active in promotion of the boycott. They said they fear that the group's
broad-based opposition to Bush administration policies could hinder attempts to
win allies for immigration reform on Capitol Hill.

ANSWER protested numerous administration policies, including sanctions on Cuba,
the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan and the war in Iraq. The organization began
supporting immigrants' causes last year in opposition to the Minuteman Project's
plan to patrol the southern U.S. border, said Carlos Alvarez, a Los
Angeles-based ANSWER spokesman.

"Ideological cohesion to the T isn't something that is absolutely necessary
right now," he said.

In California, ANSWER has closely allied itself with the immigrant movement,
providing a sound system for marches, creating banners and distributing fliers
to promote the boycott. Members of Washington's Hispanic leadership have not
been as welcoming.

Carlos Castro, a leader in two local business groups and owner of the Todos
Supermarkets in Northern Virginia, said he was wary of some advocates' attempts
to link immigrants' rights with leftist causes.

"They want to create instability in the community," he said. "It is kind of
scary, because I lived through the metamorphosis of the Civil War [in El
Salvador], and I know leadership and I know instigators. I want to make sure
that we get the leaders of the Hispanic community out front. I'm not accusing
anyone, but that's certainly how it looks."

Juan Jose Gutierrez, director of the California-based Latino Movement USA and a
representative of ANSWER, called opponents of the boycott "rather
paternalistic."

American social movements have historically been rife with divisions, said
Michael Kazin, a Georgetown history professor. The splits can be damaging if
they distract followers, he said  --  but they also can signal strength.

"I can't think of any important movement in American history that has not had
important divisions about strategy and about the ultimate ends," Kazin said.
"The larger the movement is, the more divisions there are. People think, 'This
is really important, so there's even more reason to steer it in the right
direction.' "

The budding Latino movement's discord over today's event appears to boil down to
a rift between groups whose main focus is to work within the system to gain
legalization for immigrants and those that want to build a more radical
grass-roots workers' movement, Kazin said.

"There's a typical division, you might say, between people who see the need to
put pressure on people on the inside and are very happy to have Teddy Kennedy
speak at the rally, or even [John] McCain, and folks at the May 1st rally who
would not feel comfortable with Congress people," he said, referring to the
senators from Massachusetts and Arizona who have sponsored legislation that
includes a guest-worker program and a route to citizenship for illegal
immigrants.

Only one of the 47 organizations that sponsored Washington's first big
immigration rally last month  --  Mexicans Without Borders  --  has publicly
endorsed the boycott. Formed 14 years ago, the group promotes legalization of
immigrants and promotion of democracy in Mexico and is against globalization,
war and "neocolonialism," according to its Web site.

In the Washington area, it has organized day laborers in Woodbridge, protested
overcrowding laws in Manassas and rallied Northern Virginia students to march
for immigration rights.

Other Washington area supporters are loose networks or local branches of larger
organizations. Among the backers are the Voting Rights for All DC Coalition, a
group that lobbies for voting rights for legal immigrants in the District; the
Committee of Solidarity Monsignor Romero, which was formed to help Salvadoran
communities cope with the aftermath of a 2001 earthquake and now serves
immigrants in Columbia Heights; and the 25-member Latino Media Collective, which
formed one month ago to "present community news from a grass-roots perspective,"
said one member, Marco Del Fuego, who also protests regularly against the
Minuteman campaign in Herndon.

The groups said that their support of the boycott is founded on the immigrant
community's desires  --  not on their own agendas.

Staff writer Bill Turque contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              271 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Helping Immigrants Stay

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 221 words


Thank you for telling the story of the young man from El Salvador who crossed
the border alone ["A Road Less Traveled,"  Metro, April 23].

Every year the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants  helps hundreds of
such unaccompanied children obtain free legal and social services. Since the
committee opened its National Center for Refugee and Immigrant Children in March
2005,  almost 900 children  have sought legal assistance. The center has
assisted  over 80 percent of these children and matched more than 200 with pro
bono attorneys.

The Post's story pointed out that many children, once released from custody,
fail to appear  in court. These children need an adult they can trust to help
them understand their legal responsibilities and navigate the complexities of
U.S. law.

The article also said that few children appearing in immigration court obtain
legal status, but it did not point out that their chances of winning relief
depend greatly on whether they have a lawyer. The nonpartisan U.S. Commission
for International Religious Freedom reports that immigrants, adults and
children, who seek asylum with the help of attorneys are eight times more likely
to receive asylum than those without attorneys.

LAVINIA LIMÓN

President  and Chief Executive

U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants

Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              272 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

'The Power of Their Numbers'

BYLINE: Harold Meyerson

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 826 words


This morning, for the first time in two months, it will be a day with immigrants
at the University of Miami. On Monday the university's janitors  --  almost all
of them immigrants, and the vast majority refugees from Fidel Castro's Cuba  --
won a nine-week battle with the university and its janitorial contractor over
their right to be represented by a union. Today they report back to work. When
the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) set out to organize the
janitors, it didn't anticipate its campaign would turn into the struggle it
eventually became. "Given who the president of the university is," said Eliseo
Medina, SEIU's executive vice president, "we actually expected this to go rather
smoothly."

It seemed a reasonable expectation. The president of the University of Miami is
Donna Shalala, secretary of health and human services in the Clinton
administration and a longtime proponent of greater equity for the poor.
Nonetheless, when the strike began, it was hard to find Miamians much poorer
than the university's janitors. Maritza Paz, who was admitted to the United
States 13 years ago as a political refugee from Cuba, hired on at the university
11 years ago at $4.35 an hour. When the strike began, she had worked her way up
to a sumptuous $6.70 hourly wage with no benefits, for which she cleaned 17
bathrooms and 20 offices every day.

But as weeks dragged into months, both the university and its contractor refused
to deal with the union. Workers and students embarked on a hunger strike, and
SEIU enlisted the help of its numerous Democratic allies. Behind the scenes, a
number of Shalala's former Clinton administration colleagues worked to mediate a
solution. A few weeks ago a Shalala-appointed commission recommended raising
wages and establishing health benefits (recommendations that Shalala promptly
enacted), but it did so without ever having met with any of the striking
workers. Convinced that they still had no channel to talk to management, the
workers stayed out. Medina embarked on a hunger strike that ended only Monday,
when the university agreed to a procedure that enables the workers to get their
union.

Coincidentally, Monday was also a landmark day in the struggle for immigrant
rights  --  a struggle in which Medina has long played a pivotal role. In 1999
Medina led the successful fight to persuade the AFL-CIO to reverse its
historical opposition to immigrants and embrace their cause. His union, SEIU,
has been the principal funder and logistical coordinator for many of the recent
legalization demonstrations. And Medina sees the current tsunami of immigrant
activism as a portent not just of political change but of union growth.

"My guess is that 90 percent of the people in the street have never done
anything like this before," he said. "Fear of taking part in public actions is
now less of a factor for them."

After Monday's job boycott, their fear of taking part in job actions may be
diminished as well. Perhaps the most economically significant shutdown came at
the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach  --  combined, the nation's largest
harbor and its primary entry point for Asian-made imports  --  where roughly 90
percent of the almost entirely immigrant workforce of truckers who drive those
imports all over the country stayed off the job.

The truckers' tale is one of the most appalling in American labor. With trucking
deregulated, neither the trucking companies nor the shipping lines will claim
them as employees. Instead, the companies hire them as "independent
contractors," and on average, these poverty-wage entrepreneurs clear about
$20,000 a year. Over the past decade, several campaigns to organize the drivers
have fallen flat, but now the Teamsters, with the help of the new Change to Win
Federation, to which SEIU also belongs, are taking another run at it. This time,
though, the zeitgeist has changed. Immigrant workers, Medina said, "are feeling
for the first time the power of their numbers."

Even a sea change among immigrant workers doesn't necessarily mean that the dark
days of American labor could be coming to an end. In the growing high-end,
high-tech workforce, said union strategist Jim Grossfeld, who with pollster
Celinda Lake has undertaken a study for the Center for American Progress of
professional and technical employees, "many workers have a problem with the word
'union' and with the old economic rules." Nonetheless, he points out, in a time
of rampant economic insecurity, such unions as the Communications Workers of
America have even managed to organize techies.

But it's chiefly immigrant workers who are emerging from the shadows to lead the
next generation's battles for economic equity. "Our victory," said Maritza Paz,
speaking of her struggle in Miami but also about this transformative moment in
American immigrant life, "shows workers they can overcome their fears. It has
opened the doors."

meyersonh@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              273 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Hung V. Nguyen Title: Senio ...

SECTION: A Section; A23

LENGTH: 66 words


Hung V. Nguyen

Title: Senior special agent, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Office of
Investigations.

Age: 33.

Birthplace: Vietnam.

Education: BA, criminal justice, Western Illinois University.

Career: Immigration inspector in Detroit, 1996-1998; immigration agent,
1998-present.

Family: Married.

Hobbies:  Working out at gym; watching movies.

Last Book Read: "The Da Vinci Code."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              274 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

From Immigrant to Immigration Agent;
He Fled Vietnam, and Now He Sees His Work as Repaying U.S.

BYLINE: Peter Slevin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A23

LENGTH: 1054 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


The immigration agent explains his philosophy.

"There has to be a proper way of doing it. You have to have rules and
regulations. You can't have open borders," says Hung V. Nguyen. Here he smiles,
as he often does, and adds: "Coming from an immigrant like myself, that sounds
ironic."

Nguyen was just 12 when he fled Vietnam aboard an overstuffed motorboat, without
his parents. He had no documents, but U.S. authorities smoothed his way to
Illinois, where foster parents took him in. He sees his job ferreting out
immigration fraud as repayment to the nation that rescued him.

He knows he will never run out of investigative targets.

"They're using the system against us. They're throwing so many things at us that
sooner or later someone will get through," Nguyen, 33, explained  in an
Immigration and Customs Enforcement conference room in a Chicago suburb. "They
just overwhelm you. Once they have a little loophole, they keep on doing it."

Nguyen's work helped close a particular gap, one familiar to anyone who has
applied for a passport for a child in recent times. No longer can a parent sign
an application, present a pair of photographs of a child under 14 and collect a
passport.

Now, the boy or girl must be present for the government employee to see.

The case that prompted the change originated in Chicago, where a woman confessed
to State Department workers in 2003 that she had been recruited by
people-smugglers to obtain passports for three children in Ecuador whom she had
never met. She would pocket $300 per passport while the smugglers would collect
$10,000 to $15,000 from each client.

Before Nguyen and his colleagues were done, 18 people in Chicago and New York
had been convicted. One ring acquired 300 to 500 passports. One passport, with
the photo of a young child, had been used as many as seven times, Nguyen  said,
each time allowing a different child to enter the United States.

When one child would arrive, someone would send the passport to Ecuador, where
ring members would arrange an entry stamp, as if the child had returned. Another
child would soon be on the way north, usually to rejoin parents who had slipped
into the United States illegally.

In one case, a passport officer was suspicious and asked an applicant to bring
the child to the office.

"She went out and found a kid who looked like the kids in Ecuador," Nguyen
said. "You don't expect someone to go to such great lengths, but someone will
always find another loophole."

The smugglers also recruited adult U.S. citizens who, for a fee, applied for
passports in their own names, using someone else's photographs. Usually, the
applicants were down and out, with no money and no expectation of ever traveling
abroad.

Nguyen was not yet a teenager when he took his chances on a 30-foot motorboat
packed with 65 adults and children, including his older brother, that set a
wobbly course for the coast of Malaysia. Nguyen's father, a poor farmer, earned
free passage for his two oldest sons by agreeing to put the boat in his name, a
risk that wealthier Vietnamese deemed too high at a time when the communist
government forbade leaving the country.

Nguyen's father stayed in the countryside with his wife and four other children,
including a son kept behind in case the other two died at sea. He hoped his sons
would find a better life:  avoiding military service, practicing Christianity
and prospering.

Three days out, with an unskilled navigator setting a meandering course, the
boat was rocked by a bad storm that jarred loose the propeller. Nguyen's father
had supplied an extra, which carried them on the seventh day to Malaysia "after
we ran out of food and water and everything else."

Nguyen, his brother and cousin stayed seven months in an island refugee camp
before U.S. authorities cleared them to go to a Catholic social services program
in Peoria, Ill., about as far geographically and emotionally as the boys could
imagine traveling. He said it was the happiest day of his young life.

They arrived in the American heartland on Dec. 17, 1985, the dead of winter, in
flip-flops and shorts. "We got there with nothing," Nguyen said. "Oh, man, it
was cold!"

After a spell in a group setting and a Michigan foster-parent placement that did
not work out, the Nguyen brothers moved in with Joe and Mary Lou Podkanowicz in
tiny Flanagan, Ill. Helping to raise more than two dozen Vietnamese children,
the couple earned huge respect from Nguyen, who started describing her by
saying, "My mom, oh, my God."

"She'd go to work for eight hours. After work, she'd go shopping, cook and she'd
do laundry every night. And then work with us," Nguyen said. She labored to
explain "Romeo and Juliet" and  "Huckleberry Finn" to teenagers from the
Vietnamese hinterlands just learning English.

Nguyen  --  because he read books and watched a lot of movies  --  wanted to be
a pilot or a federal agent. When he learned that he would likely have to join
the military to be a pilot, he went to college, instead, graduating with
first-rate grades in criminal justice from Western Illinois University.

He viewed his first federal job  --  earning $18,000 a year in Detroit  --  as
repaying "my great debt to the U.S. government and the American people, for
giving me a home." Nguyen, who speaks with a distinct Vietnamese accent, sends
money and speaks to his family by telephone.

But he felt almost as foreign in Vietnam when he visited in 1997 as he did when
he arrived in the United States a dozen years earlier. He says his parents "are
in a different century" and "I can't tell them the things I do here because it's
unrelated."

Nguyen, who calls himself "strait-laced," says  he played by the rules in
reaching the United States. Nowadays, especially amid the current fierce debate
about immigration, he thinks often about his position as an immigrant policing
other aspiring U.S. residents.

"I realized, you know what, every country has a law and you have to abide by
it," Nguyen  said. "Especially after 9/11. The children can't do harm to the
country, but the adults, you don't know who they are. They can travel with a
U.S. passport anywhere in the world. That's a loophole that  can affect the
security of this country."

Nguyen added, with his trademark smile, "I love this job."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              275 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 5, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Herndon's Immigration Election

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 389 words


Despite spin from both sides of the immigration issue ["Seeing Vote's Effects
Far Beyond Herndon; Immigration Opponents Cheer Election," Metro, May 4],
Herndon's election Tuesday says more about the failings of at-large voting than
it does about any backlash against the town's day-laborer center.

In Herndon, as in many small towns, every voter casts a ballot for every
position on the Town Council. It's a system that favors candidates who are able
to win townwide majorities, which makes it difficult for a minority to win
representation.

The new members of the council, just like the losing incumbents, are Anglo and
middle class. Yet they govern a town that, the 2000 Census found, is 26 percent
Hispanic and 10 percent black and in which 44 percent of the people speak a
language other than English at home. But in Tuesday's election, Jorge Rochac,
who was vying to be the council's first Hispanic American, came in dead last.

Until the voting system is changed to one based on wards, as in the District, or
on districts, as in Fairfax County, the Herndon Town Council is unlikely to look
like Herndon.

TIM BOVEE

Herndon

*

Regarding the Herndon election:

First, when only 26 percent of eligible voters vote in an election  --  and
that's an increase from last time  --  we are saying that the right to vote, for
which many people suffered and died, is not something that we value. If we don't
bother to take part in this democratic process, we probably deserve whatever we
get in elected officials.

Second, we are a nation of immigrants. Most of us are part of families who came
to this country from elsewhere  --  whether hundreds of years ago or yesterday.
Many of our staunchest citizens are descendants of people who braved hardship to
immigrate here  --  and not necessarily legally.

The Bible tells us to love our neighbors as ourselves and to care for the widow,
the orphan and the stranger within our gates.

DORIS B. MABREY

Vienna

*

I am thankful that the voters of Herndon had the backbone to send a  message to
the city's administrators. I now live in Florida, but before I moved from
Herndon, I was incensed over the creation of the day-laborer center.

I hope other politicians will look at this election result before making
decisions to support illegal activities.

RANDY CHARTIER

Summerfield, Fla.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              276 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration and Proffers Ar ...

BYLINE: Letters To The Editor

SECTION: Prince William Extra; T02 , Letters To the Editor

LENGTH: 441 words


Prince William County has decided to increase proffers, the "voluntary" payments
made by builders to defray the costs of the infrastructure required to support
the homes they build. Of course, the neighboring counties of Stafford and
Loudoun have already raised theirs.

I have read that it takes the construction of a house worth about a million
dollars to bring in enough tax revenue to support its required infrastructure.
Since most housing does not pay for itself, the county has to raise real estate
taxes whenever more of it is built. It seems that most jurisdictions are trying
to lessen the effects by building high-priced housing, but then where are
average-income and poorer homeowners supposed to go? Maybe they will need
subsidized or Section 8 housing, which puts an even greater burden on taxpayers.

Prince William has rezoned some properties previously zoned industrial or light
business to accommodate housing tracts.  To me, that does not make a lot of
sense. At least business and light industrial buildings bring some jobs. Mass
housing construction, while affording people shelter, just costs taxpayers
money.

Why do  we need this mass housing in the first place? Immigration. Throughout
history, immigrants have helped develop our country, and our policies on
immigration have varied from strict to quite lax. Over the last 20 years or so,
we have been quite lax. In general, immigrants have contributed to the economy,
and we have come to depend on them.

However, many people have come here illegally. Those immigrants also require
housing. It is probably right that we offer amnesty to people who have been here
for a long time.

But immigration is a privilege, not a right.  It is up to the federal government
to control immigration and up to  more Americans to do their own work instead of
just hiring others to do it.

I certainly do not blame people for wanting a better life, especially if they
come from a poor country. But immigration procedures need to be followed, and
citizens of poor countries also need to work as a group to improve the economies
in their countries so this migration will not be necessary.

The housing industry contends that the  proffers will just be passed along to
buyers in the form of higher prices and taxes that both the buyers and
longer-term residents will not be able to afford.

There is a simpler solution. With a less overwhelming force of people, less
housing could be built, since it would not be needed. Just look at the populous
countries of Japan, India and China. Are people there happier or wealthier for
having such large populations?

James L. Williams

Nokesville

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              277 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 8, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Immigration Debate Is a Road Well Traveled;
Early-20th-Century Concerns Resurface

BYLINE: Michael Powell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1704 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


They were portrayed as a disreputable lot, the immigrant hordes of this great
city.

The Germans refused for decades to give up their native tongue and raucous beer
gardens. The Irish of Hell's Kitchen brawled and clung to political sinecures.
The Jews crowded into the Lower East Side, speaking Yiddish, fomenting socialism
and resisting forced assimilation. And by their sheer numbers, the immigrants
depressed wages in the city.

As for the multitudes of Italians, who settled Mulberry Street, East Harlem and
Canarsie? In 1970, seven decades after their arrival, Italians lagged behind
every immigrant group in educational achievement.

The bitter arguments of the past echo loudly these days as Congress debates
toughening the nation's immigration laws and immigrants from Latin America and
Asia swell the streets of U.S. cities in protest. Most of the concerns voiced
today  --  that too many immigrants seek economic advantage and fail to
understand democracy, that they refuse to learn English, overcrowd homes and
overwhelm public services  --  were heard a century ago. And there was a nub of
truth to some complaints, not least that the vast influx of immigrants drove
down working-class wages.

Yet historians and demographers are clear about the bottom line: In the long
run, New York City  --  and the United States  --  owes much of its economic
resilience to replenishing waves of immigrants. The descendants of those
Italians, Jews, Irish and Germans have assimilated. Manhattan's Little Italy is
vestigial, no more than a shrinking collection of restaurants.

Now another wave washes over. Fully 38 percent of New York's 8 million residents
are foreign-born, nearly the same percentage as a century ago.

"It would be easy to say the short-run costs of immigration outweighed the
benefits," said Joe Salvo, a director at New York's City Planning Department.
"But the benefits are longer term. We wouldn't be the superpower we are if we
hadn't let them in."

Advocates of stricter enforcement argue that those who came a century ago were
different because they arrived legally. Movies and novels depict customs agents
at New York's Ellis Island  --  that keyhole through which 16 million immigrants
passed from 1882 to 1922  --  examining immigrants and their papers with a
capricious eye toward shipping back laggards.

Peggy Noonan, a former speechwriter for President Ronald Reagan, wrote about her
Irish forebears in a Wall Street Journal column: "They waited in line. They
passed the tests. They had to get permission to come. . . . They had to get
through Ellis Island . . . get questioned and eyeballed by a bureaucrat with a
badge."

But these accounts are flawed, historians say. Until 1918, the United States did
not require passports; the term "illegal immigrant" had no meaning. New arrivals
were required only to prove their identity and find a relative or friend who
could vouch for them.

Customs agents kept an eye out for lunatics and the infirm (and after 1905, for
anarchists). Ninety-eight percent of the immigrants who arrived at Ellis Island
were admitted to the United States, and 78 percent spent less than eight hours
on the island. (The Mexico-United States border then was unguarded and freely
crossed in either direction.) "Shipping companies did the health inspections in
Europe because they didn't want to be stuck taking someone back," said Nancy
Foner, a sociology professor at Hunter College and author of "From Ellis Island
to JFK: New York's Two Great Waves of Immigration." "Eventually they introduced
a literacy test," she added, "but it was in the immigrant's own language, not
English."

At the peak of that earlier wave, 75 percent of immigrants landed in New York.
Some, like Germans fleeing failed revolutions, sought democracy. Others, like
the Jews fleeing Russian pogroms, sought safety.

But perhaps half of the Italian immigrants returned to Italy, often with cash to
buy a farm or own a business. Greeks, too, returned in large numbers. "People
complain about Mexicans coming for economic reasons, but they don't realize how
many earlier immigrants just sojourned here," said Richard Wright, a geography
professor at Dartmouth College. "The rates of return are staggering."

When Congress enacted immigration quotas in the 1920s, it left the door ajar for
Northern Europeans and Mexicans, whom even then American businesses sought as
cheap labor. By contrast, in 1882 Congress enacted the Chinese Exclusion Act,
barring the Chinese from U.S. shores. And when Congress contemplated a similar
law for the Japanese, the government in Tokyo instead entered into an agreement
with the United States to prohibit immigration and avoid international
humiliation.

Still, European immigrants found plenty of backlash. Nativist sentiments ran
strong, and white Protestant reformers championed English-language instruction
and temperance, the latter reflecting the Establishment's disdain for
hard-drinking immigrants. The Germans set up 121 breweries in Brooklyn and
Manhattan alone.

Politicians cast a wary eye at Kleindeutschland, the 300,000-person Little
Germany in Lower Manhattan (no trace of the enclave exists today), and called on
Germans to stop being "hyphenated" Americans. As Italians and Poles and Jews and
Slavs poured into New York City, native-born Americans complained about the
"mongrelization" of the "white race."

Immigrants returned the favor, giving voice to the alienation of the new
arrivals. "I never thought of myself as American" as a child, Norman Podhoretz
wrote in his 1967 book, "Making It." "In Brooklyn there were no Americans; there
were Jews and Negroes, Poles and Irishmen."

Debates arose that still resonate. Radicals worried that immigrants depressed
working-class wages, and there is evidence that this was so. Labor organizing
took off most successfully after Congress moved to shut off the immigration
funnel in the 1920s. "Because people kept coming in, union organizing efforts
doesn't really take off until the 1920s and '30s," said Fred Siegel, a historian
at Cooper Union College. The Establishment heaped scorn upon those who rallied
for better wages. Immigrants, the New York Times editorialized in the late 19th
century, should avoid "insane imitations of the miserable class warfare of
Europe."

"There was a great fear in that the European revolutions might come to the
United States," said James Green, author of "Death in the Haymarket," an account
of immigrant sentiment and labor unrest in Chicago in the 1880s.

Other worries seem now like artifacts from a forgotten age. For all that
Americans worried about the primacy of English at the turn of the 20th century,
most first-generation immigrants quickly shed native languages  --  in polyglot
New York no single language could dominate. This remains true as the three
largest immigrant groups  --  Dominicans, Chinese and South Asians  --  share no
language but English. (The vast Spanish-speaking Mexican influx into Southern
California is another matter and potentially more problematic as immigrants have
less incentive to drop a shared language, say sociologists.)

By the 1950s, Germans, Irish and Jews had abandoned immigrant enclaves. Although
barriers of prejudice remained  --  Ivy League schools and white-shoe law firms
in New York maintained stringent "Jewish" quotas well into the 1960s  --  the
sons and daughters of these immigrants moved quickly into white-collar
professions.

Italians, Poles and Greeks took a much slower climb up the socioeconomic ladder.
Like today's Mexican immigrants, these earlier immigrants often came from rural
lands and stressed work over education; sociologist Foner notes it was unusual
for a child of Italian immigrants to finish high school. When in the late 1960s
the City University of New York allowed any high school graduate to enroll
regardless of grades, Italians were the greatest beneficiary. Studies so far
show a similar pattern for Mexicans: The second generation is doing better
economically than the parents but not keeping pace with other ethnic immigrant
groups.

"There was a lot of catching up for the Italians and Poles, and a lot of social
costs which this imposed on the country," said Christopher Jencks, a professor
of social policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. "I
don't see any reasons the Mexicans can't catch up, too, but three or four
generations is a long time."

In a pattern perhaps rooted in human nature, each generation of immigrants
tended to look down on those who followed. Journalist Jacob A. Riis, a Danish
immigrant, remarked upon this in his 1890 book "How the Other Half Lives." "The
once unwelcome Irishman has been followed in his turn by the Italian, the
Russian Jew, and the Chinaman," Riis wrote, "and has himself taken a hand at
opposition, quite as bitter and quite as ineffectual, against these later
hordes."

Lewis Fidler, portly and quick-witted, grew up in the 1960s in East Flatbush and
Flatlands, working-class Brooklyn neighborhoods with a smattering of
professionals. He recalls listening as Italian and Jewish neighbors  --  the
sons and daughters of immigrants  --  sat on porches and worried about an influx
of black immigrants from Jamaica, Trinidad and Barbados. These newcomers, the
adults insisted, would run down the neighborhood.

Now Fidler is a city councilman in much the same district, and East Flatbush and
Flatlands remain working-class neighborhoods with a smattering of professionals.
Except that his constituents are West Indians  --  the Italians and Jews have
moved on.

The transition was in fact rough. Two decades ago, vacant stores, marijuana
fronts and chop shops for stolen autos pockmarked the avenues. Now restaurants
with bright blue awnings boast of the best jerk chicken, and a public park is
being renovated to add cricket fields.

"The old-timers can't get over the fact that the bagel shop is now a roti shop,"
Fidler said. "But we've got lots of young families, and all they want to talk
about are the schools."

Fidler, who is Jewish, is fine with that. "I run up bigger majorities in the
West Indian precincts because the immigrants just want guys who deliver."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 2006



CORRECTION: A May 8 article on the history of immigration to the United States
incorrectly said that Ellis Island opened in 1882. The New York portal for
immigrants opened in 1892.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              278 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2006 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Bush, GOP Congress Losing Core Supporters;
Conservatives Point to Spending, Immigration

BYLINE: Jim VandeHei and Peter Baker, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1094 words


Disaffection over spending and immigration have caused conservatives to take
flight from President Bush and the Republican Congress at a rapid pace in recent
weeks, sending Bush's approval ratings to record lows and presenting a new
threat to the GOP's 12-year reign on Capitol Hill, according to White House
officials, lawmakers and new polling data.

Bush and Congress have suffered a decline in support from almost every part of
the conservative coalition over the past year, a trend that has accelerated with
alarming implications for Bush's governing strategy.

The Gallup polling organization recorded a 13-percentage-point drop in
Republican support for Bush in the past couple of weeks. These usually reliable
voters are telling pollsters and lawmakers they are fed up with what they see as
out-of-control spending by Washington and, more generally, an abandonment of
core conservative principles.

There are also significant pockets of conservatives turning on Bush and Congress
over their failure to tighten immigration laws, restrict same-sex marriage, and
put an end to the Iraq war and the rash of political scandals, according to
lawmakers and pollsters.

Bush won two presidential elections by pursuing a political and governing model
that was predicated on winning and sustaining the loyal backing of social,
economic and foreign policy conservatives. The strategy was based on the belief
that conservatives, who are often more politically active than the general
public, could be inspired to vote in larger numbers and would serve as a
reliable foundation for his presidency. The theory, as explained by Bush
strategists, is that the president would enjoy a floor below which his support
would never fall.

It is now apparent that this floor has weakened dramatically  --  and collapsed
in places.

"A lot of us have been like Paul Revere and sounding the alarm for three or four
years," said Rep. Tom Feeney (R-Fla.). "Conservatives forgave Bush and Congress
for our past mistakes because the war on terrorism was so important . . . but
now there is a great deal of unhappiness. What you are going to increasingly see
is a divided Republican Party."

Michael Franc, a top official at the Heritage Foundation, said his organization
hosted 600 of its top conservative donors last week and heard more widespread
complaining about Republicans than at any other point in the past 12 years. "It
begins with spending, extends through immigration and results in a sense that we
have Tweedle-Dum and Tweedle-Dee for the two parties," Franc said.

Ralph Sivillo, a 64-year-old retiree living in Monroe, N.Y., said he started
turning against Bush in January. He said Democrats are beginning to look better
to him. "I'm really dead against Bush at this point. What's he doing? He's doing
nothing. Everybody's just bailing on him because they feel the same way."

"He's not well liked," said Douglas Giles, 47, a self-described conservative
from Buffalo. "A lot of people don't think he's very good."

Michael Dimock of the Pew Research Center, a leading polling group, said one of
the most striking findings of recent surveys is the growing number of
conservatives who "don't see Bush as one of them" as they did earlier. Pew found
that Bush has suffered a 24-point drop in his approval rating among voters who
backed him in 2004: from 92 percent in January 2005 to 68 percent in March.

Frank Newport of the Gallup Organization cautioned against reading too much into
Bush's recent loss of support among conservatives. He said the numbers tend to
ebb and flow and must be confirmed over several months before it is possible to
conclude that the president has suffered irreversible erosion.

Moreover, the public's view of the economy and Washington may have been soured
by gasoline prices having topped $3 a gallon over the past month.

But GOP lawmakers and strategists, who have reviewed a series of polls released
in recent weeks, said the results confirm what they are hearing from voters:
Conservatives are demoralized and defecting in worrisome numbers. The most
recent Associated Press poll found that Bush had a 52 percent approval rating
among conservatives; only 33 percent had a favorable opinion of the
Republican-run Congress.

"The problem in my mind, and the only way to explain the very significant
erosion is just a disgust with what appears to be a complete abandonment of
limited government," said former Republican congressman Pat Toomey, who runs the
conservative Club for Growth. Toomey said commitment to smaller government has
been the unifying idea for most elements of the GOP coalition since Ronald
Reagan's presidency. "Republicans have finally had enough," he said, a sentiment
echoed by several other conservative activists and lawmakers.

Since Bush took office, government spending has increased by more than 25
percent, the largest increase under any president since Democrat Lyndon B.
Johnson. At the same time, Bush and the Republican Congress dramatically
increased the government's role in, and overall spending on, education and
Medicare by enacting the No Child Left Behind Act and new prescription drug
entitlement for seniors. David A. Keene, head of the American Conservative
Union, said there is a sense of flaccid leadership at the White House and in
Congress that begets "things like frustration, which leads to disgust and
apathy" among conservatives.

The immigration debate appears to be damaging Bush and GOP lawmakers, too.
Conservative voters are saying they want swift congressional action to secure
the border and enforce immigrations laws, but Bush and Congress are split over
the best way to deal with illegal immigrants already in the country.

A new Zogby Interactive poll found that fewer than 25 percent of respondents who
described themselves as conservative or very conservative approved of Bush's
handling of the immigration debate. "Unfortunately, when it comes to controlling
our borders, we are about a decade behind where we need to be," said Rep. Jeb
Hensarling (R-Tex.).

Karl Rove, Bush's top political adviser, and GOP leaders are well aware of the
problem and are planning a summer offensive to win back conservatives with a mix
of policy fights and warnings of how a Democratic Congress would govern. The
plan includes votes on tax cuts, a constitutional amendment outlawing same-sex
marriage, new abortion restrictions, and measures to restrain government
spending.

Assistant polling director Claudia Deane and political researcher Zachary A.
Goldfarb contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 12, 2006



CORRECTION: A May 11 article about the erosion of conservative support for
President Bush and the Republican Congress cited a Gallup poll but failed to
note that the survey was done with USA Today.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              279 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Honoring Those Who Went Above and Beyond During Katrina

BYLINE: Stephen Barr

SECTION: Financial; D04 , FEDERAL DIARY Stephen Barr

LENGTH: 713 words


There are rumblings about abolishing and replacing the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.

There's talk of merging Customs and Border Protection, and Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

There's debate about staffing and turnover at the Transportation Security
Administration.

Overall, there's worry about morale of the 180,000 employees at the  Homeland
Security Department.

Not many Cabinet agencies have been under siege like Homeland Security, where
perceptions of bureaucratic bungling have taken hold. The criticism and
congressional scrutiny intensified last year, after Hurricane Katrina roared
through the Gulf Coast and rattled the department.

Yesterday, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Deputy Secretary
Michael Jackson put bureaucracy and restructuring to the side and focused on the
people of the department, especially the courage, sacrifice and dedication of
those who found themselves responding to Katrina, one of the largest natural
disasters in the nation's history.

Chertoff and Jackson honored more than 75 employees and employee teams at the
secretary's second annual awards ceremony, held at Constitution Hall. Many
awards ceremonies in Washington are perfunctory events, but not Chertoff's 2005
awards fete.

The department's gold medals went to employees who met the challenge of Katrina
and are, Chertoff said, symbols of "the thousands of employees who brought
distinction to the department throughout the hurricane response effort."

The gold medal winners were:

Frank DiFalco, deputy director of the Homeland Security Operations Center, who
worked around the clock for 30 days during the emergency and oversaw reports
prepared for the White House.

Eric Gentry, a FEMA division supervisor in Mississippi who led a team that
provided more than 450,000 displaced citizens with financial aid and temporary
housing.

Claudia Gordon, a senior policy adviser in the office of civil rights and civil
liberties, who arranged aid for disabled and elderly evacuees.

Carl Haaland, assistant federal security director for the TSA at the New Orleans
airport, who led an effort to evacuate 40,000 hurricane victims.

Janet Hale, undersecretary for management, a top aide to Chertoff who pulled
together resources for the Katrina response.

William Heffelfinger, deputy assistant commissioner at Customs and Border
Protection  who went to New Orleans to serve as the agency's on-site commander.

Michael A. Holt, a special agent at Immigration and Customs Enforcement  who
launched an effort to account for displaced ICE employees in the New Orleans
area.

Ashley Lewis, who headed a team that worked 12 hours a day, six days a week
after Katrina to improve the accuracy of FEMA contract data being reported to
the president.

Brian H. Rossito, a Secret Service agent who helped coordinate law enforcement
efforts in Louisiana.

Lt. Olav M. Saboe, a Coast Guard helicopter pilot who directed the rescue of 143
people. He flew 17 sorties totaling 30 flight hours in what officials called
stressful and dangerous conditions. He also discovered a school where more than
400 people had taken refuge from floodwaters and called in Air National Guard
helicopters to help with the rescue.

Jackson's description of Saboe's heroics, such as flying through heavy rain
squalls to save a critically injured woman, prompted a standing ovation from the
crowd.

Others who won standing ovations included Vice Adm. Thad Allen, the next
commandant of the Coast Guard, who was presented with the first Homeland
Security Distinguished Service Medal. Allen was lauded for taking control of the
Katrina rescue and recovery and providing what Jackson called "an innovative
vision that restored faith in the response effort and calmed the public."

Two awards for volunteer service also drew loud applause. Kevin Kelly, an
Immigration and Customs Enforcement  special agent, was honored for his
volunteer work in helping disabled veterans at the Walter Reed Army Medical
Center. Jo Ann Kaminski, a program analyst at the Federal Law Enforcement
Training Center, got a standing ovation when the crowd was told she had donated
a kidney to a colleague's wife, who would have died without the transplant.

Stephen Barr's e-mail address is barrs@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              280 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 13, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Assumptions About Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A15

LENGTH: 422 words


I am troubled by the term "anti-immigration groups" in "Seeing Vote's Effects
Far Beyond Herndon" [Metro, May 4].

The difference between "anti-immigration" and "anti-illegal-immigration" is
substantive. I am not an activist on this issue, but I believe that most
Americans who oppose illegal immigration are neither "anti-immigration" nor
racist. I am willing to concede that our quotas for immigrants may be far too
low, but I believe that whatever the proper quota, it should be determined by
Americans and their officials and representatives, not the people who choose to
come here illegally.

Your paper betrays a bias in the use of the term "anti-immigration groups."

--  Dick Sullivan

Oakton

*

The advance story on Herndon's May 2 election [Metro, April 30] stated that
Latino immigrants make up about a quarter of the town's population. We are not
told how many other immigrants reside in Herndon. The article also said many
undocumented workers are hiding in Herndon. Apparently they aren't hiding well
if we know how many there are  --  or does the figure cited above tell us only
about documented immigrants?

The article quoted candidate Jorge Rochac as saying that he studied the voter
lists and found about 500 Hispanic surnames listed as of 2004, and that he found
24 who went to the polls. Mr. Rochac said that his study shows that legally
admitted residents were afraid to participate in local politics.

That is a big leap from voter participation to participation in other aspects of
politics, and also, some important information is missing. We don't know how Mr.
Rochac determined that only 24 Hispanic people went to the polls. We don't know
which election he is referring to. How many of the registered voters cast
ballots? Did he call up all of them? Apathy is the usual reason given when
overall voter turnout is low.

The most offensive aspect of the article is the idea that a Hispanic surname
identifies a person as Hispanic.

One of the most iconic of Hispanic entertainers is Don Francisco of Univision's
"Sabado Gigante." He is a native of Chile, but his real name is Mario
Kreutzberger. Chile's national hero, by the way, is a man named O'Higgins. My
own informal survey of actors' names on my favorite telenovelas  on Telemundo
has shown  that about a third of the actors have Germanic and Anglo surnames,
though several have traditional Hispanic given names.

There are also significant numbers of people with Hispanic surnames who are not
Hispanic.

--  Douglas Wheeler

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              281 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The Week Ahead

BYLINE: Economic indicators:

SECTION: Financial; F03

LENGTH: 249 words


May 15-19, 2006

President Bush addresses nation on immigration. Senate takes up immigration
bill.

Last day to sign up for new Medicare drug benefit.

Closing arguments begin in Enron trial.

Carnegie Endowment hosts forum on the politics of oil.

Urban Institute hosts forum on new Massachusetts health-care legislation.

AARP hosts forum on pensions at Ronald Reagan Building.

Senate Finance Committee holds hearing on nomination of Susan Schwab to be U.S.
trade representative.

Senate Banking Committee holds hearing on hedge funds.

Senate Foreign Relations Committee holds hearing on energy security.

Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke speaks about hedge funds at Sea Island, Ga.

Economic indicators: April producer prices, housing starts, industrial
production.

Senate Finance Committee holds hearing on physician-owned hospitals.

Senate Government Affairs Committee holds hearings on nomination of Rob Portman
to be director of Office of Management and Budget.

Economic indicators: April consumer prices.

Senate Commerce Committee marks up telecom legislation.

Senate Banking Committee holds hearing on China and currency manipulation.

Former Fed chairman Alan Greenspan speaks to annual meeting of Bond Market
Association.

Kaiser Family Foundation hosts forum on Medicare drug benefit.

Economic indicators: April leading indicators.

Book Expo opens at Washington Convention Center.

Hudson Institute hosts forum on pensions.

American Enterprise Institute hosts forum on Russian oil.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              282 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Pocketfuls of Fear

SECTION: Editorial; B08

LENGTH: 390 words


For Washington Nationals outfielder Jose Guillen, getting his teammates "home"
is a way of life. When Guillen's Dominican-born girlfriend was robbed May 3
after wiring money and cashing a check at a D.C. check-cashing store, many
Americans learned for the first time about another way of life for America's
immigrants: the routine practice of sending money home to help support loved
ones abroad.

Considering that the foreign-born population in the District has more than
tripled since 1980  --  giving us one of the largest immigrant populations in
the country  --  her experience was at once tragic and all too common. That a
well-off person  fell victim to this crime should launch a national discussion
about a pattern of similar crimes against ordinary immigrants without the star
power to make national news.

Crime against immigrants in the District and Prince William and Prince George's
counties has doubled in recent years. Why? An overwhelming number of immigrants
do not have basic bank accounts. They use check-cashing outlets to cash their
paychecks and send money home, often paying high and hidden fees. On payday,
immigrants are easy marks as they leave these stores with hundreds of their
hard-earned dollars in their pockets.

Without a basic bank account, it's harder for immigrants to save money or earn
the good credit that would allow them to pursue the American dream. Although
there have been positive steps, such as letting immigrants who do not have
driver's licenses open a bank account using a foreign consular ID, much work
still has to be done to bring immigrants into the mainstream financial system.
Banks need to recognize the power of the immigrant market and bring banking
services to the communities where immigrants live and work. But the banks need
to be prodded and supported, just as they were nudged to serve the low-income
market when the federal Community Reinvestment Act was passed.

After all, if a famous baseball player who will earn $4 million this season is
relying on Money Mart rather than his corner bank, we cannot fairly expect the
nation's other 20 million immigrants to do it any differently.

--  Linda Singer

is executive director of Appleseed, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that
focuses on social justice and public policy issues.

Linda.Singer@appleseednetwork.org

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              283 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Money Earned in U.S. Pushes Up Prices in El Salvador;
Subsidies Help Keep Many From Extreme Poverty

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A17

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: LA UNION, El Salvador


It is hard to overstate how much this tiny Central American nation has benefited
from the estimated $2.8 billion that Salvadoran immigrants in the United States
send back to their relatives each year.

Without it, the portion of families who live in extreme poverty would jump from
6 percent to 37 percent, according to a recent study by the United Nations
Development Program.

Yet economists have become increasingly concerned that the flood of U.S. dollars
may also be driving up the cost of living in El Salvador, forcing ever-larger
numbers of Salvadorans to leave for the United States  --  where their presence,
along with that of other illegal immigrants, has already triggered a fierce
debate.

"You've basically got this vicious circle going on, and it's only going to get
worse," said Katharine Andrade-Eekhoff, one of the El Salvador-based authors of
the U.N. study.

Estimates of the overall Salvadoran population in the United States, including
legal immigrants, vary from 1 million to more than double that. Salvadorans are
the largest immigrant group in the Washington area.

Part of the problem driving the migration wave, noted Andrade-Eekhoff, is the
fact that most families need the money they get from their relatives in the
United States for necessities such as food, clothing and housing. That leaves
little for long-term investments that could improve El Salvador's economy.

With more dollars chasing limited commodities such as land and housing, prices
are rising. And because El Salvador imports most of its goods from nations that
can make them less expensively, the consumption boom isn't creating an increase
in jobs. Meanwhile, the ready supply of desperate workers from the even poorer
Central American countries of Nicaragua and Honduras keeps down wages for
existing low-skill jobs  --  making it difficult for the Salvadorans who hold
them to make ends meet.

The impact of this dynamic is visible across this eastern stretch of the
country, from which much of the Salvadoran migration to the United States has
originated.

On small, family-run dairy farms that have dotted the area for generations, most
ranch hands tending the cows these days are Hondurans and Nicaraguans.

So are the laborers who scrape salt crystals from the bottom of pools hugging
the Pacific coastline, and the construction workers building pricey housing
developments on the reddish earth a few miles inland.

"You can't find Salvadorans to do this kind of work anymore," said Jose Acosta,
the supervisor at a construction site where almost all of the 35 men toiling
under a harsh sun on a recent morning were from Nicaragua.

At best, the workers earn $250 a month, often far less, he said. "And these
days, you need at least $300 to $400 just to survive."

To buy one of the pastel townhouses the crew was building, you would need far
more.

The prices, ranging from $30,900 to $93,300, were as groundbreaking for this
area as the American-style amenities: glass-paned windows, breakfast nooks and
elaborate lighting fixtures.

Yet a map in the sales office indicated that there was no shortage of buyers. It
was studded with the red pushpins that salesman Jose Miguel Hernandez uses to
mark sold units. Hernandez said he had sold even more than the map indicated.
"It's just that I ran out of red pins," he said with a grin.

Outside the office, the "For Rent" signs in the windows of several houses hinted
at the nature of Hernandez's clientele. About 75 percent of the buyers, he
estimated, are Salvadorans based in the United States  --  divided more or less
evenly among the New York, Boston and Washington areas.

Eventually they hope to return. For now, many are renting their new houses to
professionals from Spain, Belgium and Japan who are working on a
multimillion-dollar aid project to upgrade the seaport in nearby Cutuco.

In one of the development's few houses occupied by a Salvadoran, Gloria Alvarez
sat amid the gleaming white tiles of her living room, looking oddly disconsolate
for a woman who had just moved into a home fancier than any she had known as a
child.

The reason she was able to afford the place is that her husband lives in Los
Angeles, where he mans the front desk at a storage facility, Alvarez said. She
was desperate to join him, but also loath to leave their two young children
behind. And if she somehow managed to smuggle them into the United States,
Alvarez, a 37-year-old teacher, figured she would have to take a menial job that
pays less than the cost of child care. Also, given housing prices in Los
Angeles, the family would almost certainly have to settle in cramped,
unattractive quarters.

"Last week, my husband came for a visit to see the new house, and he said to me,
'My love, we are living our dream!' " Alvarez recounted, dabbing tears from her
eyes. "But this is not my dream. My dream was to live my life with my husband."

It may be a long time coming. Already, her husband had tried moving back to El
Salvador and starting a business  --  first a restaurant, then a small shrimp
processing plant. Both failed.

"Finally he said, 'I have to go back to the United States, honey. There is no
work for me here,' " Alvarez said.

A few feet from Alvarez's house, workers laying the foundations for the next
block of homes gave similar reasons for leaving Nicaragua.

Back in his home town city of Ocotal, said Harbin Gomez, he was earning $3 a day
as a bricklayer's assistant, and the work was less steady. Here in El Salvador
he earns $5.72  --  almost double.

With his wife and 9-year-old daughter still living in Nicaragua and paying
Nicaraguan prices for food and clothing, Gomez, 45, said the extra money goes
even further.

But he also feels the pinch of higher living costs in El Salvador. Even after
splitting the concrete-block hut he rents with three other workers, his bill
comes to $15 a month, he noted. By the time he has covered the rest of his
expenses, he is able to send his family only $35 to $50.

"That's a little better than in Nicaragua," he said with a sigh. "But frankly,
not much."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              284 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Speech Nearly Upstaged by Clamor Preceding It

BYLINE: Tom Shales

SECTION: Style; C01 , TOM SHALES

LENGTH: 974 words


"Tonight I will make it clear where I stand," George W. Bush said early in his
19-minute speech last night on immigration problems, conceding with almost
absurd understatement that "we do not yet have full control of the border"
between the United States and Mexico.

Although he was, in fact, seated, not standing, at his desk in the Oval Office,
Bush did make fairly clear his positions. On the matter of amnesty for all
illegal aliens (a term he avoided) already in the country, for instance, Bush
said succinctly, "I oppose it."

Neither the president, in his customary pale blue tie, nor the network
commentators, for the most part, answered other questions that hung in the air
if not on the airwaves: Was the speech really prompted by the urgency of the
immigration issue, or by the severity of Bush's low ratings in popularity polls?
Was the real purpose to spur debate on immigration, or to push Iraq out of the
spotlight for the next few days, while pundits ponder immigration on op-ed pages
and cable news networks?

The White House made certain it was Immigration Day in Washington and the nation
yesterday by leaking the major points of the speech very early, so early that it
dominated virtually all the day's newscasts. The speech itself was like an
anticlimax, a mere technicality positioned amid the clatter and clamor that
preceded and followed it  --  and will continue to follow it perhaps for the
entire week.

Anchors and commentators tended to play along, concentrating on the issue with
their usual grim faces and behaving as if there were no other news in the world
--  except perhaps for that contained in the headlines that ticker-tock across
the bottom of the screen.

At one point, Bush addressed himself to the members of both houses of Congress,
calling for an immigration bill to be sent to his desk in the near future. Deal,
or no deal? That question was soon being asked on NBC, but not about
legislation. NBC rushed madly back to regular programming  --  in its case the
simple-minded game show "Deal or No Deal?"  --  almost immediately after the
speech ended, with only the most cursory comment following.

As for the Democratic response to the speech, anchor Brian Williams told viewers
that if they must see that, they could tune to MSNBC, a sister cable network.
NBC had  May-sweeps money to make. The trigger fingers in control rooms at ABC
and CBS were just as itchy, returning to scheduled programming with little of
the usual postmortem pontification.

MSNBC did have the liveliest pre-speech show, thanks partly to guest Pat
Buchanan  --  who, whether you like what he says or not, has a refreshing habit
of getting to the point  --  and host Chris Mathews. Matthews was the only
anchor to include in his commentary something Ernest Hemingway once said to Rita
Hayworth, "Don't confuse motion with action."

CNN's approach to the speech was the most quixotic, though partly by accident.
The speech was preceded by a program on which host Wolf Blitzer welcomed guest
Lou Dobbs, and followed by a program on which host Lou Dobbs welcomed, among
others, guest Wolf Blitzer. As for the low-rated "Paula Zahn Now," usually seen
in the 8 p.m. slot, it was rerouted to oblivion.

But there's more on the itchy-trigger front. The president's speech was also
preceded on CNN by  --  the president's speech. CNN accidentally aired part of
Bush's rehearsal of the speech live, after someone mistakenly pushed the wrong
button.

The gaffe lasted for only 16 seconds but, said media magpie Matt Drudge on his
Web site, it "captured the president starting and stopping his message, then
looking at the White House media advisor for direction." An embarrassed Blitzer
materialized and told viewers the mistake had been made by "the network pool,"
though there were no reports of it appearing on other networks.

Another Web site said that an NBC producer, in charge of the pool for the night,
erred in removing the presidential seal from the screen too early; it was
supposed to remain there until just before the speech began. When CNN
technicians saw the shield vanish, they assumed the speech was about to start.

Whatever, the mistake probably boosted circulation of the president's
appearance, since the goof had been captured on tape and was soon playing on
media-watchdog Web sites.

CNN may be in for criticism, in addition, for using Dobbs to anchor the
post-speech show (a "special edition" of "Lou Dobbs Tonight") because Dobbs
regularly and vehemently attacks U.S. immigration policy on his nightly CNN
program. Although he called the speech "a bold attempt," he also complained that
it was "long on rhetoric and short on specifics."

Commentator Bill Schneider, among CNN's guests, disagreed with Dobbs and called
Bush's speech a "very cautious" one. But then another guest, Republican
strategist Charlie Black, declared, "The fact is, it was a bold speech."

Good grief, it was like a new version of video pong. Whether bold or cautious,
the speech was delivered competently and confidently, with Bush coming across as
"reasoned and respectful," the two adjectives he used to describe the tone he
hopes will prevail as immigration policy is debated in the days ahead.

The next time Bush makes a speech, however, the White House might consider
breaking with its policy of leaking the talking points so far ahead of time.
Back in the 20th century, administrations traditionally waited until an hour or
two before air time to pass the speeches around to the media. Since what Bush
said last night must have already been familiar to millions of those watching,
they might have suspected it was all a rerun.

Of course, if they were watching CNN, the deja vu was doubly dizzying. Perhaps
we should be grateful for the mistake, since it was the only thing lending an
element of surprise to the occasion.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              285 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

In Speech, A Balancing Act of Policy And Politics

BYLINE: Dan Balz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1397 words


President Bush once saw the immigration issue as an opportunity to expand the
Republican Party by attracting more Hispanic voters with a message of tolerance
and inclusion. His nationally televised speech last night was an admission that
the issue has now become a problem that, if not managed carefully, could quickly
become a historic liability for his party.

The immigration debate that reopened in the Senate yesterday offers Republicans
an unpalatable political trade-off. Disappointing conservative,
anti-illegal-immigration forces could demoralize a crucial constituency and
depress turnout in the November elections at a time when every vote appears
important to the GOP. Energizing only those conservatives risks destroying the
president's long-sought goal of building a durable Republican majority by
normalizing his party's relations with the rapidly growing Latino community.

Bush sought to reassure both sides with his speech last night, and in doing so
he attempted to define the middle ground in a debate where consensus has been
difficult. By ordering National Guard troops to the border, he was determined to
show conservatives and House Republicans his belief that border security is a
prerequisite to any legislative solution. But on the most contentious issue
before Congress, Bush came closer to the approach now on the Senate floor,
saying he favors a path to citizenship for some illegal immigrants while
rejecting either mass deportation or automatic amnesty for those now here
illegally.

"America can be a lawful society and a welcoming society at the same time," he
said. "We will fix the problems created by illegal immigration, and we will
deliver a system that is secure, orderly and fair."

That he found himself in such a position, on an issue about which he has spoken
passionately ever since he bucked anti-immigration voices within his own party
as governor of Texas, reflects the power and passion of those opposed to
comprehensive legislation. It also underscores that he comes to the debate at
this moment in a weakened position, particularly among conservatives in his own
party.

"I think the president would really like to do the right thing here and pass a
responsible bill, but his own weakness in his own party has made that much more
difficult," said Simon Rosenberg, founder of the centrist New Democrat Network.
"In many ways, he lost control of this debate late last year, when Republicans
[in the House] passed a bill that was really one of the more extreme bills
passed in American history. He's never regained control of the debate."

A Republican strategist with close ties to the White House, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity to talk candidly about the president's problems, blamed
Bush for not standing up forcefully to supporters of a House bill that would
make felons of the 12 million illegal immigrants in the country as well as
anyone who tries to help them. "The president responded to that House bill
rather passively," he said. "Leadership is standing up to demagoguery." This
strategist said last night's speech was less about immigration than "about the
total collapse of the president's numbers among conservatives."

GOP internal survey data show that the immigration issue does not cut the same
way in all competitive districts, and therefore neither party can confidently
predict how the politics of this debate will play out in November. Adding to the
uncertainty is the question of what kind of legislation, if any, ultimately
emerges from Congress.

The House and Senate now appear to be on a collision course, with the Senate
aiming at comprehensive legislation that would include a path to citizenship for
many of the illegal immigrants already here, and House Republicans determined to
block anything that they believe smacks of amnesty. Bush insisted last night
that what he supports is not amnesty.

Three in four Americans  --  74 percent  --  supported using National Guard
troops to patrol the U.S. border with Mexico, according to a Washington Post-ABC
News poll conducted before the president spoke. The results are based on
interviews with 508 randomly selected adults who were interviewed Friday through
Sunday for this survey, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five
percentage points.

Republican pollster Bill McInturff said Bush was wise to take on issues of
enforcement  --  with his plan for sending troops to the border and his renewed
call for tougher sanctions against employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants  --  as part of his call for comprehensive legislation.

"From all the various data I've looked at, there are two constants," he said.
"One, that people do not believe we are adequately defending our border, and
two, that they want employers held accountable. . . . You can't get to a
guest-worker program until people believe you're securing the borders and you're
cracking down on employers."

Polling data underscore that immigration is a political issue whose impact
stretches far beyond the states on the Mexican border, igniting passions in the
Rocky Mountain West, the farm belt in the Midwest, and wherever there are
poultry or packing plants. Passions run deepest among those alarmed by what they
see as a flood tide of illegal immigrants and by what they fear is a movement
that is changing the culture and identity of the country.

Those who say immigration is the issue upon which they are likely to base their
vote in November disapprove of the kind of comprehensive plan favored by Bush
and strongly support sending all illegal immigrants back to their home
countries. They are both Republicans and Democrats, they tend to be less
educated and less affluent, and many of them are older than 65, surveys suggest.

Democratic pollster Peter D. Hart, who with McInturff conducts the NBC News-Wall
Street Journal poll, said that makes appealing to them exceptionally attractive
for a Republican Party worried about minimizing its losses in November. "You
look at this group and say, 'We can motivate our base, we can pick up an
important group of old Americans . . . and maybe we can begin to cut down the
differential' "in November, he said.

But the stakes are even greater on the other side, more now than even a few
months ago. The House bill has inflamed opinion within the Hispanic community
and mobilized a nascent political movement, one that over time will grow in size
and strength as younger Latinos begin to register and vote in larger and larger
numbers. Their political allegiance is now up for grabs, and the great danger
that Bush and his advisers see in a stalemate is that the Democrats will be able
to claim much of that vote.

"It's become an emotional issue," said Sergio Bendixen, who has polled
extensively on Latino issues. "It's no longer an immigration issue, it's whether
the United States welcomes Hispanics, whether they appreciate the contribution
of Hispanics."

Political strategists may debate which of those forces could be more important
in deciding close races in November  --  the anti-illegal-immigrant activists
who were encouraged by conservative talk radio and rallied behind the Minuteman
movement, which sprang up as a citizen border security corps, or the huge
throngs of immigrant supporters who were mobilized by Hispanic radio and
protested in the streets last month. But there is little disagreement that in
the longer term, a party seen as hostile to immigrants, legal or illegal, could
pay a stiff price.

The negative role model cited universally is former California governor Pete
Wilson (R), who used the anti-illegal-immigration issue to win reelection in
1994 only to see his party suffer in subsequent elections. "California went from
being a swing state to a solid Democratic state, mainly because of the
overwhelming support of Hispanics," Bendixen said.

Bush's instincts on immigration are well known and long stated, but his
political standing has reduced his leverage just as the congressional debate is
nearing its most difficult moment. White House officials believe that the
prime-time address reinserts the president when he is needed most, but his most
challenging test will come later this summer, when House and Senate negotiators
are likely to try to compromise their differences. Juggling short- and long-term
political goals will make his task all the more difficult.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              286 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Still Dodging Immigration's Truths

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 984 words


President Bush's immigration speech mostly missed the true nature of the
problem. We face two interconnected population issues. One is aging; the other
is immigration. We aren't dealing sensibly with either, and as a result we face
a future of unnecessarily heightened political and economic conflict. On the one
side will be older baby boomers demanding all their federal retirement benefits.
On the other will be an expanding population of younger and poorer Hispanics  --
immigrants, their children and grandchildren  --  increasingly resentful of
their rising taxes that subsidize often-wealthier and unrelated baby boomers.

Does this look like a harmonious future?

But you couldn't glean the danger from Bush's speech Monday night. Nor will you
hear of it from most Democrats and (to be fair) the mainstream media. There is
much muddle to our immigration debate. The central problem is not  illegal
immigration. It is undesirably high levels of poor and low-skilled immigrants,
whether legal or illegal, most of whom are Hispanic. Immigrants are not all the
same. An engineer making $75,000 annually contributes more to the American
economy and society than a $20,000 laborer. On average, the engineer will
assimilate more easily.

Testifying recently before Congress, University of Illinois economist Barry
Chiswick  --  a respected immigration scholar  --  said this of low-skilled
immigrants:

"Their presence in the labor market increases competition for low-skilled jobs,
reducing the earnings of low-skilled native-born workers. . . . Because of their
low earnings, low-skilled immigrants also tend to pay less in taxes than they
receive in public benefits, such as income transfers (e.g., the earned income
tax credit, food stamps), public schooling for their children, and publicly
provided medical services. Thus while the presence of low-skilled immigrant
workers may raise the profits of their employers, they tend to have a negative
effect on the well-being of the low-skilled native-born population, and on the
native economy as a whole."

Hardly anyone is discussing these issues candidly. It is politically inexpedient
to do so. We can be a lawful society and a welcoming society simultaneously, to
use the president's phrase, but we cannot be a welcoming society for limitless
numbers of Latin America's poor without seriously compromising our own future
--  and, indeed, the future of many of the Latinos already here. Yet, that is
precisely what the president and many senators (Democratic and Republican)
support by endorsing large "guest worker" programs and an expansion of today's
system of legal visas. In practice these proposals would result in substantial
increases of low-skilled immigrants.

How fast can they assimilate? We cannot know, but we can consult history. It is
sobering. In 1972 Hispanics were 5 percent of the U.S. population and their
median household income was 74 percent of that of non-Hispanic white households.
In 2004 Hispanics were 14 percent of the population, and their median household
income was 70 percent of the level of non-Hispanic whites. These numbers suggest
that rapid immigration of low-skilled workers and rapid assimilation are at
odds. Some immigrant families make huge advances, but many don't and newcomers
represent a constant drag.

The difficulties are obvious. Competition among them depresses wages. Social
services are stretched thin. In 2000 children of immigrants already represented
a quarter of all low-income students in U.S. schools, an Urban Institute study
reports. The figure is probably higher today. The study also reports that
immigrant children are rapidly spreading beyond the six states where they had
traditionally concentrated (California, Texas, Florida, Illinois, New York and
New Jersey). This may explain why immigration has suddenly become such an
explosive issue. A reader e-mails: "There are children in my son's school who
aren't able to speak a single word  of English, and it is causing such
frustration amongst the staff and other children . . . I am afraid for my son's
future."

There are striking parallels between how we've treated immigration and aging. In
both cases, the facts are hiding in plain view. But we've chosen to ignore them
because candor seems insensitive and politically awkward. Who wants to offend
the elderly or Latinos? The result is to make our choices worse by postponing
them. A sensible society would long ago have begun adapting to longer life
expectancies, better health and greater wealth by making careful cuts in Social
Security and Medicare. We've done little.

Unfortunately, the two problems intersect. Just coincidentally, the Census
Bureau projects both the 65-and-over population and the Hispanic population to
be about a fifth of the total by 2030 (the elderly population is now about 12
percent). The tax increases that will be required to pay for existing federal
commitments to the elderly are on the order of 30  to 40 percent. People who
don't think there will be conflicts between older beneficiaries and younger
taxpayers  --  Hispanic or not  --  are deluding themselves. People who imagine
there won't be more conflicts between growing numbers of poor Latinos and poor
African Americans for jobs and political power are also deluding themselves.

As the president says, we need a "comprehensive" immigration policy. He's right
on some elements: controlling the border; providing reliable identification
cards for legal immigrants; penalizing employers that hire them; providing some
legal status for today's illegal immigrants. But he's wrong in wanting to expand
the number of low-skilled immigrants based on the fiction of U.S. labor
"shortages." In his testimony, economist Chiswick rightly argued that we should
do the opposite  --  give preferences to skilled immigrants. We should be smart
about the future; right now, we're not.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 18, 2006



CORRECTION:  As a result of an editing error, Robert J. Samuelson's May 17
column incorrectly referred to penalizing employers who hire legal immigrants,
rather than illegal immigrants.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              287 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A20

LENGTH: 762 words


PARIS  --  France's lower house of Parliament approved a tough new immigration
bill Wednesday that would allow the country to selectively choose which
foreigners can live and work here and require that they learn the French
language.

The bill, which passed the National Assembly by a vote of 367 to 164 after 54
hours of debate, was a reaction to rising complaints that the country's problems
are being caused by immigrants. It was drafted by Interior Minister Nicolas
Sarkozy and is vital to his plans to run for president next year, political
analysts say. The Senate will debate the bill next month.

The measure would dramatically change several long-standing French immigration
policies. It would make it easier for the country to screen out low-income,
poorly educated immigrants in favor of highly skilled workers; it would tighten
restrictions under which immigrant workers can bring their families to France;
and it would abolish the right of illegal immigrants to receive residency papers
after living in France for 10 years.

The bill has been harshly attacked by human rights groups, labor unions and
leftist politicians, as well as French Muslim and Christian leaders.

--  John Ward Anderson

EUROPE

*  MOSCOW  --  A senior police official was among seven people killed by a
powerful car bomb in Ingushetia, one of several southern Russian republics
plagued by violence spilling over from neighboring Chechnya. Four Russian
soldiers and a senior prison official were killed in separate attacks in the
North Caucasus region.

The Ingushetia bombing killed Dzhabrail Kostoyev, deputy head of the republic's
Interior Ministry and a prominent figure in the pro-Kremlin administration that
has been battling Islamic separatists. It was the fifth attempt on his life in
recent years, according to the ministry.

The bomb detonated shortly after 8 a.m. as Kostoyev was heading to work in
Nazran, the regional capital. He was killed instantly, as were his driver and
bodyguard. Their SUV landed on a passing vehicle, killing four men, officials
said.

Magomed Yevloyev, a self-described rebel commander, asserted responsibility.

--  Peter Finn

*  ROME  --  Romano Prodi was sworn in as prime minister of Italy's 61st postwar
government, ending the conservative and sometimes rocky rule of Silvio
Berlusconi.

*  AMSTERDAM  --  Under withering criticism, the Dutch immigration minister has
agreed to rethink her threat to revoke the citizenship of Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a
Somali-born lawmaker known for her opposition to fundamentalist Islam. Hirsi Ali
gave up her seat in the Dutch parliament after she admitted lying about her name
and age on an asylum application in 1992.

the americas

*  BOGOTA, Colombia  --  One of the world's most hunted drug traffickers has
been arrested in Brazil, Colombian police said. Colombian-born Pablo Rayo
Montano, who had been on the run for a decade, was captured Tuesday in Sao Paulo
as part of an operation coordinated by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration.

*  SAO PAULO, Brazil  --  The body count grew in South America's largest city as
police killed 22 more suspected criminals. The latest deaths boosted the overall
death toll to 156 since a wave of violence enveloped Sao Paulo last Friday.

AFRICA

*  NAIROBI  --  A secular alliance that is battling Islamic militias in Somalia
charged that its rivals were bolstered by fighters from the Middle East,
Pakistan and elsewhere, and said it has the bodies to prove it. The report could
not be independently verified, but the possible presence of such fighters has
heightened fears that al-Qaeda is making Somalia a staging ground, a spokesman
at the U.S. State Department said. The United States is reportedly supporting
the secular alliance.

THE MIDDLE EAST

*  GAZA CITY  --  President Mahmoud Abbas ordered the deployment of thousands of
Palestinian police in the Gaza Strip after the new Hamas government, in a
challenge to his authority, posted its own armed contingent on the streets.

*  CAIRO  --  A high-profile reformist judge suffered a heart attack a day
before his disciplinary hearing for blowing the whistle on alleged fraud in
Egypt's parliamentary elections last year. Hesham Bastawisi and a colleague had
refused to attend a similar hearing last week.

*  AMMAN, Jordan  --  King Abdullah told Iran's foreign minister of his concern
about Tehran's hostility to Israel and support for Palestinian militant groups,
officials said. Jordan last month accused the Palestinian group Hamas of
plotting to stage attacks on its soil.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              288 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

An Up-the-Hill Battle;
Even Without Citizenship, Immigrants Embrace a Chance to Become Activists

BYLINE: David Montgomery, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C01

LENGTH: 1194 words


Seven a.m., and she's selling tamales on the Baltimore streets. By 10:30, she's
lobbying her congressman on Capitol Hill.

Is Alicia Villalva, who stole across the border to make money and send it home
to Mexico, properly a constituent? She has been living here for nearly 20 years,
without a Social Security number, without citizenship. She has never cast a vote
for Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.), yet here the big man is.

They are seated face to face in his inner sanctum. He says, "I think where I am
[on immigration] is where you want me to be. . . . The fact you're here in
Washington today shows you're reaching out and want to tell your story."

Villalva has just finished telling four of his senior staffers her story, words
in Spanish and English, tears spilling down her cheeks. How she left home at 15
because her family was starving. Survived the desert to "help my dad," whom she
didn't see again for nine years. Now, married, she has three children, who are
Americans.

"The only thing we want to do is work and build the country," says Villalva, and
the Hill staffers watch her, riveted.

"You bring a very, very important aspect to the debate," says Amanda Rogers
Thorpe, Ruppersberger's senior legislative assistant. "I get phone calls all the
time saying, 'Deport them all right away!' "

As an undocumented worker with a fictional taxpayer ID number, does she get a
voice? Should she, like hundreds of other immigrants who walked the waxed halls
of Congress yesterday, have a chance to petition the government?

"I pay taxes," says Villalva. This is American.

"We Are America," say the blue-and-white stickers on the lapels of the earnest
petitioners in the long, echoing corridors on the day the Senate votes yes to an
amendment for a big border fence. You could say, Well of course! Immigrants have
a personal stake in the debate unfolding in Congress over immigration reform.
People are always animated to become Super Citizens when the usual
blah-blah-blah of lawmaking suddenly touches their lives. They end up stalking
the Hill with sheaves of talking points, congressional face books and thumbnail
sketches of key legislators.

Which is what the immigrants had yesterday.

Still, it was something new  --  almost alien, for a group of people frequently
dismissed as such  --  to approach and be received as fully vested Americans. If
one had to complete a practicum for the naturalization test, this could be it.

"That was strange to me because in my country it is very different," said
Adriana Pelaez, 31, who also came from Mexico. "Talking face to face with
congresistas in Mexico, they are not very nice. Here they are more polite."

Pelaez's husband made the journey north seven years ago, entering illegally. The
couple was separated for five years. She visited him on a tourist visa. She
could not bear to leave him again, so she overstayed her visa. She has a
master's degree in communications, but she works as a waitress in Baltimore
because she can't get a Social Security card.

Another thing about lobbying in Mexico, said Pelaez: You can't do it. You must
cut through such red tape that you never get to see anyone. Not only that, her
impression is that Mexican legislators can't do much about the laws anyway. What
counts is how much money you have.

She believes money does not hold sway in the United States, and the government
of the people is just that.

Imagine.

"That's why I like the United States," Pelaez said. "And I like the system."

The group of a dozen from Baltimore that included Villalva and Peleaz
breakfasted on spicy tamales and a hot drink of atole (water, chocolate,
cinnamon and wheat flour) before piling into a van and heading to the Hill.

They were organized by CASA of Maryland, the immigrant rights advocacy group,
which also scrambled a second team out of Silver Spring. In most offices the
teams were allowed to meet only with staffs  --  welcome to the reality of
nonprofit lobbying, amigos!  --  but in a few cases they got face time with
members of Congress.

During the van ride down I-95, CASA organizer Elizabeth Alex passed out sheets
on good lobbying behavior, in English and Spanish:

"Don't fight with your Congress member or his staff."

"Answer courteously the questions and the worries."

Wouldn't it have been better for the grass-roots immigrant lobbyists to be
registered voters, a force politicians understand?

That's usually the rule, Alex says, but not necessarily on this day. The point
was to put a human face on the consequences of legislative action. Some of the
"paths to citizenship" for illegal immigrants that the Senate is debating would
treat people differently depending on how many years they have been in the
country. This could break up families, says Alex.

Besides, she adds, the citizens-in-training might be their own best advocates.

"They went through so much to get here, and so much to stay, because they are
people who believe in the American dream, believe in the American system, and
they want to participate," Alex says.

In the lobbying sessions, Ruppersberger and most of the Congress members and
staffs firmly embraced strong border security, then groped for ways to define
the middle ground of allowing many illegal immigrants to become citizens without
granting "amnesty." The Baltimore group focused on House members; anything
worked out in the Senate will go to conference with the House  --  as the
pre-citizens could tell you.

"I think it went good," said Aldo Figueroa, 28, a realtor in Baltimore who
overstayed a tourist visa from Peru more than six years ago, but has since
married an American and obtained legal status. He's about to apply for
citizenship.

At first Figueroa was intimidated at the prospect of meeting lawmakers, he said,
but "once I'm sitting there in front of a congressman . . . I feel I'm
one-on-one with another human being."

German Cruz, a day laborer who made it from Honduras via the Mexican border near
San Diego two years ago, said he used to lobby local Honduran officials about
public services, but now he is in the big leagues, a letter-writer to American
legislators. He strode with a confident swagger through the Rayburn office
building in a paint-spattered camouflage vest, under the noses of House members
who voted last December to label people like him felons fit for deportation.

He even joined the group lobbying a staffer for Rep. Ben Cardin, a Maryland
Democrat running for the Senate, who also voted for that tough bill. Cruz, 52,
said afterward he was not cowed. "He who owes nothing fears nothing," he said.

Villalva, of Dundalk, who ended the day she went to Washington by attending a
late-afternoon rally on the Mall, said she wasn't nervous either about telling
the truth to members of the government whose law she broke 18 years ago. She
joined this nascent movement sweeping the country somewhat timidly several weeks
ago, coming to the capital for her first big rally. She feared immigration
authorities might round up everyone.

This time she came to lobby.

"Today, no, I don't care if they throw me out," she said. "I need to come and
talk. It is the truth."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 19, 2006



CORRECTION:  A May 18 Style article incorrectly said that Rep.  Benjamin L.
Cardin (D-Md.) voted for an immigration bill, passed by the House in December,
that would declare illegal immigrants and those who help them to be felons.
Cardin voted against the bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              289 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Keep Close Watch On Congress -- and the Clock

BYLINE: Sudarsan Raghavan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1127 words


It was the end of Sunday Mass, and the Rev. Ramon Baez looked out at the sea of
Latino faces. He called on all the Hondurans and Nicaraguans to listen. Then, he
made an unusual plea: "You have to renew your TPS before June 1st. Or it is
gone."

With less than two weeks left, tens of thousands of Hondurans and Nicaraguans
nationwide have yet to meet a June 1 deadline to renew their work permits
through the TPS, or Temporary Protected Status, program, which allows them to
live and work legally in the United States for another year.

Many Hondurans and Nicaraguans, immigrant advocates said, are not renewing their
permits because they think that by month's end the Bush administration will have
pushed through historic immigration legislation, including a guest-worker
program that would clear the way for many workers to become legal.

Guadalupe Boquin, 37, a Honduran in Baez's congregation, wondered whether enough
people would listen to Baez to make a difference. Those who don't renew risk
losing jobs with decent pay, entering the illegal shadow economy, even
deportation. They also risk the subsistence of several hundred thousand
relatives who depend on their salaries here and in their homelands.

And Boquin understood why.

"They are waiting for the possible amnesty," said the mother of two from
Honduras after the service at St. Anthony of Padua Parish in Baileys Crossroads
last weekend. "President Bush, they say, supports us."

Immense hope has been generated among some immigrants by the launch of a
national immigrant rights movement, huge protest rallies across the country and
the perception, fueled largely by Spanish-language media, that the Bush
administration backs their cause.

But this hope, coupled with a misunderstanding about the way the U.S. political
system works, could turn disastrous, according to immigrant advocates, community
and church leaders and Central American diplomats.

"We are pretty concerned," said Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA de
Maryland, an immigrant advocacy group. "People are waiting for a comprehensive
immigration reform. They are assuming it's going to be a much better deal in
getting citizenship. But there's still a long way to go."

Father Brian Jordan of the Franciscan Immigration Center in New York said many
immigrants typically wait until the last days to renew their permits. But this
time, "people are being swayed by false optimism that the new immigration law
will be in effect by June 1," he said.

Senators are tussling over which illegal immigrants will have a chance at
citizenship, among other issues. It is far from certain how a final
comprehensive immigration bill, which faces tough scrutiny in the House as well,
will look.

Temporary Protected Status is intended to help immigrants who have difficulty
returning to their homelands because of civil conflict or natural disaster.
Critics who favor stricter immigration controls argue that beneficiaries often
arrive here illegally and are allowed to stay long after the crises back home
have ended.

Although current permits expire early in July, applicants must re-register by
June 1 to protect themselves from possible deportation measures.

About 75,000 Hondurans and 4,000 Nicaraguans have temporary permits, which were
issued after Hurricane Mitch in 1998 and renewed several times since. The
Washington region has at most a couple thousand Hondurans and Nicaraguans,
community leaders said. It is unclear how many have Temporary Protected Status.

As of yesterday, 26,751 Hondurans and 1,278 Nicaraguans nationwide  --  35
percent of the total  --  have renewed their permits, U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services said.

"Compared to previous years, we're way down," said Daniel Kane, an agency
spokesman. "They're playing Russian roulette with their future."

Low renewal rates have become so distressing that senior officials from Honduras
and Nicaragua have joined a nationwide media blitz by the immigration services
agency and advocacy groups to urge more people to renew.

Both countries depend heavily on cash remittances sent home by citizens abroad,
the vast majority of whom are in the United States.

"You multiply each person by five and you'll have a large number of people
affected by the lack of remittances to our country," said Roberto Flores
Bermudez, the Honduran ambassador to the United States.

And having thousands of Hondurans deported, he added, "could also generate an
additional burden on Honduras to integrate them back into Honduran society."

He and other diplomats are traveling to cities with large Honduran populations
and urging through radio, television and newspaper interviews that people renew.
Rogelia Urcuyo, the Nicaraguan consul general in New York, said his diplomats
are doing similar outreach.

Flores Bermudez said Honduras was also discussing with U.S. officials the
possibility of extending the June 1 deadline. Immigration authorities have done
that once since 1998.

"The problem is our community is perceiving this as a reality, from the media,
from the Spanish press, from all over," said Jose Lagos, president of Honduran
Unity, a Miami-based nonprofit immigrant advocacy group, referring to the
proposed immigration reforms.

He recounted a recent incident in a Miami restaurant with a Honduran waitress
who had not renewed. When he asked why, she replied: "There's good news. We're
going to be legalized.

"And now it's $250," she said of the cost of renewing her permit, a sum she
could hardly afford to sacrifice.

David Hernandez, counselor for immigration affairs at the Honduran Embassy, said
that the delays also were partly "cultural" and that Hondurans tend "to leave
everything till the end." Others, he said, have run out of money because, under
Temporary Protected Status, you have to pay taxes, and the deadline was last
month.

Maynor Majano, 30, a Honduran bodega owner in the District, said some Hondurans
are concerned that the United States might stop the program or give preference
to other immigrant populations. If they renew, they fear that authorities will
know their whereabouts and deport them. Others are concerned that if they have
the permits, they might not be eligible for a future guest-worker plan, he said.

But in the end, he predicted, most Hondurans will renew their permits. He plans
to do so himself this week, he said.

Boquin did not take any chances. In Virginia, she has two teenage daughters to
care for. In Honduras, she has a diabetic mother who needs $500 a month to
survive.

So April 30, Boquin renewed her permit. She plans to urge her friends to do the
same, but she wondered whether her voice would be louder than the radio and TV
reports.

"They are giving a lot of hope to the people," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              290 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Votes English as 'National Language';
Bill Keeps in Place Multilingual Laws

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman and Jim VandeHei, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1031 words


After an emotional debate fraught with symbolism, the Senate yesterday voted to
make English the "national language" of the United States, declaring that no one
has a right to federal communications or services in a language other than
English except for those already guaranteed by law.

The measure, approved 63 to 34, directs the government to "preserve and enhance"
the role of English, without altering current laws that require some government
documents and services be provided in other languages. Opponents, however, said
it could negate executive orders, regulations, civil service guidances and other
multilingual ordinances not officially sanctioned by acts of Congress.

That vote, considered a defeat for immigration-rights advocates, was followed
last night by an important victory: By 58 to 35, the Senate killed an amendment
that would have blocked eventual citizenship for future immigrants who arrive
under a temporary work permit. Democrats and Republicans agreed that the
amendment would have destroyed the fragile, bipartisan coalition backing the
Senate bill.

The Senate action came hours after President Bush, who visited the border town
of Yuma, Ariz., asked Congress to approve a $1.95 billion budget request to
deploy National Guard troops and 1,000 additional enforcement agents to the
U.S.-Mexico border. Bush also endorsed for the first time the construction of
370 miles of southern border fences to cut down on illegal immigration.

The English language vote continued the conservative turn that a major overhaul
of the nation's immigration laws has taken since the Senate began debate this
week. The comprehensive legislation would strengthen border security, allow
illegal immigrants who have been in the country five years or more to remain and
eventually become citizens, and create a guest-worker program.

With approval of a triple-layered border fence Wednesday, the capping of the
annual number of guest-worker visas at 200,000 and the English-language
amendment yesterday, Republicans say the bill is tougher than the original
version and comes closer to what is needed to satisfy many conservatives.

But immigrants-rights groups say their support is teetering. "This is
devastating," said Raul Gonzalez, legislative director of the National Council
of La Raza, after the English-language vote. "For us, this is a tough issue to
bring back to the community."

Only nine Senate Democrats voted for the amendment and one Republican, Sen. Pete
V. Domenici (N.M.), voted against it. Maryland's two Democratic senators voted
against it, and Virginia's two GOP senators voted for it.

The English-language debate has roiled U.S. politics for decades and, in some
quarters, has been as controversial and important as an amendment to ban flag
burning.

The impact of the language amendment was unclear even after its passage. The
wording negating claims to multilingual services appears straightforward. It
also sets requirements that immigrants seeking U.S. citizenship know the English
language and U.S. history. The amendment would require more thorough testing to
demonstrate English-language proficiency and knowledge of U.S. history and
elements of U.S. culture such as the Pledge of Allegiance and the National
Anthem.

But its author, Sen. James M. Inhofe (R-Okla.), made two last-minute changes
that some opponents said would reduce its effect significantly. By stipulating
that the English-only mandates could not negate existing laws, Inhofe spared
current ordinances that allow bilingual education or multilingual ballots. By
changing the amendment to label English the "national language" rather than the
"official language" of the country, Inhofe may have lessened its symbolic power.

"In my view, we had it watered down enough to make it acceptable," said Sen.
John McCain (R-Ariz.), one of the chief architects of the immigration bill.

But pro-immigration groups and some Democrats said the amendment would
obliterate executive orders issued by President Bill Clinton that mandated
multilingual services and communications in a variety of federal agencies, and
could undermine court orders, agency regulations, civil service guidances, and
state and local ordinances that call for multilingual services.

Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) called the amendment "racist," and
Sen. Ken Salazar (D-Colo.) dismissed it as divisive and anti-American.

Further complicating the picture, moments after approving the Inhofe amendment,
the Senate voted 58 to 39 to approve a competing amendment by Salazar. It
declared English the "common unifying language of the United States," but
mandated that nothing in that declaration "shall diminish or expand any existing
rights" regarding multilingual services.

Senators said the conflict will have to be worked out in negotiations with the
House.

During his appearance in Arizona with Gov. Janet Napolitano (D) in attendance,
Bush offered some tough talk. After touring a porous section of the border that
has helped turn Yuma into a hotbed for illegal workers, Bush told a group of
federal patrol agents that the White House is committed to sending
reinforcements soon, and to significantly expanding security and staff over the
next several years.

"It's time to get immediate results," Bush said at the Yuma Sector Border Patrol
headquarters.

But administration officials made it clear that the $1.95 billion for the
president's border initiative should come out of the same money approved by the
Senate in its version of an emergency war spending bill.

That angered Senate Budget Committee Chairman Judd Gregg (R-N.H.), who had
secured that money solely for capital expenditures, such as fences, sensors and
watchtowers, not border security operations. But Gregg said he has "been told
rather bluntly" some of those expenditures will have to wait.

The White House said the new budget request by Bush would cover the $750
million-plus Guard deployment, new agents, fences and barriers, five helicopters
and two new unmanned surveillance aircraft.  The money would be offset by
delaying other military purchases, according to the White House.

VandeHei reported from Yuma.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              291 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Poison Pills;
An immigration bill that creates millions of second-class citizens would be
worse than no bill at all.

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 511 words


AS THE immigration bill steams through the Senate with surprising speed, it is
acquiring a number of new and unpleasant amendments, mostly designed to placate
people who don't really want an immigration bill at all. Some of the worst  --
those that would have eviscerated the bill entirely or prevented immigrants from
collecting Social Security owed to them  --  have been voted down. Other noxious
amendments, such as yesterday's proposal to make English the "national
language," have been approved. None that has been accepted so far is a
deal-breaker. But some changes would make the bill untenable. In particular, any
amendment that would prevent illegal immigrants who live here now from coming
out of the shadows is unacceptable  --  as is any measure that creates a class
of "lesser" Americans who live here but can never become citizens.

Specifically, that means that the rules designed to regularize the status of the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States must allow all who
qualify to embark on a path to citizenship if they want it, which not all of
them will. Such people, whatever length of time they've been here, should pay a
fine, pay back taxes and prove they are employed, as the bill already requires.
The rule that some of them would have to return to a port of entry and reenter
the country legally is also acceptable. But any amendment (and some are under
discussion) that would require  long-term residents to return home for more than
a year and wait indefinitely to return to the United States is unrealistic:
People cannot and will not leave jobs and families here for an uncertain outcome
and will therefore not comply with the rules.

The same principle applies to the guest-worker visas described in the bill. It
would be  unfair  and unprecedented to create a visa that bars its holders from
obtaining American citizenship, ever. It is true that many potential workers
would, polls show, welcome a chance to work here for a few years and then go
home. But those who do integrate and aspire to citizenship must be allowed to
retain that hope. Certainly it is fair to require them to learn English, be
employed, pass a civics test. But deny them even a chance at citizenship, and
you have the makings of a permanent underclass.

Finally, Congress ought to think hard on the question of who would  enforce all
of these new rules and issue these new visas. As it stands, the bill increases
the number of border guards and enforcement officers. Although the immigration
service would  be better funded, thanks to the new fees and fines that would be
paid, there is no acknowledgement that thousands of officials would  be needed
to read and approve new visa applications. The immigration bureaucracy already
is overwhelmed: It is so slow and so prone to mistakes that it discourages
people from coming here legally. It would be tragic for this bill, negotiated
with such difficulty, to be unenforceable in practice because Congress has
failed to give immigration and border authorities the resources they need.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              292 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

SUNDAY

SECTION: Style; C05

LENGTH: 757 words


Baseball. Baltimore at Washington (Channel 20 at 1); New York Mets at New York
Yankees (ESPN at 8).

Golf. Final round of the Colonial (Channel 9 at 3).

Fox News Sunday interviews Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Iraq's new
government, and Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) talks immigration reform (Channel 5
at 9 a.m.).

This Week. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales addresses the immigration issue,
plus interviews with former vice presidential candidate John Edwards and John
Walsh of "America's Most Wanted" (Channel 7 at 9 a.m.).

Sunday Morning looks at the history of the Japanese kimono and a report on
designer dogs (Channel 9 at 9 a.m.).

Religion & Ethics Newsweekly examines the debate over whether women who have
undergone abortions are negatively affected psychologically, emotionally or
spiritually (Channel 32 at 9 a.m.).

The Chris Matthews Show. Topics are immigration and Al Gore's reemergence; with
NBC's David Gregory, BBC's Katty Kay, Time's Joe Klein and the Orlando
Sentinel's Kathleen Parker (Channel 4 at 10 a.m.).

Inside Washington. Topics are immigration wars, the Hayden nomination and "The
Da Vinci Code" (Channel 7 at 10 a.m.).

Think Tank. With Karl Zinsmeister, author of "Dawn Over Baghdad: How the U.S.
Military Is Using Bullets and Ballots to Remake Iraq" (Channel 26 at 10 a.m.).

Reliable Sources. A review of Tony Snow's first week as White House press
secretary with CNN's Ed Henry, Bloomberg's Roger Simon and Lynn Sweet of the
Chicago Sun-Times; an interview with Mike Wallace; and ABC's Brian Ross on
wiretapping journalists (CNN at 10 a.m.).

Meet the Press interviews Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on foreign policy,
and an immigration debate between Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Rep. Charles
Norwood (R-Ga.) (Channel 4, 10:30 a.m.).

Capital Sunday. Montgomery County Executive Doug Duncan talks about his race for
Maryland governor (Channel 7, 10:30 a.m.).

Face the Nation. With Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, Sen. Dianne Feinstein
(D-Calif.) and Rep. James Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) (Channel 9, 10:30 a.m.).

The Inner Loop. A local take on the topic of immigration (Channel 50, 10:30
a.m.).

Late Edition With Wolf Blitzer interviews Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert;
Sens. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) debate various issues; a
discussion of Iraq with U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad; and an interview with
Australian Prime Minister John Howard (CNN at 11 a.m.).

John McLaughlin's One on One. A debate over neoconservatism between author
Francis Fukuyama and Joe Cirincione of the Center for American Progress
(NewsChannel 8 at 9).

Mystery! Jericho. The conclusion of "The Killing of Johnny Swan" (Channels 22
and 26 at 9).

I'm Mike Wallace: A 60 Minutes Tribute. A look back at the retiring
correspondent's career, focusing on some of his memorable interviews and  some
personal revelations from the man himself (Channel 9 at 7).

Dateline. A night of royalty: Ann Curry interviews Oprah Winfrey, plus a chat
with Prince Charles and his sons, Harry and William (Channel 4 at 7).

10.5: Apocalypse (2006) (Channel 4 at 9) is previewed by Tom Shales in
tomorrow's Sunday Arts section.

Baghdad ER (HBO at 8) is previewed by Tom Shales on Page C1.

The Sopranos. The crew engages in a money-borrowing frenzy, and Meadow relocates
(HBO at 9).

Big Love. Barb is named a finalist for Mother of the Year, and Bill is asked to
become a member of Salt Lake City's Leadership League (HBO at 10).

Charmed. Yes, it appears that Phoebe and Paige are dead  --  but wait! Remaining
sister Piper may have something up her sleeve when she dabbles in the art of
time-traveling (Channel 50 at 8).

Extreme Makeover: Home Edition. Ty and friends lend their helping hands to a
woman and her adopted children, who were left homeless after a  fire (Channel 7
at 7).

The Simpsons. After a passionate kiss between Marge and Homer airs on the
Jumbotron during an Isotopes game, the team's second baseman turns to the couple
for marital advice (Channel 5 at 8).

Cold Case. Lilly doesn't have to blow too much dust off the files when she
investigates the 2005 death of a drug counselor (Channel 9 at 8).

Family Guy ends its season with a 90-minute show about Stewie and Brian
road-tripping to San Francisco, where Stewie confronts a guy who ends up being
himself in the future (Channel 5, 8:30).

Desperate Housewives. Flashbacks show us how the housewives met, while, in the
present, Bree gets frightening news, Susan moves into a trailer and Lynette
discovers Tom's secret (Channel 7 at 9).

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              293 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 22, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

THIS WEEK

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 368 words


Last week ended with a Senate debate over whether English is the "national
language" or merely the country's "common and unifying language." The vocabulary
is unlikely to change this week, as immigration remains at the forefront.
President Bush visits Chicago today to (deep) dish out his views to the National
Restaurant Association. It's officially billed as a war-on-terror speech, but it
is expected to migrate to immigration.

Back in Washington, the Senate continues debate over a bill that would
strengthen border security and create a path to citizenship for millions of
illegal immigrants. The White House is exerting pressure on Senate conservatives
to go with a centrist compromise in anticipation of a bitter fight with House
Republicans when negotiators meet in conference down the road.

In its spare time, the Senate will vote on a $90 billion-plus war-spending
supplemental.

STILL LISTENING? Early this week the Senate intelligence committee votes on the
nomination of Gen. Michael V. Hayden to be CIA director. The full Senate will
take up Bush's controversial nominee for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit, Brett M. Kavanaugh, a White House aide and former lieutenant to Kenneth
W. Starr.

SHALOM, EHUD: Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert makes his inaugural visit to
Washington tomorrow to meet with Bush. They'll discuss Israel's continued
withdrawal from the West Bank and such regional issues as Iran's nuclear
ambitions. On Wednesday, Olmert will address a joint session of Congress.

RATED 'G' FOR GREEN: Former vice president Al Gore heats up speculation about
whether he'll run for president when his documentary on global warming, "An
Inconvenient Truth," debuts Wednesday in New York and Los Angeles. The movie,
which has received early critical acclaim, essentially follows the old veep as
he makes presentations decrying rising global temperatures. It doesn't make it
to Washington theaters until next week.

THERE ONCE WAS A MAN FROM MIDLAND: The president is no poet, so fortunately the
Limerick Generating Station in Pottstown, Pa., has nothing to do with Irish
ditties. Bush visits the power plant on Wednesday to speak about energy.

--  Zachary A. Goldfarb

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              294 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 22, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Border Politics

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 245 words


Thank you for the May 14 news story "Money Earned in U.S. Pushes Up Prices in El
Salvador; Subsidies Help Keep Many From Extreme Poverty." The debate on
migration too often focuses narrowly on the United States as the receiving
nation and ignores the pain and alienation felt by separated families and people
who have had to leave their country to find work.

Migration becomes imperative when survival at home is impossible. In the 1980s
in El Salvador, the U.S.-funded war caused people to flee for their lives. Now
free-market economics exacerbates already alarming rates of poverty, and people
still flee for their lives.

We must understand that our military, economic and foreign policies are
immigration policies that profoundly affect the ability of people to survive
within the borders of their own countries. When they no longer can, you can
count on more immigrants showing up on the U.S. doorstep.

TANYA SNYDER

Director

Voices on the Border

Washington

*

When I was a child, the Western world pointed with horror at the Berlin Wall and
the border fences along the Iron Curtain.

Now the only border walls in the world are being built by two democracies,
Israel and the United States.

Remarkable, isn't it, how the horror of one era becomes the accepted way of a
new generation of leaders. It's particularly ironic when it is foisted on us by
an administration that interjects the word "freedom" in its every public
utterance.

JAMES McGRATH

Annandale

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              295 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Green Card To Nowhere;
What Good Is Legalizing Immigrants If We Don't Educate Them?

BYLINE: Elias Vlanton

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 753 words


In my eight years teaching high school, I've had hundreds of conversations with
the kind of students who are now the subject of our nation's intense immigration
debate. In every class I pose this question: "If you could go back to the moment
you boarded the airplane or climbed on the bus, and could either continue on to
the United States or stay in your home country, what would you do?"

Whether from El Salvador or Sierra Leone, whether they came with visas in hand
or stealthily crossed the Rio Grande, their answer is always the same: "I want
to live in the United States."

The number of immigrants who have entered the country illegally is estimated at
12 million. At this point it's impossible to say who among them will be able to
earn citizenship and the right to pursue their American dreams. The country and
Congress are bitterly divided over the issue. But however many people are
eventually able to gain legal status, there is one thing that should be required
for all seeking to make a new life in this country: education. It is a matter to
which Congress has thus far paid little attention.

Any new immigration bill should require that all immigrants 25 or younger,
before qualifying for permanent resident status, graduate from high school or
earn a GED. Further, Congress should provide an accelerated path to citizenship
for immigrant students who attend college or other postsecondary programs: For
every year of postsecondary education, students could receive their citizenship
one year earlier.

My immigrant students face many barriers to completing high school. Their
parents teach them that success comes from hard work, but many don't realize
that in America the hard work of learning is as important as working hard on the
job. Work is often a family affair: One student cleans offices nightly with her
father; another helps his father mow lawns every weekend. Many immigrant parents
who themselves made it only to the fifth or sixth grade allow their children to
sacrifice their grade-point averages and academic futures  to contribute to the
family's income or to buy consumer products attractive to American teens.

If they make it through high school, most illegal immigrant students are in
effect prevented from pursuing higher education. My highest-scoring student on
the math SAT last year, a West African, was accepted by many engineering
colleges. But he could apply to U.S. colleges only as a foreign student, which
meant he would have to pay tuition beyond his family's means. As an illegal
immigrant, he was ineligible for federal or Maryland state financial aid. The
last time I saw him, he was selling ice cream from a Good Humor truck.

Texas, California and a handful of other states have passed legislation allowing
high school graduates, regardless of legal status, to attend state colleges and
universities as in-state residents, paying much lower in-state tuition. But most
states and federal policy treat an immigrant youth without legal status as they
would a student from any foreign country, even though the illegal immigrant may
have attended elementary, middle and high school in the United States. One of my
former students, a Salvadoran, lives in Maryland, is the daughter of two
permanent legal residents, graduated from a Maryland high school with honors,
and paid Maryland state taxes on her summer job last year. She was admitted to a
public four-year college in Maryland, but the state denies her any aid.

Judging by what I see every day in class, if high school graduation were a
prerequisite to obtaining legal status, both students and their parents would be
more likely to recognize the importance American society places on education.
Immigrant graduation rates, now pitifully low, would climb. Similarly, if young
immigrants believed that they had the same chance as others at their high school
to go to college, many more would do the hard work of staying in school and
getting ready for college.

Adding an educational threshold and increased incentives for college enrollment
to an immigration reform bill would, in the short term, increase the costs of
public higher education for all of us  --  native and immigrant alike. But over
time, a more educated immigrant workforce will earn higher incomes and add to
our national wealth, increasing federal and state tax receipts and
simultaneously decreasing public social service costs.

The writer is a high school teacher in Prince George's County. His e-mail
address is elias@vlanton.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              296 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

A Vote For English

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: Editorial; A29

LENGTH: 816 words


"Of course not." That was Attorney General Alberto Gonzales's answer Sunday on
ABC's "This Week" when asked whether he would favor prohibiting bilingual
ballots.

"Of course not"? Did he mean, "This is not something about which decent people
differ"?

To understand why millions of conservatives do not trust Washington to think
clearly or act reasonably about immigration, consider bilingual ballots. These
conservatives, already worried that both the rule of law and national identity
are becoming attenuated because of illegal immigration, now have another worry:
The federal government's chief law enforcement official may need a refresher
course on federal law pertaining to legal immigrants.

In 1906, the year before a rabbi in a Passover sermon coined the phrase "melting
pot" during torrential immigration from Eastern and Southern Europe, Congress
passed, and President Theodore Roosevelt signed, legislation requiring people
seeking to become naturalized citizens to demonstrate oral English fluency. In
1950 the requirement was strengthened to require people to "demonstrate an
understanding of the English language, including an ability to read, write, and
speak words in ordinary usage in the English language."

Hence, if someone needs a ballot written in a language other than English, that
need proves the person obtained citizenship only because the law was not
enforced when he or she sought citizenship. So one reason for ending ballots in
languages other than English is that continuing them makes a mockery of the rule
of law, including even the prospective McCain-Kennedy law that pro-immigration
groups favor.

It contains several requirements that those aspiring to citizenship demonstrate
"a knowledge of the English language" or "English fluency" in order "to promote
the patriotic integration of prospective citizens into the American way of life"
and into "American common values and traditions." How can legislators support
language such as that and ballots in multiple languages?

Fifty-six House Republicans have sent a letter, instigated by Rep. Steve King of
Iowa, asking that Section 203 of the Voting Rights Act be allowed to expire.
When the  measure was enacted in 1965, it said nothing about bilingual ballots.
Section 203, requiring bilingual ballots in jurisdictions with certain
demographic characteristics, was added in the 1975 extension of the act. The
King letter was sent to Rep. James Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee. He favors extending Section 203 and the rest of the
act until 2032  because it helps facilitate "the participation of language
minority citizens in the political process."

But what public good is advanced by encouraging the participation of people who,
by saying they require bilingual assistance, are saying they cannot understand
the nation's political conversation? By receiving such assistance they are
receiving a disincentive to become proficient in English.

It takes political bravery to propose pruning the  Voting Rights Act, given the
predictable charges of racism that are hurled so promiscuously nowadays. Senate
Minority Leader Harry Reid, for example, has a liberal's reflex for discerning
racism everywhere  and for shouting "racist" as a substitute for argument.
During Senate debate last week on a measure to declare English the national
language, he said: "While the intent may not be there, I really believe this
amendment is racist."

Questions crowd upon one another. Was his opaque idea  --  well, perhaps it is
not opaque to liberals  --  of unintentional  racism merely a bow to Senate
rules against personal slurs? What "race" does Reid think is being victimized?
Are Spanish speakers members of a single race? Evidently Reid thinks something
like that, because his next sentence was: "I think it is directed basically to
people who speak Spanish." Indeed, it is, but what has that to do with racism?

Declaring English the national language is a mere gesture. But by ending
bilingual ballots, American law would perform its expressive function of
buttressing, by codifying and vivifying, certain national assumptions and
aspirations. Among those is this: The idea of citizenship becomes absurd when
sundered from the ability to understand the nation's civic conversation.

What makes Americans generally welcoming of immigrants, and what makes
immigrants generally assimilable, is that this is a creedal nation, one
dedicated to certain propositions, not one whose origins and identity are bound
up with ethnicity. But if you are to be welcomed to the enjoyment of American
liberty, then America has a few expectations of you. One is that you can read
the nation's founding documents and laws and can comprehend the political
discourse that precedes the casting of ballots.

Is this unreasonable? Of course not.

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              297 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico's Fox Urges Fairness for Immigrants;
Touring the West, Mexican Leader Opposes Fence

BYLINE: T.R. Reid, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 867 words

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY May 24


Adding a voice from south of the border to the national debate on immigration,
Mexican President Vicente Fox is barnstorming the western United States this
week, arguing against fencing off the U.S.-Mexico border and asking Americans
for "decent treatment of our people."

Reminding his audiences that he once worked for a "a little small U.S. business
you may have heard of: Coca-Cola," Fox is visiting the states of Utah,
Washington and California in a four-day trip that includes speeches in English
to business and political leaders and Spanish-language rallies with Mexicans
working in this country, legally or otherwise.

The U.S. tour is designed partly to enhance cross-border trade and investment.
But Fox has also taken pains to present the Mexican view of the raging U.S.
debate over immigration  --  or, as he calls it, "the migration phenomenon."

Addressing the Utah legislature Wednesday in accented but clear English, Fox
insisted that Mexican immigrants have been a boon to this country. "Mexico is
proud, very proud, of its people here, whose working spirit and moral values
contribute every day to the economy and society of this great nation," he said.

And he spoke out repeatedly here against proposals to build fences along the
border. The U.S. House has passed legislation calling for a 700-mile fence to
cut the flow of immigrants, and the Senate last week voted to build a
three-tiered fence stretching 370 miles.

"We don't put up walls," Fox told a predominantly Latino crowd in Spanish at a
lively rally Tuesday in a Salt Lake suburb. "That's not the way you're going to
fix the problem. Walls that pretend to solve the problem only provoke distance
between two peoples."

Expanding on this theme, Fox told the legislature: "Enforcement-only measures
will not solve the challenges posed by the migration phenomenon. . . . Among
friends, neighbors and partners, bilateral dialogue and cooperation is key
component."

The president's whirlwind, 24-hour stop in Utah took him from a breakfast of
refried beans and cheese salsa at a Mexican food warehouse to a dinner of
mushroom-crusted rainbow trout hosted by Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman Jr. (R). The
rest of his Western tour will follow a similar pattern. After stops in Yakima
and Seattle, Wash., he heads to California, where he is to address immigrant
groups and then meet with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) and Los Angeles Mayor
Antonio Villaraigosa.

As a foreign head of state campaigning in this country on matters of U.S. law,
Fox got a hostile response on some talk radio shows here and from local members
of the Minutemen, a citizens group that wants to restrict Mexican immigration. A
few dozen protesters chanted outside each of his Utah stops. "Our immigration
law is for us to decide, not some Mexican," said a Minuteman member from Salt
Lake City who identified himself only as Clay.

But the more common response here seemed favorable, even from political leaders
who have been identified with the anti-immigration position.

As part of a crackdown, last year, the Utah legislature passed a law denying a
state identification card or a driver's license to any applicant who cannot
prove legal residence. (Instead, the state issues immigrants a "driving
privilege card," which declares in bold letters that it is not a legal form of
identification.)

But the author of that law, Republican state Sen. Curtis Bramble, said his views
on immigration have been altered somewhat because of his discussions with Fox
and other Mexican officials during this week's visit. "I have a better
understanding now of the position of the Mexican government," Bramble said.
"Before this trip, the perception was that they were unconcerned about the
immigration problem. But now I see they want to work together with us. And I
agree  --   there is room for dialogue."

Nonetheless, Bramble said he still believes that fences and tougher enforcement
would be "an appropriate policy on some sections of the border."

Fox also seemed to score points with business leaders in Salt Lake City, telling
an audience of 500 that Mexico is eager to increase trade across the border. At
every stop, he pointed out that Mexico is the United States' second-largest
trading partner (after Canada), and buys more U.S. goods and services than
Germany, Italy, France and Britain combined.

The president also offered thanks to the state of Utah. Despite the tough
legislation passed last year, Utah permits the children of undocumented
residents to take advantage of in-state tuition rates at state colleges, and
provides emergency medical care to all who need it.

These policies, Fox said, make the state "a real example of what can be done
with respect to dignity and humanity."

But the Mexican leader's most rapturous reception in Utah came in meetings with
immigrants from Mexico and other Latin countries. Each time he met with groups
of his countrymen, Fox told them that their long-term ties to Mexico will
continue while they live and work in the United States.

"Even though you are far from Mexico, you are an integral part of Mexico," Fox
said at the rally here on Tuesday. "Over there, we wait for you with open arms."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              298 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Transatlantic Conference Tackles Migration's Challenges

BYLINE: Nora Boustany

SECTION: A Section; A18 , DIPLOMATIC DISPATCHES By Nora Boustany

LENGTH: 837 words


Many countries are grappling with the complex legal and social issues concerning
migration. While Americans debate bilingualism, loyalty and homogeneity, some
politicians in Germany fear that a failure to integrate immigrants into society
through adequate language training may lead to social problems.

About 1 million illegal immigrants reside in Germany, yet nobody sees them,
according to Lale Akguen, a German lawmaker of Turkish descent. Many enter the
country on tourist visas and remain. Some Germans argue that if those in the
country are given legal status, another million would want in, she said.

To qualify for citizenship, a person must have lived in the country for eight
years as a legal alien, but Akguen, who moved to Germany with her parents in
1962, said few choose to become naturalized citizens because they are reluctant
to give up citizenship of origin.

Undocumented foreigners seized by the police are usually thrown out of the
country, she said.

Akguen, an expert on migration and integration, said in a recent interview that
"the education gap between native German children and immigrant children is
widening." The opposite trend is true in other countries, according to a 2003
survey conducted in 17 countries with large immigrant communities by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

In Germany, more than 25 percent of 15-year-olds who were not born in the
country do not have basic math skills, Akguen said. Among second-generation
15-year-olds, born in Germany, the figure is higher than 40 percent.

"The most interesting issue is that the gap is getting bigger, not smaller,"
Akguen said after a May 15 symposium in Washington organized in part by the
Austrian ambassador, Eva Nowotny. Austria currently holds the presidency of the
European Union.

Akguen estimated that there are about 10 million foreign immigrants in the
country of more than 80 million. She said the children of Turkish immigrants lag
three years behind their German classmates in reading, writing and mathematics.
The gap is similar for the country's 2 million Russian immigrants.

"To make it out of elementary school to middle and high school, something has to
happen for some students, such as crash language-training courses," she said.
"We have to change our school system, otherwise there will be social problems
down the road."

In Australia, Canada and New Zealand, however, students with a foreign
background and natives perform comparably, Akguen said. The gap narrows in the
countries where well-established language-training programs are available to the
children of immigrants, she said.

Another speaker at the symposium, Beate Winkler, the Vienna-based director of
the European Monitoring Center on Racism and Xenophobia, said that her agency
has offices in each of the 25 E.U. member countries that collect data on racism
and related issues.

"We need this data to develop effective policies and make concrete
recommendations," Winkler said in an interview last week, "but that is not
sufficient.

"People are often misinformed, and we have to think in terms of facts and
feelings. We have initiated a media prize for public television channels that
feature programs on diversity. If you only address problems, you will miss the
opportunity," Winkler said.

"Trauma can be a threat but also a great opportunity," she said, referring to
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States and the bombings last summer in
London. The aftermath of the tragedies gave people opportunities to reach common
ground.

The center, which was created within the European Union but remains independent
of the member governments, has issued a report on anti-Semitic and anti-Muslim
sentiments. It also monitors and tracks incidents of ethnic violence, with help
from local nongovernmental organizations.

"How do certain communities feel in Europe? Do they feel respected? Do they have
a feeling of belonging?" she asked.

"Our head is round, so we can change the direction of our thinking," she said,
characterizing herself as an eternal optimist. Winkler settled in West Germany
as a refugee from the then-East German city of Dresden.

Winkler said that before the quarter-finals of the World Cup soccer games, which
begin next month, the team captains will stand up before the crowd and make
comments against racism. Players will hold up banners with the same message.
FIFA, the international soccer federation that governs the sport, has agreed to
incorporate the campaign into its games, which will be viewed by more than 1
billion people, she said.

"America and Europe have common concerns and common ambitions in this difficult
area, and I expect common solutions at the end of the road. But we are not all
traveling by the same route to get there," she said at the close of the
conference, which was organized by the European Commission delegation, the
Center for Transatlantic Relations, the American Consortium on E.U. Studies and
the Woodrow Wilson International Center.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              299 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

European Churches Open Their Doors to New Muslim Immigrants

BYLINE: Elizabeth Bryant, Religion News Service

SECTION: Metro; B07

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: PARIS


They came politely to St. Hippolyte Catholic Church one Wednesday afternoon: the
middle-aged mason from Algeria; the one-time farmer from Mali; the two young
Mauritanians who had fled drought and despair stalking their desolate country.

And like a growing number of European parishes, St. Hippolyte let them in. "When
someone knocks, you open the door," said the Rev. Francis Barjot of his decision
to give shelter and food to 150 illegal immigrants  this month.

As the welcome mat vanishes for low-skilled immigrants across broad swaths of
Europe, parishes and Christian groups are spearheading opposition to stricter
entrance rules.

Their growing activism mirrors that of their counterparts in the United States,
with one critical twist: Many of the foreigners seeking Christian support in
Europe these days are Muslim.

In France and Belgium, churches have been transformed into forums for sit-ins by
illegal immigrants seeking legalization. In Switzerland, church leaders are
championing a drive to repeal new measures against foreigners and asylum
seekers.

And across the European Union, clerics are preaching tolerance and compassion
toward those whose values and religion sometimes clash with secular-minded
Europe.

To be sure, many immigrants affected by tougher European laws are not Muslim.
But rising anti-foreigner sentiment and fears of Islamic extremism are casting a
particularly harsh spotlight on hundreds of thousands of Muslims flocking to the
continent  --  not to mention the 15 million already here.

Many Christian leaders  say they are simply doing their job in defending
foreigners of all beliefs.

"Throughout different immigration policies in Europe, the churches have held a
position that we have to respect the human dignity of people," said Doris
Peschke, secretary general of the Churches Commission for Migrants in Europe, a
Brussels-based umbrella group of Protestant and Orthodox churches.

That message has resonated at St. Hippolyte, in Paris, where parishioners served
bread and coffee to several dozen illegal immigrants one recent morning. Almost
all were Muslims from North and sub-Saharan Africa. Their conversations centered
on their hardscrabble lives, not religious beliefs.

Youssouf Sokhoahona, a 22-year-old farmer, said he had arrived in France by boat
four years ago. "There's nothing there," Sokhoahona said of his tiny farm in
southern Mauritania, where he eked out a living by growing sorghum. "We have
work only four months a year. "

Life in France has not been much better. Without skills or legal papers,
Sokhoahona said he has not been able to find work. Relatives in Paris have no
room for him; he's been living on the streets and in shelters.

A new immigration bill may only darken Sokhoahona's prospects. Passed by the
National Assembly this month, the legislation would make it harder for illegal
foreigners to gain residency and for immigrants' families to settle here.

Protestant and Catholic leaders have petitioned the center-right government to
soften the legislation.

Christian activism on behalf of immigrants is mirrored in Britain, where
London's Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor told cheering immigrant workers at a
recent Mass they were "Londoners," and in Belgium  --  despite mixed feelings
over a spate of church occupations by protesting immigrants.

Clerics have also spoken out against  screening tests in the Netherlands and
parts of Germany, aimed to ensure that newcomers share similar social and
political values. The Dutch entrance exam, for example, includes a video
depicting gay men kissing on streets.

"We think it's good for people to learn the language and integrate into society,
but we also think it's impossible to integrate if you can't keep your own
identity," said Geesje Werkman, asylum spokeswoman for the Protestant Church in
the Netherlands. "We have a lot of Christian immigrants who don't feel
comfortable about certain subjects either  --  like homosexuality, like women
living alone. It's not only a Muslim issue."

Still, many Muslims believe the new measures are particularly Islamophobic  --
even as some argue their own mosques have done too little to oppose them.

"The Muslims are totally absent in the debate" over the new French immigration
legislation, said Swiss Muslim scholar Tariq Ramadan. "French Muslim citizens
are involved in the political process only when we speak about Islam. That's
totally wrong."

Growing intolerance of immigrants in Europe  --  and of Muslims in particular --
has not helped matters. An April survey by Britain's YouGov polling agency found
that two-thirds of the public believe there should be "tougher measures against
Muslims who want to destroy this country." European surveys show strong support
for tighter immigration measures.  Congregations are divided over whether to
welcome the immigrants.

"It's the same as in civil society," Werkman said.  "People who know the
immigrants and their situations are sheltering and helping them. But those who
don't know them are saying: 'Why should we shelter them? They should go back.' "

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              300 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Issue Splits the GOP;
Key House Member Calls Senate Bill a 'Non-Starter'

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 870 words


The immigration issue threatened to cleave the Republican Party yesterday, as a
key GOP House member chided President Bush's top political adviser and labeled a
central element of the Senate's hard-fought immigration bill a "non-starter."

House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a prominent
player in the approaching House-Senate negotiations over immigration
legislation, told reporters that the two chambers are "180 degrees apart" and
that compromise is possible only if the Senate jettisons some of its bill's most
prized provisions. The Senate proposal to allow millions of illegal immigrants
to pursue citizenship, he said, amounts to amnesty, and "amnesty is wrong,
because amnesty rewards someone for illegal behavior."

Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) is known as an especially cantankerous conservative, and
some degree of posturing and bluffing is typical in both houses before their
members launch negotiations over contentious matters. But the House's top GOP
leaders made no effort to dilute Sensenbrenner's pointed comments, even those
that bordered on ridiculing the White House.

Asked at a morning news conference about the faith that some Republicans place
in Bush  --  who generally backs the Senate version  --  to move the House from
its hard-line position, Sensenbrenner replied: "The president dispatched Karl
Rove, guru in chief up there, to the Republican conference, both this week and
last week. . . . And they [House Republicans] jumped all over Rove. And they
said the president is not where the American people are at. The Senate is also
not where the American people are at."

Sensenbrenner's remarks suggest that GOP leaders face a formidable task in
bridging the party's divide on an emotional issue five months before the midterm
elections. The Senate's 55-member Republican caucus fractured over the
immigration bill that passed Thursday, with 23 voting for it and 32 voting
against it. By contrast, Democrats were nearly unified, backing the measure 38
to 4.

The GOP divisions underscored the issue's complexity and its resistance to easy
analysis. Among Arizona's Republicans, Sen. John McCain led the fight for the
bill, while Sen. Jon Kyl was a key critic. Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.)
championed the bill, while his state's other GOP senator, Jim DeMint, derided
it.

Of the five Republican senators weighing presidential bids in 2008, only one  --
George Allen (Va.)  --  voted against the bill. Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.), also
an opponent of the bill, said yesterday, "I think Allen comes out closer to
where Republican primary voters are."

Rutgers University political scientist Ross K. Baker said the immigration issue
poses a serious threat to the party. Since the Reagan administration, he said,
"it's been a stable coalition between the party's business and
chamber-of-commerce wing and its social conservatives." Now, Baker said, the
first group cherishes the cheap labor that illegal immigrants provide, "while
many Republicans, especially in the Sunbelt, really feel the country is being
overwhelmed by the alien tide."

The House in December passed an immigration bill dealing only with tougher
border and workplace enforcement. It would make felons of the roughly 11 million
illegal immigrants in the country. A key element of the Senate bill would allow
most of those immigrants to remain in the country and possibly become citizens.

Sensenbrenner said he will oppose the Senate provision, even if it were allowed
to take effect only after there is proof of dramatically fewer illegal crossings
from Mexico, thanks to tougher border enforcement efforts.

"A pathway to citizenship, also known as amnesty . . . is a non-starter," he
said. A guest-worker program "can be on the table if it does not contain an
amnesty," he said, "but only if the employer sanctions and the increased border
patrols are effective."

Sensenbrenner said many of the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants will leave
voluntarily if the government enforces the House's proposed sharp sanctions
against employers who hire them. "With the border controls and the enforcement
of employer sanctions, the jobs for illegal immigrants will dry up," he said.
"And if you can't get a job because employer sanctions are enforced, my belief
is that a lot of the illegal immigrants will simply go back home."

Sensenbrenner disputed the argument that illegal immigrants are essential in
handling "certain jobs that Americans will not do." He said: "Americans will do
and have done any job as long as they're paid enough money."

Americans "are willing to spend whatever it takes to secure the border," he
added. As for his reputation as a tough negotiator against senators,
Sensenbrenner proudly cited an article that said "I've been known to eat them
for breakfast and to pick my teeth with their bones."

House Majority Whip Roy Blunt (Mo.), the chamber's third-ranking Republican
leader, "shares the concerns about the Senate approach raised by Chairman
Sensenbrenner," his office said yesterday. Blunt opposes "any plan that creates
a path to citizenship for those who are in the country illegally," the statement
said, and he "remains focused on a border security-first approach."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              301 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Moral Compass Points 'Norte';
On Immigration, '84 Film Remains (Sadly) Relevant

BYLINE: Ann Hornaday, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Sunday Arts; N03

LENGTH: 509 words


With  immigration reform a hot topic on cable TV, talk radio and around most
Americans' kitchen tables, the time seems right to revisit a film that, though
made more than 20 years ago, could have been ripped from yesterday's headlines.

I first saw "El Norte"  in 1984, and it's one of those film experiences I'll
never forget  --  not because it was great cinema (although it announced an
important new talent in the filmmaking world), but because it revealed a
heretofore hidden world.

Directed by Gregory Nava and written by Nava and his German-born wife, Anna
Thomas, "El Norte" told the story of a brother and sister living in a remote
village in Guatemala, where their father is executed by military forces while
organizing his fellow workers on a coffee plantation. Enrique (David
Villalpando) and Rosa (Zaide Sylvia Gutierrez) watch as their mother is killed
as well, then make their way to America, "The North," where they've heard
everyone has a flush toilet and a car to drive.

In a harrowing journey, Enrique and Rosa battle hunger, rats and the corrupt
"coyotes" who take money for accompanying people over the Mexico-California
border, all in an effort to escape political oppression and poverty. Once in Los
Angeles, they begin to learn English as they start to work in their adopted
country's sweatshops, kitchens and construction sites. Disregarded, exploited
and condescended to, Enrique and Rosa represent that vast, nameless population
of workers who make the American way of life possible even while being routinely
locked out of it.

"El Norte," one of the first projects to emerge from Robert Redford's
then-nascent Sundance Institute, was the first film to enjoy a significant
release that showed, with compassion, honesty and tragic insight, the human
lives behind such bloodless abstractions as "illegal immigration" and
"undocumented workers." Movies about the immigrant experience would be released
in subsequent years  --  most memorably "Lone Star," "Dirty Pretty Things" and
Jim Sheridan's "In America," about an Irish family that immigrates without
benefit of the proper paperwork. But "El Norte" was seminal, both for its
graceful blend of classical narrative and magic realism, and the power with
which it brought an otherwise invisible world to life.

Nava lived up to the promise he exhibited with "El Norte," directing Jennifer
Lopez in her breakout performance in "Selena," as well as "Why Do Fools Fall in
Love." His current project, "Bordertown," is based on the real-life murder of
Mexican woman at the maquiladoras of Juarez, Mexico, which has seen its own
post-NAFTA immigration crisis.

Meanwhile, as Nava comes full circle, his first film is suffering a cruelly
ironic fate: Even at its most relevant, "El Norte" is practically impossible to
see. It rarely if ever shows up on television, and has yet to be released on
DVD. Your local video store might have a threadbare VHS version, or you might be
able to score a copy on eBay, but this classic film  --  more indispensable than
ever  --  deserves better.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              302 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Deal? Don't Bet on It

BYLINE: David S. Broder

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 770 words


This Memorial Day finds the nation's capital consumed by the issue of
immigration  --  a topic that reaches as deep into our history and values as any
that could occupy our holiday thoughts.

The debate that unfolded in the Senate over the past two weeks tested notions of
sovereignty, explored questions of national character, measured our idealism and
tolerance  --  and carried major political implications for both parties and for
America's relationships with its neighbors.

It is a worthy subject and, for the most part, was worthily explored, with
almost all the lawmakers acknowledging the difficulty of the choices and the
need for action.

Now the issue moves to another arena  --  one where the level of public scrutiny
is much less and the opportunity for mischief-making much greater. At some point
soon, the House and Senate will be expected to name conferees to negotiate the
vast differences between the bills passed by the two chambers. The chances of
roadblocks being thrown in the path are abundant.

Congressional history is rich with examples of strong-willed senators and
representatives battling fiercely over the final terms of legislation. These
conference committee sessions can be long and brutal, and policy differences are
compounded by the institutional jealousies involved. Veterans of Capitol Hill
will tell you of conferences where the rivals almost came to blows over custody
of the papers containing the final agreements.

Since 1995, when Republicans took control of both sides of the Capitol, the
negotiating sessions often have been limited to GOP senators and
representatives, with the Democrats locked out along with the press.

That arrangement has been reinforced by the "Hastert doctrine," the policy
enunciated by House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert that he will bring to the floor
only bills that are supported by the majority of the Republican caucus. Because
of that policy, bipartisan coalitions have become rarities in the House. The
emphasis now is entirely on shaping bills in conference that most House
Republicans can embrace.

In the case of the immigration bill, that may well spell doom for the kind of
broad-based, comprehensive approach endorsed by President Bush and embodied in
the Senate version. Conservatives in the House  --  and Hastert's top
lieutenants  --  have staked out a position calling for immediate major steps to
close the border with Mexico. As Bush requested, the Senate bill would link the
tighter border enforcement to a new guest-worker program, allowing immigrants to
come in legally for a time to work available jobs, and would create a procedure
that permits longtime illegal immigrants to pay a fine and back taxes, learn
English and then apply for citizenship.

An odd thing has happened. While the Senate was debating immigration and moving
to give the president most of what he wants, the attitude of House Republicans
has stiffened. If anything, more of them seem more determined than they were a
month ago to shut the border  --  and do nothing else. They believe the public
is with them.

Rep. Tom Davis of Virginia, a former chairman of the National Republican
Congressional Committee, the campaign arm of the House GOP, is symptomatic of
the shift. A few months ago, Davis, whose district includes a large section of
affluent Fairfax County, was decrying fellow Republican Jerry Kilgore's tactic
in trying to use sentiment against illegal immigrants as a wedge issue in his
losing campaign for governor.

Last week Davis said that even his highly educated and financially comfortable
constituents favor the House approach more than the Senate's. "They want a tough
bill," he said, adding that immigration has become "a hot issue" for more than
"the hard right."

As a campaign strategist, Davis said, he fears that an impasse over immigration
"certainly doesn't help the Republican Congress." With voters already frustrated
over Iraq, gasoline prices and scandals in Washington, the climate for the
midterm election is grim. "We need to change things, or it's going to be a long
election night," Davis said.

For that reason, he threw out several hints that he hoped Hastert would bend his
rule  --  and open the way for the House to "work its will" on immigration with
a coalition of most Democrats and a minority of Republicans.

But with Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, the chairman of the Judiciary
Committee and the principal author of the House bill, likely to lead his
chamber's negotiators, it's doubtful Davis will get his wish. And it's doubtful
that Bush will get his bill.

davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              303 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Coming To America

BYLINE: Reviewed by Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: Book World; BW01

LENGTH: 1547 words


LOCKOUT

Why America Keeps Getting Immigration Wrong When Our Prosperity Depends On
Getting It Right

By Michele Wucker

PublicAffairs. 288 pp. $25.95

About halfway through Michele Wucker's timely book Lockout, she spends a few
days with the 40 finalists competing in the 2005 Intel Science Talent Search.
These are formidably bright high school seniors already doing scientific
research not just a notch or two above their peers' work but well beyond the
understanding of most adults. And, as at most science and math competitions in
the United States today, the Intel finalists are disproportionately immigrants
or the children of immigrants.

As Wucker mingles among these foreign-born best and brightest, exploring their
personal stories, it's hard to miss her point: We need this talent. And any
policy that helps us take advantage of it will be good not only for the
immigrants and the United States but also for the world, which will eventually
reap the benefits of what these new Americans produce.

In a season when the country has been caught up in a national conversation about
immigration, Wucker, a fellow at the World Policy Institute, has come out with a
forcefully argued and informative book. It's far from comprehensive, and some
parts of her case are stronger than others. But the overarching argument  --
that, as her subtitle puts it, "America Keeps Getting Immigration Wrong When Our
Prosperity Depends on Getting It Right"  --  is both correct and important.

The stakes could hardly be higher. Some 1.5 million foreigners enter and settle
in the United States each year, the overwhelming majority of them to search for
work. This is a historic high point: the largest absolute number of immigrants
in our history (though not the largest percentage of the U.S. population).
Unlike at the turn of the 20th century, when the majority of the newcomers came
from Europe, today more than half come from Latin America and a quarter from
Asia. The problem is that U.S. immigration quotas accommodate only about
two-thirds of this influx, and the spillover  --  a half-million illegal
immigrants each year  --  is creating problems from coast to coast, undermining
the rule of law, endangering U.S. security and souring native-born Americans'
attitudes toward all newcomers. With the White House and Congress deep in debate
about the issue, Wucker usefully lays out what's wrong with the current system
and summarizes the key arguments for the package of changes being discussed by
lawmakers.

The book's most vivid and informative chapters deal with a subject not much
highlighted in the media in recent months: the highly educated, highly skilled
immigrants who account for, by my calculations, perhaps 10 to 15 percent of the
current annual influx. It's not just our top math and science students who are
immigrants; it's also a quarter of our PhDs, a quarter of our doctors and
nurses, some 40 percent of our science and engineering doctorates and a
corresponding four in 10 of our top scientists and engineers. Without them,
Silicon Valley would not have happened, America's growing shortage of doctors
and nurses would be a national emergency, and the U.S. R&D engine that has been
driving globalization around the world would be sputtering ominously, if not
petering out. Wucker introduces readers to these newcomers and underscores the
importance of the contributions they make, scolding us fervently and urgently
for taking them for granted.

Her concern is that our ambivalent attitudes toward foreigners and
globalization, combined with our broken immigration bureaucracy, are going to
deprive us of this talent. Her case is somewhat exaggerated. In one chapter, for
instance, she imagines a day without not just Mexicans but without any
immigrants, skilled or unskilled. This is downright silly; no one is thinking of
sealing America's borders to top-level scientists. But she's on the money when
she argues that we let in too few of these people, that our immigration
bureaucracy handles their cases poorly and that, as a result, more and more
prospective Americans would now rather immigrate to other countries.

Wucker frames her brief about the importance of welcoming skilled newcomers with
a broader case about immigration generally. Americans, she argues, have always
been ambivalent about foreigners, and we made a critical wrong turn at the start
of the 20th century when the "Americanization" movement, which initially focused
on helping immigrants adapt to life in the United States, turned coercive and
xenophobic. Our post-Sept. 11 fears of jihadist infiltration have made a bad
situation worse. We need to change course now, Wucker writes, and bring our
immigration policy more into line with our labor needs, even as we rethink our
wider approach to ethnicity and assimilation. She's right on all points, and she
argues them passionately.

Things begin to go wrong when she moves beyond broad brush strokes to look more
closely at American attitudes and immigration policy. Part of the problem is the
fervor of her beliefs, which often seems to get the better of her writing. While
she recognizes in her more sober moments that Americans have mixed feelings
about immigrants  --  at once welcoming, fearful and resentful  --  too
frequently she sounds as if the United States were one step away from xenophobic
meltdown, or, as she puts it, a "lockout."

Her opening description of American attitudes is "us-versus-them ...
isolationism." Her picture of the 20th-century reaction to immigration is a
litany of horrors: persecution, hate crimes, lynchings and internments. All
these abuses happened on occasion, to our great shame, and from 1924 to 1965 the
United States sharply restricted the number of immigrants we admitted. But
Wucker's portrait of a nation violently hostile to all things foreign is
misleading, and her unrelentingly alarmist tone works, if anything, to undermine
her case.

When she gets to the present, she paints a vivid, damning picture of the
excesses that occurred in the wake of 9/11: Middle Eastern men were required to
register with the government, several hundred were detained under unusually
harsh circumstances, and several thousand were eventually ordered to leave the
country, often for technical legal violations. Meanwhile, heightened security
checks made for long delays and growing backlogs. But here, too, Wucker seems to
miss the forest for the trees. After all, for all the discrimination and
inconveniences (and the skilled immigrants who decided to go elsewhere as a
result), even in the wake of the attacks, we have not tightened our immigration
policy  --  the criteria for whom and how many immigrants we admit remain
unchanged. Indeed, on Thursday, the Senate passed landmark, liberalizing
legislation that would bring U.S. immigration quotas more into line with our
labor needs and legalize some 12 million illegal immigrants.

Wucker endorses these changes in her last chapter, although, strangely enough,
with few hints that anyone else is discussing them. Her recommendations also
seem somewhat muddled, if not contradictory. She argues, quite rightly, for "a
system that allows the people our economy needs to come here legally." But in
the very same chapter, she proposes that we reduce the number we admit  --  a
change that would have the effect of strangling large parts of the economy. What
Wucker seems to be saying is that we need more skilled workers and fewer
unskilled. But this is far from true: We also need a great many more unskilled
laborers than we now admit legally  --  something she does not seem to
recognize.

When it comes to assimilation  --  that mysterious alchemy by which immigrants
become Americans  --  Wucker would like to strike a middle course between those
who feel that the process must mean a renunciation of ethnicity and those who
glorify difference at any cost, including the cost of a common mainstream
culture. Once again, she makes an appealing, broad-brush case but never goes
deeper  --  never tells us how Americans might balance what she calls "symbolic"
ethnicity with shared civic values and patriotism. Not only is it unclear what
she means by "symbolic," but when she writes about immigrants' attachments to
their home countries  --  arguing, for example, that people should be able to
vote in two nations  --  she seems to endorse something far more than symbolism.

Are today's immigrants  --  and their American-born children  --  likely to get
the immigrant bargain right? Can we find a way to admit the robust influx that's
in our interest and all but inevitable in a globalizing world while maintaining
our civic values and sense of ourselves as a nation? At the end of Lockout
(somewhat surprisingly, given her emphasis on American xenophobia), Wucker
predicts hopefully that we are just a step or two from striking that balance.
She's plainly right that we need to do so  --  and, indeed, in urging that we
forge a more realistic policy, she helps sketch the road map. If only the dire
rest of her book had not painted the destination as so hopelessly far away.

Tamar Jacoby, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, is the editor of
"Reinventing the Melting Pot: The New Immigrants and What It Means To Be
American."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              304 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Lockout;
A timely new book argues that barring U.S. doors to immigrants is folly.

BYLINE: Reviewed by Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: Book World; T02

LENGTH: 1263 words


LOCKOUT

Why America Keeps Getting Immigration Wrong When Our Prosperity Depends On
Getting It Right

By Michele Wucker

PublicAffairs. 288 pp. $25.95

Continued from page 1

from Europe, today more than half come from Latin America and a quarter from
Asia. The problem is that U.S. immigration quotas accommodate only about
two-thirds of this influx, and the spillover  --  a half-million illegal
immigrants each year  --  is creating problems from coast to coast, undermining
the rule of law, endangering U.S. security and souring native-born Americans'
attitudes toward all newcomers. With the White House and Congress deep in debate
about the issue, Wucker usefully lays out what's wrong with the current system
and summarizes the key arguments for the package of changes being discussed by
lawmakers.

The book's most vivid and informative chapters deal with a subject not much
highlighted in the media in recent months: the highly educated, highly skilled
immigrants who account for, by my calculations, perhaps 10 to 15 percent of the
current annual influx. It's not just our top math and science students who are
immigrants; it's also a quarter of our PhDs, a quarter of our doctors and
nurses, some 40 percent of our science and engineering doctorates and a
corresponding four in 10 of our top scientists and engineers. Without them,
Silicon Valley would not have happened, America's growing shortage of doctors
and nurses would be a national emergency, and the U.S. R&D engine that has been
driving globalization around the world would be sputtering ominously, if not
petering out. Wucker introduces readers to these newcomers and underscores the
importance of the contributions they make, scolding us fervently and urgently
for taking them for granted.

Her concern is that our ambivalent attitudes toward foreigners and
globalization, combined with our broken immigration bureaucracy, are going to
deprive us of this talent. Her case is somewhat exaggerated. In one chapter, for
instance, she imagines a day without not just Mexicans but without any
immigrants, skilled or unskilled. This is downright silly; no one is thinking of
sealing America's borders to top-level scientists. But she's on the money when
she argues that we let in too few of these people, that our immigration
bureaucracy handles their cases poorly and that, as a result, more and more
prospective Americans would now rather immigrate to other countries.

Wucker frames her brief about the importance of welcoming skilled newcomers with
a broader case about immigration generally. Americans, she argues, have always
been ambivalent about foreigners, and we made a critical wrong turn at the start
of the 20th century when the "Americanization" movement, which initially focused
on helping immigrants adapt to life in the United States, turned coercive and
xenophobic. Our post-Sept. 11 fears of jihadist infiltration have made a bad
situation worse. We need to change course now, Wucker writes, and bring our
immigration policy more into line with our labor needs, even as we rethink our
wider approach to ethnicity and assimilation. She's right on all points, and she
argues them passionately.

Things begin to go wrong when she moves beyond broad brush strokes to look more
closely at American attitudes and immigration policy. Part of the problem is the
fervor of her beliefs, which often seems to get the better of her writing. While
she recognizes in her more sober moments that Americans have mixed feelings
about immigrants  --  at once welcoming, fearful and resentful  --  too
frequently she sounds as if the United States were one step away from xenophobic
meltdown, or, as she puts it, a "lockout."

Her opening description of American attitudes is "us-versus-them . . .
isolationism." Her picture of the 20th-century reaction to immigration is a
litany of horrors: persecution, hate crimes, lynchings and internments. All
these abuses happened on occasion, to our great shame, and from 1924 to 1965 the
United States sharply restricted the number of immigrants we admitted. But
Wucker's portrait of a nation violently hostile to all things foreign is
misleading, and her unrelentingly alarmist tone works, if anything, to undermine
her case.

When she gets to the present, she paints a vivid, damning picture of the
excesses that occurred in the wake of 9/11: Middle Eastern men were required to
register with the government, several hundred were detained under unusually
harsh circumstances, and several thousand were eventually ordered to leave the
country, often for technical legal violations. Meanwhile, heightened security
checks made for long delays and growing backlogs. But here, too, Wucker seems to
miss the forest for the trees. After all, for all the discrimination and
inconveniences (and the skilled immigrants who decided to go elsewhere as a
result), even in the wake of the attacks, we have not tightened our immigration
policy  --  the criteria for whom and how many immigrants we admit remain
unchanged. Indeed, on Thursday, the Senate passed landmark, liberalizing
legislation that would bring U.S. immigration quotas more into line with our
labor needs and legalize some 12 million illegal immigrants.

Wucker endorses these changes in her last chapter, although, strangely enough,
with few hints that anyone else is discussing them. Her recommendations also
seem somewhat muddled, if not contradictory. She argues, quite rightly, for "a
system that allows the people our economy needs to come here legally." But in
the very same chapter, she proposes that we reduce the number we admit  --  a
change that would have the effect of strangling large parts of the economy. What
Wucker seems to be saying is that we need more skilled workers and fewer
unskilled. But this is far from true: We also need a great many more unskilled
laborers than we now admit legally  --  something she does not seem to
recognize.

When it comes to assimilation  --  that mysterious alchemy by which immigrants
become Americans  --  Wucker would like to strike a middle course between those
who feel that the process must mean a renunciation of ethnicity and those who
glorify difference at any cost, including the cost of a common mainstream
culture. Once again, she makes an appealing, broad-brush case but never goes
deeper  --  never tells us how Americans might balance what she calls "symbolic"
ethnicity with shared civic values and patriotism. Not only is it unclear what
she means by "symbolic," but when she writes about immigrants' attachments to
their home countries  --  arguing, for example, that people should be able to
vote in two nations  --  she seems to endorse something far more than symbolism.

Are today's immigrants  --  and their American-born children  --  likely to get
the immigrant bargain right? Can we find a way to admit the robust influx that's
in our interest and all but inevitable in a globalizing world while maintaining
our civic values and sense of ourselves as a nation? At the end of Lockout
(somewhat surprisingly, given her emphasis on American xenophobia), Wucker
predicts hopefully that we are just a step or two from striking that balance.
She's plainly right that we need to do so  --  and, indeed, in urging that we
forge a more realistic policy, she helps sketch the road map. If only the dire
rest of her book had not painted the destination as so hopelessly far away. *

Tamar Jacoby, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, is the editor of
"Reinventing the Melting Pot: The New Immigrants and What It Means To Be
American."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              305 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Many Hondurans, Nicaraguans Not Renewing Guest Permits

BYLINE: Sudarsan Raghavan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 808 words


Tens of thousands of Honduran and Nicaraguan immigrants nationwide risk losing
their legal status in the United States today because they have not renewed
their temporary work permits under a program to help victims of natural
disasters, some in the mistaken belief that they will soon be on the path to
becoming U.S. citizens.

With the deadline approaching by the end of today, about half the eligible
applicants have yet to apply for renewal. They could lose their jobs and face
deportation, jeopardizing the livelihoods of thousands of relatives here and in
their homelands who depend on their salaries.

About 75,000 Hondurans and 4,000 Nicaraguans got the permits, issued under the
Temporary Protected Status (TPS) Program, after Hurricane Mitch in 1998. The
permits, if renewed, would allow them to live and work legally in the United
States for another year.

According to the latest numbers available as of Friday, only 37,870 Hondurans
and 1,778 Nicaraguans nationwide have renewed, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services said.

Spokesman Shawn Saucier said the agency hopes the other eligible applicants
would renew by the end of today. But so far the numbers are far less than at
this time in previous renewal years.

"We feel that these numbers are very low," Saucier said. "We're very concerned."

Many Hondurans and Nicaraguans have not yet renewed because they think they will
soon benefit from immigration reforms, including a guest worker program and
other measures that could pave the way for citizenship, immigrant advocates
said. Many are reluctant to spend the $250 TPS renewal fee, preferring to save
their money for future citizenship applications.

"We still believe there's a lot of confusion over the immigration reforms," said
David Hernandez, counselor for immigration affairs at the Honduran Embassy.
"Many appear to be waiting for the new rules.

"They think it's going to cost a lot," he said. "They believe they will pay
double if they renew."

The confusion is being fueled by various factors, ranging from hope raised by
the creation of a national immigrant rights movement to a misunderstanding about
the way the U.S. political system works. Spanish-language media have also been
predicting the passage of immigration legislation now winding through Congress.

Last week, the Senate approved legislation that would establish a guest worker
program and allow illegal immigrants who have been here five years or longer to
stay and apply for citizenship, as long as they pay back taxes, learn English
and have not committed any serious crimes. The bill still faces tough opposition
in the House.

"We're hopeful that people will realize that there is no temporary guest worker
program at this time and will not take a chance of being deported from the
United States," Saucier said.

There are other reasons, too, according to immigration advocates, diplomats and
TPS applicants. Some Hondurans and Nicaraguans have run out of money because
people with TPS had to pay federal income taxes in April.

Others are concerned that the United States might stop the program or give
preference to other immigrant populations. If they renew, they fear that
authorities will know their whereabouts and deport them. Others are concerned
that if they have the permits, they might not be eligible for a future guest
worker plan.

TPS is intended to help immigrants who have difficulty returning to their
homelands because of civil conflict or natural disaster. The current permits
expire July 5 and must to be renewed by the end of today.

In recent weeks, senior Honduran and Nicaraguan diplomats have traveled to
cities with large populations from their countries, giving radio, television and
newspaper interviews urging people to renew. In Honduras, the government has
called upon citizens, through commercials and posters, to urge their relatives
in the United States to renew their permits, Hernandez said.

U.S. immigration officials rejected an official request for an extension of
today's deadline, he said. Yesterday, Honduran consulates across the nation were
advised to find post offices that closed late today. Consular officials say they
are expecting a last minute rush.

But the question on many minds is: How many?

The Rev. Brian Jordan of the Franciscan Immigration Center in New York City has
urged Hondurans and Nicaraguans to renew their permits for weeks. Yesterday,
four Hondurans and five Nicaraguans turned up at his center to get help.

"It's not a lot, but it's better than a month ago, when there was none," Jordan
said.

Today, he's praying for more applicants.

"On this last day, I hope they realize this false optimism needs to be pushed
away and be replaced with a reality check," Jordan said. "I just hope they get
their facts straight and not get swayed about what TPS is or is not."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              306 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Between a Rock and 'Reform';
No Immigration Bill Would Be No Tragedy

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 773 words


"Why should we bother to reply to Kautsky?" Lenin asked. "He would reply to us,
and we would have to reply to his reply. There is no end to that. It will be
quite enough for us to announce that Kautsky is a traitor to the working class,
and everyone will understand everything." The immigration debate, which is
mostly among, and dangerous primarily to, Republicans, is becoming like that.

Rep. James Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, denounces as "selling American citizenship" the provision in the
Senate bill that requires illegal immigrants to pay back taxes and fines, a
provision that its supporters, such as John McCain, call "earned citizenship."
And last week McCain said that denying illegal immigrants Social Security and
other entitlements is akin to forcing them to "ride in the back of the bus."
Regardless of what one thinks of his immigration policy and his aggressive
rhetoric in its defense, one must admire his willingness to undo, by teaming
with Ted Kennedy to pass "earned citizenship" provisions, much of what he has
assiduously done to ingratiate himself with conservatives.

As members of the House and Senate head for a conference to try to reconcile the
stark and probably irreconcilable differences incorporated in their two
immigration bills, Republicans are between a rock and a hard place. And another
rock. And another.

First, if the conferees agree to anything like the Senate bill, the House will
reject it  --  if it comes to a vote. Speaker Dennis Hastert has a "majority of
the majority" rule: Nothing comes to the floor that does not have the support of
a majority of Republicans. Probably 75 percent of House Republicans  --
including Sensenbrenner, who will probably be the lead House negotiator  --
oppose the two pillars of the Senate bill, a guest-worker program and a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants already here. Actually, there are three
paths: one for those who have been here five or more years, one for those who
have been here between two and five years, and a path away from citizenship and
the country for those who have been here less than two years. This plan, which
is a huge incentive for the sort of traffic in fraudulent documents that is
already pandemic, is to be enforced by a government that will not or cannot
enforce existing immigration laws.

Second, if the conference agrees to anything like the House "enforcement first
and, for now, only" bill, it will be rejected or filibustered to death in the
Senate. All but six  Democrats voted for the Senate bill, which a majority of
Republicans opposed, so it has no momentum for respect among House Republican
conferees.

Third, if any legislation is passed that contains any provision that can be
stigmatized as "amnesty," come November some of the Republican base, which is
already boiling, will emigrate from the political process by not voting.

Fourth, if no immigration legislation is enacted, voters of various stripes may
say, as voters said of congressional Democrats who were in disarray over a crime
bill in the summer of 1994, that these people cannot govern and should be given,
like unruly 8-year-olds, a timeout. The timeout is now in its 12th year.

But if Congress fails to pass immigration reform, that will not really deserve
to be called a failure, for two reasons. First, the moment may not be ripe for
reform, because the country is of two minds  --  actually, more than two  --
about the issue. Second, the system the Framers created, with two legislative
bodies having different dynamics because their constituencies have different
characteristics, is in this instance performing approximately as the Framers
intended.

Senators, only one-third of whom are ever facing imminent elections, are
somewhat insulated by six-year terms from the public's fevers. And senators
represent larger, less homogenous, more complex constituencies than most House
members do.

There is more to democracy than government by adding machine  --  merely
counting numbers. There also should be institutional ways of measuring, venting
and accommodating the intensity of factions. The Senate does that by permitting
filibusters. In the House, two-year terms guarantee that intensities are
registered. As Rep. Gil Gutknecht (R-Minn.) recently told The Post, "House
members' elections are not periods with us, they're just commas. We keep our
finger on the public pulse all the time, not just every six years."

The House is supposed to be the barometer that measures the political weather of
the moment. It is not failing to do that.

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              307 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico Reserves Jobs for Natives;
Many Public Positions Closed to Immigrants

BYLINE: Mark Stevenson, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A18

LENGTH: 745 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


If Arnold Schwarzenegger had migrated to Mexico instead of the United States, he
couldn't be a governor. If Argentina native Sergio Villanueva, firefighter hero
of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, had moved to Tecate instead of New York, he
wouldn't have been allowed on the force.

Even as Mexico presses the United States to grant unrestricted citizenship to
millions of undocumented Mexican migrants, and Mexican officials at times call
U.S. policies "xenophobic," Mexico places daunting limitations on anyone born
outside its territory.

In the United States, only two posts  --  the presidency and vice presidency  --
are reserved for the native-born.

In Mexico, non-natives are banned from those and thousands of other jobs, even
if they are naturalized citizens.

Foreign-born Mexicans can't hold seats in either house of the Congress. They're
also banned from state legislatures, the Supreme Court and all governorships.
Many states ban foreign-born Mexicans from spots on town councils. And Mexico's
constitution reserves almost all federal posts, and any position in the military
and merchant marine, for "native-born Mexicans."

Recently the Mexican government has gone even further. Since at least 2003, it
has encouraged cities to ban non-natives from such local jobs as firefighters,
police and judges.

Mexico's Interior Department  --  which recommended the bans as part of "model"
city statutes it distributed to local officials  --  could cite no basis for
extending the bans to local posts.

After being contacted about the issue, officials changed the wording in two
statutes to delete the "native-born" requirements, although they said the
modifications had nothing to do with Associated Press inquiries.

"These statutes have been under review for some time, and they have, or are
about to be, changed," said an Interior Department official, who was not
authorized to be quoted by name.

But because the model statutes are fill-in-the-blank guides for framing local
legislation, many cities across Mexico have already enacted such bans. They have
done so even though foreigners constitute a tiny percentage of the population
and pose little threat to Mexico's job market.

The foreign-born make up 0.5 percent of Mexico's 105 million people, compared
with about 13 percent in the United States, which has a total population of 299
million. Mexico grants citizenship to about 3,000 people a year, compared with
the U.S. average of almost a half-million.

"There is a need for a little more openness, both at the policy level and in
business affairs," said David Kim, president of the Mexico-Korea Association,
which represents the estimated 20,000 South Koreans in Mexico, many of them
naturalized citizens.

"The immigration laws are very difficult . . . and they put obstacles in the way
that make it more difficult to compete," Kim said, although most foreigners
don't come to Mexico seeking government posts.

J. Michael Waller of the Center for Security Policy in Washington was more
blunt. "If American policymakers are looking for legal models on which to base
new laws restricting immigration and expelling foreign lawbreakers, they have a
handy guide: the Mexican constitution," he said in a recent article on
immigration.

Some Mexicans agree that their country needs to change.

"This country needs to be more open," said Francisco Hidalgo, a 50-year-old
video producer. "In part to modernize itself, and in part because of the
contribution these [foreign-born] people could make."

Others express a more common view, a distrust of foreigners that academics say
is rooted in Mexico's history of foreign invasions and the loss of territory in
the Mexican-American War of the 1840s.

Speaking of the hundreds of thousands of Central Americans who enter Mexico each
year, chauffeur Arnulfo Hernandez, 57, said: "The ones who want to reach the
United States, we should send them up there. But the ones who want to stay here,
it's usually for bad reasons, because they want to steal or do drugs."

Some say progress is being made. Mexico's president no longer is required to be
at least a second-generation native-born. That law was changed in 1999 to clear
the way for candidates who have one foreign-born parent, like President Vicente
Fox, whose mother is from Spain.

But the pace of change is slow. The state of Baja California still requires
candidates for the legislature to prove both their parents were native-born.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              308 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 5, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Study: Immigrants Pay Tax Share;
No Gap With U.S.-Born Residents Seen in Area, but Those Here Illegally Account
for Less

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1294 words


The taxes paid by immigrant households in the Washington region are on par with
those paid by native-born Americans, although immigrants here illegally pay
less, according to a study being released today.

Overall, area immigrants pay nearly one-third of their income to the government
--  at least $10 billion a year  --  but those here illegally pay less than $1
of every $5 they earn in taxes, the report says. That is partly because they
earn less but also because many are paid off the books and escape payroll taxes.

The study, by the nonpartisan Urban Institute, provides the most detailed
snapshot yet of tax payments by the region's immigrant population, which the
report says shot up from 870,000 in 2000 to 1.2 million in 2004. The income and
tax landscape it reveals is unique to the Washington area, where the
foreign-born population  --  much of it drawn by think tanks, embassies and the
high-tech industry  --  is more diverse and wealthy than it is nationwide, the
authors say. Here, relatively large populations of Asians, Middle Easterners and
Europeans pay more taxes than most native-born Americans, helping offset the low
tax payments of illegal and poor immigrants, the study found.

Overall, Washington area immigrants carry their share of the tax burden, the
report says. In 1999, the year studied by the authors, foreign-born households
accounted for 17.7 percent of all taxes paid by the region's residents  --  a
figure almost identical to their share of the total population in 2000: 17.4
percent.

The average household of illegal immigrants and those with temporary protected
status paid less than 2 percent of the region's taxes, even though they made up
more than 4 percent of households.

The report is being released as Congress debates immigration reform, a topic
that has inspired intense public discussion, in part over whether immigrants
benefit or burden the U.S. economy and taxpayers. Using census data, the report
details the local, state and federal taxes paid by legal and illegal immigrant
households from 1999 to 2000, an approach that some observers call flawed
because it does not attempt to weigh those payments against the cost of social
services, education and other expenses linked to immigration.

"It doesn't answer the question that's on everyone's minds: Is it a good deal
for American taxpayers?" said Steven Camarota, research director at the Center
for Immigration Studies, which favors less immigration. "It's not irrelevant,
but it's kind of half the equation, really."

The authors said the report is just one piece of the regional economic portrait
of immigration that intends to respond to public perception that the
foreign-born often escape taxation. In a recent nationwide survey by the Pew
Hispanic Center, 56 percent said they believe that most recent immigrants do not
pay their fair share of taxes, while 33 percent said they do. In the Washington
region, those figures were 46 percent and 41 percent.

"So much of the conversation around immigration right now is focusing on
undocumented immigrants and immigrants from Latin America," said Randolph Capps,
an Urban Institute demographer who co-authored the study. "That's only a small
piece of the puzzle compared to the larger story of the diverse population of
immigrants that we have and the significant amount they contribute to the
governments in this area."

The controversy over immigrants and taxes generally centers on  illegal
immigrants. Reliable numbers are hard to find, but researchers generally agree
that 50 to 60 percent of illegal immigrants nationwide work for employers who
withhold income taxes and Social Security and Medicare payments from their
paychecks. The authors of the Urban Institute study assumed 55 percent do. To
get jobs, many of those immigrants use false Social Security numbers. That means
they pay into the Social Security system for benefits they will never receive
and pay income taxes without ever filing a return to determine whether they have
overpaid.

The other 40 to 50 percent of illegal immigrants are paid under the table,
researchers say.

But that does not mean that all illegal immigrants  --  even those with fake
documents  --  avoid taxation. Together with immigrants who hold temporary
protected status, illegal immigrants in the region paid about $1 billion in
taxes in 1999, the study found. That is because  there are other taxes unrelated
to income: All buyers pay sales tax on new television sets, and tenants
generally pay property tax in their rent.

"There's sales tax, there's property tax, there's consumption taxes on alcohol,
on cars, on gasoline, on utilities," said Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at
the Pew Hispanic Center who co-authored the report.

Montgomery County Council member Tom Perez (D-Silver Spring) said the study
demonstrates the economic importance of immigrants to the region and provides
elected officials data that lend context to the immigration debate.

"We're invariably asked the question, 'Why are you spending $130,000 in
Gaithersburg to fund a day-labor center? You're giving money to people who
supply no services to people and who pay no taxes,' " Perez said. "That is a
factually incorrect assertion."

In 1999, immigrant households in the region earned $29.5 billion, or 19 percent
of the area's total income. Their average income was $78,000, compared with
native household incomes of $88,000. Immigrant households paid 28 percent of
their income in taxes while natives paid 31 percent, the report says.

Of the taxes immigrants paid, nearly three-quarters went to the federal
government, 17 percent to the state and 12 percent to localities, amounts
similar to those of native-born taxpayers, the report states.

More than half of all immigrant tax contributions were paid by naturalized
citizens, whose households earned an average of $91,000. Legal permanent
residents made $78,000. Like natives, both groups paid nearly one-third of their
income in taxes.

Households of illegal immigrants  --  who constituted 22 percent of the
immigrant population in 2000  --  and those with temporary protected status
earned an average of $53,000 and paid 19 percent in taxes.

Immigrants with good English skills, advanced education and legal status make
the most money and pay the most taxes among non-native born people, the study
found. Michael Fix, vice president and director of studies at the nonpartisan
Migration Policy Institute and a co-author, said that shows better integration
--  learning English and getting legal status, for example  --  leads to higher
salaries and tax payments.

"It's a dog-bites-man story," Fix said. "But it's one that isn't often heard."

It is one reason the Washington region's immigrant tax base is strong, the
report suggests. According to a 2003 Brookings Institution study, the Washington
region has the highest percentage of foreign-born English speakers and lowest
immigrant poverty rate among the 10 U.S. metropolitan areas with the largest
international populations.

The study recommends publicly funded English and adult education for immigrants,
which it says would boost incomes and tax payments. It also advises granting
work permits to illegal immigrants as a way to increase payroll tax
contributions.

Some experts, including Camarota, disagree. Although legalizing those immigrants
--  of whom many have low incomes  --  would certainly result in more people
filing taxes, it might also qualify them for more public services whose costs
outweigh their tax payments, they say.

The study was underwritten by the Washington Area Partnership for Immigrants, a
funding collaborative of the Community Foundation.

Staff writer Neil Irwin contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              309 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 7, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Mexican Presidential Hopefuls Vow to Seek Immigration Pact;
Front-Runners Also Stress Human Rights, Economic Issues in Debate

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY June 6


Mexico's three major presidential candidates each pledged Tuesday during a
nationally televised debate to seek an immigration accord with the United
States.

Immigration has grown in importance in the campaign since this spring's massive
immigration rallies in U.S. cities and President Bush's decision to send
National Guard troops to support U.S. Border Patrol agents.

Andrés Manuel López Obrador, candidate of the Democratic Revolutionary Party, or
PRD, who is popular among the poor, said Mexicans have to convince U.S.
officials that "nothing can be resolved with walls . . . or with the
militarization of the border."

López Obrador, who skipped the first debate and was under pressure to stop his
slide in opinion polls with a resounding win Tuesday, is tied in the polls with
Felipe Calderón, the candidate from President Vicente Fox's National Action
Party, or PAN.

Calderón, a former energy secretary, said he would push for an agreement that
would award U.S. legal status to Mexicans who have lived illegally in the United
States for "five or six years"  --  a far shorter period than has been proposed
by some immigration advocates in the United States.

The third major candidate, Roberto Madrazo, of the Institutional Revolutionary
Party, or PRI, called Mexico's foreign policy "a disaster zone" and echoed his
opponents in saying that Mexico needed to create more jobs to stem the huge flow
of illegal migrants northward.

Both López Obrador and Calderón promised to fight for the human rights of
Mexicans living illegally in the United States. But López Obrador went one step
further, saying he would convert all 45 Mexican consulates in the United States
into branches of the Mexican attorney general's office to protect Mexicans .
from discrimination. Calderón vowed to seek an accord with Canada and the United
States to encourage investment in business development in Mexican regions that
lose the most people to illegal migration.

The debate unfurled after a tumultuous day in which gunmen tried to kill the
wife of a jailed businessman who had threatened to release potentially damaging
corruption tapes just hours before the candidates appeared.

Cecilia Gurza and her three children, who were traveling in a bulletproof
vehicle, were not hurt in the early morning attack in Mexico City. Her husband,
Carlos Ahumada, was accused in 2004 of bribing top city officials in Mexico
City's government when  López Obrador was mayor.

Ahumada had said he would release tapes showing payoffs to other allies of López
Obrador, a move that political commentators said could damage the former mayor's
efforts to portray himself as the anti-corruption candidate. He did not follow
through with his threat on Tuesday.

López Obrador and Calderón, the two leading candidates, differ sharply in style
and in their approach to governing.

López Obrador is a fiery populist, a favorite of Mexico City's vast underclass,
who has promised to lower gas and electricity prices. Calderón is wonkish and an
understated campaigner. He has espoused job creation and promised to continue
the work of Fox, whose election in 2000 ended the PRI's seven-decade reign.

The two traded barbs during the second half of a debate that had been largely
free of the personal attacks that have marked the campaign. López Obrador
asserted that Calderón's brother-in-law did not have to pay taxes on a lucrative
contract while Calderón was Mexico's energy secretary. Calderón shot back that
López Obrador "was not going to win by lying."

The PRI candidate, Madrazo, who is running a distant third in opinion polls,
also got in some shots. He called Calderón "inexperienced and incompetent" and
described López Obrador as "violent and radical."

López Obrador's temperament has created problems for him during the campaign. He
was widely condemned recently when he said Fox should "shut up" about the race.

"Here we have a great respect for the presidency," said Jorge Montaño, who
served as Mexico's ambassador to the United States and to the United Nations in
the 1990s. "We are not like the United States, where you make fun of the
president every night."

While López Obrador's prospects have been declining, Calderón's have been rising
on the basis of a dogged, stay-on-message approach.

Their duel  --  which almost completely ignores the presence of Madrazo  --  has
brought Mexico toward what could be one of the closest elections in its history
on July 2. The race is so close that some Mexican political forecasters have
begun to use a word American voters are all too familiar with: recount.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              310 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Diversifying the Leadership Pool;
Schools Encourage Immigrant Parents to Speak Up and Step Up

BYLINE: Julia Feldmeier, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Howard Extra; T03

LENGTH: 830 words


High school in Los Angeles in the 1980s was "like two different schools,"
recalled Joshua M. Kaufman, chairman of the Howard County Board of Education.
There were students who knew how to access information about school programs and
services and benefited from them. And there were those who didn't  --  often
immigrant students.

"We need to get ahead of the curve to make sure that never happens here," he
recently told a room full of immigrant parents at the Board of Education
building.

If Young-Chan Han has any say, it never will.

Han, the international student and family outreach specialist for Howard County
public schools, launched the International Parent Leadership Program this spring
to encourage immigrant parents to assume leadership roles in their schools and
at the district level.

The program, which winds up tomorrow but will resume in the fall, consists of
six two-hour training sessions during which guest speakers talk about the public
school culture, including leadership structure, policymaking and curriculum.
Kaufman, for example, was recruited to explain the workings of the school board.

Drawn by Howard's reputation for high-performing schools, hundreds of immigrant
families have moved to the county in recent years. According to the latest
enrollment data, county schools registered 748 new immigrant students during the
2004-05 school year and 745 the year before. Students come from 85 countries,
with Asians accounting for 12 percent of the student population and Hispanics 4
percent.

Howard has long sought to involve immigrant parents in school activities,
establishing the Office of International Student and Family Services in 1996.
But the push for more leadership roles for immigrant parents seems
groundbreaking. Han, who frequently speaks about school immigration issues, said
she was not aware of similar programs elsewhere.

It's not that immigrant parents haven't been involved. Of the 20 parents
enrolled in the leadership program this spring, all have helped out with
parent-teacher associations, and many have served as interpreters during
parent-teacher conferences. But these are relatively anonymous volunteer roles.
(Many immigrant parents say they work as interpreters partly to sneak a peek at
what is ahead for their children).

But immigrant parents are conspicuously absent from the leadership ranks  --
whether on school improvement teams, PTA executive boards or advisory
committees. The Board of Education, for instance, has no immigrant member.

"We are strongly encouraging a more diverse group," said Diane Martin, director
of student, family and community services for the school district. "We would
like to increase the number from cultures. It is not as diverse as we would
like."

In this fall's election, the size of the school board will grow to seven,
providing a greater opportunity for immigrant parents to be elected.

Many of those parents say they've often felt inhibited by the cultural
differences. "We were brought up not to ask too many questions," said Han, a
native of South Korea who lives in Columbia. "We were taught to be recipients of
information, that the decision-making is done by other leaders."

Myung Kim, a native of South Korea who lives in Woodstock, said: "Even though
I'm fluent in English, because of the cultural background, I'm not very
forthcoming."

That is exactly what the leadership program wants to change. The training
sessions this spring have tried to create more understanding about how the
system works and inspire more parents to step forward and speak up. In addition
to hearing Kaufman speak, the parents attended a school board meeting together.

Han said she purposely kept the group small to facilitate more discussion  --
good practice for would-be leaders. Participants said the program has been
intense but helpful.

"The whole objective is to let everybody in on the same level of knowledge,"
said Colette Nguyen, a Vietnam native living in Columbia. "I've been in Howard
County since 1985, and yet there are so many resources out there that I am not
even aware of."

But she is gaining confidence to become a leader and said she wants to share
information with compatriots who are not as knowledgeable about American
schools.

That is part of Han's vision: Immigrant parents would have a greater voice in
shaping school policy even as they alert others to school services and programs.
Nguyen, for instance, has a nephew with a learning disability but was unaware
until recently that the school offered counseling and special programs to help
him.

Han and others hope that in the end, new leaders will reach out to other parents
to let them know that their opinions are valued.

"I think every parent, no matter what nationality, cares about their kid's
education," said Jenny Uresti, a native of Honduras who lives in Columbia. "And
it's good for parents to know that we do count, that [the schools] do take into
account what we think."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              311 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 10, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Buying Their Way In;
The British Have Invaded Florida by Way of the E2 Visa, A Shortcut For
Immigrants Who Can Purchase U.S. Businesses

BYLINE: Cecilia Kang, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 1169 words


Although many foreigners wait years for permission to live in this country
legally, a small but growing number have found a legal path that is relatively
simple and fast: come with deep pockets to buy businesses here.

Foreigners who promise to purchase businesses that could create U.S. jobs and
pump money into the economy can get non-immigrant investor visas, known as E2.
The number of E2 visas approved has steadily grown, with 28,290 issued in 2005,
up 40 percent from the number issued in 1997, according to the State Department.

The businesses are typically clustered in metropolitan areas in states such as
Florida, which has attracted a number of British nationals with E2 visas.
British residents can turn to Web sites such as www.sunnybrits.com,
www.britishflorida.com and www.british-expat.com to learn how to get an E2 visa.

The State Department does not require any specific size investment. Rather it
says the business owner must invest a "substantial amount of capital" that
generates "more than enough income to provide a minimal living for the treaty
investor and his or her family."

Immigration attorneys say most businesses are purchased for more than $100,000.
As such, the investor visa has become particularly popular among citizens of
countries with robust economies.

Japanese nationals were granted 12,010 E2 visas in 2005, up 16 percent from
1997. British citizens were issued 3,170 E2 visas, up 47 percent from 1997.
Germans were issued 3,066 visas in 2005, up 85 percent from 1997. The number of
visas issued to South Koreans in 2005 more than doubled to 2,169 from 1997. E2
visas were initiated in 1952 in the Immigration and Nationality Act.

There are no quotas for the number of E2 visas issued. But investors must be
citizens of the dozens of countries that have signed special commerce treaties
with the United States. Although E2 visa holders make up a small portion of all
immigrant and non-immigrant visas, the investor visa is for many  --  with
enough money  --  an attractive alternative to more complex and lengthy ways of
entry.

"There are two types of E2 investors. There are those who are here purely for
business interests and those who use the visa as an immigration vehicle," said
Glen D. Wasserstein, a partner at Immigration Law Group in the District.

E2 visa applicants apply directly to the U.S. embassy in their home country,
skipping approval from the Department of Labor and U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, where applications for temporary skilled-worker and other
business visas can take years to be processed.

In London, the wait for approval is typically 16 to 20 weeks, according to
immigration lawyers and British holders of E2 visas. In contrast, the H1B visas
for temporary skilled workers have years-long waiting lists for countries like
India.

The E2 visa is typically issued for two years. It can be renewed indefinitely as
long as the investor is running the business and it generates more than enough
revenue to support the investor's family. The E2 visa also covers the investor's
spouse and children under age 21.

Investors can eventually apply for green cards and then citizenship.

That's the next step for Koki Fukuhara, who lives in Rockville with his family
through an E2 visa and a $100,000 investment by his company, Nippon Zoki
Pharmaceuticals. He set up Nippon Zoki's branch office in Chevy Chase for its
U.S. joint venture with the National Institutes of Health and several
universities. Fukuhara was already in the United States as a visiting scholar
when his company decided to set up the office, which is being used to help bring
a pain medicine from Japan to the U.S. market.

His company considered sending Fukuhara on a corporate-sponsored L visa, but
that would require the pharmacologist to leave the United States for one year
before coming back.

"It would have taken too long to apply for other visas, so my attorney advised
this visa, which was surprisingly easy," Fukuhara said.

Kevin and Sheila Jamieson are now permanent residents of Tarpon Springs, Fla.,
but they first came as E2 visa investors in 1992. They've made a business of
luring British investors to buy franchises of their cleaning service, Royal Maid
Service. All but one of their 35 franchises in Florida are owned by British E2
visa holders.

"For British families that want to start over and try a new lifestyle, Florida
makes sense because the lifestyle is easy here and there aren't language
barriers like in closer European countries," Kevin Jamieson said.

The British Consulate in Miami estimates about 200,000 British citizens and dual
nationals live in Florida. Enterprise Florida, a state-run trade and business
organization, said British-owned firms employ 50,000 people in Florida, more
than any other group of foreign companies in the state. Investors from  Britain
are the second-largest source of international investment in Florida, with $5
billion in holdings, they said. The British Bureau of Florida, a private
business group, said its membership has increased about 40 percent in the last
10 years to more than 450 members.

Christine Pollar and Peter Willis moved to East Bradenton, near Tampa Bay, after
tiring of their life in Torquay, England. The couple and their two children
struggled with long working hours and mounting expenses. Willis only came home
twice a month, living the rest of the week in a caravan several hours' drive
away near his construction job in London.

"Then my daughter's friend announced her family was moving to Florida to start a
business on an E2 visa. And we thought, 'Maybe we can do it,' '' said Pollar,
44, who now runs Isabelle's Eatery LLC on Longboat Key with nine employees.

They contacted the friend's immigration consultant, Peter Gold of
Floridabuyahomeforu. Gold, who emigrated from England to Sarasota, Fla., in
1986, said he has helped 30 British E2 visa holders in the last five years find
investment businesses. Within a few months, Pollar and Willis had purchased a
home and the restaurant with $130,000 they brought with them from savings and
taking out equity they had put into their home in England.

"The British first come here first as tourists and fall in love with Florida,"
said Gold, who initially came as an E2 visa investor. "They are disillusioned by
life in the U.K. with the high property prices and drab weather."

In many cases, all it takes is the sale of a home in Britain to set up a
business and buy bigger homes in Florida, where property prices can be
significantly lower than in major cities like London, he said.

On a typical evening in Florida, the Willis family swims together in their
backyard pool or the teenage children ride their bikes around the neighborhood.
They bought sweatshirts in their first weeks in the United States, but rarely
take them out of the closet.

"We want to stay here for good," Pollar said. The family is applying to extend
their visa. "You would have to earn big money in the U.K. to live like this."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              312 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Estimates For Region Vary Widely From Source to Source

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard and Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1544 words


Nine years after Haydee Salguero left Guatemala for the United States, she
became a U.S. citizen and gave up her Guatemalan passport. But ask her what she
is, and Salguero doesn't hesitate.

"Guatemalan, of course," said the 32-year-old legal assistant, who lives in
Fairfax County. Salguero said things will be a bit fuzzier for her first child,
who is due to be born in the United States in October. The baby will be American
on paper, she said, but both Guatemalan and American "in spirit."

For the U.S. Census Bureau, the official scorekeeper of the U.S. public, it's a
simpler issue: "Guatemalans" are people born in Guatemala. The census counts of
the immigrant population reflect the number of people here who were born outside
the United States. Those figures are used to track the flows of immigration and
to determine funding for government programs serving immigrants.

But as Salguero illustrates, the notion of nationality can rest on more than
birthplace  --  and it's a key reason why foreign embassy counts of their
compatriots in the United States can greatly differ from census data. When
embassies are asked for estimates, many count U.S.-born children as immigrants
because they might be entitled to claim citizenship in their parents' homeland
as well.

For example, just how many Salvadorans live in the Washington region?

The 2000 Census says 105,000.

The Current Population Survey, conducted monthly by the Census Bureau, says the
number averaged about 130,000 over the past three years.

But ask Salvadoran Ambassador René A. León, and the figure skyrockets to nearly
500,000.

"The expansion of services has been so demanded that we opened a consulate in
Woodbridge," León said. "If we count the number of passports we issue, we cannot
be serving a universe of Salvadorans in this area of less than 400,000 to
500,000. It would be impossible to be serving less than that."

At the height of a national debate about the future of U.S. immigration,
estimates of how many illegal immigrants reside in this country vary widely.
They range from the commonly cited 11 million  --  derived by the nonprofit Pew
Hispanic Center from census and immigration data  --  to 20 million, which the
investment firm Bear Stearns came up with last year after looking at school
district figures, remittances and other micro-trends.

Locally, in an area where census figures suggest that one in five residents was
born abroad, the estimated number of Peruvians, Mexicans and others also can
differ by tens of thousands  --  depending on the source.

Embassy officials acknowledge that their population calculations are
extrapolations based on the number of passports, visas or identification cards
they issue. They say the census vastly undercounts immigrant populations, which
have skyrocketed since 2000, when the most accurate and detailed figures were
released.

The Census Bureau acknowledges that it missed some people in 2000  --  but not
many, it says. The agency says its count fell short by about 0.6 percent for the
total population, about 0.8 percent for blacks and 1.2 percent for Hispanics.

But Audrey Singer of the Brookings Institution says the undercount could be
especially pronounced for Mexicans and Central Americans, many of whom travel
regularly to their homelands and might have missed census surveys while out of
the country, or opted out because they do not consider themselves U.S.
residents.

There isn't even agreement on who should be counted as an immigrant. The census
applies a traditional definition: those who are foreign-born. But many embassies
and consulates include the U.S.-born children of immigrants in their population
count.

"They use an American passport. . . . They are still Peruvians for us," said
Manuel Talavera, general consul for Peru, who estimates that 70,000 of his
compatriots live in Virginia, Maryland and the District. The Current Population
Survey places the figure in the Washington region at 23,000.

Jeffrey S. Passel, a researcher with the Pew Hispanic Center, said about 80
percent of immigrants' children are born in the United States.

Illegal immigrants' fear of revealing their status may also result in
conflicting data.

The 2000 Census, for example, taken in April of that year, counted 1,500
Salvadoran immigrants who lived in the District and attended public school. In
the next school year, D.C. public schools data counted 929 students who said
they were born in El Salvador. Fairfax and Prince George's counties' counts of
Salvadoran students that year also were far lower than census figures.

Passel surmised that, to some degree, those gaps might be attributed to parents
who listed their children as U.S.-born out of fear that their immigrant status
would exclude them from school; others might have been confused about the
difference between public and private schools when filling out the census forms.
But the reason for such a significant difference is unclear, he said.

Embassy officials say that no matter the number, their communities' populations
have shot up exponentially in recent years. Talavera, for example, said the
Peruvian Embassy issues 40 percent more national identity cards than it did in
2001.

Evidence indicates that the rise has been sharp. According to the Center for
Immigration Studies, between January 2000 and this March, 7.9 million immigrants
moved to the United States, making it the highest five-year period of
immigration in the nation's history.

Still, experts reject claims that immigrant population figures could be several
times higher than the census numbers or than the data derived from the less
comprehensive Current Population Survey, which polls 50,000 U.S. households each
month.

"It's unlikely that if the survey is showing 50 or 60,000 [people in a
particular immigrant group] that there are 200,000," Passel said. "Let's put it
that way."

León said the numbers he sees say otherwise, although he acknowledges having no
official count. In addition to passports issued, he bases his calculations on
the number of Salvadorans who registered with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services for temporary permission to live in the United States after earthquakes
rocked El Salvador in 2001. Nationwide, the number of registrants is 244,000.
But, León surmises that only half of the people eligible for the temporary
residence program after the disaster signed up for it.

Then the ambassador points to a study showing that $1.2 billion flowed into
Latin America from immigrants living in the District, Maryland and Virginia in
2004. Most of that went to El Salvador, León said, noting that Salvadorans
living in Virginia send home more money annually than those in any state except
California. The number of Salvadorans in the Washington region must be far
higher then census-based estimates to have sent such a large sum in just one
year, the ambassador said.

And he has more anecdotal evidence: Business strips in Woodbridge and other
parts of suburban Washington are crowded with small companies owned by
Salvadorans.

"The core economic data [prove] that fact. Look not only at the number of
companies owned by Salvadorans but the payrolls of most of the construction
companies, hotels, restaurants and landscaping companies. They are filled with
Salvadorans," he said.

The Salvadoran Embassy will begin issuing country identification cards to its
nationals in the Washington region this year, and León said he hopes a tally
based on the number of identification cards issued will provide more definitive
data.

Of course, there is power in numbers. León said his higher count indicates the
Salvadoran community's "high value" and vitality to the Washington region.

"The more numbers you have, the more visibility you have, the more power and
clout you potentially have," said Peter Skerry, a Boston College professor of
political science who studied the census undercount.

But in today's highly charged climate about immigration, that notion is open to
debate. A Guatemalan official said he would more likely play down the Guatemalan
population's size in the United States when talking to politicians who favor
strict immigration controls, figuring they might be more friendly to a smaller
group.

Enrique Escorza, the Mexican general consul in Washington, oversees a region
that includes the District and all of Maryland, Virginia and West Virginia. He
puts the Mexican community in that region at 250,000, more than twice the 2000
Census count for the same area.

Guatemalan and Bolivian officials, whose regional populations were 20,000 each
in the 2000 Census, offer estimates of about 70,000 each  --  albeit cautiously.

"Don't take me seriously," said Oswaldo Cuevas, general consul for Bolivia in
Washington. "Talking about numbers  --  it's our vulnerability."

The population puzzles are faced not only by Latin American immigrants. The
embassies of India and the Philippines are among those that refuse to guess,
referring only to the 2000 Census figures, which put the region's Indian-born
population at 46,000 and Philippines-born population at 32,000.

"It is an incredibly complicated exercise," said Venu Rajamony, spokesman for
the Indian Embassy.

Staff writer Dan Keating contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              313 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 12, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Left Out by the Legal Route In

BYLINE: Susan Laurel Hodges

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 744 words


It's hard to make decorating decisions when my partner isn't around. Should the
wall beside the fireplace be painted gold to match the rest of the living room,
or would another color deliver that bold statement we're looking for?

We really can't decide until Kirsten is here to see it, and that won't be for
another two months. It's not that my domestic partner chooses to spend so much
time away; her absence is required by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services, a bureau of the Department of Homeland Security.

Kirsten is a German citizen who cannot lawfully move to the United States until
she lands a job with an American employer. She has a sister in Pennsylvania who
would willingly sponsor her immigration, but the waiting time for sibling visas
is currently more than nine years. I would sponsor Kirsten myself in a
heartbeat, but the U.S. government recognizes no bond between us,  so I cannot
sponsor her as could a husband his foreign-born wife or a wife her foreign-born
husband. Nor would it help for me to move to Massachusetts, as so many of our
friends have suggested, because although the Bay State would allow us to marry,
the federal government still wouldn't give us the time of day.

Thus the need for Kirsten to find a job. But before she can be hired, she must
have a work visa known as an H-1B. An H-1B visa allows a foreign professional in
a specialty occupation to work for a U.S. employer for up to six years. During
that time H-1B holders who wish to become permanent U.S. residents can apply
for, and usually receive, a green card.

The H-1B visa is necessary because Kirsten is a physician, a radiologist, in
fact, whose expertise is medical technology, specifically electronic patient
records. She is one of only five doctors in Germany to possess this combination
of skills, and  is highly sought-after in her native nation. She also speaks
fluent English.

Germany and most countries in Western Europe are miles ahead of the United
States when it comes to this type of technology; in fact, many German hospitals
are already acquiring their second generation of electronic records systems.
Knowing this, you might think someone with Kirsten's background would be the
darling of U.S. immigration officials, not to mention the toast of domestic
med-tech providers. But such is not the case.

A U.S. employer must be willing to jump through hoops to sponsor her, and until
that happens, no visa can be issued.

Among the hoops: extensive advertising to find an American citizen who can fill
the job before it is given to an outsider, and retaining an attorney who can
competently navigate and file the blizzard of forms that must be filled out by
the potential employer and potential employee. These forms demand a colossal
amount of information, ranging from the dates, reasons and details of all
previous visits to the United States during the  past several years to copies of
diplomas and certified translations of all documents in languages other than
English.

Three years elapsed before Kirsten found a company with the foresight and
willingness to hire her, and now this fourth year is being spent waiting for the
immigration wheels to turn. That's not to say that approval of her visa is
guaranteed. At the end of 2003 Congress slashed its quota for H-1B approvals
from 195,000 to 65,000 a year. If Kirsten is not one of those 65,000, she will
have to wait until April 2007 to reapply. As to whether the firm offering her a
job is willing to wait that long, we have no clue.

Meanwhile, our own immigration attorney has advised Kirsten to adhere to a
strict policy that prohibits her from taking any steps that could be viewed by
immigration officials as attempts to establish U.S. residency before her visa is
approved. That means few visits and for no more than a couple of weeks. Her
prospective employer wants her on-site for training and meetings, but until she
receives her work visa, Kirsten must spend the majority of her time in Germany.

When Kirsten is able to visit briefly, she and I encounter dozens, perhaps
hundreds of people who live here but cannot speak English well enough to be
understood or haven't had the benefit of even a rudimentary education. "And yet,
they're here," Kirsten observes wryly, "and I am not." Meanwhile, I'm really
hoping we can find the right wall color before another year goes by.

Susan Laurel Hodges is a freelance writer who lives in Burtonsville.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              314 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 12, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Blending In, Moving Up

BYLINE: Tyler Cowen and Daniel M. Rothschild

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 851 words


Beneath the surface of the immigration debate is a debate about shared values.
If we look at just three of those values  --  the English language, family and
hard work  --  we see a higher level of Latino assimilation than is often
presumed.

Despite claims to the contrary, census data show that most Latino immigrants
learn and speak English quite well. Only about 2.5 percent of American residents
speak Spanish but not English. The majority of residents of Spanish-speaking
households speak English "very well."

Only 7 percent of the children of Latino immigrants speak Spanish as a primary
language, and virtually none of their children do. Just as they did a century
ago, immigrants largely come knowing little English. But they learn, and their
children use it as a primary language. The United States is not becoming a
bilingual nation.

A key indicator is the rise of the English-language Latino publication market.
National magazines such as Hispanic Business (circulation 265,000) and Latina
(circulation 2 million) are published in English. So are regional publications
in cities including New York, Houston and Los Angeles. The reason is simple:
English is becoming the language of Hispanic American commerce and culture. Just
as few Jewish-interest magazines are published in Yiddish, in a generation most
Latino-interest publications will  probably be in English.

The family has long been the core social unit in America, and immigrants share
that value. Census data show that 62 percent of immigrants over age 15 are
married, compared to 52 percent of natives. Only 6 percent of Latino adults are
divorced, compared with 10 percent of whites and 12 percent of African
Americans. Latino immigrants are more likely to live in multigenerational
households rather than just visiting grandparents a couple of times a year.

Most Latino immigrants want to become U.S. citizens. This process takes years,
so recent immigrants are not a good barometer. But according to the 2000 Census,
the majority of Latinos who entered the United States before 1980 have become
citizens. And second-generation immigrants are more likely to marry natives than
immigrants, further assimilating their children. The majority of immigrants also
own their own homes, a key part of the American dream.

Immigrants from Central and South America share the American predilection for
hard work and economic advancement. Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics
indicate that Hispanic men are more likely than white men to be in the labor
force. While immigrant Latinas initially lag behind native women, Francine Blau
and Lawrence Kahn of the National Bureau of Economic Research have shown that,
despite initial inclinations to be stay-at-home moms, immigrant women quickly
assimilate into the American workforce.

The children of Latino immigrants do especially well at work. James P. Smith of
Rand Corp. has shown that the children and grandchildren of Latino immigrants
come very close to closing educational and income gaps with native whites. This
is the same as it has always been in American immigration: Newcomers know what
keeps them outside the mainstream and work hard to make sure that their children
do better. Immigrant Latino men make about half of what native whites do; their
grandsons earn about 78 percent of the salaries of their native white friends.

Studies such as Smith's, because they track trends over time, are better at
discovering patterns of assimilation than studies that compare immigrants in
2006 to natives. The latter present a snapshot; they can't demonstrate long-term
trends.

It's true that recent immigrants have not been closing the wage gap as fast as
earlier immigrants. But David Card of the University of California at Berkeley,
John DiNardo of the University of Michigan and Eugena Estes of Princeton
attribute this to an increase in inequality nationwide. Controlling for this,
Latino immigrants are doing as well as immigrants a century ago.

Of course, assimilation is not instantaneous. First-generation immigrants often
hold on to the language and customs of the old country. Some immigrants
ghettoize themselves and avoid the mainstream. But the overall patterns are far
more positive than many recent debates have suggested.

Let's not forget that assimilating into American culture means taking the bad
with the good. Robert Sampson of Harvard has found that immigrants are 45
percent less likely than third-generation Americans to commit violent crime.
Divorce rates increase with each generation.

For all the rhetoric on both sides, the evidence deserves a closer look. Latino
immigrants, like generations of immigrants before, are entering the mainstream
of life in the United States. Ours is the best country in the world at
assimilating immigrants. This should be a badge of honor, and one that we wear
proudly.

Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University and general
director of its Mercatus Center. Daniel M. Rothschild is  associate director of
the Global Prosperity Initiative at the Mercatus Center.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              315 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 12, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Arizona Race Tests a Hard Line on Immigration;
Six-Term GOP Congressman Faces a Challenge in a State Seen as Moving to the
Center

BYLINE: Peter Slevin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 1238 words

DATELINE: TEMPE, Ariz.


The Republican in the race is a firebrand by disposition and design. The
Democrat is so low-key his advisers make a point of saying he really is
energetic.

The Republican is an immigration hawk who favors cracking down on illegal
immigrants and wrote a book called "Whatever It Takes." The Democrat calls
himself an immigration realist who would combine tighter border controls with a
path toward legal status.

At 47, Republican Rep. J.D. Hayworth has nearly 12 years of experience in
Congress. At 65, Democrat Harry Mitchell has none. He does, however, have an
artful 35-foot statue in his honor here, where the municipal center and a bar
across the street are named for him.

Hayworth is running hard for reelection, describing himself to GOP campaign
workers as "not real subtle, and you know exactly where I stand." Mitchell is a
local political legend who contends that Hayworth "has a lot of explaining to
do," not least about his ties to disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff.

The race for Arizona's Republican-dominated 5th District is considered
competitive for the first time in a decade. Analysts point to troubles in the
White House and Congress, as well as Hayworth's outsize profile on immigration.
It all makes for an intriguing contest in an unpredictable state where pollsters
see a shift to the center.

It also makes the race something of a referendum on immigration policy.

"Right now, it looks as though the playing field is leveling off," said analyst
Earl de Burgh, research director for the independent Rocky Mountain Poll.
"Whether Mitchell has the panache to deliver the blow to Hayworth's jaw, I don't
know."

Amy Walter, who follows House races for the Cook Political Report, believes
Hayworth has the edge in a district that has eight registered Republicans for
every five registered Democrats. But the district's substantial slice of
independents complicates the picture, as does the image of local Republicans as
more moderate and temperate than their congressman.

Two other challenges to Arizona Republicans are being watched closely because of
the potential for a Democratic upset. One is the battle to replace retiring Rep.
Jim Kolbe (R) in southeastern Arizona's 8th District. The other is the effort by
wealthy Phoenix developer Jim Pederson (D) to topple Sen. Jon Kyl (R), a
conservative.

"This is no longer the country of Barry Goldwater. There's a thrust toward
centrism in Arizona that's very apparent," de Burgh said.

With six terms in Congress, Hayworth, a former offensive lineman, has a way of
commanding a stage. He is a large man, though not nearly as large as he used to
be. He lost 110 pounds from his peak of 345, thanks to pre-dawn workouts and a
stapled stomach.

He did time as a spring-training announcer and Phoenix sports anchor and does
dead-on impressions of politicians, notably Rep. Charles B. Rangel (D-N.Y.) and
former vice president Al Gore. He rode the 1994 Republican wave into Congress
and cultivated a reputation as a quotable conservative, recently becoming a
cable news regular.

Initially moderate on immigration, he shifted to oppose a guest-worker program
and favor the deportation of all illegal immigrants. He published "Whatever It
Takes" this year with blurbs from conservative stalwarts Rush Limbaugh and Laura
Ingraham.

Hayworth, in a chapter called "Overrun," calls President Bush "disturbingly
vague and indecisive" on immigration, a hot topic in Arizona, which is a major
transit point for illegal border crossings.

The deaths of immigrants in the desert are tragic, he writes, but they "do not,
however, demonstrate why we have to reform our immigration laws. They
demonstrate why we have to enforce our immigration laws. If our border with
Mexico were sealed, as it should be, no illegal border crossers would be dying
in the desert."

After listening to a lively early-morning speech in Phoenix to the Arizona
Chamber of Commerce, Margo Kwasnoski agreed with Hayworth's hard line.

"I come from a Mexican background, but I agree," said Kwasnoski, an insurance
company worker. "A lot of people see it as a racist issue, but I see it as
security."

The Senate-passed immigration bill, Hayworth said, is a "hodgepodge of
ill-advised measures" that would necessitate the "mother of all bureaucracies"
to monitor immigrants. "The guest workers of today," he warned, "will be the
illegals of tomorrow."

Mitchell, however, believes that many Republican moderates in the district feel
more generous toward illegal immigrants, and he backs the middle ground favored
by Bush, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano (D). He
describes their approach with words such as "sensible" and "realistic."

"I think he really believes that's going to be his ticket," Mitchell said of
Hayworth over Mexican food one recent afternoon. "I think he's out of touch with
his district on [immigration policy]. He's out of touch with the state on it."

Mitchell, a former Tempe mayor and Arizona Democratic Party chairman who beat a
two-term Republican incumbent in 1999 to win a seat in the Arizona Senate, is
admired as an approachable and effective leader in the city, which is home to
Arizona State University. The impressionistic statue shows him as a man tall
enough to see the city's future  --  a visionary.

But because Tempe forms only about one-third of the House district, he must win
converts among Republicans and independents in Scottsdale, Mesa and parts of
Phoenix and its environs. He is trying to link Hayworth to what he considers
failures of the Republican leadership, including the "fiscal irresponsibility"
of the soaring federal budget deficit and the "ineptness" of the federal
response to Hurricane Katrina.

Mitchell, who taught high school civics for nearly three decades, said he helped
approve 31 balanced budgets in Tempe and the state Senate. On Iraq, he decried
the decision to invade with what he called too few troops, insufficient
protection and no plan. Congress should have asked more questions and, after the
administration began the war, made sure the troops were protected, Mitchell
said.

"He's been there the whole time," Mitchell said of Hayworth. "I don't think
people want more of the same."

Hayworth said the race will be tough because Mitchell is getting backing from
national Democrats. But he predicted victory and dissed Mitchell by saying "he
doesn't really stand up on issues."

A potential vulnerability of Hayworth's, according to de Burgh of the Rocky
Mountain Poll, is his connection to the Abramoff scandal. Hayworth used sports
skyboxes that Abramoff billed to clients, but he failed to report their use to
the Federal Election Commission until the criminal investigation of Abramoff,
since convicted, became public.

Joe Eule, Hayworth's chief of staff, later confirmed that the congressman had
fundraisers in the skyboxes. His campaign committee repaid $12,800 to the
Choctaw and Chitimacha for use of the suites five times. Both tribes were
Abramoff clients. Hayworth, whose district once included a significant Indian
population, said large contributions from tribes made sense.

"I was co-chair of the Native American Caucus. Of course tribes would step up,
because I've stepped up for them," Hayworth said in an interview. Of Abramoff,
who contributed $2,250 to his previous campaigns, he said: "I met him socially I
think twice. He has never come to my office."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              316 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

With End of French School Year Comes Threat of Deportation

BYLINE: Molly Moore, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 1244 words

DATELINE: BOURG-LA-REINE, France


Eight-year-old Andrianina Ralison's favorite subject is math, his sport of
choice is basketball, he loves library books about nature and animals. His
second-grade teacher at La Faiencerie Elementary School in this southern Paris
suburb describes him as one of the top achievers in her class.

Andrianina, a round-faced boy from Madagascar, is also an illegal immigrant. And
under tough new immigration laws, Andrianina  --  along with hundreds of other
schoolchildren and their parents across France  --  is scheduled to be deported
to his native country the day after school ends July 4.

"Why don't they want us here?" Holiarisoa Ralison, 31, said her son asked the
day she received the deportation order.

Across much of Western Europe, countries fearful of losing their national
identities and anxious over struggling economies are seeking new ways to stem
explosive growth in immigrant populations. The debates in Europe echo many of
those heard in the U.S. Congress.

For now, the political consensus in France is to crack down, and last fall  --
as part of tougher new policies  --  authorities began pulling immigrant
children out of school to be deported with their families. But many teachers,
classmates and parents rebelled. Teachers at a school in central France hid
students from police, even at the risk of being fined thousands of dollars for
helping illegal immigrants.

Other schools went on strike to protest the sudden evictions. Students and
teachers staged street demonstrations. Local town halls run by Socialist
officials who oppose the government's increasingly hard-line approach supported
many of the families in their legal appeals to remain in the country.

Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, architect of the new assault on illegal
immigration, relented and declared a temporary amnesty for families with
children in school and agreed not to deport them until the end of the current
school year.

Now, with the last days of the school year approaching, teachers and other
activists are renewing their campaigns to protect students.

"Kids, teachers and parents are angry with the situation," said Richard Moyon,
founder of the Education Without Borders Network, an association of teachers
that organizes protests as part of its efforts to assist youngsters threatened
with deportation. "One of the roles of a teacher is to teach kids the ideals of
the republic  --  freedom and equality. How can teachers explain what freedom
and equality are when you've got in front of your eyes this kind of example of
children seeing their friends deported?"

Following pressure from Moyon's group and sympathetic politicians, the French
Interior Ministry on Wednesday issued new guidelines to the local governing
authorities that decide whether to grant residency papers to illegal immigrants.
Families may be given more favorable consideration if their children have spent
at least a year in French schools, were born in France or arrived at a young age
and speak French fluently.

The guidelines are advisory only; local authorities are not required to use
them.

The French government estimates that illegal immigrants number between 200,000
and 400,000. Officials suggest that at least 50,000 of those are children;
advocacy groups say the number of children could total 100,000.

In the past two years, French authorities have stepped up raids on city streets
and at subway stations in immigrant neighborhoods, pressured employers to stop
hiring illegal workers and rejected larger numbers of applications from illegal
immigrants seeking visas.

Deportations have increased by nearly 70 percent, from 11,692 in 2003 to 19,489
last year, according to the Interior Ministry.

Even with the new guidelines issued Wednesday, the fate of the Ralison family
remains uncertain.

Holiarisoa Ralison, a woman with a soft voice, cappuccino skin and long, ebony
hair, was nabbed April 18 in a police raid at a train station that is a
15-minute walk from the pastel pink apartment building where she lives.

After two hours in the local jail, she was handed a letter and released. "It
said I had to be taken to the border," said the mother of two. "I started to
cry. I felt like I'd been stabbed, that this was the end for my family if we had
to go back to this poor country."

She appealed the decision and appeared before a judge a few days later. "The
judge asked if I had anything to say for myself," she recounted. "I said, 'We
became outlaws to have better futures for our kids  --  not to hurt anybody.' "

She lost the appeal.

In contrast to the United States, where many illegal immigrants slip through
porous southwestern borders, or Spain, where thousands of desperate African
immigrants have arrived on leaky boats in recent months, most immigrants arrive
in France on tourist visas. Like the Ralisons, many were born in former French
colonies in the Middle East and Africa where cultural and linguistic ties with
France remain. While the United States vigorously screens tourist visas from
applicants in developing nations, France historically has been lenient in
granting them to citizens of impoverished former colonies.

Nirina Ralison, now 35, arrived at Charles de Gaulle International Airport in
Paris from Madagascar in the spring of 2002 with a visa for a three-month
internship at a French pharmaceutical laboratory, sponsored by his employer in
Madagascar. He never started the internship. Instead, he found a job as a
deliveryman and lived in a cramped apartment with six other men.

A year later, he'd saved enough to money to fly his wife, Holiarisoa, to France.
She left their 5-year-old son and 2-year-old daughter with her stepmother in
Madagascar. A year and a half later, in December 2004, the couple brought their
children to France on tourist visas.

They enrolled their son, Andrianina, and later their daughter, Raitrosoa, in
local French schools. The French government does not require schoolchildren to
have legal residency papers. Holiarisoa found jobs baby-sitting and cleaning
houses.

Both parents  --  who spoke French before their arrival in France  --  took
precautions common among illegal immigrants. They always paid for subway and
train tickets, never trying to sneak through gates, even when money was short.
Nirina worked for multiple employers, in part so he wouldn't be spotted by
authorities in the same places or driving the same routes.

"Even without papers, life here is 10 times better than in Madagascar," said
Holiarisoa, sitting in the living room of the family's small apartment, where
mother, father and two children share the same bedroom  --  adults on a lower
bunk bed, children in the upper.

In Madagascar, Holiarisoa was an office administrator for a construction
company, making about $66 a month. Her husband made about $75 a month working in
a pharmaceutical lab. In France, she said, she earns about $875 a month
baby-sitting and cleaning houses while her husband brings home about $1,125 a
month from his multiple jobs.

But the greatest motivation, she said, was for the children. At home, most
youngsters dropped out of school by the time they were 10 or 11 years old, she
said.

Now the family lives in daily fear of deportation. "Every time we hear a car
stop, we think it's the police coming to get us," she said. "We don't sleep at
night. If my husband is late from work, I start panicking."

Researcher Corinne Gavard contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              317 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 16, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

REGIONAL BRIEFING

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 505 words


FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

The U.S. government announced a 12-month extension yesterday of a special
temporary permit that allows hundreds of thousands of Salvadoran immigrants to
live and work in the United States.

The benefit, called temporary protected status, was granted to Salvadorans in
March 2001 after two earthquakes devastated El Salvador. It has been extended
before.

Federal immigration officials estimate that about 225,000 Salvadorans have
temporary protected status and are eligible for an extension, which will expire
Sept. 9, 2007. Those who want an extension must register with the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services between July 3 and Sept. 1.

More information is available from the immigration services hotline at
800-375-5283.

--  Karin Brulliard

ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY

More than 34 years after his plane was shot down in Vietnam, Calvin C. Cooke
will be buried Tuesday after services at Arlington National Cemetery.

The Defense Department announced last month that it had identified the remains
of Cooke, who died in April 1972 after a C-130 cargo plane was hit by ground
fire and crashed in South Vietnam. Cooke, 26, nicknamed Grady, was a staff
sergeant and a loadmaster on the C-130.

The oldest of eight children, Cooke was raised in the District. He was married
and had three young daughters. They will be among those at the service at 10:45
a.m.

Cooke will be buried with full military honors, relatives said.

--  Bill Miller

COLLEGE CAMPUSES

The American Medical Association voted Tuesday to push for more mental health
care for college students, including advocating for substance abuse programs,
with studies showing that depression and other psychological problems are
growing on campuses.

Last year, 63 percent of college students said they felt hopeless, and nearly
half said they were so depressed they could barely function, according to the
AMA. The AMA reported that young adults consume an average of 3.7 drinks a day
and that those who get drunk or high are more at risk of suicide, but many are
uninsured or underinsured.

The AMA voted to encourage universities to get rid of rules that discriminate
against students who ask for treatment for mental health issues.

Many schools are evaluating how they handle suicidal or troubled students in the
wake of high-profile lawsuits at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and
George Washington University. At MIT, the parents of a student who committed
suicide sued the university. At GW, a student who said he was barred from campus
after going to the hospital to get help for depression filed a lawsuit.
Attorneys for GW have defended the decisions that were made.

The AMA also recommended finding ways to ensure mandatory insurance coverage for
full-time students, encouraging campuses to improve screening and help for
alcohol abuse, and continuing to advocate to repeal laws that let insurance
companies deny payment for injuries caused while under the influence of alcohol
or drugs.

--  Susan Kinzie

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              318 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 22, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

DISTRICT BRIEFING

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 280 words


BURGLARY SENTENCE

A parking valet accused of copying a customer's house key and using it to break
into her apartment and hide under her bed was sentenced to 38 months in prison
yesterday.

Carlo Castellanos-Feria, 32, pleaded guilty in March to one count of
second-degree burglary for breaking into the victim's house over Thanksgiving
weekend 2005. He also pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of stalking.

Castellanos-Feria worked at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, police said,
and often parked the car of a 35-year-old nurse from the Mount Pleasant area.
The nurse, whose name was not released, told authorities that he had been
stalking her for months.

She and her boyfriend found him under her bed holding a bag containing condoms,
a power cord and gloves. Police said a video camera aimed toward the bed was set
up in the room.

--  Eric M. Weiss

IMMIGRATION RAID

Agents from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrested eight illegal
immigrants yesterday and seized materials used in connection with a fraudulent
document ring in the Adams Morgan neighborhood of Northwest Washington,
authorities said.

After a search in the 3600 block of 16th Street NW, agents seized more than 100
fraudulent identity documents, including fake "green cards" and bogus Social
Security cards, customs officials said in a statement. The operation was a joint
effort by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the U.S. attorney's office for
the District of Columbia and the U.S. Secret Service.

Carlos V. Medina, 33, was arrested and taken into custody yesterday after the
execution of warrants. The seven other people, all Mexican citizens, are in
administrative custody.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              319 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 23, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Unions Compete to Represent Homeland Security Employees

BYLINE: Stephen Barr

SECTION: Financial; D04 , FEDERAL DIARY Stephen Barr

LENGTH: 775 words


The union election is one of the largest ever conducted inside the government.
The winner gets a larger voice on high-profile issues, such as terrorism and
immigration, and could pick up thousands of new dues-paying members.

Two of the biggest federal unions, which often act as allies, have been
campaigning against each other for months for the right to negotiate on behalf
of employees at Customs and Border Protection, a front-line bureau in the
Department of Homeland Security.

About 25,000 ballots were mailed or delivered to CBP employees last month, and
yesterday was the deadline for casting votes. The Federal Labor Relation
Authority, an independent agency that is overseeing the election, will start
counting ballots today and continue counting next week. Jill M. Crumpacker, the
FLRA executive director, said officials hope the vote count can be completed by
Wednesday night.

The election is a byproduct of the merger three years ago that consolidated 22
federal agencies into Homeland Security. Many of those agencies had union
representation, including the major elements that became CPB  --  the U.S.
Customs Services, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and a part of the
Agricultural Plant Health and Inspection Service.

In 2004, the department filed a petition at the FLRA that set up the election
--  a showdown between the American Federation of Government Employees, which
represented immigration employees, and the National Treasury Employees Union,
which represented customs employees.

John Gage, president of the AFGE, called the election "a heavyweight fight" and
said there is no way to predict which union will win. Colleen M. Kelley,
president of the NTEU, said voter turnout could be pivotal in deciding the
winner.

The CBP's petition calling for the election contended that the Homeland Security
merger had raised a series of union jurisdiction issues. Officials at the FLRA
essentially agreed, noting that the merger had recast many of the "legacy"
employees into a new occupational grouping  --  CBP officers  --  and placed
them in a single chain of command at the ports of entry. The officers also had
been consolidated under a single pay system for purposes of determining overtime
and other pay supplements, the FLRA found.

A third union folded into the CBP, the National Association of Agriculture
Employees, filed a motion in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit
seeking to delay the election. But the court declined to act, and the underlying
issue of whether agricultural specialists need their own bargaining unit will be
heard by the court after the election, the FLRA said.

After ballots are counted, the FLRA regional director for Washington will issue
a tally. Objections to the election must be filed within five working days from
the date of the tally, Crumpacker said.

As part of the count, the FLRA may have to decide how many "challenged ballots"
will be considered valid. Those ballots went to about 4,800 CBP employees who
may be ineligible because they are supervisors or because of other questions
about their job status on Feb. 3, a payroll date used to draw up a list of
qualified voters.

The AFGE and the NTEU have run spirited campaigns for much of the last year,
with Gage and Kelley traveling around the country to reach out to CBP employees.
The unions are running on their records and highlighting efforts on behalf of
employees in such areas as overtime, grade levels and workplace rules.

Gage said he emphasized to CBP employees that the AFGE represents employees in
other parts of Homeland Security, such as Border Patrol, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. "We think it is better
when there is one voice for employees," he said.

The AFGE operates through councils, which operate independently of the union
headquarters and pay attention to local issues, creating "a robust democracy,"
Gage said.

Kelley said the NTEU has worked hard to establish relationships and to
communicate with CBP employees. NTEU local chapters understand the workplace
concerns of employees, she said.

"Our record, visibility and effectiveness is what employees see and that is what
they want," Kelley said.

J. Ward Morrow, assistant general counsel at the American Federation for
Government Employees, will be the guest on "FEDtalk" at 11 a.m. today on
Federalnewsradio.com and WFED radio (1050 AM).

Judy Davis, head of procurement at the Environmental Protection Agency, will be
the guest on "The IBM Business of Government Hour" at 9 a.m. Saturday on WJFK
radio (106.7 FM).

Stephen Barr's e-mail address is barrs@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              320 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

ID Backers Bemoan Decades-Old Defeat;
Card Called Immigrant Solution

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 997 words


About 20 years ago, Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) and Rep. Peter W. Rodino Jr.
(D-N.J.) were 30 minutes away from passing a landmark immigration bill that
would grant amnesty to more than 3 million illegal immigrants. The measure also
carried one of the most controversial proposals in American politics: a national
identification system.

But moments before the deciding vote, Rep. Edward R. Roybal (D-Calif.) took the
House floor and delivered a scathing speech that still rings in Simpson's ears.

"We may face the danger of ending up like Nazi Germany," said Roybal, a Mexican
American. "I do not say that we are going to go back to the Nazi regime, but . .
. it will be the beginning of the violation of rights, and we . . . in this
nation may be known by numbers."

The speech hit home, and the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act passed
without language allowing the president to one day consider instituting a
national ID system. In the years since, the number of illegal immigrants has
soared to an estimated 12 million.

In the search for factors that led to the law's failure, some, like Simpson,
point to the elimination of the national identity provision because it would
have allowed employers to quickly identify the legal status of a job applicant.
It was a mistake, Simpson believes, that is about to be repeated since neither
the current House nor Senate bills consider an identity card requirement.

But, across the ideological divide, immigration opponents and supporters in the
current emotional debate over illegal immigration  --  Republicans, Libertarians
and Democrats who disagree on a broad range of issues  --  repudiate a national
identification system.

"There's just no support for it," said Jeff Lungren, spokesman for the House
Judiciary Committee, chaired by Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), who
sponsored the House immigration bill that sparked hundreds of  protests this
spring. Sensenbrenner wrote his disdain for the idea into his bill. Nothing in
the legislation "shall be construed to authorize . . . the establishment of a
national identification card," the bill says.

Sensenbrenner favors the expansion of a worker verification system that
employers would check through the Internet. In its companion bill, the Senate
opted for a similar tactic rather than  a national ID system.

The National Federation of Independent Business, a small-business association,
supports the verification program, while the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and  some
businesses oppose it, saying it is an expansion of an existing program that has
been plagued by errors that slow the verification process.

The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, the former president of the University of Notre
Dame, said the immigration issue should not have been allowed to come to this.
As chairman of the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy between
1978 and 1982, he strongly supported a national ID program. He said civil
liberties groups and immigration lawyers joined businesses to fight   national
ID, and, after that, worker verification.

"There were all kinds of phony excuses,"  Hesburgh said. "They have a card in
Europe. If every European has one, it's not a problem. It's so simple, I feel
like shouting it."

While most European countries have national identity cards, some, such as
Britain, Denmark, Norway and Ireland, do not make carrying them compulsory.

In addition to Roybal's linking the program to Nazism, Hesburgh recalled that
others compared it to George Orwell's vision of 1984, with a Big Brother
government watching its residents.

Washington-based policy groups put forward more concrete objections.

Writing for the Heritage Foundation in 1990, Scott A. Hodge said legal
immigrants would be penalized when wrong information was written into the
national ID database, which he said was inevitable. In a recent interview,
Hodge, president of the nonpartisan Tax Foundation, said those are still his
views.

On its Web site, the American Civil Liberties Union lists several reasons to
reject a card, saying that such a program would cost $4 billion to operate, that
terrorists or illegal immigrants would find a way to get one and that a database
of all Americans could be misused by a government determined to spy on its
citizens.

Hesburgh said that some groups were unwilling to give any program a chance,
including some ideas being proposed and widely supported today.

The Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund  and the League of
United Latin American Citizens  opposed almost every aspect of change in the
1980s: a temporary worker program, a worker verification program and beefed-up
border patrols that would included sensors and helicopters.

Hesburgh said authorities should look past opposition to a national ID in the
way that they looked past the Mexican and Latin American groups'  opposition
back then. He believes the program would be effective.

"Someone comes across the border, he . . . needs a job, a job that gives him
decent pay,"  Hesburgh said. "He goes to one of these guys at harvest time,
shows the card, it's phony. He goes to 19 other places, the card isn't valid.
The guy says, 'If I let you work, I'd get hit with 10,000 bucks.' "

Simpson, since retired from the Senate,  knew exactly what he wanted: "Something
you would swipe or a revised Social Security card," he said recently. "It would
be in the possession of everybody, including bald white guys like me. It got
completely distorted."

He was angry at Roybal and House Democrats who killed the idea.

"They cut it out in the middle of the night, with 30 minutes to go before it
passed, without any kind of appropriate identifier," Simpson said. And he said
he understands why House Republicans and other Americans are angry now.

"We told them this would be the last amnesty," Simpson said. "That there would
be penalties against employers. It was like, Merry Christmas! But without
identification, sanctions are toothless."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              321 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A Tale of Two Conquests;
An epic history compares the British and Spanish colonies in the New World.

BYLINE: Reviewed by Ilan Stavans

SECTION: Book World; T08

LENGTH: 1216 words


EMPIRES OF THE ATLANTIC WORLD

Britain and Spain in America 1492-1830

By J.H. Elliott

Yale Univ. 546 pp. $35

Our current debate about immigration isn't only about clamping down on the U.S.-
Mexican border. It's also about what it means to be an American after 9/11 and
about how the nation is revamping the concept of citizenship. And it's an
opportunity to reassess, yet again, the relationship between the United States
and its neighbors to the south, a chance to reflect on the role of Hispanic
culture in the English-speaking world. For those eager to understand the
historical context behind these issues, I know of no more comprehensive,
readable source than J.H. Elliott's Empires of the Atlantic World. While its
focus might appear remote and its contemporary implications tenuous, the patient
reader will be rewarded with a feast of insights.

Elliott taught for years at Oxford, where the bulk of his career was devoted to
the study of imperial Spain and its quest for gold and power in the Americas.
But nothing he has done so far has the scope of this book. His premise is
clear-cut: What we need isn't a hemispheric but a fully continental account of
the so-called New World. How was it that the Mayflower immigrants established
the foundations of a prosperous, representative federal system, while the
Iberian conquistadors failed to foster an atmosphere where democracy could
flourish? How did the Protestant and Catholic churches approach the aboriginal
population? What separated the paths of two liberators, George Washington and
Simón Bolívar? If 1492 is to be seen as a benchmark  --  the moment at which the
Americas were abruptly introduced into the modern age  --  why is it that, more
than five centuries later, the division endures between the haves and have-nots,
between industrialized and underdeveloped nations?

Much of the difference was clear from the start. The British colonies were built
as a New Canaan by settlers who believed in a fresh beginning; their drive,
ultimately, was to create a new nation that would supersede the mother country.
On the other hand, the Spanish effort in the Americas was seen as a mere feeder
for the crown; the sense of loyalty and dependency permeated every aspect of
colonial life.

Elliott structures his material in three stages: occupation, consolidation and
emancipation. He starts with the assumption that "emigrants to the New World
brought with them too much cultural baggage for it to be lightly discarded in
their new American environment." He's inspired here by a dictum from the
philosopher David Hume: "The same set of manners will follow a nation, and
adhere to them over the whole globe, as well as the same laws and languages. The
Spanish, English, French, and Dutch colonies, are all distinguishable even
between the tropics." Nationhood, in other words, is destiny.

Elliott proceeds to compare the motives and methods of the two civilizations  --
a fairly ambitious endeavor, which he tackles by comparing historical periods,
luminaries and motifs. For instance, he equates early on the conqueror Hernán
Cortés and the explorer Christopher Newport, the architects who "laid the
foundation of the empires of Spain and Britain on the mainland of America." The
former, coming from feudal Spain with some 200 soldiers, used gifts to court the
Aztec ruler Montezuma, eventually taking him into custody in 1519; the latter,
perhaps aware in 1606 of what Cortés had accomplished, took another route,
becoming the captain of a ship bearing British settlers who would found
Jamestown. The difference is crucial: Cortés wanted glory, while Newport was, in
Elliott's words, a "planter"  --  that is, a plantation settler, which at the
time of the Tudors and the Stuarts meant a colonist.

That difference between settlers and conquerors was slowly pushed to its
extremes. The Thirteen Colonies envisioned themselves as a response to the
intolerance in the British motherland and thus as an improvement on European
ways; the Spanish colonies, on the other hand, were a bounty for the Iberians to
plunder.

So much information might overwhelm a less talented storyteller. But Elliott
compartmentalizes his themes: social hierarchies, economic structures, politics,
culture and the overall connection of the settler societies to their European
parents. The storyline gathers momentum as each of these colonies recognizes its
individuality and the fight for autonomy and legitimacy begins. The chapters
contrasting the efforts of emancipation are stellar. Much as the United States
was defined by a set of values and aspirations that, during the Civil War,
threatened the fabric of the republic, so in Latin America democracy was held
hostage by oligarchies embracing the feudal form of power that existed in Spain
in the 15th century.

Obviously, in a project of this magnitude, important elements are likely to be
left out: References to the Portuguese settlements in Brazil, by Elliott's own
admission, are almost totally absent, as is the trans-Atlantic slave trade. He
argues that his topic is exclusively "the development of the settler societies
and their relationship with the mother countries." But don't omissions of such
magnitude distort the overall picture?

Likewise, nothing in Empires of the Atlantic World is strictly novel; scores of
scholars have navigated the same channels. (Elliott is prompt to credit his
forerunners; indeed, the notes and bibliography sections in his book run to more
than 100 pages.) His originality, if it might be called that, lies in his
comparative approach. For Elliott, comparative history is not made of parallel
narratives but of a single, majestic outline with multiple subplots, such as the
divergence in agricultural, economic and educational styles between the British
and Spanish in the New World, the uses of the Enlightenment, and the role and
treatment of Jews.

Unfortunately, these pages have a triumphalist tone that's worrisome. Elliott
talks of the "enormous problems" and "massive mistakes" of the Spanish crown and
its adventures in the New World, adding that "given the scale and complexity of
the challenge that faced them, it is surprising that the Spaniards realized as
much of their imperial dream as they did." On the other hand, he depicts the
English colonists as having had "more freedom of manoeuvre to make reality
conform to the constructs of their imagination." I don't think Elliott is aware
of this lapse; after all, he seems to perceive himself as a strict practitioner
of cool, scientific history. Still, the reader cannot avoid hearing doom in his
voice: Ah, the Spanish colonies were driven to disaster from the start, were
they not? Ironically, this feeling gives urgency to his narrative. And as the
United States ponders the impact of its more than 42 million Latino citizens, a
sudden reexamination is taking place in the New World  --  which, of course, has
lost all its newness. Today, the descendants of Cortés and Newport are
commingling in one habitat and, in the process, becoming a single entity. *

Ilan Stavans is Lewis-Sebring Professor in Latin American and Latino Culture at
Amherst College. He is the author of, among other books, "The Hispanic
Condition" and "Spanglish" and the editor of "Encyclopedia Latina."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              322 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 28, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico's Missing Prosperity

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: Editorial; A25

LENGTH: 977 words


The subtext for the United States' immigration debate is Mexico. Why doesn't its
economy grow faster, creating more jobs and higher living standards? That's the
question that inevitably confronts the winner of this Sunday's Mexican
presidential election, but it is also a critical question for Americans. A more
prosperous country would not be sending so many of its poorest citizens north.
Since 1990 about 20  to 25 percent of U.S. immigrants have come from Mexico.

Here is an illuminating comparison. In 1970 average incomes in South Korea were
about half those  in Mexico. By 2004 Korean incomes were more than twice
Mexico's. During those decades, reports the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD), average Mexican incomes rose 57 percent, to
$9,178 (expressed in constant "2000 dollars"); the comparable Korean gain was
574 percent, to $19,148.

It's not that Mexico has made no progress. Its economy was once crisis-prone,
inflation-ridden and heavily insulated from foreign trade. Now it has quelled
inflation (about 4 percent, down from 17 percent in the late 1990s), controlled
government spending and opened up to trade. Before adoption of the North
American Free Trade Agreement in 1994, tariffs on covered imports averaged 12
percent (and were much higher in the 1980s); by 2001 they were 2 percent. The
last financial crisis  --  a collapsing currency, an outflow of money  --
occurred in 1994 and 1995. In recent years its economy has grown almost 4
percent annually.

But that growth  --  fine for an advanced country such as the United States  --
doesn't suffice for a poor country whose population is increasing (as is
Mexico's) by more than 1 percent a year. In China, economic growth averages  9
to 10 percent annually; in India, about 6  to 8 percent. Mexico isn't in the
same league.

Economies advance through the adoption of better technologies and business
methods. Production and efficiency improve. Prices go down or incomes go up.
Either way, people can buy more  --  more old stuff (say, food or housing); or
more new stuff (say, Internet connections or iPods). In Mexico, this process is
weak. To simplify slightly: Its economy consists of two vast sectors, each slow
to adopt better technology and business practices.

One sector involves large, modern firms in semi-protected markets that limit the
pressure to improve efficiency or lower prices. "Mexico's business sector is
risk-averse. It's never had to operate in a true competitive environment," says
Pamela Starr, an analyst for the Eurasia Group, a consulting firm. "It's
operated with monopolies and oligopolies  encouraged by the government."

An extreme case in point is Pemex, the state-owned monopoly oil company. Without
competitors or complaining shareholders, its operations are lax. In 2004 Pemex
had $69 billion in sales and 137,722 employees, according to its Web site; in
the same year, Exxon Mobil had $291 billion in  revenue and 85,900 employees.
Telmex, which dominates the phone market, is often cited as another example. In
2004 Mexico had the sixth-highest phone charges for an average customer of 29
OECD member countries.

The other part of the economy is usually called the "informal sector." It
consists of thousands of small firms  --  street vendors, stores, repair shops,
tiny manufacturers  --  that theoretically aren't legal, because they haven't
registered with the government and often don't pay taxes or comply with
regulations on wages and hiring and firing. Almost two-thirds of Mexico's
workers may be employed in the informal sector, according to one rough estimate
by the International Monetary Fund.

The sector's size might suggest great entrepreneurial vitality. The trouble is
that these firms are virtually compelled to remain small and inefficient.
Because they're technically illegal, they can't easily get bank loans and can't
grow too large without being forced to pay taxes or comply with government
regulations. In Mexico, companies with fewer than 10 workers account for almost
two-fifths of all employment. In the United States, such firms represent
one-ninth of total jobs.

All this frustrates rapid economic growth  --  though the obstacles have
diminished as Mexico has opened to foreign trade and investment. The harder
question is what created this system. Lawrence Harrison, an economic development
expert at Tufts University, blames culture. Latin American values, he says, have
resisted change and encouraged "rent-seeking" by business elites  --  vying for
government favors that provide protected markets. Asian societies, he argues,
have been more accepting of change and have achieved the higher savings rates
conducive to faster economic growth.

Economist William Easterly of New York University is skeptical of the cultural
explanation and argues that de-emphasizing trade protectionism and government
intervention requires time. "Advocates of free trade and free markets
overpromise what can be accomplished in a short time," he says. Attitudes and
institutions change slowly. "The payoff is in the long term," he argues.

On paper, the leading candidates for president advocate different economic
policies. Former Mexico City mayor Andrés Manuel López Obrador of the
center-left Democratic Revolution Party urges more government activism. Felipe
Calderón of the center-right National Action Party  --  the party of the
incumbent, Vicente Fox  --  favors "the market." But each might have trouble
enacting his agenda without a legislative majority, with the once-dominant
Institutional Revolutionary Party  controlling swing votes. At best, economic
growth might improve slightly; at worst it might decrease.

For Americans, the implications are sobering. Mexico has long regarded
immigration as an economic safety valve. Whoever wins, that won't change.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              323 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Silver Spring Hospital Struggles to Serve;
Immigrants Swell Uninsured Ranks At Holy Cross

BYLINE: Susan Levine, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1544 words


Some weeks it seems as if the whole world, with its many troubles, has walked
through the doors of Holy Cross Hospital.

Daily, the second-floor women's clinic fills to overflowing with patients from
countries in Central America, Africa and Asia. Some have never had care during
previous pregnancies  --  and never had a child born alive. "We ask, 'Do you
know why?' " says director Nancy Nagel. "And they say, 'I just lost the baby.' "

Elsewhere, from the emergency room to the primary medicine clinic, doctors and
nurses confront conditions and diseases they did not see a decade ago  --
malaria, infectious diarrhea, parasites such as tapeworm. Even many common
ailments can be more challenging, because they often require translation from a
panoply of foreign tongues and cultures.

Serving the underserved is integral to Holy Cross's mission, and the Silver
Spring hospital has long shouldered much of the care for poor, uninsured
residents of Montgomery County. But as that population has expanded rapidly with
the continued arrival of immigrants, legal and illegal, it has become a much
more difficult and expensive proposition.

And now a generous mission is reaching its limit. After yet another sharp
increase in the prenatal program it runs for the county, Holy Cross has drawn a
line. Starting today, for the first time since it opened in 1963, Maryland's
biggest community hospital will restrict how many uninsured obstetrics patients
it will accept.

"It has taxed the system enormously," said physician Imad Mufarrij, a native of
Lebanon who can converse with patients in five languages.

Barely half an hour from the congressional chambers where the nation's
immigration policies have been rancorously debated, there is little dissent over
what is right to do. It is why Holy Cross opened its primary health clinic two
years ago, agreeing to cover what in 2005 was a $460,000 operating deficit. And
why it spends almost half a million dollars annually on interpretation services
and ethnic-specific programs for patients and Spanish classes for employees.

From 2000 to 2005, the cost of the institution's yearly charity care more than
doubled to $9 million; the care is significantly but not entirely for
immigrants. A third of the total now goes to the low-income women, a veritable
United Nations, who are seen through Holy Cross's Maternity Partnership with the
county.

President and chief executive Kevin Sexton has no qualms: "As much as I am
interested in public policy and public issues, I basically suspend that at the
door of a health care facility and believe that everyone needs care."

The pressures on Holy Cross mirror those at other facilities in the region,
though they fall far short of the intense demands that providers face in towns
and cities along the U.S.-Mexican border. Washington Hospital Center regularly
translates documents and physician-patient communication into nearly a dozen
languages, including Turkish and Tagolog. Inova Health Systems estimates that it
spends at least $10 million on such services, outreach programs and charity care
for uninsured immigrants in Northern Virginia. In Fairfax County, more than one
in seven births are to immigrants, according to one estimate.

Critics cite the burden they say newly arrived immigrants place on health care
as one rationale for restricting their numbers. Last year, the federal
government set aside $1 billion to cover emergency room care for illegal
immigrants through 2009. The full medical bill to U.S. hospitals, clinics and
taxpayers probably exceeds $6 billion annually, calculates Steven Camarota of
the Center for Immigration Studies, a research group that seeks "fewer
immigrants but a warmer welcome for those admitted."

Still, Camarota thinks proposals to deny access to treatment misdirect the
debate. "Either you select immigrants who are self-sufficient and don't need
help from the government, or you shut up about the cost," he said. "There's no
middle ground."

The head of Holy Cross's primary care clinic agrees with the latter point. At
her clinic, the uninsured patients are not asked how long they have been in the
United States or whether they came lawfully.

"The fact is," director Elise Riley said, "people are here. They're going to end
up on our doorstep one way or another."

A morning spent in the busy maternity clinic is an experience in
multiculturalism and multilingualism  --  and their possible complications. Many
mornings, 60 or more women are seen. The phone at the front desk rings nonstop
for inquiries and appointments.

"Sir, I cannot understand you," Melina Martinez tells an Asian caller with
limited English. "Did your wife have a C-section? If her C-section looks okay,
she doesn't have to come back for two weeks."

There is a pause while Martinez tries to grasp the man's response. "Does she
have staples in? Staples, like you use for paper." At this point, the health
unit coordinator is earnestly making stapling motions in the air. "You have to
check, sir. Check her incision. Check her belly."

At the front desk, a patient from Cameroon schedules her next gynecology visit.
A Salvadoran woman waits. She needs to monitor her blood-sugar levels for
gestational diabetes but seems confused on the instructions she has been given.

"Escribo?" a nurse asks, offering to write them down in Spanish.

Some patients have had so little education in their homelands that the staff may
teach them reading along with prenatal nutrition, occasionally receiving
handmade tortillas or tamales as thank-you gifts. In fact, illiteracy was a
factor taken into consideration when Holy Cross redesigned the clinic as part of
a facility-wide expansion and renovation. Women now have their blood drawn as
they come in, rather than being sent to a lab elsewhere in the hospital. Before,
bilingual signs directed them down corridors, but many Central American
immigrants had gotten lost because they could read neither English nor Spanish.

The clinic's success with its patients is measurable. Despite their
socioeconomics, Holy Cross's percentage of low-birth-weight infants is half the
state average, contributing to healthier starts in life.

Early in the venture with the county, Holy Cross officials committed to caring
annually for 1,200 uninsured obstetrical patients sent by the county health
department. Within two years, that cap was reached and exceeded. By fiscal 2005,
admissions were 1,802.

Then last fall, Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) barred several thousand legal
immigrants from receiving state Medicaid, and the clinic's numbers surged again
--  to 2,131 women by this spring. Projections only indicated further increases.

Too much, hospital officials decided. They set a future limit of 1,500. The
partnership had never been intended to include only one hospital, they reminded
the county, yet theirs was the sole institution that had stepped up. As a
consequence, Holy Cross's share of deliveries to low-income women had soared, to
65 percent of the county Medicaid total, from less than half five years earlier.

"Holy Cross has been bearing the brunt of that," agreed Montgomery Health
Officer Ulder Tillman. "They've really become overwhelmed."

The stress is felt on the hospital floors where handsome art decorates the
hallways and newborns spend their first day or so. Despite the recently
completed expansion, the most significant in the facility's history, the 21 new
labor and delivery rooms and 68 private maternity suites are always occupied  --
and intermittently overbooked, given the nearly 8,900 births a year, 24 a day.

No distinction is made when mothers are placed in those quiet, spacious suites.
A young illegal immigrant, barely able to write her name, may be next door to a
high-powered business executive. Neither would necessarily ever know.

"It is harder in every way, including financially, to choose this course, but
it's the right way," stressed Sexton, the chief executive.

Even with the looming deadline, only late this spring did two other hospitals
with major obstetrics services agree to join the partnership. Washington
Adventist and Shady Grove Adventist will start accepting up to 700 uninsured
women between them for care this summer.

How quickly they and Montgomery's other hospitals will act on a different pledge
is uncertain. As a group, they agreed more than a year ago to open three
additional primary care clinics to assist the Holy Cross primary clinic, which
expects to double patient visits to 10,000 by 2010. "In terms of following
through," Tillman conceded, "it is painfully slow." Little has moved forward to
date.

"We need more people in the trenches," obstetrician Mufarrij said simply during
a rare break in delivering babies one afternoon. He was a prime proponent of the
maternity collaboration with the county and remains so despite the fiscal and
physical demands it has meant for facility and staff alike. The previous night,
his colleagues had done seven Caesarean sections in the midst of other arrivals.
Mufarrij's own record is 14 deliveries in a 24-hour shift.

But as a doctor, he sees no other way. "Once these patients are here, you have
only two options," he said. "Neglect them or give them quality care."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              324 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 2, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Volunteers

SECTION: Loudoun Extra; T06

LENGTH: 927 words


American Red Cross: Register blood donors and give them refreshments. Must be
age 14 or older and commit to at least 30 hours of service. Training provided.
800-272-0094, Ext. 1, or karlofft@usa.redcross.org.

Crisislink: Help with staffing local and national suicide and crisis hotline.
Must be at least 18, willing to complete 45-hour training and volunteer three
hours a week. 703-527-6016 or www.crisislink.org.

Dodona Manor: Docents needed. 703-777-1301 or bmetz@georgecmarshall.org.

Dulles International Airport: Greet and help travelers at information desk. One
shift of three to four hours per week. Experience in airline operations,
customer service and foreign languages helpful but not necessary. 703-572-7350
or volunteer@mwaa.com.

ESL and Immigrant Ministries: Teach English as a second language to adult
immigrants at 16 locations in Northern Virginia. Training in August; day and
evening classes begin in September. 703-271-8341, Ext. 3, and leave a message or
www.eslim.org.

Girl Scouts of America: Serve as a mentor a few hours each month. 202-237-1670
or 800-523-7898.

Leesburg Senior Activity Center: Play the piano for seniors during lunch,
noon-12:30 p.m. weekdays. 703-737-8039 or 703-737-8040.

Loudoun Arts Council: Support the 2006 Designer Showcase Sept. 27-Oct. 15.
Positions include docents, ticket and furniture sales assistants and directional
and parking attendants. 703-777-7838, info@loudounarts.org or
www.loudounarts.org.

Loudoun Community Free Clinic: Nurse practitioners, nurses, chiropractors,
physical therapists, educators, Spanish interpreters, administrators,
dieticians, grant writers and Web site content manager needed at the clinic,
which offers health care to the uninsured. Flexible shifts. 703-779-5412 or
www.loudounfreeclinic.org.

Loudoun County: Volunteer for the following county and regional advisory boards,
commissions and committees. 703-771-5034, fgiles@loudoun.gov or
www.loudoun.gov/advisory.

*  Animal Advisory Committee: Broad Run District.

*  Commission on Aging: Sterling District.

*  Community Action Agency Advisory Board: three at-large low-income
representatives.

*  Commuter Bus Advisory Board: Potomac District.

*  Disability Services Board: at-large business representatives or
representatives who have disabilities or have family members who have
disabilities.

*  Equal Employment Opportunity Plan Committee: at-large representatives.

*  Library Board of Trustees: Blue Ridge, Broad Run and Potomac districts.

*  Loudoun Health Council: representatives of the medical community, including
physicians, health-care professionals and health-related nonprofit groups, and
representatives of the faith community, businesses and the public.

*  Open Space Advisory Committee: Sterling District.

*  Transportation Safety Commission: at-large representative.

*  Woods Road Special Exception Oversight Committee: at-large representatives.

Loudoun Heritage Farm Museum: 703-421-5322 or tmaggio@loudoun.gov.

*  Education intern: Teach and assist with developing educational programs.

*  Exhibitions intern: Work on fall horse exhibit. Small stipend available.

*  Outreach specialist: Travel to regional fairs and festivals to help promote
the museum. Weekend work required.

*  Visitor service representative: Greet and orient customers, answer phones and
maintain gift shop.

*  Special events: Adults, teens and groups needed to assist with
museum-sponsored events.

*  Tour guide: Lead group tours for schools, families and adults. Flexible
hours.

*  Historical gardener: Plant and maintain the museum gardens.

*  Collections management: Help with care, cataloguing, scanning and research of
objects in collection.

Loudoun Museum: Greet guests, provide basic tourist and heritage information,
collect admission fees and answer phones. Flexible morning and afternoon shifts
available. Training given. 703-777-7427 or bfriedmann@loudounmuseum.org.

Loudoun Volunteer Financial Council: Educate residents in finances. Free
training available. 703-771-5419.

Operation Hope: Teach students in grades 4-12 about money management through
"Banking on Our Future" program. Teach four one-hour sessions. Training
required. 703-236-8864 or breanne.leibering@operationhope.org.

Paws4People: Work with dogs at an organization that trains therapy dogs for
classrooms, nursing homes and hospitals. Dog handlers, administrators, director
of community outreach, Web master and Web content manager needed. 540-882-3317,
keeseej@mindspring.com or www.paws4people.org.

Pride of Purcellville: Support Purcellville's annual Fourth of July festival,
which features crafts, food, rides and a parade. Volunteers set up booths.
Sponsors are also needed. 540-751-1050, olympusgympurcellville@verizon.net or
www.prideofpurcellville.org.

World Heritage: Families, couples or single parents to host high-school foreign
exchange students for the 2006-07 school year. Hosts should be fun-loving,
responsible and caring. 800-888-9040 or www.worldheritage.org.

YMCA Loudoun County: Help with setup, registration and cleanup for 18th annual
Leesburg 10K/20K race Aug. 13. Race marshals also needed to direct runners.
703-777-9622 or agrabowski@ymcawashdc.org.

--  Compiled by

ARIANNE ARYANPUR

To Submit an Item

E-mail: lextra@washpost.com

Fax: 703-777-8437

Mail: Nonprofit groups that need volunteers should send notices to Volunteers,
The Washington Post, Suite 100-A, 305 Harrison St. SE, Leesburg, Va. 20175.

Details: The list is published on a space-available basis on the first Sunday of
each month.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              325 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 2, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Police Try Reaching Out to Immigrants;
A Program Called 'Unidos,' Which Is Catching On in Texas, Found Reassuring

BYLINE: Anabelle Garay, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 861 words

DATELINE: GARLAND, Tex.


When a group of men posing as police officers robbed several Hispanic
immigrants, not all the victims reported the crimes to the real authorities. The
reason for their silence is simple, many immigrants say.

"Tienen miedo," meaning "They're afraid."

"Yes, sometimes you get afraid. It's not because you're doing anything bad. Lots
of times, because you're Hispanic, people don't want you around," said Irma
Delgado, 34, a Mexican immigrant.

Fear of police and deportation make illegal immigrants easy targets for
criminals, prompting police departments around the country to try outreach
programs designed to build trust among residents.

One program developed in this Dallas suburb is called Unidos, Spanish for
"united," has yielded such promising results that Dallas began using it in
February. The suburb of Richardson has plans to use start it in July, and
several Texas departments are considering it.

Unidos features meetings on topics relevant to immigrants. Departments bring in
guest speakers, and Spanish-speaking officers are always available. The message:
Police will not single out immigrants if they are living in the country
illegally.

"We all had another concept of police in Garland, that they would mistreat us,"
said Delgado, who has attended the meetings. "I've learned a lot of things  --
mainly, that they're here to help us."

In the 21/2 years since Unidos meetings began in 2003, Garland Police Assistant
Chief Steve Dye said, attendance regularly surpasses 100, and more crimes are
getting reported.

"It's focused not so much on the esoteric concerns [of] immigration policy . . .
but on enabling officers to become more aware of the day-to-day issues and
people to navigate those day-to-day issues," said Phillip Lyons, executive
director of the Texas Regional Center for Policing Innovation at Sam Houston
State University.

With more than 31 million people in the United States who were born abroad,
including an estimated 11 million living here illegally, some departments want
to involve immigrants in community policing programs.

There is no way to tell how many departments are using outreach programs, and
they vary greatly, said Gilbert Moore of the Office of Community Oriented
Policing Services at the Justice Department. Some publish crime-prevention
materials in Spanish or other languages, while others provide cultural training
for police officers and residents.

For example, Austin police coordinated with the Mexican consulate and area banks
so undocumented workers could open accounts, helping reduce the number of
robberies. The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department in North Carolina created
an international relations unit charged with holding crime-prevention training
for residents, recruiting bilingual officers and providing cultural training to
police. Unit members include Spanish, Laotian, Thai and Vietnamese speakers.

After Hmong refugees and other Southeast Asians resettled in St. Paul, Minn.,
police started ACOP (A Community Outreach Program). The program added police
storefronts in apartment buildings with predominately Asian residents and
employs social workers and translators.

Now the department is trying to include Hispanic immigrants in its efforts and
recently received a $250,000 grant to develop a program for Somali and Muslim
immigrants, said Pete Crum, St. Paul police spokesman.

Several Clearwater, Fla., officers were sent to the Mexican state of Hidalgo so
they could learn about the place and culture many immigrants call home.
Departments from Corcoran, Calif., to Dallas have set up citizen police
academies in Spanish.

Before Dye started Unidos, the department had faced a series of police shootings
involving Hispanics, a string of muggings of undocumented workers and the
killing of an immigrant during a robbery.

Still, many immigrants steered clear of the police station.

At the same time, police say, recent immigrants were finding themselves on the
wrong side of the law often because they did not speak English or were
misinformed.

It is unclear how the outreach programs might be affected by the immigration
measures pending in Congress. The House approved a measure to enlist local
authorities in enforcing immigration laws, but the Senate continues discussion
on other measures, including border security.

Regardless of the outcome in Washington, advocates say outreach programs are
crucial. They note that immigrants are vulnerable to street crime and scams
because they do not have proper documents for traditional banking or are not
fluent in English.

"The system is taking advantage of these people, not just robbing them," said
Joe Campos of the League of United Latin American Citizens. "They know they
won't complain."

At a recent meeting in Garland, about 100 people, most of them immigrants,
gathered at police headquarters.

They listened intently as police warned about the men who target mainly Hispanic
neighborhoods and rob their victims while pretending to search them.

They had questions, too, including how a new ordinance to tow uninsured vehicles
would work and which office to go to for a driver's license.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              326 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 17, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Border Town, 1,200 Miles From The Border;
Georgia's 'Carpet Capital' Relies on Immigrants

BYLINE: Dale Russakoff, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 2623 words

DATELINE: DALTON, Ga.


Jerry Nelson steered his grocery cart out of the Wal-Mart on a recent night,
fuming about globalization, Southern style. "Another great night at the Mexican
Wal-Mart," he groused to no one in particular.

The mass migration of Latinos to this corner of northwest Georgia known as the
carpet capital of the world has changed the character of everything from factory
floors to schools to superstores. On this night, Wal-Mart's ubiquitous TV
monitors alternately promoted arroz and rice, aparatos and electronics.

Like many working-class natives of this once lily-white area, Nelson blames the
changes on the carpet industry, which he insists lured the Mexicans  --  and
more recently, other Latinos  --  to keep down wages and workers' leverage in
this nonunion region. "We all know who the culprit is: Big Business. That's
who's running our country," he said.

But the immigration-driven transformation of work in the United States is not
simple, and Nelson played a role in the story, too. For decades, displaced
farmers were the backbone of carpet mills. Nelson's mother left a farm in
Appalachia to work in one until age 82. But Nelson didn't follow her. Neither
did his wife, Georgia, also a mill worker's daughter. "We wanted more than our
parents," said Jerry Nelson, who spent most of his career as a heating and
ventilation contractor.

Another indispensable force was a federal immigration system that went limp in
the face of urgent demands for labor, whether in the Vidalia onion fields 270
miles to the southeast or the Atlanta Olympic Village 90 miles to the south.
Both drew thousands of illegal workers, many of whom ultimately found their way
to Dalton through another important force: the amazing Mexican jobs grapevine.

And then there was the longest economic expansion in American history. As
buildings rose and homes kept getting bigger, Americans carpeted almost a
billion more square yards of floor in 2004 than in 1994, a 50 percent increase.
With more than three-quarters of America's carpets made in and around Dalton, a
shrinking workforce and 10,000 jobs to fill in a decade, the region was in the
grip of a labor vacuum.

And immigration adores a vacuum. Today 40 percent of Dalton, 61 percent of its
public school students and half of this region's carpet factory workers are
Latino.

"A lot of people used to come here from Tennessee when there were no jobs
there," said Shirley Silvers, who has worked 30 years for Dalton carpetmaker J&J
Industries. "I guess it's the same now for Mexicans."

Dalton may be 1,200 miles from Mexico, but it is in many ways a border town,
whipsawed by every twist in the immigration debate. Its business and civic
leaders call Latinos saviors of their one-industry economy, while its state and
federal lawmakers are in the forefront of efforts to seal the border and block a
path to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

And U.S.-born workers at Mohawk Industries Inc., the nation's No. 2 carpet
manufacturer and a major Dalton employer, have filed one of several class-action
lawsuits around the country alleging that the hiring of illegal workers
constitutes federal racketeering  --  a legal strategy that, if successful,
could subject Mohawk to huge fines. Mohawk says it obeyed all applicable laws
and is trying to have the suit dismissed. But the forces that changed Dalton are
not easily reversed. The carpet industry always has relied on migrants. It took
off in the 1950s, drawing people throughout Appalachia to the steadiest paycheck
in the hardscrabble region.

"Men left farms, stayed in boarding houses for $7 to $10 a week and worked in
the mills until they saved enough money to bring their families," said Shaheen
Shaheen, an industry pioneer who in 1954 started World Carpets, now part of
Mohawk.

So began a cycle of carpet companies depending on workers from well beyond
Dalton, and Dalton staking its future on carpet companies. Whitfield County
Commission Chairman Brian Anderson said that the area's 150 carpet factories pay
70 percent of county taxes and that nine out of 10 jobs depend on them. And as
in the 1950s, industry executives praise the new arrivals' work ethic and
appetite for overtime  --  only now they cross national instead of state
borders.

Norberto Reyes arrived here in 1981 with visions of opening an authentic Mexican
restaurant for an Anglo clientele, and he remembers finding only a handful of
Latino families. "I wanted to hire Mexicans to work in my restaurant, and it was
hard to find them," Reyes recalled from the stucco hacienda that houses Los
Reyes, now a Dalton institution.

The shift began soon after the 1986 immigration law granted amnesty to millions
of illegal U.S. immigrants. At about the same time, carpet factories began
hiring after a deep recession. Frank Shaheen, a cousin of Shaheen Shaheen and
owner of a small carpet mill in nearby Calhoun, said he first noticed the
transition at a sweltering factory where his company's yarn was dyed.

"It was like there were two completely separate workforces there," he said. "One
was these older [white] guys who'd been there since the business opened in 1951.
And the other was all young Hispanics. There was nobody in between."

According to Ruben Hernández-León, a sociologist at the University of California
at Los Angeles, almost 2,000 Mexicans had moved to Whitfield County by 1990  --
still less than 3 percent of the population but the foundation for what
followed.

The national housing boom of the 1990s sent demand for carpet soaring, prompting
alarm about a labor shortage in Dalton. First-generation workers were retiring
and many young people had left for New South metropolises like Atlanta. The
county's non-Hispanic workforce dropped by more than 4,000 in the 1990s,
according to the U.S. Census. And many who remained turned away from factory
work. Industry executives talked of moving some major facilities from the area,
possibly to Mexico. Meanwhile, word of the jobs bounty  --  advertised on
billboards and banners  --  spread to Mexican enclaves around the country.

Carmen Campos, who became a citizen after the 1986 amnesty, was working in a
foul-smelling meat-packing plant in Dodge City, Kan., for less than $10 an hour
when his sister-in-law called with news of better work and better schools in
Dalton. (He now makes $14.64 an hour as an operator for Shaw Industries Inc.) A
woman named Elizabeth, who would not give her last name because she is here
illegally, said she and her husband were working on cleaning crews in Los
Angeles when an old friend called to say they could make more money in carpet
factories and pay half as much in rent. Mario Figueroa, 18, said his father was
working on a dairy farm in California when a relative called with a message that
beckoned many a farmworker: "Allá se trabaja adentro." (There you work indoors.)

The Pew Hispanic Center has found that Mexicans who have been in the United
States for a year on average have relatives in a dozen U.S. cities. "The labor
market knowledge of your typical Mexican worker is astounding," said Roberto
Suro, the center's director.

The buzz didn't stop at the border. Kitty Kelley, an anthropologist who
researched immigration here in the 1990s, said she interviewed carpet workers
who would go home to Mexico to help their families during planting seasons, then
return with eight cousins. A men's soccer team here is named Jalisco because all
the players came from that Mexican state; most now work at Mohawk, which
sponsors the team. By 2000, the Census counted 18,419 Hispanics in Whitfield
County, a ninefold increase in a decade and still a severe undercounting,
according to researchers.

Asked what they knew about Dalton before arriving, seventh-grade Latino children
at a Dalton State College summer program had many versions of the same answer.
"There was work here and there were no jobs at home," said a girl named
Candelaria from Guatemala. "There was a good future," said a boy named Jesús
from Ecuador. "My father said of all the states in the U.S., this was the best
place to live and make money," said a girl named Julia from Brazil.

Carpet factory wages start at $8.50 to $10 an hour for unskilled workers,
compared with a state minimum wage of $5.15. But the grapevine also touted
Dalton's safe schools and neighborhoods, far from the gangs and crime of border
towns and big cities.

Campos, the former meat packer from Dodge City, and his wife, Armida, who both
work for Shaw Industries, said they came with hopes that their sons would get
good educations. On the living room wall in their immaculate trailer home are
two framed certificates from the President's Education Awards Program, each for
their oldest son, Jorge  --  one signed by Bill Clinton; one by George W. Bush.
Jorge, 18, graduated in May as valedictorian of Southeast Whitfield County High
School, the first Mexican-born student to do so, and plans to attend Dalton
State College in the fall.

"He is like our hero, we are all so proud," said Nancy Fraire, a classmate and
also a child of Mexican carpet workers.

While Nancy and Jorge's parents are here legally, industry officials say they
know that some workers are probably using fraudulent papers, which are widely
available for a price. But the law does not require employers to verify whether
official-looking documents are valid.

"If there's no reason to question the validity, we don't. If there is, we do,"
said Louis Fordham, vice president of human resources at J&J Industries.

The Mohawk workers' lawsuit invokes a 1996 law that made knowingly hiring
illegal immigrants a potential racketeering offense. It alleges that the company
recruited illegal workers and paid bonuses to employees who transported and
housed them and supplied them with fake papers. It also alleges that the company
effectively winked at obviously fake documents. The alleged scheme suppressed
the wages of U.S.-born workers, according to the lawsuit.

Mohawk denied the allegations and has challenged the racketeering theory all the
way to the Supreme Court, which last month sent the case back without a ruling
to the federal appeals court in Atlanta for reconsideration.

"Mohawk is proud of the fact that it has a diverse workforce," said its lead
attorney, Juan Morillo of Sidley Austin LLP. "It didn't do anything
intentionally to generate that."

Several researchers say the 1996 Olympics are the reason Georgia has more
illegal immigrants than any Southern state except Florida  --  350,000 to
450,000 in 2005, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. Atlanta's former Mexican
consul general, Teodoro Maus, said thousands of illegal workers from Mexico
suddenly appeared on construction crews when preparations for the Olympics fell
behind schedule, and federal immigration officials assured him they would not
interfere  --  and they didn't.

"You'd see 40-foot-high girders, and up top, all these brown faces, right in the
middle of Atlanta," Maus said. "Everyone agreed the Olympics never would have
been finished on time without them."

Another turning point came in 1998, when immigration agents raided the Vidalia
onion fields, putting the valuable harvest in jeopardy, only to be called off
after Georgia congressmen protested to the Clinton administration. One protest
came from then-Rep. Saxby Chambliss (R), now a senator and an advocate of
deporting illegal immigrants.

Soon afterward, periodic immigration raids came to a halt in Georgia and
nationally. The Government Accountability Office found that the federal
government filed notices of intent to fine only three companies in 2004,
compared with 417 in 1999. The Pew center and UCLA's Hernández-León estimate
that more than half the Latinos who arrived in Dalton after 1995 were illegal.

The government recently conducted several highly publicized raids of companies
with illegal workers and has promised more.

Even when the raids were going on, Dalton's civic leaders were sending a
different message. When Latino parishioners overflowed Dalton's 130-seat St.
Joseph's Catholic Church  --  even after pews were extended and aisles narrowed
--  industry executives helped pay for a new, 600-seat church whose bilingual
priest now leads both masses and misas. Parishioner Carl Burkhardt, president of
Dalton's No. 3 carpetmaker, Beaulieu of America Inc., gave $1 million while Shaw
Industries chief executive Bob Shaw "godfathered" the project, according to
Father Daniel Stack, the priest at the time. "He said we were taking care of his
workers, so he wanted to help take care of us," Stack said.

And as Latinos increased from 4 percent of Dalton public school students in 1990
to 44 percent in 2000 and 61 percent in 2005, help came from the industry, the
city government and a $500,000 federal grant, all at the behest of a prominent
local attorney and former congressman. The Georgia Project, founded by attorney
Erwin Mitchell in 1996, brought bilingual educators from Mexico to teach Latino
children and to instruct local teachers in the Spanish language and Mexican
culture. It also sends Dalton teachers to a summer institute in Mexico and
provides after-school tutoring for Latino children whose parents don't speak
English.

"We're not about immigration; we're about education," Mitchell said. Commission
Chairman Anderson said the county would have to raise property taxes to cover
rising costs for schools and indigent health care, but he argued that paying for
immigration is cheaper than not paying for it.

"People will say if it wasn't for these darned Mexicans, we wouldn't have a tax
increase," Anderson said. "But would you rather have a little increase in
property taxes because our industry thrives and we all benefit, or would you
rather the industry left and we had no jobs here?"

To Betty Motley, who retired last year after 21 years with six carpet companies,
the choice is not that simple. Standing on her porch in a mill workers'
neighborhood, she pointed out a green, two-bedroom house across the street where
she said five Mexican men live.

"They don't spend anything, they're just saving," she said. Around the corner is
Morales Market and a branch of Sigue Corp., the leading transmitter of money
from the United States to Mexico.

Down the street, a woman named Diane, who would speak only on condition that her
last name not be used for fear of retaliation from her supervisor, has worked 15
years for Mohawk said most of her white co-workers have retired, quit or been
laid off.

She said that her new Latino co-workers work faster than she does and that she
can't meet the new production quota, meaning she now makes less money.

"They're taking our United States and making it their United States," Motley
said. "Mohawk and Shaw used to be our companies."

Rep. Nathan Deal (R), whose district includes Dalton, said he hears constantly
from constituents upset about the Spanish-speaking majority in their children's
schools, about hospitals where disproportionately uninsured Latinos increase the
cost of care.

Deal is considered a hard-liner on immigration. He has introduced legislation to
deny citizenship to U.S.-born children whose parents are illegal immigrants, and
he wants to deport illegal immigrants, secure the border and establish a
fraud-proof guest-worker program.

But when asked where this would leave Dalton and the carpet industry, he sounded
more open to negotiation.

"To say we'll seal the border and enforce the law is not something we can do by
snapping our fingers," he said. "That's no more realistic than those who say we
should just have open borders."

Staff researchers Richard Drezen and Magda Jean-Louis contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              327 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 17, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Virginia Guard Volunteers Heed Call to Scout Border;
Worry About Immigrants, Terrorism Among Motives

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1284 words

DATELINE: FORT PICKETT, Va.


Staff Sgt. Michael Roush stood in the damp southern Virginia heat and pondered
the Arizona desert where he was headed.

On one side of the tree-lined road behind him, a Virginia National Guard soldier
playing the part of a detainee lay on his stomach as a colleague frisked him. On
the other side, a camouflage-clad sergeant warned a group of soldiers that
border-crossing migrants are driven by potentially dangerous desperation.

"It's a whole new ballgame for us," said Roush, 38, a veteran of war in Bosnia
and the Hurricane Katrina cleanup on the Gulf Coast. "Normally when we go
somewhere, you know who the enemy is. This one you don't."

When the call went out late last month for Virginia Guard volunteers to help the
U.S. Border Patrol stem illegal immigration on the southwestern frontier, Roush
and more than 300 others had signed up within days. Last week, the first
120-person contingent arrived at this base south of Richmond for basic training
that included reading maps, treating wounds and using rifles as splints. They
were to leave this weekend for a two-month stint.

For Guard soldiers and airmen accustomed to hurricanes and war zones, the border
work is unusual  --  part humanitarian, part homeland security and all swept up
in a political firestorm over immigration. But the Virginia volunteers, some
recently returned from Iraq, were firm that the operation is crucial to saving
immigrants from death in the desert, keeping them out of the United States or
some of both.

"Just people trying to make a better life," Roush said. "But you've got to limit
it."

President Bush pledged in May to station National Guard troops along the
southwestern U.S. border with Mexico as a stopgap measure until more Border
Patrol agents are hired and trained, a plan cheered by border-control backers.
Although Guard members, who will be armed, have been assigned such humdrum
duties as building fences, manning surveillance towers and crunching payroll
figures, criticism of the deployment has been fierce: Some critics decried the
"militarization" of the border, and others denounced the deployment as a misuse
of overtaxed Guard forces or a token offering of toughness that would be of
little help.

The administration plan called for 2,500 Guard troops to be in place by July 1
and 6,000 by Aug. 1. By early this month, there were widespread reports that not
even half were on the border. White House and Guard officials disputed that,
however, saying the promise had technically been fulfilled  --  more than 2,500
soldiers were inside the four border states by June 30, they said, but most were
still training.

As of Thursday evening, more than 3,600 Guard troops had arrived in Arizona,
California, Texas and New Mexico, National Guard spokeswoman Kristine Munn said.
About 1,400 were deployed in direct support of the Border Patrol, she said; the
rest were in training or at the Guard's four in-state headquarters.

The governors of 30 states, including Maryland and Virginia, had agreed by
Thursday to send Guard volunteers, if asked, Munn said. Kevin Hall, a spokesman
for Virginia Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), said Kaine agreed to send as many as 500
troops after state Guard officials assured him that the remaining force could
respond quickly to hurricanes or other calamities. A Maryland National Guard
spokesman said the border states had not requested Maryland soldiers.

The Border Patrol has touted the operation's success. Last week, the agency
credited the National Guard with helping agents detain 518 illegal immigrants
and seize more than 4,700 pounds of marijuana and 18.5 pounds of cocaine. Guard
support has allowed nearly 170 agents  --  fewer than 2 percent of the those
posted along the Southwest border  --  to abandon non-law enforcement duties and
return to patrol work, agency officials said.

"They have been instrumental," Border Patrol spokesman Mario Martinez said.

But not everyone is so sure. T.J. Bonner, president of the National Border
Patrol Council, said federal dollars would be better spent on technology and
more agents. The deployment is a "political showpiece" with minimal potential
impact, he said, noting that the Border Patrol said the Guard presence will free
up at most about 500 agents for patrol duties and that some states are sending
troops for just two weeks.

"There's only so much they can learn" in a short time, Bonner said.

For Virginia Guard members, the deployment is a good occasion to take part in a
national mission, represent their state and get hot-weather training that could
come in handy, Maj. Gen. General Robert B. Newman Jr., head of the state Guard,
told reporters here. The Arizona desert, Newman said, "bears a whole lot of
resemblance to Afghanistan and Iraq."

At the edge of a grassy field on the 45,000-acre base last week, soldiers and
airmen from units across Virginia toted dummy rifles and gulped water. Among
them were police officers and electricians, an Army band clarinetist and a
father of six.

For many, political tussles over illegal immigration seemed far away and
irrelevant. Staff Sgt. Darin Black, 41, a medic, chose to miss his first wedding
anniversary to go to Arizona because he is "a professional soldier  --  no
matter what the mission." And Pvt. James Allport, 21, who hopes to serve in
Iraq, is taking his camera to Arizona because "it does look nice down there,
from all the pictures."

For others, the immigration issue played a part.

At one first-aid training station, 1st Sgt. Ward Moore watched as Pvt. Aram
Christopher knelt over a soldier portraying a person in shock. A trainer barked
questions: Should Christopher move the casualty's head to the side? What if the
casualty has a neck injury?

Shock, Moore noted, is a condition not uncommon in migrants felled by heat and
exhaustion. Training, he said, had included briefings on the border situation:
the drugs smuggled across, the empty water bottles dotting the landscape, the
so-called coyotes who promise clients a one-hour walk. And the bicycles
abandoned by people who set out on quixotic rides only to be sidelined by rocky
and scorching desolation.

"A lot of them have been sold a bill of goods," said Moore, standing with his
arms akimbo. He recently bought a time share in Puerto Vallarta, he said, and
saw muddy Mexican poverty around the corner from resorts where employees wash
the trunks of palm trees. The border work, he said, is a "humanitarian-type
mission."

Across the road, Roush watched Sgt. Timothy Bayless, 28, give a session on
"operational awareness." Roush, a police officer, said thousands of troops along
the border does not equal militarization  --  it won't be "martial law or
anything," he said  --  but it will certainly help close the border. And that
must be done, he said.

"We have a lot of drug trade that comes across there," Roush said. "We have
people that aren't able to get jobs here. It's not necessarily supporting the
economy."

In the shade by the first-aid station, Cpl. Rick Sommers had joined Moore.
Sommers said he was border-bound for a host of reasons: He is concerned about
terrorism and drugs coming into the United States and upset about illegal
immigrants already in the country and the employers who hire them.

Sommers, a former firefighter from Appomattox, Va., said he has seen firsthand
the use of public services by illegal immigrants  --  who, he has heard, hurt
the economy and use false Social Security numbers. The recent retiree had been
thinking about joining the Minuteman civilian border patrol when the Guard
called.

"If I did the things that they're doing, I'd be in jail," Sommers said of
illegal immigrants. "Enough is enough."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              328 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
July 16-22

SECTION: Metro; C04

LENGTH: 594 words


Maryland Comptroller William Donald Schaefer (D) refused to apologize to a group
of Korean Americans who met with him to discuss remarks he had made linking
South Korean immigrants to a recent missile firing in communist North Korea.

Schaefer declined to sign a letter of contrition prepared by his chief of staff
and bickered with a community leader. He said that he is a friend to Korean
immigrants and that his remarks were misinterpreted.

Schaefer's comments came during a July 5 meeting of the Board of Public Works,
which included a discussion of a $2.4 million contract to create a proficiency
test for Maryland students who take English language classes. Schaefer launched
into what sounded like a sarcastic rant:

"Oh, we don't worry about any of those things like money. Or illegals crossing
the border. That's nothing. That's just a given. Oh, come on. Korea is another
one. All of the sudden, they're our friends, too, shooting missiles at us."

A Schaefer spokesman said he was speaking in verbal shorthand.

Prince George's County Council members voted to impose large cash penalties if
Gaylord Entertainment doesn't employ enough minority-owned businesses at the
massive hotel the company is building at the National Harbor development.

The vote was a compromise between the Tennessee-based hotel chain and the
council, whose members initially favored tying a tax incentive bond package to
the minority business guidelines.

Gaylord Entertainment had threatened to derail the development of one of the
largest hotel convention centers on the East Coast.

The council approved the $50 million bond package and voted to impose financial
penalties if fewer than 15 percent of Gaylord's contractors are minorities. The
penalties would include yearly fines of $500,000, rising to $1 million if the
company missed the requirement for three consecutive years.

A federal judge struck down a Maryland law that would have effectively forced
Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest employer, to spend more money on health
care for its employees in the state.

The judge ruled that the "Wal-Mart Law" violated a federal statute intended to
protect corporations from having to navigate a patchwork of benefits
requirements from state to state.

The law won overwhelming support in the General Assembly this year. The state
attorney general's office said an appeal is likely.

Ex-Navy Athlete Cleared of Rape Charge

Jury Decides 'No Punishment' on Other Counts

Lamar S. Owens Jr., a former U.S. Naval Academy quarterback, was acquitted of
raping a female midshipman in her dorm room Jan. 29.

A jury declined to reprimand Owens for his actions despite finding him guilty of
conduct unbecoming an officer and of violating a military order to stay clear of
her.

Owens, 22, still could face administrative discipline  --  and a possible
discharge  --  for breaking rules prohibiting sexual contact on campus and
fraternization between members of the same company.

*  The D.C. Council, in a move to combat a surge in violent crime, approved an
emergency bill that imposes a 10 p.m. curfew on youths younger than 17. Youths
will have to be off the streets for the next three months unless they are with a
parent, on the way home from work or attending a civic or church outing.
Teenagers from elsewhere will be subject to the same provision.

*  The number of low-income adults in Fairfax County waiting to be seen by a
mental health professional has nearly doubled in the past three months, a result
of unfilled positions in county clinics, according to a new report.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              329 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 24, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Huge Backlogs, Delays Feared Under Senate Immigration Plan

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita and Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1358 words


Arturo Zavala entered the United States illegally from Mexico in 1976 and picked
mushrooms in Pennsylvania for a decade before he became a legal resident. But
that menial labor was not the toughest part of life here.

More difficult was gaining permission for his wife, daughter and two younger
sons to join him and his eldest son here. The family finally reunited in 2001,
14 years after Zavala received his green card as part of a 1986 amnesty program
for illegal immigrants.

"I missed my family," he said. "I would live here nine months and go visit them
three months. When I went, they were little, and by the time I saw them again,
they were all grown up. My wife was like a mother and father."

The long delays for Zavala's family were among the many unintended consequences
of the 1986 law, which allowed nearly 3 million immigrants to gain legal status.
But illegal workers and the government may face far greater problems if pending
immigration legislation passes and three times as many people  --  as many as 10
million by some estimates  --  are permitted to apply for legalization.

"It would be an utter meltdown," said Peggy Gleason, a senior attorney at the
Catholic Legal Immigration Network. "Despite the problems, [the 1986 amnesty]
was actually an enormous success. Government made this huge effort to make all
these offices that were very consumer friendly. I have no idea what the
government is doing right now to prepare, but back then, they thought about it
hard."

Now, there are two versions of the legislation. In the House, the focus is on
border security. The Senate would permit illegal immigrants who have lived in
the United States for at least two years to apply for legal status; smaller
legalization programs would apply to illegal farm workers and some children of
illegal immigrants; and a guest-worker program would be established for as many
as 200,000 people a year.

Of the nearly 12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States, about
10 million may register to apply for legalization if the Senate plan passes,
said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, president of the Migration Policy Institute, a
research center.

That could overwhelm the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services,
which last year granted permanent residency to 1.1 million people and awarded
temporary worker visas to 200,000.

Back in 1986, the numbers of illegal immigrants were far fewer than they are
today, but federal agencies still had difficulty keeping up. Their backlogs grew
even deeper when immigrants granted legal status exercised their rights to bring
immediate relatives. Processing those applications took years, as in Zavala's
case.

Zavala recalled long lines and a chaotic scene at the Lima, Pa., district office
when he went to apply for amnesty in 1986. He said he felt lucky that his proof
of residency and employment were accepted quickly. Many of his friends were not
as lucky. Others were terrified to come forward, fearing they would be deported.
"Many of my friends were afraid to apply," he said. "By the time I told them the
rumors weren't true, the deadline was up."

Of this year's debate, he said, "I hope they make it like '86. But I hope they
do it quicker for their families."

Supporters of the Senate proposal note that Congress has learned some lessons
from 1986. The bill would set a six-year processing window and would require
participating immigrants to register within 90 days.

Citizenship and immigration bureau officials, however, said they would need much
more time and more staff to register millions of applications. Director Emilio
T. Gonzalez said it would take six to nine months just to register a group the
size the Senate bill contemplates.

Michael Aytes, the agency's associate director for domestic operations, added:
"We can't approach anything like legalization on the scale being discussed in a
traditional way. We would have to grow too far, too fast."

The Senate bill would set up complex rules for how illegal immigrants can apply
for legal status, depending upon how long they have been here. The legislation
also says immigrants would have to prove their U.S. work history with at least
two documents. Many would not have pay stubs or tax records, so the law provides
for sworn affidavits from employers. The  rules and use of affidavits would open
the process to fraud, experts said.

"The document of choice inevitably will be an awful lot of legal statements
saying, 'Yes, I employed this guy.' Well, once you move to affidavits, then you
basically have next to nothing," said former Immigration and Naturalization
Services commissioner Doris Meissner. "How do you design an affidavit system
that has integrity?"

Skeptics of the Senate proposal cite a provision of the 1986 amnesty law that
targeted agricultural workers. Congress expected 200,000 to 400,000 people to
apply. Instead, 1.3 million people came forward  --  twice as many people as
were employed on farms in some states, according to labor statistics  --  taking
advantage of shorter residency requirements and low burdens of proof. Many then
disappeared to take non-farming jobs. By 1989, federal officials placed nearly
400,000 applications on hold and made hundreds of arrests for fake documents.
Some applicants are still in limbo.

"Legalization got a bad rap because of (the agricultural program). That was the
leaky sieve. And that was because the legislation was written in a way you could
drive a truck through" the regulations, said Meissner, now a senior fellow at
the Migration Policy Institute.

The citizenship and immigration bureau currently faces a backlog of pending
cases and security checks, as well as antiquated technology and a shortage of
skilled personnel.

The Bush administration has set aside $560 million over five years to reduce a
backlog that numbered 3.8 million cases in 2003  --  there were 276,000 as of
June 2006, not counting 1 million cases that await actions by applicants, other
government agencies or openings in quota-based programs. The Government
Accountability Office says the citizenship and immigration bureau is unlikely to
meet a six-month processing target by September as it had promised.

In 2004, the agency submitted 1.9 million sets of fingerprints and 1.5 million
names to the FBI, numbers that would grow tremendously if the Senate bill became
law, according to the GAO. As of now, 113,000 FBI name checks have been pending
more than six months, and 40,000 more than two years, officials said.

"The hidden chokepoint here is going to be the security background checks,"
Meissner said. "The FBI is not set up to handle the volume that the immigration
agencies are generating."

In Tallahassee, Aman Kapoor, a computer programmer who is in the final stages of
obtaining his green card, has been called for fingerprinting five times. "Next
time if they call me, I am just going to leave my fingers there," said Kapoor,
one of the founders of Immigration Voice, a group that advocates for legal
immigrants. "Give me back my fingers once you are done."

New technology is supposed to help. The Senate bill would require that by
October 2007 all permanent immigration documents be machine readable, fraud
resistant and linked to biometric indicators, such as fingerprints, and that
Homeland Security and FBI automated fingerprint systems be compatible. All U.S.
employers would have to adopt an electronic system to verify the eligibility of
workers within six years.

But that would be costly. The Congressional Budget Office said the Senate bill
would require $800 million to pay one-time costs for facilities and computers.

Officials hope to transform the $2 billion-a-year, 15,000-worker citizenship and
immigration bureau through new technology and the expanded use of contractors,
paid for by its share of billions in new fees, Aytes said.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Congress must not micromanage
eligibility rules, or else even new computer systems won't be able to handle the
workload. "The more documents you have . . . the more fraud you have  --  that's
the lesson from 1986," Chertoff said.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              330 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 25, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Not Just Black And White;
New Efforts Look More Deeply Into Racial Comparisons of Health Care

BYLINE: Jeffrey G. Ghassemi, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Health; F01

LENGTH: 1067 words


That health disparities exist between whites and blacks in the United States is
widely recognized, with the latter group faring far worse on many major health
outcomes. But some experts are calling new attention to a host of lesser-known
differences within the black population that they say may help explain the
nature of such disparities and offer new clues about how to address them.

A small but growing body of research shows health disparities between
native-born blacks and foreign-born blacks living in the United States. Carlotta
Arthur, a researcher in the Department of Afro-American Studies at Smith
College, in Northampton, Mass., recently highlighted some of these differences
in the Journal of Health Care for the Poor and Underserved. In a review article,
she cites evidence that paints a better overall picture of health for
foreign-born blacks than their U.S.-born counterparts  --  at least initially.

Upon arrival, for instance, black immigrants have been shown to have lower rates
of cardiovascular disease, cancer, hypertension, obesity and overall chronic
medical conditions than U.S.-born blacks. Yet this robustness may drop with
years of residence  --  a concern for health researchers and immigrant advocacy
groups alike.

"Much of the research out there doesn't bother to tease apart these differences
among blacks," said Arthur. "But 'blacks' in this country are not a homogenous
group," she said. "They include immigrants from Africa, Central and South
America, and English-, French- and Dutch-speaking Caribbean nations, as well as
people now known as African Americans."

Better understanding of such health disparities is critical to improving care
and controlling health costs nationwide, says Raynard Kingston, deputy director
of the National Institutes of Health (NIH).

Immigrants, mostly from the Caribbean and Africa, account for a large part of
the growth in the country's black population over the past 25 years, Arthur
writes in her review. In the Washington area, African immigrants account for 11
percent of the foreign-born population (the second highest concentration in the
U.S.) and number close to 95,000, according to U.S. Census data. Immigrants from
Ethiopia, Nigeria and Ghana comprise nearly 45 percent of that figure, found a
2003 Brookings Institution report. Adding black immigrants from outside Africa
brings the estimated count of recent black immigrants to the Washington area to
well over 100,000, according to some experts.

While the reasons for an initial immigrant health advantage are not entirely
clear, one theory points to "selective migration"  --  the idea that healthier
people tend to migrate. Other theories credit higher education and socioeconomic
status, lower-fat diets and tighter social networks of foreign-born blacks.

But Winston Price, immediate past president of the National Medical Association,
an advocacy group for physicians and patients of African descent, fears the loss
of these health advantages over time. He and other experts predict that the
assimilation process and associated stresses may lead to a decline in health
status, a finding consistent with data on other immigrant populations.

Another factor: obstacles to accessing health care. These may include an
inability to speak English, a lack of health insurance and discrimination  --
bias and stereotyping  --  by health providers. "Whenever there are barriers to
navigating the health care system, people will have poorer outcomes," said
Price.

Vera Oye Yaa-Anna, vice president of the African Women's Cancer Awareness
Association (AWCAA), a Maryland-based health advocacy group, agrees. Her
experiences working with African immigrants suggest that many find the U.S.
health care system daunting.

"I may not have hard numbers, but I come across these people every day who say,
'I have cancer. Where do I go? What do I do?' " Yaa-Anna said. "The U.S. health
care system may be better than ours, but at home we have family to help us
navigate it. Here, most of our people don't go for early screening because they
are lost."

The AWCAA conducted its second annual walk-a-thon last Saturday in Wheaton to
raise awareness and funds for its cancer outreach programs.

Some of the research reviewed by Arthur supports the concern over growing health
risks, showing lower rates of cancer screenings for certain black immigrant
groups compared with U.S.-born blacks. Black immigrants were also less likely
than U.S.-born blacks to have a regular place to go to for health care. Some
fear that if such patterns continue for black immigrants, along with the already
dismal health of U.S.-born blacks, disparities between blacks and whites could
grow even larger.

Data show that U.S. blacks generally lag far behind whites on many health
measures. Death rates from heart disease, for example, are twice as high among
blacks as whites, according to the National Center for Health Statistics.
Similar gaps exist for obesity, cancer and infant mortality. Lower socioeconomic
status among U.S. blacks as well as barriers to access (similar to the ones
mentioned for black immigrants) contribute to the problem.

In response to current disparities and fears over future trends, some experts
are calling for more research that looks beyond race to specific factors within
it, such as ethnicity, class, sex and length of residence in the United States.
They claim that understanding the differences within black communities can
provide new ways of thinking about disparities and addressing populations at
risk. According to Arthur, cultural differences might be addressed by printing
health literature in many languages and promoting services that respect
different belief systems. Other efforts could address social determinants of
health care, like discrimination, psychological stress and economic issues.

"The same thing has already happened with other minority groups, including
Latinos and Asians," Arthur said. "It's time to start doing it for the black
population."

NIH's National Center for Minority Health and Disparities, established in 2000,
has already begun to focus its research on this problem. Other institutions are
conducting their own studies to address the issue.

Arthur applauds the move. "After all," she said, "we may have come here on
different boats, but we're all in the same boat now." *

Comments: ghassemij@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              331 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 27, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Arbitrary Decisions at the Border

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 237 words


The July 15 front-page article "Bribery at the Border Worries Officials" helps
connect a few dots, but overall it barely scratches the surface. In December,
upon our arrival at Dulles International Airport, my wife, a Mexican citizen,
was denied entry into the United States. Her visa was revoked, and she was
forced onto a plane back to Mexico City after spending 24 hours in the airport
detention facility  --  all because of an arbitrary decision  by a low-level
U.S. Customs and Border Protection officer.

A month later, the State Department denied her a new visa, insisting that having
a husband and child in the United States makes her inadmissible.

In May, the Parole and Humanitarian Assistance Branch of U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement refused to admit her to the country on humanitarian parole
--  the last-ditch legal effort to reunite the family.

Curiously, while exercising our legal options before exhausting them, we had no
shortage of offers to smuggle her into the United States illegally with a little
help from "the right people on the border." One can't help but wonder whether
the patriotic concept of "secure borders" is a simple matter of shelling out
some $5,000.

On the positive side, however divisive U.S. immigration policies and practices
may be, at least they provide the army of gatekeepers at the border with a great
opportunity to make an extra buck.

DIMITRI SHATOV

Fairfax

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              332 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 30, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The Week Ahead

BYLINE: Economic indicators:

SECTION: Financial; F03

LENGTH: 243 words


July 31-Aug. 4, 2006

President Bush speaks with business leaders in Florida.

Senate resumes deliberations on energy legislation, taxes and other matters.
House stands in recess until after Labor Day.

The Center for Global Development holds discussion on the International Monetary
Fund's policies toward low-income countries, at the Institute for International
Economics.

The Heritage Foundation hosts discussion on foreign aid with World Bank
President Paul Wolfowitz.

Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson speaks on global economy at Columbia Business
School.

Senate Homeland Security panel holds hearing on offshore tax havens.

Cato Institute hosts discussion with Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez on
immigration reform.

Hilton Hotels, Qwest Communications, Sirius Satellite Radio, Valero Energy and
Verizon release quarterly reports.

Economic indicators: June personal income, July ISM manufacturing, July total
vehicle sales.

House Judiciary Committee holds hearing in San Diego on the effect of illegal
immigration on taxpayers.

Procter & Gamble and Time Warner release quarterly reports.

Senate Finance Committee holds hearing on tax reform.

CBS, CVS and Sprint Nextel release quarterly reports.

Economic indicators: June factory orders, July ISM services.

Official start of Washington's month-long summer doldrums.

Berkshire Hathaway, Toyota release quarterly reports.

Economic indicators: July unemployment, July manufacturing payrolls.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              333 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 30, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 248 words


Republican House candidate Rick O'Donnell has come to one clear conclusion from
hours spent knocking on doors in the Denver suburbs. Immigration is the No. 1
issue "by a factor of 10" in Colorado's 7th District. "The anger that the border
is not secure is visceral and real," he said.

O'Donnell is running in one of the most hotly contested House races in the
country. Incumbent Rep. Bob Beauprez (R) has given up the seat to run for
governor. Three Democrats are competing in the Aug. 8 primary to run against
O'Donnell, who has no GOP opposition.

Republicans in Colorado's 7th and several other bellwether races hope a
hard-line stance on immigration will help stoke voter turnout for their
candidates. GOP congressional leaders announced last week that they will hold 21
hearings around the country on immigration during the August recess.

Democrats, too, are banging the immigration drum in the 7th. One candidate,
Peggy Lamm, highlighted  --  although vaguely  --  immigration among a handful
of promises in her campaign's first ad, which began airing last week. "I'll do
something about illegal immigration," she says in the spot.

Democratic state Sen. Ed Perlmutter, also vying for the nomination, said
interest in the issue during a recent Senate debate roiled but lately has
subsided. O'Donnell predicted that whoever wins the Democratic nomination will
have to talk about immigration more aggressively in the fall: "I think Democrats
are scared of the issue."

--  Dan Balz

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              334 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 4, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

The Best of Both Worlds

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 183 words


My  brother Tom was born in Peru, so I enjoyed reading the story on the Peruvian
immigrants in the Washington area ["Region's Peruvians Adapt With Cultural
Identity Intact; Success, Customs Drive Diverse Group," front page, July 31].

My wife is also a first-generation immigrant.

I was reminded of a German immigrant who came to the United States before the
Civil War with nothing. He became a Union general in the war and later a
senator. His name was Carl Schurz.

At the opening of the Chicago World's Fair in 1893, Schurz told immigrants from
Germany how he expected people to fit into American society. The term "melting
pot" had not yet been coined, but  Schurz fully subscribed to the idea.

"I have always been in favor of a healthy Americanization, but that does not
mean a complete disavowal of our German heritage," Schurz told the immigrants.
"It means that our character should take on the best of that which is American,
and combine it with the best of that which is German. By doing this, we can best
serve the American people and their civilization."

JOHN E. CAREY

Falls Church

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              335 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 6, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The following organizations n ...

SECTION: Loudoun Extra; T08

LENGTH: 954 words


The following organizations need volunteer help for a day, a week or on a
regular basis.

American Red Cross: Register blood donors and give them refreshments. Must be 14
or older and commit to at least 30 hours of service. Training provided.
800-272-0094, Ext. 1, or karlofft@usa.redcross.org.

Crisislink: Help staff local and national suicide and crisis hotline. Must be at
least 18, willing to complete 45-hour training and volunteer three hours a week.
703-527-6016 or www.crisislink.org.

Dodona Manor: Docents needed. 703-777-1301 or bmetz@georgecmarshall.org.

Dulles International Airport: Greet and help travelers at information desk. One
shift of three to four hours per week. Experience in airline operations,
customer service and foreign languages helpful but not necessary. 703-572-7350
or volunteer@mwaa.com.

ESL and Immigrant Ministries: Teach English as a second language to adult
immigrants in Northern Virginia. Training provided; day and evening classes
begin in September at 16 locations. Call 703-841-0292 and leave a message; or
visit www.eslim.org.

Girl Scouts of America: Serve as a mentor a few hours each month. 202-237-1670
or 800-523-7898.

Leesburg Crossroads: Submit artwork by Sept. 14 to be judged in "Fall Into the
Arts," an art and music festival Oct. 14. 703-737-7084, capraro@leesburgva.gov
or www.fallintothearts.org

Loudoun Arts Council: Support the 2006 Designer Showcase Sept. 27-Oct. 15.
Positions include docents, ticket and furniture sales assistants, and
directional and parking attendants. 703-777-7838, info@loudounarts.org or
www.loudounarts.org.

Loudoun Community Free Clinic: Nurse practitioners, nurses, chiropractors,
physical therapists, educators, Spanish interpreters, administrators,
dietitians, grant writers and Web site content manager needed at the clinic,
which offers health care to the uninsured. Flexible shifts. 703-779-5412 or
www.loudounfreeclinic.org.

Loudoun County Area Agency on Aging: Volunteer for the 2006 Northern Virginia
Senior Olympics Sept. 16-28. 703-771-5156.

Loudoun County: Volunteer for the following county and regional advisory boards,
commissions and committees. 703-771-5034, fgiles@loudoun.gov or
www.loudoun.gov/advisory.

*  Animal Advisory Committee: Broad Run District.

*  Commission on Aging: Sterling District.

*  Committee on Financial Performance Audit: eight district-specific and three
at-large members to help to carry out financial performance audit of Loudoun
public schools and the Loudoun County government. Financial management
background preferred.

*  Community Action Agency Advisory Board: three at-large low-income
representatives.

*  Community Services Board: at-large representatives.

*  Commuter Bus Advisory Board: Potomac District.

*  Disability Services Board: at-large business representatives or
representatives who have disabilities or have family members who have
disabilities.

*  Equal Employment Opportunity Plan Committee: at-large representatives.

*  Fire-Rescue Commission: two emergency medical services representatives, one
fire representative.

*  Library Board of Trustees: Potomac District.

*  Planning Commission: Dulles District.

*  Transportation Safety Commission: at-large representative.

*  Woods Road Special Exception Oversight Committee: at-large representatives.

Loudoun Heritage Farm Museum: 703-421-5322 or tmaggio@loudoun.gov.

*  Education intern: Teach and help to develop educational programs.

*  Exhibitions intern: Work on fall horse exhibit. Small stipend available.

*  Outreach specialist: Travel to regional fairs and festivals to help promote
the museum. Weekend work required.

*  Visitor service representative: Greet and orient customers, answer phones and
maintain gift shop.

*  Special events: Adults, teens and groups needed to assist with
museum-sponsored events.

*  Tour guide: Lead group tours for schools, families and adults. Flexible
hours.

*  Historical gardener: Plant and maintain the museum gardens.

*  Collections management: Help with care, cataloguing, scanning and research of
objects in collection.

Loudoun Museum: Greet guests, provide basic tourist and heritage information,
collect admission fees and answer phones. Flexible morning and afternoon shifts
available. Training provided. 703-777-7427 or bfriedmann@loudounmuseum.org.

Loudoun Volunteer Financial Council: Educate residents in financial matters.
Free training available. 703-771-5419. Operation Hope: Teach students in grades
4-12 about money management through the program "Banking on Our Future." Teach
four one-hour sessions. Training required. 703-236-8864 or
breanne.leibering@operationhope.org.

Paws4People: Work with dogs in an organization that trains therapy dogs for
classrooms, nursing homes and hospitals. Dog handlers, administrators, director
of community outreach, Web master and Web content manager needed. 540-882-3317,
keeseej@mindspring.com or www.paws4people.org.

World Heritage: Families, couples or single parents to host high school foreign
exchange students for the 2006-07 school year. Hosts should be fun-loving,
responsible and caring. 800-888-9040 or www.worldheritage.org.

YMCA Loudoun County: Help with setup, registration and cleanup for 18th annual
Leesburg 10K/20K race next Sunday. Race marshals also needed to direct runners.
703-777-9622 or agrabowski@ymcawashdc.org.

--  Compiled by

ARIANNE ARYANPUR

To Submit an Item

E-mail: lextra@washpost.com

Fax: 703-777-8437

Mail: Nonprofit groups that need volunteers should send notices to Volunteers,
The Washington Post, Suite 100-A, 305 Harrison St. SE, Leesburg, Va. 20175.

Details: The list is published on a space-available basis on the first Sunday of
each month.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              336 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 8, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Steele Fleshes Out His Positions on the Iraq War, Immigration and Other Issues

BYLINE: Matthew Mosk and David A. Fahrenthold

SECTION: Metro; B02 , ANNAPOLIS NOTEBOOK Matthew Mosk and David A. Fahrenthold

LENGTH: 589 words


Maryland Lt. Gov. Michael S. Steele, the leading Republican in the U.S. Senate
race, released the most detailed position statements to date on a number of
high-profile issues, including the Iraq war, national energy policy, immigration
and affirmative action.

Steele wrote that he does not support setting a timetable to leave Iraq. "Any
politician out there talking about timetables and timelines is playing into the
hands of our enemies," he wrote. On immigration, he wrote, "First thing's first:
secure our borders and then we can deal with meaningful immigration reform."

The full document, which was prepared in response to a 10-question survey from
the Baltimore Sun editorial board, is posted at www.steeleformaryland.com.

Steele also faced questions yesterday from state Democratic Party Chairman Terry
Lierman over comments reported in U.S. News & World Report.

The magazine's Web site carried a story about a possible matchup between black
candidates: Steele and Democrat Kweisi Mfume.

If Mfume is his opponent in November, Steele said, Maryland voters would have to
ask who's going to better serve them, "[someone] who represents all the people,
or just one particular race?"

Lierman interpreted that comment as implying that Mfume, a former NAACP
president, would represent black voters only. He called it "race-baiting as a
way to divide the voters of Maryland."

Asked about it later, Mfume told the Associated Press that he was "disappointed"
and said, "I guess Mr. Steele will have to explain what he really meant."

A Steele spokeswoman responded that "his focus is on bridging the divides that
have separated Marylanders for too long."

U.S. Rep. Benjamin L. Cardin (D) launched the first TV commercial in his
campaign for U.S. Senate yesterday, focusing his message on his experience as a
state and federal lawmaker.

Cardin's legislative experience might, more than anything, separate him from his
challengers. He spent 20 years in Annapolis, including seven as speaker of the
House of Delegates. He then moved to Congress in 1987.

Some opponents have suggested that his 40 years in public office have left him
out of touch with regular folks, but Cardin's first TV spot suggests that his
campaign intends to make experience a selling point.

The ad also brushes on the Iraq war, with a narrator describing Cardin as a
"principled congressman" who "stood up to the president and voted against the
war in Iraq from the start."

Cardin's Democratic opponents have said that although he voted against the war,
he has since supported measures paying for the military effort.

It worked for keeping track of Baltimore's homicide investigations and unfilled
potholes. So why wouldn't a program of "ComStat"-style meetings  --  in which
high-level government officials are brought together and grilled on the minutest
measures of their progress  --  help clean up the Chesapeake Bay?

Baltimore Mayor Martin O'Malley (D) thinks it would. Yesterday, his
gubernatorial campaign proposed what it called BayStat, where O'Malley as
governor would meet regularly with the heads of the state agencies involved in
bay cleanup.

O'Malley campaign spokesman Rick Abbruzzese said the meetings would be modeled
after the ComStat program of the city's police department and the CitiStat
program that tracks public works projects.

The campaign of Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) was  --  some might say
predictably  --  not impressed.

"These initiatives are not groundbreaking in any way," said spokeswoman Shareese
DeLeaver.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              337 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

The Immigrant in Each of Them;
Local Students Get Feel of Ellis Island

SECTION: Style; C13

LENGTH: 483 words


Have you ever wanted to go back in time, to see how people used to live?

Recently, after researching their ancestors' lives, Jewish sixth-graders from
Maryland and Virginia gathered at Beth El Hebrew Congregation in Alexandria for
a program called "The Immigrant in Each of Us." These students pretended they
were coming to the United States, through Ellis Island, during the early 1900s.

Ellis Island in New York Harbor was the entry point into the United States for
about 12 million people, primarily between 1892 and 1924. (It closed in 1954.)

Immigrants from Russia, Ireland, Germany and other countries arrived on crowded
ships, often after unpleasant weeks at sea in cramped quarters with little light
and fresh air. They were tired and hungry. After landing at Ellis Island,
immigrants had to prove they could support themselves and had a place to live.
They also were checked for contagious diseases.

Some of those who passed inspection made New York City their first home, but
two-thirds of the people were joining famly members elsewhere in the United
States.

Imagine that you've just arrived at Ellis Island. People are speaking many
languages. As you walk up the long, wide stairway to Ellis Island's main
processing area, immigration officials watch you, searching for any sign that
you are ill or disabled.

Maybe you are limping or coughing a lot. If so, officials mark your clothing
with chalk, indicating the need for further examination.

Legal officers fire questions at you. "What is your occupation?" "How much money
did you bring with you?" "Is someone meeting you?" (Single women needed a male
escort before leaving the island.) "Where are you heading?" Answer quickly;
there's a long line of people behind you!

Your answers are checked against the ship's manifest  --  a list containing
information collected about all passengers.  If your answers are different, you
are pulled aside for further questioning.

But, wait, what if you don't speak the questioner's language? (Many immigrants
didn't speak English.) A few officials take advantage of your confusion, taking
some of your money and putting it in their own pockets.

Most officials, however, tried to help newcomers stay in America. Volunteers
helped immigrants  fill out forms and exchange foreign money for American
dollars.

The process was hurried, noisy and often scary, but  only 2 percent of all
immigrants were denied entry into America.

Some of the students followed "The Immigrant in Each of Us" program with a trip
to the real Ellis Island. For Olivia Stearn, 12, the experience was personal.
Her great-great-grandfather came to the United States from the Russian/Polish
border more than 100 years ago, taking what jobs he could find until he saved
enough to open a shoe store.

Said Olivia, "I could have stood in the same spot as my
great-great-grandfather!"

--  Ann Cameron Siegal

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              338 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The Week Ahead

BYLINE: Economic indicators:

SECTION: Financial; F03

LENGTH: 203 words


August 14-18, 2006

House Education and Workforce panels hold field hearings on immigration in San
Diego and Gainesville, Ga.

Ironworkers union opens annual convention at Washington Hilton.

Senate Agriculture Committee opens field hearings on farm bill in Redmond, Ore.

House Commerce Committee holds field hearings on immigration in Dalton, Ga.

Cato Institute hosts discussion on Republicans and government spending.

Home Depot, Staples, Wal-Mart issue quarterly reports.

Economic indicators: July producer prices.

Senate Agriculture Committee continues hearings in Grand Island, Neb.

Hewlett-Packard issues quarterly report.

Economic indicators: July consumer price index, housing starts, industrial
production.

Congressional Budget Office updates budget and economic forecasts.

Senate Agriculture Committee continues hearings in Great Falls, Mont.

House Judiciary Committee holds field hearing on immigration in El Paso, Tex.

Heritage Foundation hosts forum on 10th anniversary of welfare reform.

Radio One holds 25th-anniversary gala at J.W. Marriott.

Economic indicators: July leading indictors.

President Bush meets with economic advisers at Camp David.

Economic indicators: August consumer sentiment.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              339 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Praying for Intervention;
Development Threatens Baltimore's Historic St. Stanislaus Church. There's a
Better Choice for Its Fate.

SECTION: Outlook; B08

LENGTH: 600 words


In the Fells Point Historic District in Baltimore, St. Stanislaus Kostka Roman
Catholic Church awaits its fate. The church, organized and built by Polish
immigrants in 1880 and closed in 2000 by the Archdiocese, represents the history
of Polish immigration in Baltimore and the American immigrant story.

The Polish parish started in a home a few blocks away before the church was
completed on Ann Street, a few steps from the waterfront. Later came St.
Stanislaus School. The congregation, many of whose members worked in Fells Point
canneries, lumber yards and packaging companies, became so large that a second
sanctuary was created by deepening the basement. The interior of the church has
hand-painted murals of biblical scenes with beautiful angels.

The church was first threatened about three decades ago, when the "road fight,"
about a 16-lane  connector between Interstates 95 and 83 that some wanted to
construct through Fells Point and around what's now the Inner Harbor, would have
destroyed the community and the history of the immigrants' contributions. The
Society to Preserve Federal Hill and Fells Point fought hard and ultimately
prevailed against the road. But during the long battle, the canneries and other
industries with historical ties to the area fled Baltimore.

Then the city enacted the Condemnation Ordinance,  and most properties in Fells
Point and some in Federal Hill were condemned and purchased by the city. A lot
of elderly Polish homeowners were forced to move, and many died within months of
having been uprooted.

Today, almost 30 years after the road fight was won to preserve the history,
Fells Point has lost about a third of its historic buildings to demolition.

And now there's a new fight  --  around St. Stan's.

Developers want to gut the interior of the church to renovate it as a school for
the Mother Seton Academy. This would mean destroying the hand-painted murals and
the European-style altar. The stained-glass windows on both sides of the church
would be removed and  replaced with bricks.

The developer's plan  would demolish other buildings on the St. Stan's complex
to make way for condos. One building has already been demolished.

There is room in what used to be St. Patrick's Catholic Church school and
convent, now empty for many years. The exterior and interior of St. Stan's does
not have to be marred to make way for the Mother Seton Academy.

St. Stan's Church, with the exterior and interior left intact, could become St.
Stanislaus Kostka Polish and Slavic Church Museum Inc.
(http://members.aol.com/ststanschurch/). Its organizers say the museum would
increase Baltimore's tourism appeal. It aims to be a "resource for the general
public, and for the particular interest of more than 10 million Americans of
Polish/Slavic descent, with the goal of educating the public about the history,
immigration and settlement of Baltimore's Polish and Slavic peoples; to serve as
an urban cultural resource and facility for Fell's Point and Baltimore's
waterfront communities." The exhibits would be designed by Xibitz, the local
firm that designed the museum that opened this summer in Frederick Douglass
Isaac Myers Maritime Park,  also in Fells Point.

The story of Fells Point and its contribution to the development of America
should not be destroyed by developers. St. Stan's should become a museum to tell
the story of the Eastern European people who toiled for meager wages in horrible
conditions to build  good  lives for their children while preserving their
ethnic traditions.

--  Signe Lauren

Baltimore

signelauren@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              340 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
August 13-19

SECTION: Metro; C04

LENGTH: 608 words


The Washington area's immigrant population now numbers more than 1 million,
according to new census figures. One in five residents of the region is
foreign-born, compared with one in six in the 2000 Census.

The 2005 American Community Survey of households also showed that immigrants in
the Washington region were better educated and better able to speak English than
those elsewhere.

The two front-runners in the campaign for mayor  --  D.C. Council member Adrian
M. Fenty (D-Ward 4) and council Chairman Linda W. Cropp (D)  --  agreed to a
one-on-one debate on Aug. 28. With the Sept. 12 primary nearing, Cropp has
sharpened her attacks on Fenty, but he avoided mentioning her in his first
direct-mail brochure to voters.

D.C. School Superintendent Clifford B. Janey called for a moratorium on new
charter schools, saying they drain students and money from the public school
system.

In addition, dozens of parents in the city suddenly had to find new places for
their children because two charter schools abruptly closed. And federal
officials are investigating whether the D.C. Board of Education's executive
director of charter schools funneled federal funds to personal acquaintances
working with the schools that she helped monitor, according to sources with
knowledge of the investigation.

Virginia Sen. George Allen (R) apologized for comments he made to one of his
opponent's campaign workers, who is of Indian descent.

At a rally in southwest Virginia, Allen repeatedly called S.R. Sidarth, a
volunteer for Democratic candidate James Webb, "macaca." The Webb campaign
called the comments demeaning and insensitive.

Depending on how it is spelled, "macaca" could mean either a monkey that
inhabits the Eastern Hemisphere or a town in South Africa. In some European
cultures, macaca is considered a racial slur against African immigrants.

Allen, who met with leaders of Northern Virginia's Indian community to
apologize, said that the word had no derogatory meaning for him and that he was
sorry.

The family of a Virginia teenager who has refused conventional medical treatment
for cancer reached a settlement with state officials, agreeing that he will be
seen by a new oncologist while continuing his alternative therapy.

The compromise means that Starchild Abraham Cherrix, 16, will not have to
undergo chemotherapy against his will, as a judge had ordered. Officials in
Accomack County on Virginia's Eastern Shore had accused his parents of medical
neglect for allowing him to seek alternative treatment from a clinic in Mexico.

A 39-year-old Stafford County woman was sentenced to six months in jail for
making her daughters take turns riding in the trunk of a cramped four-door sedan
during a summer road trip from Alabama to Loudoun County.

Cheryl Ann Schoonmaker-Brown had been convicted of endangering the lives of her
two daughters  --  then ages 8 and 10  --  after she put them in the trunk
during the journey, which lasted more than eight hours. A judge ordered her to
serve one year in jail on the misdemeanor charge, with all but six months
suspended.

Maryland's independent State Ethics Commission dismissed a complaint alleging
that the personal attorney to Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. acted improperly as an
unregistered lobbyist.

David Hamilton, who heads the government relations practice at the law firm Ober
Kaler, had maintained that he accompanied clients to meetings with the
Republican governor and other policymakers as their attorney, not lobbyist.
Democratic state lawmakers had denounced the arrangement, saying that providing
access for the purpose of influencing legislation is, in fact, lobbying.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              341 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Suspect in JonBenet Case Is Set to Arrive in U.S.;
No Charges Have Been Filed Against Karr, Who Is Returning to Home Soil for First
Time in Years

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 919 words


The 41-year-old American teacher arrested in Bangkok last week as a suspect in
the decade-old killing of JonBenet Ramsey is due to arrive in the United States
this evening, escorted by U.S. law enforcement officials, according to
Thailand's immigration police.

"The tickets for John Mark Karr's departure are ready," Thailand's immigration
police chief, Lt. Gen. Suwat Tumrongsiskul, told reporters yesterday. A major
Bangkok newspaper reported that Karr was to be repatriated on a Thai Airways
flight that is scheduled to land in Los Angeles this evening.

Karr's transfer from a Thai deportation facility  --  apparently to Boulder,
Colo.  --  comes five days after he became the first person arrested in
connection with the 1996 strangling of the 6-year-old child-beauty-pageant
winner in her Boulder home.

The Boulder sheriff's office declined to discuss Karr's return yesterday. The
office previously issued a statement saying that its duties in the case would
include prisoner transport.

A spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency responsible
for transporting detainees, said it has a policy of not disclosing such travel.

No charges have been filed against Karr, who told reporters in Thailand that he
had been with JonBenet when she died. The Boulder County district attorney said
last week that the investigation was at an early stage.

Karr's arrival will be his first known return to the United States since late
2001 after years in which he had said in résumés on Web sites that he traveled
in Europe and Asia, holding a string of teaching jobs. He had been awaiting
trial five years ago on misdemeanor charges of child pornography in Sonoma
County, Calif., when he skipped a court appearance and disappeared from police
and his family.

Michael L. Rains, an attorney for one of Karr's former wives, Lara Knutson, said
in an interview Friday that she and their three teenage sons have had "no
contact for years and no financial support." Knutson was married to Karr when he
was arrested on the earlier charges.

As Karr was about to leave Thailand, a Bangkok clinic that specializes in
transgender hormone treatments and surgery confirmed that the suspect had been a
patient. Karr's treatment at Pratunam Poly Clinic was first reported by the New
York Daily News.

Reached last night, a man at the clinic who identified himself as a doctor but
would not give his name, said that Thai police had found a "patient card" from
the clinic during a search of Karr's apartment. He said the card contained "the
phone number of our clinic and diagnosis of Mr. Karr," as well as appointment
dates.

The doctor said that he could not ethically disclose information about a clinic
patient, including the nature of the treatment, but he added: "The police know
everything."

In e-mail correspondence between Karr and a University of Colorado journalism
professor, Michael Tracey, obtained last week by the Rocky Mountain News, Tracey
at one point wrote to Karr: "You told me once that your mother tended to raise
you as a girl. This must have had a powerful effect on your developing sexuality
--  confusion maybe?"

Karr replied: "Michael, I will not discuss my sexuality as if it is a
psychological disorder from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders."

Also yesterday, Mike Sandrock, a sportswriter for the Boulder newspaper Daily
Camera, said he met Karr in Paris in 2002. When he returned home, Sandrock said,
he put Karr in touch with Tracey, who exchanged e-mails with Karr for the next
four years before ultimately alerting law enforcement authorities about him.

Sandrock, who writes a column about running and also manages a charity that
sends running shoes to people in poor countries, said in an interview that he
was in Paris in June 2002 researching a book on Ernest Hemingway, when he met
Karr outside a Latin Quarter bookshop, Shakespeare and Company. The bookshop has
long been a gathering spot for expatriate writers and aspiring authors.

Sandrock said that Karr introduced himself only by his first name, John, and
told him that he was traveling around and had come from Amsterdam. They spoke
several times, including when a group of travelers picked up some wine and
gathered on the banks of the Seine. At first, Sandrock said, Karr struck him as
someone who "fit in perfectly well"  --  clean-cut, well-dressed and polite.

But when Karr had a chance to speak with him alone, Sandrock said, Karr became
"very excited" to learn that he was from Boulder and worked for the local
newspaper where JonBenet's killing occurred. "He knew all the reporters' names,
who wrote the stories; he knew everything about the case  --  much more than
me," Sandrock said. He said that Karr was especially excited to learn that he
knew Tracey, who had made documentaries about the case.

"It was a vibe you get when someone is just a little too interested," Sandrock
said. He handed Karr a business card and avoided him after that. When he
returned to Boulder, he received an e-mail from Karr, asking whether Tracey
would be willing to be in touch with him. Sandrock said that he told Tracey,
"There's a guy, he's really obsessive about the case," and asked whether the
professor would mind if Sandrock forwarded Karr's e-mail.

Sandrock said he could not recall whether he mentioned Karr's first name to
Tracey, who corresponded with the man knowing him only as "D."

Staff writers Anne Hull in Washington and T.R. Reid in Denver contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              342 of 342 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 21, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

One in Five;
One million immigrants in the region can't be pigeonholed.

SECTION: Editorial; A14

LENGTH: 368 words


FOR THE immigrant-rich Washington area, few conclusions easily flow from the
Census Bureau's latest numbers. The mid-decade count of American households
reports that as of 2005 more than a million immigrants live in the District and
the Washington suburbs  --  that's about one in five area residents, up from one
in six in 2000. Such a rapid growth in the area's immigrant population is bound
to cause strains, real and imagined. Local communities are concerned that
fast-growing immigrant populations will tax social services, including health
care and local educational systems. School officials in Prince William County
say, for example, that since 2001 the number of students taking courses designed
for non-English speakers has soared 274 percent.

But the census numbers also show that many of the area's immigrants are well
educated and have contributed to the region's recent vitality. Four in 10 have a
bachelor's degree or higher. A majority speak English proficiently. And the
survey counted both legal and illegal immigrants, so there's no hidden
underclass going undocumented. Thousands have moved into areas such as Loudoun
County, where skilled Indian immigrants help to fuel the budding Dulles
technology corridor.

In short, the many ethnic, religious and national communities that Washington
attracts are so varied that not much can be said about them as a group. Arguing
over whether the region's immigrant magnet is merely good or bad misses the
lesson the census numbers provide. Immigration to the region is too complicated
an issue for the kind of broad generalizations often tossed around and abused in
this year's congressional debate on immigration.

There's a pernicious image of America's immigrants circulating: unskilled
laborers scaling fences along unguarded borders; undocumented workers taking
jobs that pay both under the table and under the minimum wage; packed inner-city
enclaves filled with newcomers who don't speak English and demand an inordinate
amount of government services. That is a grossly distorted image and an
incomplete presentation of the facts, at least in the Washington area. It also
overshadows a much more complex  --  and positive  --  reality.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post
