
                               1 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 10, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

INS Law Spurs Willful Illegal Hiring of Home Help

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4

LENGTH: 1292 words


Stuart Collins, a Presbyterian minister in Hollywood, Calif., was elated last
February when the Labor Department approved his application to hire a young
Mexican woman as a housekeeper.

The happiness was short-lived. The next morning, three agents from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service appeared at his door looking for the
woman, who is now embroiled in deportation proceedings.

Collins was fined $ 877 for violating the Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986, which prohibits hiring illegal aliens.

Collins feels he was unfairly singled out.

He is right, according to immigration lawyers. Collins is one of a relative
handful of people -- 44 in the Los Angeles area last year -- caught breaking a
law that is violated nationwide by perhaps hundreds of thousands of people,
including thousands in this area, who employ illegal aliens as nannies, maids or
gardeners.

The 1986 law imposes fines of up to $ 3,000 for a first offense and prison terms
for later offenses, but many otherwise law-abiding people -- including lawyers,
legislators, reporters and government bureaucrats -- are willing to take the
risk.

The risk is not great here because the law, at least for nannies and maids in
the Washington area, is not enforced.

"The INS may not be very efficient," said D.C. immigration lawyer Michael
Maggio, "but it's not a collection of idiots. They don't go around and run the
agency like an arm of the Gestapo. They don't go to private homes. Sanctions
[against hiring illegal aliens] would be eliminated if they did so. The backlash
on the Hill would eliminate them. This is a town where everybody can get a hold
of a congressman or senator."

Collins's violation was discovered only because he and his family wanted to help
the housekeeper become a legal resident and the Labor Department office in San
Francisco, under an agreement it had reached with INS to turn over "suspicious"
applications for certification, shared that information with INS -- something
the Philadelphia regional office, which covers this area, does not do.

The first step in the legalization process, which Collins followed, is to obtain
a Labor Department certification that hiring the alien worker will not affect
American workers. That certification, routinely granted, does not authorize the
hiring of a foreign worker. The worker can be hired only after he or she obtains
a permanent resident visa, or "green card," from the State Department, something
that in the past could take up to eight years to get.

It may take even longer now. The number of visas available for unskilled workers
-- such as nannies and maids -- dropped Oct. 1 from 16,000 to 10,000 a year.

Theoretically, the foreign worker is supposed to wait overseas until the visa is
granted. In practice, most of the workers, like Collins's housekeeper, are
already here, and there is little the INS can do about it.

Collins said his attorney told him there was some risk in filing for labor
certification, but no reason to worry, "because they [the INS] are not doing
anything."

"I got fined doing a good deed," Collins said in an interview. Had he not tried
to sponsor the woman for a green card, INS officials acknowledged, nothing would
have happened.

INS officials say the law must be and is being enforced. Although they said they
did not know of any cases in this area, fines and deportations have occurred in
some areas, especially when alien smuggling or fraud is suspected.

"There is no gentleman's agreement" not to enforce the law here, INS executive
assistant Michael T. Lempres said in a recent interview. Lempres said the INS
often targets large employers of illegal aliens. "But most jobs are not created
by big companies. Most are created by mom-and-pop employers, and in terms of
deterrence, we have to get the message out to small employers. We want people to
know" they are violating the law.

Most employers are aware they are violating the law, immigration lawyers say,
but they cannot find citizens to take the low-paying jobs.

One couple in this area, both lawyers at a prominent firm, tried for months to
find an experienced nanny for their child.

"Before, I vaguely knew child care was a problem, but this is an outrage," the
woman said in an interview, asking that her name not be used. "If I had wanted
to do this legally, I would have had to decide to have a baby and then interview
a nanny and then four years later have a baby. . . . I can't find a qualified
American," she said, but the law made it impossible to hire a foreign worker.

"Everyone is transformed into a lawbreaker," she said.

"These people [illegal aliens] are not taking jobs from anyone. There is a real
problem out there," said Roberta Freedman, an area immigration lawyer.

The problem, said Cornelius D. Scully, a State Department consular affairs
official, is classic supply and demand. For years there has been "an absolutely
fixed supply [of visas] with a variable demand. If the demand goes up, then the
wait [for a visa] is longer because the supply is not going up."

Soaring demand pushed the waiting list for visas in the category that includes
domestic workers from fewer than 30,000 in the early 1980s to 126,442 last year.
The waiting period went from three or four years to eight years in some cases,
according to government officials.

The precise number of illegal domestic workers in the country is unknown but is
estimated in the "low six figures," a Labor Department official said, perhaps
around 200,000.

Until 1986, immigration concerns were something for the INS and the foreign
worker to worry about; there were no sanctions against those who employed
illegal aliens. But Congress, in passing the 1986 law, for the first time made
it illegal to hire such workers.

Also for the first time, the law exposed employers of maids and nannies to the
sanctions. INS officials say the law's broader coverage is needed because
mistreatment of alien workers occurs in private homes as well as in businesses.

Last year, a liberal-conservative coalition passed another major overhaul of
immigration laws, which set a limit of 10,000-a-year on visas for unskilled
immigrants -- although the Senate initially voted to eliminate all such visas.

Conservatives were in favor of eliminating visas for unskilled workers because
labor market studies concluded there would be major shortages of skilled labor
in coming years but no shortage of unskilled labor. Liberals were attracted by
arguments that importation of unskilled labor would depress wages for urban poor
and keep them from these jobs.

Immigration lawyers say enforcement of the law worsens the situation -- forcing
the problem underground and resulting in nonpayment of taxes by both employers
and workers.

"People ask me what to do" to get an illegal alien a green card, said Josie
Gonzalez, a Los Angeles immigration lawyer. "My best advice now is to do
nothing" and not begin the Labor Department process. "By doing so, you are
signing a confession that they are illegal. It is a real dilemma," she said.

"We know from the waiting period we're talking about enormous demand" for
domestic workers, said Washington immigration lawyer Elliott C. Lichtman. "The
long waiting list represents employers trying to find workers. They have gone
through the labor certification process and can't find U.S. workers after having
advertised the jobs at the prevailing wage."

"People in good faith are trying to go through this process, but the wait is so
long that both" the employer and the employee won't go through it, he said. "It
is a system that doesn't work in practice. It is a hoax, a cruel hoax when you
think how important it is for two-income families to have good child care."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                               2 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 15, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

First Stop in America For Asylum Seekers: Jail;
INS Considers Expanding Test Parole Program

Laurie Goodstein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 1166 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Anthony Owusu still has half-moon-shaped scars on his back, head and thighs, a
reminder of his two spells in detention in his homeland of Ghana, where he was
tortured and struck with rifle butts after public speeches decrying government
corruption.

When armed soldiers and police sought him a third time and set his carpentry
shop afire, he said, he fled to the United States in 1989. He arrived at John F.
Kennedy International Airport here with a fake passport and told immigration
officers that he was seeking political asylum.

To his surprise, Owusu said, he was taken immediately to an Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) detention center in Queens. He spent his first year
in the United States behind bars.

"I haven't committed any crime, even in my country I haven't," Owusu said. "I
was trying to fight for my rights, and they put me in detention."

Every day, about 4,800 illegal immigrants from all over the globe sit in INS
detention facilities. Some wait as long as two years for asylum applications to
make the tedious trip through backlogged immigration courts. The United States
will spend $ 157 million this year to detain and deport such people.

Owusu and others like him are in a legal nether world of "excludable aliens" --
people who are caught offshore or at airports and are not legally in the United
States. They can be detained indefinitely pending resolution of asylum claims.
To gain asylum, they must prove a "well-founded fear of persecution" back home.
Owusu won asylum in June.

INS officials see detention of illegals seeking asylum as an important
deterrent. "If you don't detain, it sends the wrong signal," said Duke Austin,
an INS spokesman. "You're saying, 'Get here, and we'll let you go.' "

The problem, said Verne Jervis, another INS spokesman, is that "there are a lot
of good claims" for asylum each year "but also a lot of frivolous ones. It just
takes too long" to sift all claims. If a hearing officer denies an asylum claim,
Jervis said, the applicant may be detained while beginning the lengthy appeal
process to an immigration judge and then to the Board of Immigration Appeals.
"It is a bad system from everyone's point of view," he said.

Dissatisfaction with the system led to an unusual collaboration between the INS
and its traditional adversaries, advocacy organizations for rights of immigrants
and refugees, to establish an experimental parole program to reduce use of
systematic and extended detention.

Beginning May 1, 1990, 200 people were released from detention in Miami, Los
Angeles, San Francisco and New York City, cities whose airports are the most
common gateways for illegal entry. Of the 200, 127 were released from New York's
two INS detention centers in Queens and downtown Manhattan.

Those released were representative of INS's incarcerated population, having come
from Afghanistan, China, Haiti, India, Peru, Somalia and Sri Lanka, for example.

To qualify, potential parolees needed to prove that they had a place to live, an
offer of employment or another means of financial support, an attorney's
representation and a bond of between $ 500 and $ 2,500. They had to agree to
report to their local INS office each month in person or by mail.

Many were sponsored by local volunteer organizations such as churches, charities
and cultural associations that agreed to account for the aliens' whereabouts and
welfare.

Sixteen illegals paroled under the program, among them Owusu, have been granted
asylum. INS records show that many parolees do not report consistently to their
local INS office as required, but only seven have absconded.

INS Commissioner Gene McNary is considering expanding the program and attempting
to speed the immigration adjudication process and reduce the backlog of more
than 100,000 unheard asylum cases.

"The goal is not to detain anybody that we can count on showing up for a
hearing, especially someone that probably has a good asylum claim and just is
not high" on the immigration court docket, McNary said. "If we can somehow
refine our system so that those people who are trustworthy are released, then
it's a better system. They're going to be supporting themselves while they're
waiting and we're not going to be looking to the taxpayers to feed, house and
clothe them."

Even with the parole program, discontent remains. In late August, about 150 men
and about 30 women -- Haitians, Indians, Chinese and Central Americans --
detained in the Krome Detention Center in Miami conducted a four-day hunger
strike to protest lengthy processing delays and conditions.

The parole program was conceived in a 1989 meeting between McNary and Arthur
Helton, director of the Refugee Project of the New York-based Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights.

One enrollee was N. Singh, a Sikh who asked that his full name not be used.
Affidavits in his asylum file affirm that he was active in a nonviolent
political organization, that Indian police arrested him five times and that he
was tortured, hung upside down, burned and beaten.

"I was sure the police would kill me, so I left India," he said.

When he arrived at Kennedy airport in 1988, he was handcuffed and taken to the
Queens detention center. Months passed as he was moved from one center to
another, even from state to state. Several times he protested with hunger
strikes.

Conditions at INS detention facilities vary, but most are comparable to light-
or medium-security prisons and are similarly overcrowded.

"We were in a big room with over 90 people from different countries," Owusu
said, describing the Queens center. "There weren't any kind of recreational
facilities. You just eat and come back in and sleep. You don't get any fresh
air. . . .We were deprived from seeing visitors."

After 19 months in detention, Singh was released as part of the parole project.
A friend put up his $ 1,500 bail.

Systematic detention of immigrants seeking asylum has not always been the norm.
Beginning in 1954, captured illegals were released on parole until immigration
courts could hear their cases. Only those determined likely to abscond or
threaten public security were detained.

Everything changed in 1980 when waves of about 125,000 Cubans known as
"Marielitos," some of whom had criminal convictions and histories of mental
illness, were loosed on Florida's shores. The INS suspended its usual parole
policy and continued doing so through 1981 with detention of several thousand
Haitian "boat people" fleeing a brutal and repressive government.

The next year, systematic detention became the law. Any immigrant caught on
arrival without valid travel documents, what the INS calls "excludable aliens,"
could be incarcerated.

Singh has been luckier than many. Two months after his release, he was granted
asylum. Now he drives a taxi in New York, sometimes reflecting, he said, on his
strange odyssey as he picks up passengers at Kennedy airport.

Staff writer Al Kamen in Washington contributed to this report.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ANTHONY OWUSU, WHO SPENT A YEAR BEHIND BARS BEFORE BEING PAROLED
AND WINNING POLITICAL ASYLUM, SITS IN HIS BARREN HOUSTON APARTMENT WITH
SNAPSHOTS FROM GHANA. PATTY WOOD

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                               3 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 27, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

INS's Unofficial Open Door;
Illegal Aliens Swamp N.Y. Holding Capacity

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1397 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


It used to be difficult to gain illegal entry into the United States.

Gaining illegal entry used to evoke images of families driving through Mexico in
vans, then sneaking by the Border Patrol in the dead of night.

Many still enter the United States by crossing the Rio Grande at night, but
there's no need for such hassle. Anyone who wants to come to the United States
need only buy a plane ticket and arrive at New York's John F. Kennedy
International Airport. The border here is open, according to Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials.

A flood of illegal arrivals at Kennedy, expected to exceed 10,000 this year, has
swamped INS detention facilities there.

As a result, virtually everyone is allowed in. Those without proper entry
documents, such as a tourist visa, are detained briefly at the airport and told
to appear at a hearing before an immigration judge -- 14 months later. Most
never show up.

"The numbers are so great now that the word is clearly out that there is a lack
of a deterrent at Kennedy airport," said INS district director William S.
Slattery. "As such, anybody in the world who wants to come can come."

Last month, a record 1,250 illegal entrants, mostly East Asians and Chinese,
landed at JFK. Two years ago, no more than about 500 illegal entrants arrived at
the airport in any month. "We anticipate we'll be up to 1,500 by March,"
Slattery said. "It's just growing and growing" as smugglers and others discover
"we just don't have the resources to prevent them from coming in."

The numbers of these new airport arrivals are relatively small by comparison
with the hundreds of thousands of illegal entrants who cross the Mexican border.
But the number of people without proper documents who were caught at airports
more than doubled between fiscal years 1987 and 1990, to 43,580, according to
INS figures.

INS officials say most of the illegal entrants board a plane, often with
fraudulent documents that they destroy en route. If they are assisted by a
smuggler, the smuggler gathers the documents on the plane so they can be used
again. Many illegal entrants come without any identification papers.

The INS accepts "whatever name they give us, whatever nationality they want to
claim," Slattery said. "So the fellow who purports to be a freedom fighter from
Afghanistan could be a taxicab driver from Cairo," he said. "Here's the irony.
We then give them a U.S. government document . . . with a number and picture and
fingerprint on it . . . to prove they are who they verbally represented to us."

The New York INS office has space for only about 190 prisoners -- 90 at a jail
in Manhattan and 100 at a privately run jail in Queens.

By law, the INS cannot summarily return anyone who wants to enter the United
States. "We require an immigration judge to make a determination on
admissibility and most of these people claim asylum before the judge to slow the
process down," Slattery said. "The turnover [in detention] is so slow that I can
only introduce 20 new inmates a month. That's less than a day's work. In this
district, if you are not in detention, I cannot get you before an immigration
judge until 1993."

Los Angeles International Airport had a similar problem, according to the INS
district director there, Robert M. Moschorak. As many as 1,000 illegal
passengers arrived at Los Angeles in November 1990 and again the next month.
When a new detention center opened in early 1991, allowing the INS to detain as
many as 800 people, the number of new illegal entrants dropped to about 250 a
month.

"There is no question in my mind that word got back quickly to the sending
countries" that new arrivals would face long detention, Moschorak said.

But as illegal entrants plummeted in Los Angeles, the numbers rose in New York
in what appears to be a global cat-and-mouse game. "I think I've got some of
Moschorak's traffic," New York's Slattery said of his Los Angeles colleague,
"because Moschorak has a deterrent [expanded detention facilities] that I do not
enjoy."

Adding to the number of detention spaces in New York is not the best solution,
INS officials said. First, each bed costs about $ 100 a day. To pay for the new
beds, INS would likely have to cut back on airport inspectors. Fewer inspectors
would result in long lines and waits for the 10 million passengers -- 5 million
citizens and 5 million foreigners -- who arrive at Kennedy each year.

Furthermore, INS officials said, increasing detention capacity at one airport
could simply divert many illegal arrivals to another one.

INS officials have felt for years that the only long-term solution to problems
at the airports is to change the law -- allowing what is called "summary
exclusion" of illegal entrants. That would mean anyone applying for admission
would have a prompt screening of their request at the airport. A determination
would be made then as to whether the applicant should stay while his or her
claim is reviewed.

Refugee advocates denounced the proposal. "Such a move would violate
constitutional due process and would be incompatible with the Refugee Act of
1980," said Arthur Helton of the Lawyers Committee on Human Rights. "It's on an
INS wish list, but it's forbidden by law and it's unlikely the law will change,"
he said.

Meanwhile, people keep arriving at the airport.

On a recent Monday -- generally a slow day for immigration inspectors --
thousands of passengers from overseas arrived during the peak afternoon hours.
Only a few were detained in INS holding areas. Most were quickly released.

In one holding room, three men who refused to talk to officials, saying they
spoke only Punjabi, sat for hours waiting for an interpreter. They had arrived
the night before. In another holding room, a man from Liberia, two from China
and two from India sat awaiting interpreters and interrogation.

The Liberian, George Oweh, said he was a 28-year-old student from Monrovia
fleeing his country's brutal civil war. Troops "looking for food or whatever,"
came to his home and killed his parents and three brothers, he said, and he left
two months ago. He said he went to Guinea and then Ghana, where he sold his
mother's gold ornaments to a smuggler who took everything in order to get him to
Togo, then Brussels and eventually here.

Oweh, who said he knew no one in this country, had $ 222 in his pocket and said
that, if he were released, he would wander about New York "hoping to meet a
Liberian person who would help me" find a job and shelter.

Asked what would happen to Oweh once he was interrogated, the INS area port
director, Roseanne C. Sonchik, said, "He'll be released, there's no space. He'll
be here a few hours." One of the Indian men, who initially refused to be
photographed or fingerprinted, might be detained longer, she said. "Eventually,
he'll be on the street, so he figures it's worth it."

Many of those detained recently will not allow themselves to be photographed or
fingerprinted, Slattery said, "And they won't engage in any conversation with
you at all. . . . They are calling our bluff. They're saying, I'm not even going
to tell you my name, you're not going to get my fingerprints and I know there's
very little you can do with me."

There are nearly 400 inspectors at Kennedy, more than ever, Slattery said, who
use computerized lookout lists to check everyone who arrives.

"Why does the United States government think we need 400 . . . inspectors out at
Kennedy airport?" Slattery asked. "Why do we pay the benefits for 400 people? If
it's to prevent individuals from entering the United States, that's not
happening . . . at least today it's not."

Those who do not cooperate, at least to the extent that they are fingerprinted
and photographed, are the most likely to be detained -- if there is a bed
available -- "so I can say we do send someone back," Slattery said.

Refugee advocates say the INS detention procedures often lead to people with
bona fide asylum claims being among those confined, often for several months.

A proposal under study within the INS would have trained asylum officers at
airports to screen asylum seekers as they arrive. That "would introduce
rationality to the process," Helton said, "so those with strong asylum claims
would be released and those who pose a danger to the community would be
confined" pending resolution of their claims.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, IMMIGRATION OFFICER SHACKLES UNIDENTIFIED MAN AT KENNEDY AIRPORT
WHILE LIBERIAN GEORGE OWEH, LEFT, AWAITS QUESTIONING. HELAYNE SEIDMAN FOR TWP;
CHART, TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                               4 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 8, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration Fine Levied

ns

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A8; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Federal immigration officials imposed their largest fine ever -- $ 1.1 million
-- against a Georgia peach-packing company for smuggling in hundreds of Mexican
laborers.

When INS agents raided Lane Packing Co. in June, more than 130 illegal aliens
were apprehended and deported, and four Lane employees were arrested on
smuggling charges. The employees have been convicted.

An attorney said the company would appeal the fine.

INS investigators said that for at least two years, the smuggling venture ran
250 alien workers each month to Lane operations in Georgia and to other
harvesters.

The smugglers typically charged from each worker a $ 1,000 transportation fee, $
400 for illegal documentation and $ 50 a month rent for housing in cramped
shacks, said INS Atlanta District Director Thomas P. Fischer. Workers were paid
about $ 4 an hour.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                               5 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 9, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

INS Plans To Boost Staff 7%;
Move Called Response To Rising Pressure From Immigrant Tide

Sharon LaFraniere, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 816 words


The hard-pressed Immigration and Naturalization Service will hire nearly 1,200
new workers and agents to handle the rising tide of legal and illegal
immigrants, according to Justice Department officials.

The new employees, representing a 7 percent increase in the agency's staff, will
be used to beef up patrols on the country's southwest border, investigate crime
by aliens, step up airport inspections, reduce a huge backlog of routine
immigration applications and address the growing number of requests for asylum,
a senior Justice Department official said.

Attorney General William P. Barr is expected to announce the staff increases
today in San Diego before he tours the U.S.-Mexican border south of the city,
where the job of INS border patrol agents is like trying to hold back water from
a broken dam. Every day, large groups of illegal aliens slip through holes in a
10-foot-high fence the United States erected along the border. Those arrested
are released within hours and often head right back for another try.

The department will cover $ 80 million of the projected $ 102 million cost
through recently increased INS fees, the official said. The remainder will come
from the Justice Department's asset forfeiture fund, enforcement fines and
appropriated funds freed up by using the fees to cover more INS costs.

The INS announcement is part of Barr's rapid refashioning of the Justice
Department in the 2 1/2 months since he was confirmed. Considered a conciliatory
deputy to his predecessor, Dick Thornburgh, Barr is fast developing a reputation
as a self-confident and strong-willed attorney general quick to act on his own
ideas.

"A lot of what you're seeing is straight from the attorney general himself,"
said one senior Justice Department official. "There's an energy coming from his
end of the table, as opposed to him absorbing a lot of briefing papers."

Barr's conservativism was evident in his reversal last month of the Justice
Department's policy on overcrowding in state prisons. Barr said courts have gone
too far in governing prison conditions. His pragmatism showed in Friday's
agreement with the Senate Judiciary Committee over access to FBI reports on
judicial nominees.

In other moves, Barr has reassigned 300 FBI agents from foreign
counterintelligence to violent crime investigations and moved 50 agents from
espionage cases to investigate health care fraud. He also announced a major plea
agreement with the Bank of Credit and Commerce International that brought the
government $ 250 million, half of the bank's assets.

His effort to energize the Justice Department to address violent crime,
primarily the responsibility of state and local law enforcement, is considered
helpful to President Bush's reelection campaign. Law enforcement officials
differ on whether Barr's emphasis is politically motivated and whether FBI
agents are best used investigating violent street gangs. In what some FBI
officials described as "overkill," Barr last week held a news conference to
announce that more than 450 law enforcement officers had searched 30 buildings
and arrested 18 alleged members of a District drug gang.

Still, many law enforcement officials agree with key congressional Democrats
that street gangs present too great a problem for the FBI to ignore.

"I think the moves on the FBI make sense from a substantive point of view," said
Rep. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), who chairs the House Judiciary subcommittee on
crime and criminal justice.

If Congress objects to the INS staff increases, the Justice Department will be
hard-put to put them in effect. But Barr's action dovetails with the wishes of
some key senators.

Justice Department officials said yesterday that INS's 300 new border patrol
agents assigned to the U.S.-Mexican border in California and Texas should help
dissuade illegal immigrants who go back and forth on a routine basis, although
those determined to settle permanently in the United States will still stand a
good chance of getting through.

INS will also gain 150 investigators to combat increasing crime by illegal
aliens and 50 investigators to enforce sanctions against knowingly hiring
undocumented workers.

Another 250 new temporary workers will handle the backlog of 1 million routine
immigration applications.

In addition, the agency will receive 100 new officers to reduce a growing
backlog of asylum and refugee applications, and 100 information officers to help
reduce waiting time at INS offices, a Justice Department official said.

Barr also plans to add 240 airport inspectors to curb increased use of airports
by illegal aliens. INS will spend an additional $ 3.6 million to detain illegal
aliens in New York, where more than 1,000 illegal aliens who enter each month
through the airport are released because the INS has no place to hold them.

Staff writer Al Kamen contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                               6 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 21, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Judicial Power on Migrants Widened;
Supreme Court Ruling Is Called Major Victory for Aliens' Rights

Ruth Marcus, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 783 words


The Supreme Court yesterday gave federal judges broad power to decide if
immigration service practices violate the rights of illegal alien farm workers
seeking to remain in this country.

Immigration lawyers hailed the 7 to 2 ruling, in a case involving 40,000 farm
workers denied amnesty under the 1986 immigration reform law, as a major victory
for aliens' rights. They said it had immediate impact not only for the farm
workers but for another category of at least 100,000 -- and perhaps as many as
200,000 -- illegal aliens seeking to remain in the United States under a
separate amnesty provision.

American Bar Association President John J. Curtin Jr. called the court ruling
"one of the most important immigration decisions in the last quarter-century."
The farm workers' lawyer, Ira J. Kurzban, said, "Without the court's [action],
as a practical matter, aliens would have had the courthouse door slammed shut to
them."

Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Duke Austin said of the
decision, "Clearly, they overruled us." But he said the case would not have "a
tremendous workload impact" and said immigration lawyers were "stretching it
when they try to say" it means victory for them in the other aliens cases as
well.

The case decided yesterday, McNary v. Haitian Refugee Center, concerned a part
of the 1986 immigration law that allowed illegal alien farm workers to remain in
the United States if they qualified as "special agricultural workers."

The farm workers and others filed suit in federal court, arguing that the way
immigration officials were processing their cases -- denying them the right to
present witnesses, failing to provide them with competent interpreters, and
neglecting to keep adequate records of their interviews with immigration
officials -- violated their due process rights.

A federal judge agreed, ordering the INS to review thousands of cases and
improve its practices. The federal government appealed, arguing that under the
immigration law the court had no jurisdiction in the case.

The government pointed to a section of the law that bars judicial review of
amnesty applications until an alien is about to be deported, at which point he
or she can challenge the agency's ruling before a federal appeals court.

The farm workers' lawyers contended that the law was meant only to limit federal
district courts from reviewing rulings against individual aliens, not to stop
courts from hearing broad-scale challenges to the fairness of agency procedures.

The lawyers said limiting judicial review to appeals of individual claims would
effectively deny aliens the ability to obtain court review of illegal agency
practices. In an opinion yesterday by Justice John Paul Stevens, the Supreme
Court agreed, upholding a ruling by the federal appeals court in Atlanta.

Stevens emphasized that Congress, in writing the 1986 immigration law, had not
clearly prohibited federal district courts from hearing such claims, and that
interpreting the statute in that way would block aliens from obtaining
"meaningful judicial review" of their claims. He said it would be the "practical
equivalent of a total denial" of a court hearing.

In a dissenting opinion, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, joined by Justice
Antonin Scalia, said the law explicitly restricted federal court jurisdiction
and that Congress had the power to do so in a situation where it "was obviously
interested in expeditiously processing an avalanche of claims from non-citizens
upon whom it was conferring a substantial benefit."

Kurzban said that of the original 40,000 cases, 22,000 farm workers, mostly in
Florida, were waiting to have their denials reviewed.

In addition, said Peter A. Schey of the Center for Human Rights and
Constitutional Law, the case is of "immeasurable importance" to another group of
at least 100,000 illegal aliens who failed to file for amnesty before the May
1988 deadline.

Schey said the aliens did not file because immigration officials erroneously
told them they had lost their eligibility by traveling outside the United
States. Several federal courts ordered immigration officials to extend the
deadline for accepting amnesty applications from such aliens, the INS argued
that the courts lacked the power to impose such orders, and the cases have been
on hold while the court considered McNary.

Schey said if the Supreme Court had ruled the other way, it "would have been a
devastating blow to their legal struggle to get through the amnesty door."

In other action yesterday, the court held unanimously that labor unions must
comply with reasonable requests from candidates for union office to distribute
campaign literature.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                               7 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 7, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Illegal Salvadoran Immigrants May Get a Break;
Lower Fees Proposed for Program Shielding Them From Deportation

Carlos Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C3

LENGTH: 540 words


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, swamped with complaints, has
proposed easing a financial burden for illegal Salvadorans immigrants seeking a
temporary reprieve from deportation under a new congressionally mandated
program.

INS Commissioner Gene McNary has recommended lowering processing fees for the
program, according to immigration rights activists who met with McNary last
week. McNary could not be reached for comment.

Known as TPS, or temporary protective status, the program bars authorities from
deporting Salvadorans for a period of 18 months, time enough to allow U.S.
officials to evaluate human rights conditions in that war-ravaged country. It
also gives the immigrant the right to work during that period.

To qualify, an immigrant must apply to the immigration service every six months,
paying fees each time. But proponents of a fee change have said the high costs
initially proposed by the INS have deterred applications. Currently, a family of
five must pay $ 1,650 during the life of the program, but under the revised
schedule the family would pay $ 765.

So far, 20,000 people have applied, immigration officials said, with Washington
receiving the highest number of applicants nationwide, followed by Baltimore.

Daniel A. Katz, executive director of the Central American Refugee Center in
Washington, said far more people should have applied. If the fee structure is
not changed and the pace continues, the program will fall dramatically short of
reaching the estimated 300,000 illegal immigrants nationwide and 50,000 locally
who qualify, Katz said.

Those who fail to apply run the risk of being deported.

Both the Office of Management and Budget and the U.S. Department of Justice must
approve any recommendations by McNary, said INS spokesman Duke Austin, who
confirmed only that the fee schedule is under review.

But an aide to Rep. Joseph Moakley (D-Mass.), who sponsored the legislation
creating temporary protective status, said he knows of no opposition to the
proposed fee change. "My understanding is that we should expect the changes
shortly," said aide Jim McGovern.

Austin said such programs always have a "bell curve" with few applicants at the
beginning of the program and a surge of applicants near the end. The deadline
for applying is at the end of June.

McNary's decision to recommend a fee change was hailed as a victory for a
coalition of Salvadoran activists who have been trying for more than a decade to
get the administration to recognize them as war refugees.

It also marks an unusual spirit of cooperation between the immigration service
and immigration rights groups.

"Our impression is that the immigration service, under Commissioner McNary, is
making every effort to implement this program fairly and efficiently," said
Frank Sharri, director of the National Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship
Forum, which has become the nationwide clearinghouse for immigrant rights
groups.

McNary's revised proposal places a limit on costs to families larger than three
people. The first three applicants would have to pay $ 135 initially. Then each
six months, the paying applicants would be charged an additional $ 60 to renew
their work authorization permits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                               8 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 24, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Arlington Lawyer Convicted in Immigration Scam;
Codefendant Also Guilty in Scheme Using Forged Papers to Get Permits for Illegal
Aliens

Robert F. Howe, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A17

LENGTH: 605 words


An Arlington immigration lawyer was convicted in federal court in Alexandria
yesterday of 62 felonies for orchestrating a scam that used counterfeit
documents to obtain work and residence permits for more than 100 illegal aliens
in the last two years.

Clifford C. Cooper, 42, convicted of conspiracy, mail fraud, wire fraud and
dozens of other charges, made more than $ 500,000 from the scheme last year
alone, according to prosecutors.

Oluwole Oloyede, Cooper's codefendant, also was found guilty of several felonies
for helping supply Cooper with clients and with such forged documents as Social
Security earnings reports, letters from employers and identification papers from
the Nigerian Embassy.

"It's the American dream for sale," Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeannemarie Gardes
said in her closing remarks to the jury. "Pay up, and you get your green card.
Pay up, and you get your residency permit."

U.S. District Judge James C. Cacheris set sentencing for July 5. Cooper faces a
maximum prison term of more than 200 years.

During the two-week trial, Gardes and Assistant U.S. Attorney Renee Christina
presented evidence showing that Cooper charged illegal aliens $ 2,000 to $ 3,500
in cash each for his help in obtaining permits.

Clients came long distances to his Arlington office, including from California,
Texas, Illinois and New York, according to testimony.

Benjamin Olufemi Fawehinimi, a Nigerian native and District pharmacist, was one
of many witnesses who explained how Cooper's scam worked.

Fawehinimi testified that he went to Cooper to apply for a residence permit and
ended up being prosecuted for an immigration misdemeanor because he followed
Cooper's advice.

Fawehinimi said that although he gave Cooper correct biographical information
and legitimate identification papers, he arrived at Cooper's office one day and
was given a new set of identification documents in which much of the information
had been changed.

"Mr. Cooper said I should study the documents for an interview with the
immigration department. They were not my former documents," Fawehinimi
testified. "Mr. Cooper said I should not worry. I should just cool down."

Fawehinimi also said that Cooper provided four letters in which former employers
vouched for Fawehinimi's character and work status. Fawehinimi testified that he
had not worked at any of the companies.

More than three dozen representatives of Washington area companies testified
during the trial that letters bearing their names and their companies'
letterheads were faked.

"None of the aliens worked for them, and none of them signed letters saying they
worked for them," Gardes said. "Some of those employers didn't even exist."

Gerald Bruce Lee, Cooper's attorney, said the government should no more
prosecute his client than it should prosecute an accountant for using false
income figures provided by clients who want to cheat on their taxes.

"They prepare the applications based on statements and documents they are
provided by their clients," Lee said.

Lee and James C. Clark, Oloyede's attorney, assailed the credibility of the
eight immigrants who were once Cooper's clients and who provided the heart of
the prosecution's case.

"The government has spent an inordinate amount of time proving something that is
uncontested," Clark told the jury. "That is that a scam was perpetrated on the
government, that certain aliens appeared before immigration officials and told
blatant, out-and-out lies."

Several of the witnesses had been convicted of immigration misdemeanors and had
been living in the United States for years on expired visas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                               9 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 28, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Immigration 'Sweepstakes': Odds Will Favor the Irish;
Program Earmarks 40% of Available Visas

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1470 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Sometime next month, the State Department is expected to announce details of an
unusual contest -- part lottery, part gold rush -- that will change the lives of
tens of thousands of foreigners living illegally in this country.

The prize is more valuable than gold to an illegal immigrant, a "green card"
allowing its owner to stay in the United States indefinitely. Winners do not
have to be Irish -- but it helps.

Under a provision in the Immigration Act of 1990, 40,000 green cards (they are
actually salmon-colored these days) will be handed out each year for the next
three years on a first-come, first-serve basis. Applicants must be from one of
34 countries, most of them in Europe, that have had little emigration to the
United States in the last 25 years.

A similar program five years ago drew 1.4 million applications for 10,000 visas,
and immigration lawyers and federal officials expect millions of applications
this time.

But there is a difference this time: In a display of ethnic political clout, 40
percent of the visas -- 16,000 -- must go to Irish applicants, a provision
courtesy of powerful lawmakers such as Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and
fomer representative Bruce A. Morrison (D-Conn.).

The "Irish Sweepstakes" is what the Irish news media here and in Ireland are
calling the process. Irish abroad and thousands of illegal immigrants here are
waiting anxiously to learn the special post office box number in Washington and
the date applications may be submitted.

One 26-year-old construction worker who came here last year says the reason for
the intense interest is simple: The Irish here, like any other group of
undocumented workers, are "an underclass," forced, as he has been, to take "the
crummiest jobs at the lowest wages."

"I don't think I can go on like this too much longer," said the man, who like
others interviewed asked that his name not be used.

The Irish illegals are a part of a huge wave of Irish immigration to this
country that rivals the influx at the turn of the century and in the 1950s. In
the last decade, about 50,000 have arrived, legally and illegally, according to
the Irish government's figures.

They have come, mostly here and to New York, for the same reason as their
forefathers: jobs. Unemployment in Ireland is at a staggering 18 percent and
expected by some Irish experts to climb to 20 percent in the next year or so. As
a member of the European Community, the Irish can travel to any other member
country, and many go to England, but large numbers still come here.

The official estimate is that there are about 5,000 illegal Irish in the Boston
area. But Irish immigrant advocacy groups estimate the national total at
120,000, with nearly 30,000 here and more in New York.

Lena Deevy, director of the Irish Immigration Reform Movement office here,
acknowledges any number is at best an estimate. "It's an anonymous floating
population," she says, "it's like counting the homeless."

And life is getting harder for those here. A 32-year-old waitress in a Boston
suburb said it was easy to find work when she came here six years ago, when
Massachusetts was in a boom economy.

But the restaurant where she worked closed down as hard times hit this region.
Then a second closed down and then a third. The 1987 Immigration Reform Act made
it illegal for employers to hire undocumented workers. That closed off
opportunities at large companies such as those in the computer industry -- where
the construction worker used to be employed, or the insurance industry -- where
the waitress used to work.

"You can't apply for a job," she said. "You can't answer a want ad" because of
the 1987 law. "It's all word of mouth." Finally she found a job as a housekeeper
for the last 18 months that paid over $ 10 an hour. "They dropped me three weeks
ago, said they wouldn't be needing anyone."

Several of the Irish immigrants talked of the social isolation of being
undocumented in this country, of the need to keep a low profile at all times.
"My social life is limited to the Irish sector," said the waitress. "I can't
talk to Americans -- you just have to tell too many lies. You never know who
you're talking to."

"It's like living on the edge," Deevy said. "There is a lot of fear" that
someone -- an enemy, an employer, a jilted lover or jealous colleague -- "will
squeal to the INS [Immigration and Naturalization Service]," even though, in
reality, few are ever deported.

The fear of exposure leaves the undocumented vulnerable to crime and
exploitation, Deevy and state officials said, even though the city insists it
will not turn over crime victims' names to the INS. Several of those interviewed
report incidents of Irish men being mugged on Friday nights after cashing their
checks in the pub, a center of Irish social life.

But some of the undocumented "are ingenious enough to get around the system,"
Deevy said.

Among the success stories is a 26-year-old health clinic worker who arrived on a
tourist visa two years ago and stayed. She makes $ 14 to $ 15 an hour plus
overtime at the clinic, she said, and works baby-sitting and other jobs on the
side. She owns a new car, and her life, for the most part, is like that of her
neighbors in a nearby suburb. One difference: She cashes her paychecks at the
pub.

Another who has mastered the system works at a large law firm here. An attorney
in Ireland, he has a bank account, driver's license and graduated from law
school here. But he can't take the bar exam and practice law in this country
until he gets that green card.

For the Irish and the Polish, the next largest group expected to apply,
obtaining the green cards is critical.

"It is a matter of life and death for many Polish people," said Eva Wierzynska,
an aide in the office of Rep. Dan Rostenkowski (D-Ill.) in Chicago. Many illegal
Polish "have nothing to return to" in Poland, she said, and like the Irish, are
living in fear of discovery. "I personally know one man who is living in his car
because he's afraid to rent an apartment. He says he cannot go back."

The tension over the lottery has sparked ethnic rivalries and wild rumors. One
rumor in the Polish community has it that the Irish have fixed the lottery in
their favor through manipulation of the U.S. Postal Service.

There is also intense speculation on ways to beat the system in what a State
Department official said will in effect be a "crap shoot."

There is no prohibition or penalty for multiple entries -- although machine-made
duplicates will be electronically filtered out -- so officials expect a
substantial number of applications per person. Applications received either
before or after the week-long application period, expected to be in September,
will not be considered.

Since winners are selected on a first-come basis, many applicants are debating
whether they should come or send someone to Washington as soon as the post
office details are announced and mail as many applications as they can afford at
12:01 a.m. It is not an amnesty program, but immigrants already in the country
will have a substantial advantage over those outside, especially since the
applications must be accompanied by a letter from an employer promising a job.

Law firms around the country are signing up clients, both corporations and
individuals, even though immigrant advocacy groups insist no lawyers are needed.

"It's all a matter of whose letter gets processed first," said Cornelius D.
Scully, an official in the Consular Affairs bureau in the State Department.

In the last program, he said, a colleague, doing a favor for a friend's Canadian
aunt, sat outside the Brentwood postal service center in the District putting
batches of applications in the bins every hour or so. The colleague spent the
evening chatting with a Canadian couple who had driven down to do the same
thing.

"The couple won," Scully said, "but the aunt didn't."

I'm asked: 'Would [dumping hundreds of applications in person] enhance my
chances?' I tell them you have to make up your own mind. I can't answer, I don't
know."

But Washington immigration lawyer Michael A. Maggio insists that, while there
are no guarantees, "It's a matter of the odds and there are steps you can take
to increase your odds," including filing large numbers of applications in
Washington. Maggio is charging clients $ 350 to post 100 applications.

The international firm of Coudert Bros. recently wrote its corporate clients.
"We are charging a flat fee of $ 2,550 (plus $ 500 for each dependent) for
registration in this program," the firm said, with $ 800 to cover application
expenses.

Scully insists, however, "there are no guarantees. There is more mythology for
the right formula for winning. People have different formulas. What's the right
way and wrong way? I don't know."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANT SCOURS NEWSPAPER IN THE BLACK ROSE, A
BOSTON SOCIAL HUB FOR IRIISH IN THE UNITED STATES ILLEGALLY. CAROL GUZY

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              10 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 5, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S. Seizes Illegal Aliens From China;
High-Seas Transfer Videotaped by INS

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A5

LENGTH: 457 words


U.S. immigration officials said yesterday they had arrested 126 illegal aliens
from China who had arrived in southern California last week after a high-seas
transfer from a Taiwanese fishing trawler to a chartered passenger ship.

U.S. officials also arrested 13 of the alleged smugglers, six of them aboard the
ship, and Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said those arrests
are particularly valuable.

"We don't often get an organization," said INS executive assistant Michael T.
Lempres. "In this case we got an organization, or at least the middle ranks of
one."

The INS began its investigation a few months ago when two people in the Los
Angeles area began inquiring about chartering a vessel to pick up a large number
of people on the high seas. The INS, tipped off about the unusual request,
supplied the two people with the 170-foot ship, Lempres said.

The INS ship and the 200-foot Taiwanese trawler met Friday about 320 miles off
the coast of California, officials said. INS agents videotaped the Chinese
climbing down the side of the trawler on ladders and being taken in rubber rafts
to the second vessel for the 32-hour journey in rough seas to San Pedro, Calif.,
a port south of Los Angeles. From there the aliens were taken to a "safe house"
in a residential area in Garden Grove, Calif., which served as a gathering point
for the next move, INS officials said.

The aliens, many of them from Fuzhou directly across the Formosa strait from
Taiwan, had allegedly paid up to $ 30,000 each for their passage. "This was
obviously part of a very well-organized operation," Lempres said. They were
bound not only for New York and Los Angeles, Lempres said, but for cities in a
number of states, including Ohio, Florida and North Carolina.

INS agents moved in Tuesday night after they saw small groups of aliens begin
leaving the safe house. Six of them, and two of those arrested for smuggling,
were picked up at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York. Additional
alleged smugglers and two aliens were picked up at Los Angeles International
Airport en route to New York, and 118 aliens were found when agents searched the
safe house.

INS agents have determined that the aliens had "arrived owing money" to the
smugglers, Lempres said. Such aliens often are essentially indentured to those
who bring them here, he said.

In Los Angeles, Robert Moschorak, INS district director, described the aliens as
uneducated laborers but said they were surprisingly well-dressed, the Associated
Press reported.

"They all wore suits and ties and were bringing other clothes with them," he
said. "They were prepared not to stand out in our society." eatshop or for
organized crime to pay back the smugglers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              11 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 21, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Link Alleged In Bribery Scheme;
Woman Says Agents Got $ 75,000

Carlos Sanchez, Gabriel Escobar, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 738 words


The U.S. Office of the Inspector General has been investigating a claim by an
Arlington woman that she bribed two employees of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service to secure alien resident cards for illegal immigrants,
government sources said.

The status of the investigation is unclear, but sources said Rocio Rivera,
president of Multiservices Corp., an Arlington-based visa consulting firm, may
have been victimized by people misrepresenting themselves as INS officials.

Doug Tillet, a spokesman for the Inspector General's Office, would neither
confirm nor deny any investigation. And Duke Austin, an INS spokesman, said the
agency has no record of employing the two people that Rivera claimed to have
given $ 75,000 in exchange for the fraudulent documents.

Resident alien cards, also known as green cards, serve as proof that aliens are
in the United States legally.

Rivera could not be reached for comment, but she made her allegations public
yesterday morning on Radio Borinquen (WILC-AM 90), a Laurel-based
Spanish-language radio station.

So far the Inspector General's Office and the INS have found no evidence that
fraudulent cards were issued and have been unable to verify other important
parts of Rivera's story, sources said.

However, several immigration lawyers in Northern Virginia have been urging the
Inspector General's Office to continue its investigation. Sam McTyre, one of the
lawyers, said a former client of Rivera's gave a private lawyer a fraudulent
green card that the client said he obtained from Multiservices.

McTyre has been working on behalf of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association to put more than two dozen visa consultants out of business, saying
they are practicing law without licenses.

Area visa consultants advertise a range of services for immigrants, from
notarizing documents to filling out complicated legal forms.

Some of Rivera's customers who lost money first gave details about her operation
more than three months ago on a morning talk show aired on Radio Borinquen, said
Alejandro Carrasco, the station's general manager. Danilo Diron, a reporter for
the station, followed up on the allegations.

On Thursday, Multiservices manager Fernando Guillen agreed to speak on the show.
Rivera went on yesterday.

They told how 76 immigrants, most of them from Bolivia, paid as much as $ 3,000
in hope of fraudulently obtaining green cards.

Guillen said Rivera should accept responsibility for the loss of money. And
Rivera said that while she would accept partial responsibility -- would even go
to prison -- she wanted to expose others.

In an interview on the radio program, which lasted almost an hour, Rivera said
she had been deceived by three people who she believed were acting as
intermediaries between her and someone inside the INS.

All told, Rivera said she gave the men $ 150,000 over eight months to get green
cards, beginning last December. The first $ 75,000 went to a man, referred to on
the radio program by initials, who set up Multiservices. The man, described only
as South American, disappeared with the money Feb. 26, Rivera said.

Asked on the air why the man's disappearance did not alarm her, Rivera said she
remained confident that the deals would come through. The sudden appearance of
four green cards, all obtained through the contacts at INS, reinforced that
feeling, Diron said.

Rivera told listeners yesterday that she accepted responsibility for what
happened. She said that when she learned, through rumors, that someone had
reported her company to authorities, she went to the INS and told them the whole
story. Within a half-hour, she said, investigators from the Justice Department
arrived to question her.

"I personally have gone to the Department of Justice and asked that this
situation be cleared up so the public doesn't for one moment think I tried to
deceive them," Rivera said in Spanish. "The only objective I had was to . . .
improve their situation in this country."

In the course of the subsequent inquiry, investigators with the Inspector
General's Office walked Rivera through the Baltimore district office -- where
she claims one of the bribed officials worked -- but she was not able to
identify anyone, sources said.

Rivera, 31, a Bolivian who has five children, said she has documents to prove
that all the money was turned over to the men whom she accuses of carrying out
the fraud.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              12 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 30, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Arrest of Immigrant at Arlington Courthouse Stirs Concern

Stephanie Griffith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 665 words


Hispanic leaders and immigration lawyers in Arlington County are worried that
the recent arrest in the courthouse of an allegedly illegal immigrant by an
Immigration and Naturalization Service agent will discourage other immigrants
from appearing as witnesses and using social programs available in the building.

Thomas Campbell, an INS agent, arrested Carlos Vasquez, 27, of El Salvador, last
Friday in a courthouse corridor, after Vasquez appeared in court on assault and
battery charges. Vasquez was handcuffed and arrested when he was unable to
produce residency papers.

Although they agreed illegal immigrants should not be permitted to stay in the
United States, immigration lawyers and Hispanic leaders objected to the
service's use of the courthouse for what they describe as a hunting ground.

"No Hispanic, legal or illegal, is going to dare set foot in the Arlington
County Court House as defendants, witnesses or victims, if they know the minute
they get out of court, they're going to get nailed by INS," said Vernon Gutjahr,
Vasquez's attorney.

"It flies in the face of some of the most sacred principles of our legal
system," he added. "What are they going to do next, stand outside the Catholic
church and arrest people coming out of Mass?"

Martha Wyatt, executive director of the Hispanic Committee of Northern Virginia,
said she is concerned that Hispanics won't make use of social programs and legal
services with offices in the courthouse. "It's a serious problem," she said.

For the last few weeks, Campbell, a four-year employee of INS, has been
cooperating with county police in the investigation of Rocio Rivera and Fernando
Guillen, who were arrested in October on charges of grand larceny and practicing
law without a license after they provided dozens of illegal immigrants with
false immigration documents. INS officials said Campbell has temporarily been
given an office in the police department next to the courthouse.

Attorneys criticized Campbell's practice of scanning the dockets regularly in
search of defendants who might be illegal immigrants, and said that on occasion
he has questioned Hispanics in the courthouse corridors, although the arrest of
Vasquez is the first.

In a written statement, William J. Carroll, district director of the INS office
in the District, said INS agents often work on special assignment with local
police or sheriff's departments. In such investigations, Carroll said, the agent
"may be given information which will cause him to be in a courthouse or a
courtroom for the purpose of identifying and locating a deportable alien."

Carroll noted however, that Campbell has no "special assignment" to survey the
courthouse in search of illegal immigrants in Arlington or in any other
jurisdiction. Carroll said the INS will continue to work from the Arlington
police station as criminal cases of mutual interest arise.

"If you've got criminal aliens in the United States it's our job to remove
them," said Duke Austin, an INS spokesman.

Raul Torres, chairman of the Committee on Hispanic Affairs of the Arlington
County Bar Association, contends that the surveillance at the Arlington
courthouse seems to target Hispanics.

"We know that INS has been in the courts before for specific purposes, like to
serve a warrant or to look up certain court records, but not on a fishing
expedition of any Hispanics who might be in the halls of the courthouse," Torres
said.

But Arlington Commonwealth Attorney Helen F. Fahey said: "There is no one
randomly accosting Hispanics."

Arthur Spitzer, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Washington area
office, said no law prevents the INS from making arrests at the courthouse but
agreed the practice could have a chilling effect on the participation of
immigrants in the legal process.

"I would think that if the prosecutor's office wanted to encourage the
participation of aliens, they'll have to assure them that they wouldn't face
arrest," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              13 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 4, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Judge Extends Ban on Haitian Repatriation

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4

LENGTH: 579 words


A federal judge in Miami last night extended a ban on forced repatriation of
Haitian boat people and gave the Bush administration one week to show that it
could ensure that no bona fide political refugees would be sent back to the
troubled island.

The preliminary injunction by Judge C. Clyde Atkins, which the administration
reportedly will appeal today, continues a Nov. 19 order that left thousands of
Haitians stranded on Coast Guard cutters until the government built tent cities
for them at the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. They have left Haiti
following a Sept. 30 coup that ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

The ruling came in a lawsuit brought by the Haitian Refugee Center Inc. that
challenged the adequacy of screening procedures used by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) to determine whether the boat people were
legitimate political refugees.

Atkins said that the United States, having signed a 1967 United Nations
agreement not to return refugees whose life or freedom would be threatened, was
required to give all those claiming political refugee status a fair hearing.

The administration was barred from further repatriations "until the merits of
the [case] were resolved or until [administration officials] implement and
follow procedures such as those contained in the INS guidelines to ensure that
Haitians with bona fide political asylum claims are not forced to return to
Haiti in violation of" the U.N. agreement.

"To this end, within seven days, the defendants shall submit to the court a
recital of the procedures to be followed" in the screening process, Atkins said.

Refugee center attorney Ira Kurzban called the ruling "a great legal victory. We
never contested the government's right to implement its immigration laws . . .
which are not only to deport but also to protect immigrants. What we challenge
is the executive's implementation of these laws."

He said the administration told him it would file an appeal today.

Administration officials said yesterday there were about 5,300 refugees on Coast
Guard or Navy ships at the base or in the tent cities.

Haiti's ambassador here, Jean Casimir, a supporter of the deposed Aristide, said
the boat people had been "terrorized" by the military regime and "those people
should not be sent back."

Administration officials say the refugees are largely economic migrants who
would not qualify for asylum.

State Department spokesman Margaret Tutwiler said yesterday that only 197 of
3,455 interviewed by INS officials so far "have been found to have a plausible"
claim to asylum and 161 of them already have been brought to this country.

"The law does not say that if any citizen is able to flee a country that is
experiencing instability or violence he or she automatically is admitted into
the United States as a refugee," Tutwiler said.

Under a 1981 agreement between Washington and Port-au-Prince, nearly all Haitian
boat people have been returned to Haiti. The administration temporarily
suspended that policy after the coup.

The State Department, fearing a flood of Haitian refugees to Florida, searched
for other countries to provide temporary haven for them. So far, only Honduras
and Venezuela have accepted about 350 Haitians.

The limited help from other nations prompted the administration to go back to
returning fleeing Haitians. More than 500 were returned before the Miami court
blocked the program to study the situation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              14 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 19, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

'Private Prison' Holds Airline Passengers Seeking U.S. Asylum

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1193 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


On the second floor of a Travelodge near John F. Kennedy International Airport,
security guards employed by a group of airlines have created a "private prison"
to hold a small but growing category of foreigners seeking asylum in this
country.

Last week, at the Travelodge and other hotels near the airport, nearly four
dozen Somalis, Chinese and Indians -- including 14 children as young as 6 months
-- were being held. Some prisoners were shackled.

The unusual situation, sharply criticized by both the airlines and advocates for
refugees, is the result of an Immigration and Naturalization Service requirement
that the airlines -- not the INS -- detain those who arrive in this country to
change planes en route to another country but then seek asylum as political
refugees.

Those passengers are a very small, but increasingly visible, percentage of
people illegally entering the country by plane. The overwhelming majority of
illegal entrants stopped at airports each year are subject to detention in
conventional INS facilities, although many are released because of a lack of
detention space.

The so-called transit passengers arrive with valid documents, false documents or
no documents at all. When problems arise, the airlines are willing to return
them to wherever they boarded -- or wherever their visas said they intended to
go.

But the INS argues that, under contracts the airlines sign so that passengers
can change planes in this country, the airlines must detain the passengers who
seek political asylum until they receive a hearing, a process that may take
months.

Richard E. Norton, an official with the Air Transport Association of America,
which represents the airlines, said the INS policy "is blatantly illegal. The
contract has no requirement for detention by the airlines. It only requires us
to present them to immigration officials at the airport and see to it that they
get on the next airplane."

Association officials are preparing a lawsuit against the INS over the contract
disagreement. The airlines are responsible for ensuring that passengers headed
for this country have proper documention, and they paid $ 21 million in
penalties last year. They say that money, plus another $ 200 million collected
from passenger user fees, should cover the detention costs.

Alitalia, which last week had the largest number of detainees at the hotel,
estimates it has spent more than $ 500,000 in the last two months to pay for
three guard companies and the prisoners' rooms, meals and medical needs,
according to an airline representative.

"This is ridiculous," Varig representative Robert Nelson-Smith said in an
interview. Nelson-Smith said Varig, the Brazilian airline, was holding 10 men
from mainland China last week at the Travelodge, although three escaped through
a window. "We're running a private prison. We're an airline and we're getting
victimized."

Meanwhile, the prisoners sit in small rooms, drying laundry on the radiators,
watching television shows they cannot understand, eating and moving about when
their guards permit it.

Some of them are allowed to go to the restaurant on the first floor. Others are
served meals in their rooms. Most have been at the Travelodge for about six
weeks, and may stay another three or four months awaiting hearings.

"This is a human rights outrage and it's unconstitutional," said Arthur Helton
of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, which represents several of those
held. "No court has ever accepted that people can be subject to unconstitutional
conditions of confinement."

Nearly all the Somalis are members of the Darod clan, affiliated with former
ruler Mohamed Siad Barre, who was deposed in January 1991 during factional
fighting won by a rival clan.

Most said they led urban middle-class -- or better -- lives in Somalia, and some
were relatives of mid-level government or military officials. Some were wounded
in the fighting. One man had been shot in the back trying to flee from troops.
Another is permanently disabled and on crutches after troops crushed his left
hip.

Now their daily lives are controlled by the dictates of the various security
companies or even the individual guards on duty, according to lawyers
representing the prisoners.

Some of the guards are accommodating. Mohamed Farah Abdulle, a former Somali
immigration officer at Mogadishu airport who has been held with his family since
Dec. 6, said his wife was driven by a security guard to a nearby store to buy a
baby carriage for their 6-month-old son. The security company also took the baby
to the hospital for medical treatment.

But Abdulle, whose father had been minister of commerce, said his request for a
second room for his four children was turned down. Abdulle, like several other
Somalis interviewed, said he fled the violence after dozens of family members,
including his father, were killed by government troops and that he eventually
made his way to Italy.

Fearing he would not be allowed to remain in Italy, he said he paid $ 12,000 for
false passports, airline tickets and a visa to Jamaica and asked for asylum when
he arrived at JFK. Abdulle and his family were released on parole Thursday
pending adjudication of his claim.

Two other women, one with five children and the other with four, also were
released last week after a reporter interviewed them at the Travelodge. One
woman had been held since Dec. 4, the other since Dec. 16.

While many of the Somali prisoners are allowed to move about the hotel with
their guards, some of the Chinese have been chained to each other, according to
Jeannette Sloan Warner, an attorney for two of the men. Warner said her clients,
detained since Nov. 21, told her they were kept shackled to each other at the
ankles nearly all of the time and were allowed no contact with anyone except
their attorneys.

Nelson-Smith said he was not aware that any of the detainees were shackled. "I
don't want that," he said, adding that the security company may have determined
that such a step was needed for the two men.

Stephanie Marks, an attorney with the lawyers committee, said lawyers for the
prisoners file requests for parole with the INS pending a hearing, but they are
frequently denied. One Somalian man, who asked that his name not be used,
arrived here Nov. 27 on a Delta airlines flight from Rome. He lost a kidney
after being shot by troops and arrived with a visa for Brazil. His attorneys
requested that he be paroled pending adjudiciation of his asylum claim.

INS assistant district director Edward J. McElroy, in a Jan. 3 letter denying
the request, explained that "since at least 1981, it has been INS policy to
carefully and narrowly exercise the parole authority" for people in the man's
situation under the "clear intent of Congress that it be used in a restrictive
manner."

McElroy said that, if released pending a hearing, the 19-year-old man would
likely remain illegally if the asylum request were denied.

He "obviously ignored the proper, lawful procedures and chose to attempt to
enter the United States uninvited and unlawfully. Such a course of conduct
cannot be condoned," McElroy said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, FIVE SOMALI CHILDREN, LEFT, WATCH TELEVISION AT HOTEL WHERE THEY
WERE HELD AFTER ARRIVING IN NEW YORK DEC. 16. AT RIGHT, CHEN ZHOU FEN AND CHEN
ZHEN JIAN, FAR RIGHT, HAVE BEEN SHACKLED TOGETHER DURING MUCH OF THEIR NEARLY
TWO-MONTH DETENTION. CHRISTINA YOUNG FOR TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              15 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 15, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

Md. Man Gets 6-Month Prison Term For Illegally Importing Nannies

Paul W. Valentine, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B3

LENGTH: 347 words


The owner of a suburban Baltimore employment agency was sentenced this week to
six months in prison in connection with bringing hundreds of Caribbean women to
the Washington-Baltimore area to work illegally as nannies.

Samuel Kaplan, 58, owner of Select Employment Services Ltd., also was fined $
10,000 Wednesday and ordered to perform 100 hours of community service by U.S.
District Judge Herbert F. Murray in Baltimore.

Kaplan pleaded guilty in December to violating U.S. immigration law by inducing
illegal aliens to enter the United States and referring them to jobs for a fee.

According to court records, Kaplan recruited 600 women from Trinidad and other
Caribbean islands between 1986 and 1989, grossing hundreds of thousands of
dollars in placement fees. Many paid $ 2,000 to $ 2,500 apiece.

Under Kaplan's instructions, prosecutors said, the women entered the United
States posing as vacationers and had no work permits, or green cards.

According to the prosecutors, Kaplan placed the women with families seeking
live-in babysitters. The women typically were paid $ 135 to $ 200 a week,
considerably less than their American counterparts, prosecutors said.

In another case, immigration officials announced the arrests yesterday of a
Delaware lawyer, her husband and her brother in an alleged bribery scheme to
obtain legal status for scores of unqualified foreigners under the alien amnesty
program.

Walter D. Cadman, district director for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Baltimore, said Valerie J. Glover was arrested at her Milford home
along with her husband, Tuste Tonwe, a physician, and her brother, Michael.

Cadman said that after Valerie Glover allegedly attempted to bribe an
immigration officer in October, agents set up a sting operation at a hotel in
downtown Baltimore, where Glover brought more than 140 aliens who paid $ 74,000
in bribes to immigration agents.

Cadman said Glover falsified documents and coached the aliens to say falsely
that they had come to the United States before January 1982, the amnesty cutoff
date.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              16 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 14, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

Smuggling of People, Goods Is Big Business in China;
Profits Enormous for Coastal Villagers

Lena H. Sun, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1378 words

DATELINE: ZHANGGANG, China


Unlike fishing towns elsewhere in China, residents in this southeastern coastal
area claim a special distinction: Many of them have a son or brother working in
the United States, often as a cook in New York's Chinatown.

The fishermen in this village that juts out into the Taiwan Strait say it does
not matter that most of their relatives entered the United States illegally,
paying up to $ 50,000 each to organized Chinese crime syndicates to be smuggled
out of China on fishing boats. The important thing, they say, is how much money
the immigrants can earn abroad.

Farther south along the coast, authorities are on alert for smuggling of a
different nature. Coast guard and customs patrols are trying to stem the flow
into China of foreign cigarettes -- many with American brand names. Using small
fishing boats to transport cigarettes from ships in the open sea, entire
villages and local Communist Party organizations are becoming involved because
the profits are enormous, according to official reports.

Smuggling of people and contraband is a booming business in Fujian province.
Historically one of China's most outward-looking regions, Fujian has a tradition
of emigration, sea trade and smuggling that dates back centuries. During the
19th century, it was from this coast that many Chinese set sail for Malaysia,
Indonesia, the Philippines and the gold fields of California.

After the Chinese Communist victory over the Nationalists in 1949, however,
Fujian was forced to turn inward, hindering its economic progress for nearly 30
years because of tension with the Nationalists, who had fled to nearby Taiwan.

But a decade of market-oriented economic reforms and warming relations with
Taiwan in recent years have opened Fujian's economy and society, particularly
the port cities along the east coast.

As a result, the money mentality that is the driving force in adjacent Guangdong
province has taken firm hold here too. Young entrepreneurs from the port city of
Shishi wear heavy gold bracelets and thick gold chains. In the city of Xiamen,
the province's Special Economic Zone, one of five areas Beijing has designated
as free-market laboratories, cigarette lighters made to look like green American
Express cards are a popular status symbol.

The desire to make money is evident in these fishing villages of Changle county.
In Chinese, the name means "Long Happiness," but for U.S. immigration officials,
the county has become synonymous with illegal immigration. "All the alarm bells
go off when we see that someone is from Changle," said one U.S. official.

In recent years, the number of Chinese leaving illegally for the United States
and Japan has increased, with most of them hailing from Fujian province, U.S.
and Japanese officials say.

"People who go to Japan, they have to do hard work, but they can earn tens of
thousands of yuan in a month. That's why people go," said one fisherman in his
mid-forties, as he repaired a boat sunk deep in a sandy beach.

Local residents say arrangements are usually made through a smuggler, known in
Chinese as a "snakehead," who often has ties to organized crime gangs in Hong
Kong and Taiwan. The price, they say, is about 110,000 yuan, or $ 20,000, to go
to Japan, and up to 180,000 yuan, or $ 33,000, to go to the United States. U.S.
officials have said the price for a trip to the United States is often as high
as $ 50,000.

Borrowing money from relatives and friends, these illegal immigrants often
become like indentured servants or are forced to turn to crime to repay the
debt, according to U.S. officials.

In February alone, U.S. authorities seized several boatloads of illegal Chinese
immigrants trying to sneak into Honolulu and Los Angeles. Ninety-three
passengers aboard a Taiwanese fishing vessel entering Honolulu were reportedly
from Fujian province.

In 1989, more than 2,000 Chinese illegal immigrants tried to enter Japanese
ports; all were sent back to China, a Japanese Embassy official in Beijing said.
Most were from Fujian province.

The would-be immigrants have added a new twist to their stories. In many cases,
they have tried to take advantage of international sentiment over the 1989
Chinese army crackdown on demonstrators for democracy in Beijing and claim
political asylum, even though they played no role in the movement, according to
U.S. and Japanese officials.

Penalties for illegal emigration appear to vary. In the village of Houyu, one
resident said "nothing happens" to the many who are caught and sent back. But
one Fujian farm worker who organized 220 people to sneak into Japan was brought
back and sentenced to eight years in prison, according to an official report in
January.

Authorities estimate that at least 30 percent of the people in Changle county
alone have close relatives in the United States. Illegal immigration has become
so commonplace that no one is left out. In nearby Luding village, "the
[Communist] party branch secretary's son left last June for Japan," said one
fisherman. "He was smuggled out."

In Houyu village, where money from abroad has helped build a middle school and
pave dirt roads, one woman said many families simply rely on their overseas
relatives instead of working. "My sister's whole family is supported by her
husband's uncle [in the United States]," she said.

The flow of illegal immigrants, while it has existed for years, is particularly
embarrassing for China's hard-liners, who like to point out that their citizens
lead a much better life than those in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet
Union.

"In recent years, some lawless elements, seeking to earn high profits, have
tried hard to induce others to illegally cross the border by sea to sneak into
Japan and other countries," warned an article in January in the official China
Procurator's Journal. "Such activities have seriously affected social stability
and the image of the country."

When it comes to the smuggling of cigarettes, China, with more than 300 million
smokers, has much more at stake than image. Internally produced cigarettes are
the government's single biggest source of tax revenue. The state tobacco
monopoly is losing tax revenue -- at least 5 billion yuan, or about $ 917
million last year, according to an official report in February -- with a surge
in black-market cigarettes that resulted when the authorities increased the
tariff on imported cigarettes in 1991.

Fujian, because of its proximity to Taiwan, is one of four southeastern
provinces where smuggling is particularly rampant. It has become so profitable
that in some coastal villages, "everyone was involved in smuggling; even some
grass-roots party organizations were controlled by smugglers," the news agency
said.

Fishermen who transport cases of cigarettes often can earn twice their regular
annual income in a single trip, according to local Chinese. The fee for
transporting one case of cigarettes -- 50 cartons in a case -- is as high as 100
yuan, about $ 18. Some fishing boats can carry up to 300 cases of cigarettes.

A Xiamen customs official who heads southern Fujian's anti-smuggling team said
in an interview that the number of cigarettes seized in 1991 was 2 1/2 times the
number confiscated in 1990. The total value of the goods rose nearly 300 percent
over the previous year.

Most of the cigarette smuggling takes place on the open sea, he said. Large
ships, known as "mother ships," wait on the edge of China's territorial waters
for the Chinese fishing boats to come and receive the goods.

"The mother ship is often hired by the smuggling heads in Hong Kong, who rent or
buy the boat," said Yang Qianxian, deputy director of Xiamen customs.

To transport the goods inland, smugglers refit trucks for hiding cigarettes.
Often, scouting motorcycles go first, maintaining communication using
walkie-talkies, according to official reports.

Customs officials have been thwarted in their efforts to crack down on smuggling
because ringleaders in Hong Kong and Taiwan are out of their reach. There are
too many ships for an anti-smuggling force that numbers only several hundred at
the height of the season, in late spring and early fall. And penalties for the
fishermen who transport the goods are virtually nonexistent, Yang said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: MAP, LARRY FOGEL

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              17 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 17, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Film Capsules

SECTION: WEEKEND; PAGE N44

LENGTH: 447 words


Capsule reviews by Desson Howe unless noted. OPENINGS THE BABE (PG) -- See
review on Page 42. BRAIN DONORS (PG) -- In this comedy from the "Naked Gun" team
(producers David and Jerry Zucker, writer Pat Proft), misfits John Turturro, Bob
Nelson and Mel Smith find themselves thrown into the world of high society when
a rich widow calls upon them to start a ballet company. Area theaters. CITY OF
JOY (PG-13) -- See review on Page 42. DEEP COVER (R) -- See review on Page 42.
DELICATESSEN (Unrated) -- Here's yet another cannibalistic comedy to swallow,
this time from French filmmakers Jean-Pierre Jeunet and Marc Caro. It's set in
the meatless, post-apocalyptic future, in which a butcher has to get his flesh
from the human livestock in his building. In French with subtitles at the K-B
Janus. EXPOSURE (R) -- In Rio de Janeiro, street photographer Peter Coyote
inadvertently stumbles into a world of drug trafficking and arms dealing when he
attempts to document the city's knife fighters. After he and girlfriend Amanda
Pays are attacked, he seeks revenge on these mysterious crime figures. Also
features Tcheky Karyo as a master fighter who trains Coyote in the art of knife
fighting. Area theaters. RESIDENT ALIEN: QUENTIN CRISP IN AMERICA (Unrated) --
"I'm only here to try to say the words you came to hear," gay dandy Quentin
Crisp tells a gathering of New York fans. "I have no opinions, no voice of any
kind, except the desire to please. This is my entire purpose in life." The
pantomimically effeminate Englishman, whose autobiography was filmed in the
1970s (featuring John Hurt), emigrated to New York at 73 for self-promotional
fame. Jonathan Nossiter's documentary follows Crisp (in his mid-eighties) as he
receives well-wishers (from Hurt to Screw magazine founder Al Goldstein) or,
more appropriately, seeks them out. He's essentially a faux Oscar Wilde, full of
canned, witty quotations -- usually about himself. One of his favorites is,
"I've come to represent a sad person's view of a gay person." Theorizes writer
Hunter Madsen: "He's become a sort of gay Stepin Fetchit." Nossiter interviews
disparate Crisp observers, such as Fran Lebowitz, former agent Guy Kettelhack
and rock star Sting. He also explores the New York downtown world of artists and
other self-obsessives that Crisp lives in. It's a universe that includes foppish
painters David McDermott and Peter McGough, Warhol-era drag queen Holly Woodlawn
and "Franco the Great," a Harlem street artist who paints hokey scenes on walls
with his eyes blindfolded. Nossiter's scatter-portrait approach may not be
narrowly focused, but it's all the more rewarding and revealing. At the
Biograph.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: REVIEW

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              18 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 4, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

34 Cubans Defect in Russian-Made Tourist Helicopter

From News Services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 590 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 3, 1992


Thirty-four Cuban men, women and children crowded aboard a tourist helicopter
belonging to the Cuban state airline today and flew to Florida in a carefully
planned defection.

U.S. Customs Service aircraft escorted the Russian-made Cubana Airlines
helicopter, a civilian version of the Mi-8 military craft, to Tamiami Airport
outside Miami where the jubilant passengers met waiting relatives and
immigration officials.

"Obviously I'm very happy," said one defector who would not give her name.
"Freedom is marvelous. I just couldn't take it there anymore."

Jim Hunter, owner of HMC Helicopter Service Inc., who watched the arrival at the
small airport used by private planes, said, "Some of them had their luggage and
everything. They were unloading . . . just like it was a regular flight."

The 34 asked for political asylum and were taken to the immigration service's
Krome Avenue Detention Center for processing. They are expected to be released
quickly under a federal law granting special residency status to Cubans.

Exile groups said the risky mass defection is another sign that conditions in
Cuba are deteriorating rapidly. Shortages of food, fuel and consumer goods,
acute last year and likely to worsen in 1992, are a direct result of the breakup
of the Soviet Union, Cuba's longtime ally and main economic supplier.

On Thursday, Cuba introduced a plan to cut national electricity consumption by
12 percent to cope with a chronic energy crisis. Cuban households had been asked
last year to reduce consumption by 10 percent.

"One thing I think is significant is we are seeing larger groups, and we are
also seeing military officials who are defecting and taking very substantial
risks," said Francisco Hernandez, president of the Cuban American National
Foundation.

The desperation of some to leave the island was underlined last week when a
Cuban man hooked a trapeze-like swing to a U.S.-bound charter flight in a fatal
escape attempt.

Today's defection was led by German Pompa, a current or former Cuban air force
lieutenant assigned to ferry tourists aboard the MI-8 helicopter in the Varadero
Beach resort east of Havana, said Tom Bowers, spokesman for Customs' aviation
wing.

Pompa said he had been planning the flight for three months, and Miami relatives
knew the refugees were coming. Two previous attempts, including one scheduled
last week, were aborted.

Early today, Pompa dressed his brother-in-law and another defector as pilots and
took them to the helicopter. They took off from Varadero and landed a few miles
away at a field to pick up 31 waiting relatives, including several small
children.

They then took off on the 80-minute flight to Florida, flying as low as possible
to evade Cuban radar. There was no evidence that Cuban planes detected or
followed the helicopter, Bowers said.

U.S. radar picked up the low-flying aircraft south of Marathon in the Florida
Keys, and Customs aircraft flew out to intercept the helicopter.

"We didn't have any communications with them at all," Bowers said. "They were .
. . flying very low. But they didn't seem to pose any threat, so what we did was
track them."

Pompa has connections to another well-publicized defection. He served under Maj.
Orestes Lorenzo, who last year fled Cuba in a Russian-made MiG jet that landed
at the Key West Naval Air Station.

Ariel Ricardo, the Cuban government spokesman in Washington, said Cuba will
investigate the defection and send a crew to pick up the aircraft under an
international anti-hijacking agreement.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JUBILANT CUBANS ARRIVE IN FLORIDA AFTER 80-MINUTE FLIGHT TRACKED
BY U.S. RADAR. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              19 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 11, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Warns Salvadorans of Deportation;
Almost 200,000 Affected;
Extension of Amnesty Program Sought

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A12

LENGTH: 475 words


Immigration officials have begun notifying nearly 200,000 Salvadorans living in
the United States that they will face deportation after June 30, when a special
18-month amnesty program expires.

Refugee advocates say the notifications, while required by a 1990 law, have
frightened those enrolled in the program. The program's sponsor, Rep. Joe
Moakley (D-Mass.), and the Salvadoran government have begun organizing support
in an effort to extend the amnesty for another 18 months.

Moakley, in letters to Secretary of State James A. Baker III and Attorney
General William P. Barr, said the peace agreement concluded last week in New
York to end El Salvador's civil war would be undermined if the administration
were to begin "forcibly sending back thousands of refugees" so quickly.

"After 12 years of bloody civil war and political polarization," Moakley said in
his letter, "it will undoubtedly take at least another 18 months for the peace
accords to move from words on paper to reality on the ground."

Moakley said the Salvadoran government, opposition parties and the leftist
rebels all agree that the amnesty program should be extended. One reason for
that agreement is that remittances from Salvadorans now in the United States
back to El Salvador are estimated at $ 700 million a year.

That money "is one of the most important supports for the Salvadoran economy,"
Salvadoran Ambassador Miguel A. Salaverria said yesterday. "It would definitely
be inconvenient for all these people to come down at this moment. There is no
doubt in our mind that an additional 18 months would be ideal for all."

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) officials said the deportation
notification, which comes when amnesty program participants renew their
six-month work permits, does not mean that anyone will be deported immediately.

INS spokesman Verne Jervis estimated that it would not be possible to begin
deportation hearings for Salvadorans in this area until March 1983. Other
regions might be able to act sooner, but because others may take longer to begin
the procedures, he said, there was a built-in extension to the program.

Even so, refugee advocates say the notifications are causing great concern
because they do not indicate other options the Salvadorans might have for
staying beyond June 30. "They are scared to death," said Frank Sharry, executive
director of the National Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Forum. "They think
they are going to be put back on a plane on July 1."

Sharry said a recent court ruling allows Salvadorans "a 90-day window to apply
for political asylum" after June 30 and entitles them to a new hearing on their
claims. Salvadorans who pursue all legal remedies while they wait "to make sure
the peace process holds . . . would not likely have a hearing for two years or
more," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              20 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 12, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Those Huddled, Unskilled Masses;
Is Our Immigration Policy Contributing to Our Economic Undoing?

Lawrence E. Harrison

SECTION: OUTLOOK; PAGE C2

LENGTH: 1530 words


HIGH LEVELS of immigration, legal and illegal, have not produced the positive
economic results that growth-minded advocates have expected. For four decades,
we have accepted vastly more immigrants than any other advanced country. Yet
despite the big head start the U.S. economy enjoyed after World War II, our
average performance measured over the last 40 years has been among the worst of
the developed nations, roughly comparable to Britain's. Many other factors
explain the decline of U.S. competitiveness, but the low-skill immigration of
recent decades has surely not been helpful, except to labor-intensive businesses
that have profited from the supply of cheap labor -- leaving the community at
large to pick up the social costs.

Of course, many proponents of large-scale immigration are motivated by
humanitarian rather than economic concerns, the potentially adverse impact on
American citizens notwithstanding. I'm reminded of a comment made about her own
country by the Australian sociologist Katherine Betts in her book, "Ideology and
Immigration": "Humanitarianism became the chief goal of immigration for some
people and immigration itself came to be seen as a form of international aid . .
. . The relatively poor in this country pay a disproportionate share of the cost
of the conscience of the rich."

In "The Competitive Advantage of Nations," Harvard economist Michael E. Porter
stresses the contribution skilled immi-grants can make to "the principal
economic goal of a nation -- a high and rising standard of living." But he goes
on to note that large-scale immigration of the unskilled may retard the process.

During the past 40 years, America outpaced all other developed countries in
population growth. Immigration, legal and illegal, has been a major contributor
to that growth. Since 1950, 20 million people have immigrated legally. No one
knows how many have entered illegally. Estimates range from 5 million to 8
million. In the wake of liberalizing legislation in 1990, upwards of 1 million
immigrants are now entering annually.

Over this period, U.S. immigration policy has emphasized political concerns --
e.g., Cuba, Vietnam -- and family relationships, not skills, and has done little
to curb the vast flow of illegal immigrants. The result, as George Borjas
concludes in "Friends or Strangers," has been that "the skill composition of the
immigrant flow has deteriorated significantly in the past two or three decades."

The loss of competitive advantage of many U.S. products in recent decades is
importantly the consequence of the slow growth of labor productivity. That is
partly the result of low levels of U.S. research, development and investment
compared with our principal competitors, Japan and Germany. But it is also the
consequence of a labor force relatively unskilled by comparison with Japan's and
Germany's, a labor force whose real income has been declining while the incomes
of Japanese and German workers have been increasing. American wages are no
longer the highest in the world.

In fact, the United States now emphasizes relatively cheap labor -- a good part
of it available because of immigration -- much as Third World countries do.
Aside from the retreat from the objective of a rising standard of living
implicit in it, cheap labor encourages investors to use labor-intensive means of
production, and that means slow or no technological advance and further slippage
in our competitive position. The resulting slow overall growth of the economy
has meant lower federal, state and local revenues. Porter notes, "The ability to
compete despite paying higher wages would seem to represent a far more desirable
national target."

I want to repeat that immigration is but one of several causes of our economic
malaise. But it is not an insignificant one.

Some researchers, Borjas among them, have concluded that immigrants -- legal or
illegal -- do not compete with native-born Americans, although they do compete
with other immigrants, including many who have been here long enough to become
citizens. More recent studies, including those of Rice University's Don Huddle,
conclude that immigrants do indeed compete with natives, especially when
unemployment is relatively high.

Immigration proponents argue that immigrants -- particularly illegal immigrants
-- accept wages and working conditions that citizens, even poor citizens,
wouldn't. Even accepting that argument, the obvious implication is that
employers would have to pay more and provide better working conditions if there
were not an ample supply of immigrants. But, in fact, there are cases of
displacement, for example in Los Angeles, where building maintenance workers,
mostly black, have been displaced by immigrants, mostly Mexican. Moreover,
immigrants may well compete with poorer citizens for low-cost housing -- which
means higher rentals -- and public services, including education.

Several researchers, for example, the Urban Institute's Thomas Muller and Thomas
Espenshade, have also studied the extent to which immigrants are a burden on
public budgets, e.g. welfare, social services, subsidized housing, education.
Two principal conclusions emerge: 1) what most immigrants pay in taxes does not
cover the costs of the services they receive, particularly when education is
included; and 2) the downward trend in immigrant skills has been accompanied by
an upward trend in their use of public assistance.

The problem of refugee/immigrant demand for services has been particularly acute
in Massachusetts, where the Dukakis administration adopted a policy of insuring
the availability of all state services to refugees, and both the state and city
of Boston provided many services to immigrants without reference to the legality
of their status.

Massachusetts consequently became a magnet for immigrants. Between 1980 and
1990, the Hispanic population more than doubled to 288,000, while the Asian
population almost tripled to 143,000. The treatment of immigrants did not become
a really hot issue until the sharp downturn in the state's economy and the
resulting budget crisis. Now there can be no question that immigrants compete
for drastically-reduced public services with needy citizens.

We are a society imbued with Emma Lazarus's words on the Statue of Liberty:
"Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free."
When the statue was dedicated 105 years ago, some 60 million people lived in the
United States. The frontier was still open, and an open immigration policy
clearly suited our needs. Today, our population is more than four times greater,
the frontier is long gone and population growth is a principal contributor to
the pressure on the environment that so preoccupies us.

Congress passed a law in 1990 that increases legal immigration by 40 percent.
Congress took this action in the face of repeated polls showing an overwhelming
majority of Americans -- including 74 percent of Hispanic-Americans and 78
percent of black Americans in a 1990 Roper survey -- oppose increased
immigration.

Despite new emphasis on skills in the 1990 legislation, more than 70 percent of
legal newcomers will enter because they are related to naturalized citizens,
resident aliens and former illegal immigrants who qualified for the amnesty
provisions of the 1986 immigration act. The large majority of both legal and
illegal newcomers will arrive with few skills.

The Haitian boat people are a case in point. Almost all have risked their lives
in leaky vessels to reach the United States. While some of the earlier boat
people were refugees from Duvalier political persecution, the fact that the flow
increased over the previous year's during the eight months when President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the landslide populist winner of the 1990 elections, was
in office, demonstrates that most seek economic opportunity and social services
that vastly exceed what their homeland offers.

A 1985 study of recent Haitian immigrants in Florida revealed the following:
average years of education were 4.6; 5 percent were high school graduates; 82
percent had limited or no English; 93 percent had limited or no knowledge of the
United States; 63 percent were unemployed; 29 percent were receiving welfare
aid.

While there must always be room in our immigration policies for dealing with
cases of special hardship, in a world in which hundreds of millions of people
would gladly come to our shores, choices must be made. No immigration policy can
remedy the failures of other nations to meet the needs of their poor, so it is
both sensible and moral to base our policies primarily on the needs of our own
society, particularly economic revival and raising the standard of living of our
poorer citizens. That means a significant reduction in legal immigration,
redoubled programs to control illegal immigration and an upgrading of the skills
of those immigrants we accept. These measures won't solve America's economic
problems, but they will certainly help.

Lawrence Harrison is the author of "Who Prospers? How Cultural Values Shape
Economic and Political Success," to be published by Basic Books in June.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              21 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 16, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Court Clears IRA Man's Deportation;
Justices Apparently End Doherty's 8-Year Fight to Avoid U.K. Prison

Ruth Marcus, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4

LENGTH: 765 words


The Supreme Court yesterday cleared the way for the deportation of Irish
Republican Army member Joseph Doherty, who has been jailed in this country for
more than eight years as he fought extradition to the United Kingdom.

Doherty, hailed in some quarters as a heroic political prisoner and denounced in
others as a murdering terrorist, has engaged in one of the most celebrated and
convoluted deportation battles in the annals of U.S. immigration law.

Yesterday's 5 to 3 decision that Doherty is not entitled to a new hearing on his
bid to avoid deportation appears to bring an end to that long-running legal
effort, which spawned eight previous court and immigration board rulings.

Doherty, a member of the Provisional Irish Republican Army, was part of an IRA
ambush that murdered a British soldier in 1980. He escaped from a maximum
security prison in Northern Ireland and was found guilty in absentia and
sentenced to life imprisonment.

After entering the United States under an alias in 1982, he was located in June
1983 by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which launched deportation
proceedings.

That began Doherty's roller-coaster legal battle, during which his efforts to
obtain a hearing on his request for asylum -- he claimed he was being persecuted
by British authorities for his political views -- attracted popular sympathy.
From the cell at New York's Metropolitan Correctional Center where he was held
during most of that time, Doherty could see the street corner that the City
Council voted to name in his honor. At the high court, 132 members of Congress
filed a friend-of-the-court brief in his behalf.

At an early stage of the proceedings, Doherty, now 37, withdrew his request for
political asylum, agreed to be deported, and picked Ireland as the country to
which he would be sent -- a move that would have required him to serve only 10
years in prison and avoid British authorities.

But as that matter was awaiting final action, the Republic of Ireland and the
United Kingdom signed an extradition treaty that Doherty feared would result in
his being turned over to the British. He then asked to have his deportation case
reopened and his request for political asylum heard.

In June 1989, then-Attorney General Dick Thornburgh refused, saying that "those
who commit acts of violence against a democratic state should receive prompt and
lawful punishment" and that it was "in the foreign policy interest of this
country that [Doherty] be deported to the United Kingdom."

The federal appeals court in New York overruled Thornburgh and ordered a
hearing. Yesterday, in Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Doherty, the
justices reversed the appeals court and sided with the government.

Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, writing for the court, said Thornburgh did
not abuse his discretion in refusing to reconsider Doherty's claims.

The ruling was somewhat fractured, with different court majorities endorsing
different parts of Rehnquist's reasoning but five justices agreeing overall that
Doherty lost.

Justice Antonin Scalia, joined by Justices John Paul Stevens and David H.
Souter, agreed with the majority that the "attorney general's broad discretion
to deny asylum justified his refusal to reopen the proceedings." But they
disagreed with the court's analysis of the separate issue of the deportation
part of the case, a separate section of the immigration law.

Justice Clarence Thomas, who joined the court after the case was argued, did not
participate.

Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Verne Jervis said officials
were still studying yesterday's ruling.

But Arthur C. Helton, director of the Refugee Project of the Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights, said, "Doherty doesn't seem to have much left in terms of
proceeding in the federal courts. It's a question of how quickly the immigration
authorities will move to enforce his departure."

Helton, who assisted Doherty's lawyers, said the ruling represented a "terrible
injustice" to Doherty and reflected "judicial insensitivity to the plight of
refugees."

In other action yesterday, the court ruled in a child molestation case that
prosecutors do not have to prove that the child is incapable of testifying in
order to use hearsay statements made to others about the alleged abuse.

In an opinion by Rehnquist, the court said the failure to show that the child is
not available to testify did not violate the defendant's constitutional right to
confront the witnesses against him.

Thomas, in an opinion joined by Scalia, concurred separately.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              22 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 23, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Justices Deny Asylum To Guatemalan Refugee;
Emigre Fled After Refusing to Join Rebels

Ruth Marcus, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A8

LENGTH: 594 words


The Supreme Court yesterday rejected the political asylum claim of a Guatemalan
man who fled his country after guerrillas tried to coerce him into joining their
forces.

The 6 to 3 ruling came in the case of Jairo Jonathan Elias-Zacarias, who left
Guatemala in 1987 and now lives in the District. Elias-Zacarias, now 23, said he
fled because he feared the rebels would "take me or kill me" after he refused
two masked guerrillas armed with machine guns who came to his family's home and
asked him to join up.

The Bush administration had warned that granting political asylum on the basis
of such claims would lead to a flood of refugees from war-torn countries. The
administration said such a decision would "extend asylum eligibility far beyond
the limit Congress imposed" when it overhauled the immigration law in 1980.

Immigration rights groups yesterday criticized the court's narrow reading of the
law and said it could affect thousands of refugees from Guatemala, El Salvador,
Sri Lanka and Afghanistan, among other countries. The ruling "subverts the
protective purposes of the Refugee Act of 1980," said Arthur C. Helton, director
of the Refugee Project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

Elias-Zacarias sought political asylum here under a provision of the immigration
law that protects those who have a well-founded fear of persecution because of
their political opinions.

The federal appeals court in San Francisco upheld his claim, saying that the
guerrillas' attempt to conscript Elias-Zacarias constituted politically
motivated persecution because "the person resisting forced recruitment is
expressing a political opinion hostile to the persecutor and because the
persecutor's motive in carrying out the kidnapping is political."

In an opinion yesterday by Justice Antonin Scalia, the court disagreed. "The
first half of this seems to us untrue, and the second half irrelevant," Scalia
said of the appeals court's analysis.

Scalia noted that a potential conscript might refuse to join the guerrillas,
even if he supported their cause, for a variety of nonpolitical reasons, such as
"fear of combat, a desire to remain with one's family and friends, a desire to
earn a better living in civilian life."

In the Elias-Zacarias case, he said, the record "not only failed to show a
political motive . . . it showed the opposite. He testified that he refused to
join the guerrillas because he was afraid that the government would retaliate
against him and his family if he did so."

In addition, Scalia said, the fact that the guerrillas sought to fill their
ranks to carry on their fight against the government did not mean that they were
persecuting Elias-Zacarias on account of his political opinion.

"If a Nazi regime persecutes Jews, it is not, within the ordinary meaning of
language, engaging in persecution on account of political opinion . . . , " he
said. "Thus, the mere existence of a generalized 'political' motive underlying
the guerrilla's forced recruitment is inadequate. . . . "

Justice John Paul Stevens, in a dissenting opinion joined by Justices Harry A.
Blackmun and Sandra Day O'Connor, said Elias-Zacarias's desire not to join the
guerrillas constituted political opinion and criticized the majority for its
"narrow, grudging" interpretation of the law.

"Even if the refusal is motivated by nothing more than a simple desire to
continue living an ordinary life with one's family, it is the kind of political
expression that the asylum provisions of the statute were intended to protect,"
Stevens said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              23 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 30, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Immigrant Voting Advances in Takoma Park

Beth Kaiman, Lynne K. Varner, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: MARYLAND WEEKLY (MONTGOMERY); PAGE M1

LENGTH: 705 words


Foreigners living in Takoma Park came a step closer to voting in city elections
after the City Council Monday gave tentative approval to a resolution opening
the polls to non U.S. citizens.

The council, in a 6 to 1 vote, gave statutory status to a plan allowing
documented and undocumented residents to vote and run for municipal office, a
measure narrowly approved by voters in a non-binding referendum last fall. A
final vote is scheduled for Feb. 10.

"In Takoma Park, democracy includes everybody," said George Leventhal,
co-chairman of the ballot question campaign, which won by a margin of 1,199 to
1,107.

In the meantime, a national organization has started a congressional lobbying
effort throughout the county to prevent the extension of voting rights to
noncitizens. Americans for Immigration Control, a Washington-based group that
favors temporary use of the military to help guard national borders, says the
Takoma Park action is a bad precedent. President Robert Goldsborough said his
group sent pre-printed postcards to its 100,000 members nationwide stating its
opposition to such efforts and asking them to mail the cards to their
congressional representatives.

About 30 residents turned out at the council session at the Municipal Building
Monday night to speak out at a public hearing preceding the vote.

"The right to vote is a very basic and fundamental right that we should each
have," said Condie Clayton, a mayoral candidate in last fall's election.

But others warned that the charter change would cheapen a right usually reserved
for citizens. Noncitizens, they say, should first experience the long process of
becoming a citizen before being awarded a vote.

A suprise yes vote came from Council member Kathy Porter, whose Ward 2 community
came out against giving noncitizens a vote in the November referendum. "I did
not anticipate that my ward would go one way and the city another . . . [but]
I'm going to follow the majority of residents in this city," Porter said.

Council newcomer Lloyd Johnson voted against the resolution to honor a campaign
promise he made to his Ward 6 constitutents, who opposed the referendum question
by a ratio of nearly 3 to 1.

Takoma Park has been a sanctuary for illegal immigrants, in keeping with its
self-declared status as a progressive city.

The move to extend voting rights beyond the city's 6,900 currently registered
voters to an unknown number of green card holders and perhaps to illegal
immigrants stemmed from the 1990 census.

The city's redistricting panel concluded that a wide disparity between the
number of residents and the number of registered voters must be due to a large
population of noncitizens.

The Takoma Park effort gained national attention from Hispanic groups and
immigration control organizations as the largest city to move toward allowing
foreign citizens the right to vote for top municipal leaders. In New York and
Chicago, parents who are not U.S. citizens vote in school board elections.

D.C. Council member Frank Smith Jr. (Ward 1) has said he might introduce similar
legislation.

A few small Montgomery County communities -- Barnesville, Somerset and the
villages of Chevy Chase sections 3 and 5, and Martin's Additions -- do not
require voters to be citizenship. In those communities, the rule was targeted
toward small groups of voters, often employees of the World Bank or
International Monetary Fund.

According to the offices of Rep. Constance A. Morella (R) and Rep. Steny H.
Hoyer (D), who represent parts of Takoma Park, dozens of postcards have been
received from Americans for Immigration Control. The cards' three-paragraph
message states that the group is "fighting all efforts to give voting rights to
aliens," and urges the representative to vote and speak out on any legislation
to give "aliens the right to vote in U.S. elections."

Goldsborough said his group is concerned less with what happens in Takoma Park
and more with any influence the Takoma Park rule could have nationally.

Before the referendum, there was little organized opposition to the charter
change. By contrast, the Share-the-Vote campaign knocked on doors, printed
handouts and spent about $ 1,000, according to activists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              24 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 4, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

'A Judgment Call' at Guantanamo;
INS Decides Whether Haitians Are Fleeing Poverty or Personal Danger

William Booth and Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A11

LENGTH: 961 words


Joseph Seraphin was among the lucky ones.

The young Haitian student was allowed into the United States after persuading
U.S. immigration officers that the military knew he was a strong supporter of
ousted president Jean-Bertrand Aristide and could be killed if he returned to
the island nation.

Cemeride Desir, a 36-year-old fisherman, was sent back to Haiti Sunday from a
tent city at the Guantanamo Bay Naval base because he could not persuade U.S.
immigration officials that he would be singled out for persecution if he
returned. Desir spoke to a reporter before his repatriation only of a fear of
the violence in Haiti.

The interviews with immigration officials are done without assistance of
attorneys for the boat people and an immigration officer's decision on whether
someone has presented a plausible case for further processing is final.

Now that forced repatriation to Haiti is a reality for those who fail to meet
the test, the process itself has come under renewed attack by refugee advocates,
who insist that no one should be returned to Haiti until the situation there is
stable.

There is a fine line, refugee advocates say -- if there is a line at all --
between Seraphin, the political refugee, and Desir, the economic refugee.

"What's political and what's economic? The situation in Haiti is completely out
of control, so how does the United States government decide who is in danger and
who is not?" said Rolande Dorancy, executive director of the Haitian Refugee
Center in Miami. "It is a game they are playing. But it is a game where people
can lose their lives."

U.S. officials say the screening process effectively filters out anyone likely
to be in danger if returned. They insist there have been no reprisals against
those sent back. Nearly 400 Haitians were returned without incident yesterday.

"In the last 11 years, there is no evidence . . . not a single case, in which a
Haitian who was repatriated was targeted for persecution by the regime," State
Department spokesman Margaret Tutwiler told reporters yesterday. "So we just
don't have any evidence of it."

Refugee advocates oppose the forced return, saying the situation in Haiti since
the Sept. 30 military ouster of Aristide is still violent and that the
Organization of American States has branded the rulers an outlaw regime.

"It's an outrage that conditions in Haiti are so dangerous and the military so
violent that we would recall our ambassador [in protest of a police beating of
politicians] and then only days later force civilians to return to the same
dangerous place," said Rep. Charles B. Rangel (D-N.Y.), a leading congressional
opponent of the repatriation.

Democrats have been sharply divided over the administration's policy. It was
endorsed by Senate Majority Leader George J. Mitchell (D-Maine) and criticized
by former Massachusetts senator Paul E. Tsongas, a Democratic presidential
contender.

Mitchell said the administration "appears to be trying to follow the law" and
even to interpret the statute liberally by approving 35 percent of the
applicants as political refugees.

Tsongas, on the other hand, said bitingly, "I'm glad George Bush wasn't
president when my parents came. They were economic refugees."

Administration officials insist that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has conducted appropriate interviews, noting the high percentage of the
approximately 10,000 boat people interviewed who were found to be likely
refugees.

Of the 3,400 deemed plausible asylum candidates, about 1,400 have been taken to
the United States for further processing. The administration is considering a
change in procedure to complete the screening of the remaining 2,000 boat people
at Guantanamo, rather than in Miami, but one source said it appeared last night
that no change would be made in the process.

No decision has been made on what is to happen with 188 boat people who are
HIV-infected among the 2,000 left on Guantanamo, the source said, because there
is a conflict in regulations regarding HIV-positive immigrants and refugees.

But the thousands of boat people not found to be likely refugees must return to
Haiti, the administration insists, because there is no room for any more at the
tent city.

To be allowed into the United States, Haitians must demonstrate "a well-founded
fear of persecution." According to the guidelines formulated by the INS, that
fear must not be general, but personal.

In other words, a refugee who is granted temporary asylum must make a credible
case that he or she stands a good chance of being harassed, injured or killed
upon return to Haiti.

"It's not good enough to say there's no food in Haiti or that there's violence
and killing in Haiti," said Sharon Brown, administrator of the Haitian Refugee
Center in Miami. "The people who seem to make it through the screening process
must have a credible story that shows they, personally, are at risk if they are
sent back. Usually, that means they are political in some way."

"There's no due process. There's no fairness. There's no outside scrutiny," said
Miami immigration attorney Kenneth Panzer. "I have no way of knowing if the INS
is following its own guidelines. Nobody does. Because they operate in complete
secrecy."

But State Department officials argue that is the way all refugees are processed.
No one applying to enter the United States as a refugee has a right to an
attorney or other aspects of due process normally afforded citizens.

"The call [on preliminary asylum] is made on the story told," one government
official acknowledged, and "a judgment call" is made by a screening officer
based on a determination of the credibility of the individual.

Staff Writer David S. Broder contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              25 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 7, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Treating Desperate People With Decency

William Raspberry

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A25

LENGTH: 790 words


The statement of the case is meticulous, the attention to legal detail
admirable, and the policy dead wrong.

The U.S. government will continue to send Haitian boat people back to whatever
fate they risked their lives to escape, moderated only by a slowdown request
from the military junta, which apparently is having trouble fingerprinting the
returning refugees fast enough.

The administration points to the requirements of U.S. law (a deal cut with
former dictator Jean-Claude "Baby Doc" Duvalier to return refugees); the experts
at the State Department have made their Talmudic distinctions between political
and merely economic refugees; and the Supreme Court, acting on an emergency
petition from the administration, has said it is okay to round up the 10,000 or
so refugees at Guantanamo and haul them right back to their violence-wracked
homeland.

The U.S. Coast Guard appeared ready to move immediately until the Haitian
rulers, in power since their violent overthrow of the democratically elected
government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, asked it to slow the pace. "They
want incremental arrivals that allow them to process them in a reasonable way,
and we're discussing that with them," a White House spokesman said last
Wednesday.

That's what the junta wants. The question is, what should America want?

We shouldn't want our immigration policy set, de facto, by the refugees
themselves. Unsanctioned acceptance of anyone who manages to reach the U.S.
shore (or a U.S. Coast Guard cutter) would not only be bad policy but also
induce thousands of new refugees to leave Haiti. But we also shouldn't want to
run the risk of sending the refugees back to treatment that is beyond the
ability of the U.S. government to control, or even to know.

Few advocates of the Haitians are as willing as the administration to accept the
unchecked assurances of the coup leaders that nothing untoward will happen to
the repatriated refugees.

"We all agree that the solution to the crisis lies with Haiti," Jocelyn McCalla
told me in a telephone interview. "Where we don't agree is on the U.S.
relinquishing its leadership role and instead signaling Haiti that it is ready
to do business as usual."

McCalla, executive director of the New York-based National Coalition for Haitian
Refugees, was speaking of the decision to relax the hemispheric trade embargo
against Haiti on the ground that it was killing jobs and adding to the stream of
refugees.

Reportedly the sanctions had hit particularly hard the assembly industry, in
which Haitian factories assemble parts for foreign (largely U.S.) manufacturers.

It is, of course, the age-old problem with sanctions: trying to figure out how
to hurt a repressive government while sparing the oppressed people. It can't be
done.

But there are things America can do -- including joining, or initiating,
international efforts to restore democracy to a country that has seen precious
little of it.

And it could do one other thing. It could suspend the nonsensical
economic/political distinction among the refugees -- a distinction that seems to
turn as much on the words used by particular refugees as on the facts of
individual cases.

It's hard enough to determine which applicant for immigration is driven by
oppression and which is attracted by the chance to make a buck. But in the case
of these desperate refugees, it's virtually impossible. The political chaos not
only puts people in fear for their lives; it also puts them out of work. The
paramilitary forces that support the smallish army are political; their
exploitation of the people is, in large part, economic. Only lawyers could
disentangle the two.

McCalla suggests another approach. "There is in the U.S. law something called
'temporary protected status,' or TPS, designed to protect refugees from civil
turmoil, political upheaval -- even earthquakes. It's totally at the discretion
of the president, and there's no reason not to grant TPS to the residents of
Guantanamo. That wouldn't make them immigrants -- they'd still have to return
after the emergency is over -- but it might save some lives."

Unfortunately, saving Haitian lives seems a relatively low priority on these
shores -- lower than catering to the xenophobia that still infects this polyglot
nation, lower than dealing with the problems of other groups with bigger
political constituencies, lower than the president's need to protect his right
flank against an unabashed bigot like Pat Buchanan.

Still, what's the harm in saying: Let's go slow for a couple of months -- not to
accommodate the fingerprinting capacity of Haiti's violent rulers, but to
accommodate our own need to know that we are not sending desperate people to
their deaths.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              26 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 10, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

State Department Probes Haitians' Claims of Beatings, Killings

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 827 words


State Department officials are investigating allegations that the Haitian
military has beaten and killed boat people who were returned to Haiti last
November after U.S. officials rejected their claims for asylum.

The charges were made by boat people who were returned, fled again and were
intercepted for a second time. They were interviewed recently by U.S.
immigration officials and United Nations monitors at a tent city on the Navy
base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Refugee advocates distributed copies of notes of
five U.N. interviews that they said they obtained from U.N. diplomats.

Administration officials said they have not confirmed any of the allegations,
made by some of the hundreds of people sent back to Haiti before a federal judge
halted such repatriations for several months.

But refugee advocates said 41 of the 42 of these "double-backers" reinterviewed
on Guantanamo appear to be making credible claims, because they were granted
provisional asylum status this time by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service pending further investigation.

INS officials declined comment, but U.S. officials confirmed that the 41 are
being kept in a portion of the base reserved for boat people whose claims for
political asylum are plausible enough that the government takes them to Miami
for further screening. The United States will not grant asylum to refugees for
economic reasons and officials say most of the Haitian boat people should be
returned because they are seeking a better economic situation, not fleeing
political reprisals.

Administration officials, including Secretary of State James A. Baker III, have
repeatedly insisted that there was no evidence of reprisals against returnees.

"There is not one single documented case," Baker told the House Foreign Affairs
Committee on Thursday, "of a repatriated Haitian being persecuted or targeted
after their return." After a Supreme Court ruling, the U.S. government began
again to return Haitians from their temporary Guantanamo Bay camp Feb. 1.

However, other administration officials and refugee rights advocates have said
in recent interviews that the vastly reduced U.S. presence in Haiti since the
Sept. 30 military coup ousted an elected president makes these recent
allegations difficult, if not impossible, to verify.

The U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince is making an effort to monitor what happens
to returnees by asking missionaries and relief organizations to report any human
rights violations. But of the approximately 30 staff left at the embassy, only
six are said to be Foreign Service officers who can do such monitoring, Post
correspondent Lee Hockstader reported from Port-au-Prince. The State Department
said last week it was sending two more officers to monitor repatriations.

There are no proven reports of reprisals against specific returnees, diplomats
and other observers in Haiti have said, but some of those forcibly returned have
gone into hiding for fear of retribution, Hockstader reported.

"We are not a human rights monitoring organization," said a U.S. official
familiar with the situation in Haiti. "The U.S. Embassy can't check who has been
killed or not killed. . . .  We're going to have several thousand people
scattered around the country," the official said, as the repatriations continue.
"We're not going to go ask them all 'Are you still alive?' At what point do you
stop?" the official asked. "After two months? After four months? After six
months?"

Administration officials argue that opponents of the repatriation policy are
asking the State Department to prove a negative, an impossible task, in order to
halt the repatriations.

But Arthur C. Helton, an official with the Lawyers Committee on Human Rights,
said it was "astounding" that the INS would "be crediting reports of
mistreatment of Haitian boat people" while the Justice Department and the State
Department were "telling the American people and the federal judiciary there is
no mistreatment."

He said all five cases involve boat people interviewed in November, when few
were granted asylum. The INS began conducting more thorough interviews later
that month at Guantanamo, and those granted provisional asylum increased to
about 35 percent.

The tent city for the Haitians was set up after a federal judge in November
blocked administration efforts to send back the thousands of Haitians who fled
after the coup.

After the Supreme Court lifted the ban on Jan. 31, the administration
immediately began returning those not deemed to have plausible claims for
asylum. Nearly 1,000 of the more than 10,000 boat people in Guantanamo have been
returned since the high court's order.

Lawyers for the Haitian Refugee Center said yesterday they would ask the court
Monday to reinstate the ban, arguing that the government had misrepresented the
situation by overstating the numbers of likely boat people and by assuring the
court none of the returnees were persecuted.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, U.S. COAST GUARD CUTTER SENECA DOCKS IN PORT-AU-PRINCE TO UNLOAD
200 HATIANS. REUTER

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              27 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 15, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

Aliens Win Appeal

From news services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A7; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 95 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Immigration officials must consider residency applications from at least 220,000
aliens who left the United States briefly before applying for amnesty, the 9th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled Thursday.

If upheld, the ruling would be a major victory for aliens whose attempts to
remain in this country were snagged in conflicting interpretations of the 1986
immigration law.

The ruling does not entitle any aliens to amnesty, the legal residency status
provided by the 1986 law for illegals who have lived in the United States
continuously since Jan. 1, 1982.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              28 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 16, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Haitian Boat People Fear Reprisals, But Evidence of Persecution Unclear;
Poor Intimidated by Regime;
Returnees May Face Harsh Treatment

Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti


Twenty sweating men were crammed into a stuffy, sweltering room in the Bel Air
slum here the other day to talk politics when a knock came at the wooden window
slats.

The blind was cranked open. A hand appeared, offered a couple of crudely
lettered pamphlets, then withdrew. The pamphlets urged Haiti's poor to keep the
faith, to press their struggle for democracy and the ousted leader they revere,
president Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

"If we are caught with this, the army will beat us," said one bare-chested young
man, explaining the hush-hush delivery.

There is little doubt that Haiti has become a frightening, repressive place
since the coup that ousted Aristide on Sept. 30. That is not in dispute in the
current U.S. Supreme Court case that challenges the Bush administration's policy
of forcibly repatriating Haitian boat people.

What is at issue in the court is whether the Haitians being returned to
Port-au-Prince aboard U.S. Coast Guard cutters are in danger of reprisals from
local sheriffs, thugs in the army and police, or their accomplices.

The evidence is cloudy. Although there is abundant proof of repression of
Aristide's partisans, there is scant evidence -- so far, at least -- that
repatriated boat people are singled out. Unless advocates for the boat people
can prove there is such a risk, they are unlikely to halt the U.S. government's
repatriation effort, which has returned 2,864 boat people to Haiti since Feb. 1.

Among Haiti's poor, Aristide, a Roman Catholic priest-turned-politician, is a
hero. Since he won two-thirds of the popular vote in elections 14 months ago,
trouncing his nearest rival by better than 4 to 1, there is no sign that his
popularity has dimmed.

The Haitian poor, a large majority of the country, are intimidated and
threatened by the anti-Aristide military. It is virtually impossible to conduct
an interview in public in Haiti today without the subjects glancing over their
shoulders for fear of a police patrol.

Any sign of organizing on Aristide's behalf is dealt with harshly. In the days
after the coup, hundreds of the ousted president's partisans were killed by the
army and police. Since then, the killing has slowed but not stopped.

During a visit to Haiti last fall by a delegation from the Organization of
American States, rich opponents of Aristide were allowed to demonstrate loudly
while police patrols in nearby slums kept the poor off the streets. Nighttime
bursts of gunfire, probably intended to terrorize more than harm, still are
relatively common.

In a dispatch last week, a National Public Radio reporter said he had found a
town on Haiti's north coast where 120 houses had been burned down because the
residents were Aristide partisans.

Foreign journalists also have found examples of Haitians going into hiding
immediately after being repatriated by the Coast Guard. Some said they were well
known in their towns as Aristide activists and, fearing for their lives, planned
to flee the island by boat.

The Bush administration contends that the majority of boat people are seeking
relief from their dismal economic plight, and have no legitimate fear of
persecution for their political beliefs.

About a quarter of those screened by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
have been allowed into the United States to pursue their asylum claims. Many of
them are clearly identified as Aristide partisans. Advocates for the refugees
say more than half of the boat people -- perhaps as many as 70 percent -- have
strong claims for asylum and that many have not received a fair hearing from the
immigration service.

Officials acknowledge privately that some Haitians with legitimate asylum claims
may have been sent home because they failed to make a convincing case or because
of administrative mishap. They say that given the crush of some 15,500 boat
people since last fall, some cases inevitably have fallen between the cracks.

The immigration service recently reversed itself and decided to allow 41
Haitians to seek asylum in the United States. The Haitians had been denied
asylum and shipped back to Haiti by the Coast Guard, and had fled a second time
after encountering threats and abuse.

Once the Guard Guard returns them to Haiti, all of the boat people are
fingerprinted, photographed and questioned by Haitian authorities. Advocates for
the boat people say this procedure strips them of their anonymity and makes them
more vulnerable to reprisals from the army and police.

Despite allegations, it has been difficult to find evidence that the security
forces have followed up that procedure by specifically targeting returned boat
people.

Cheryl Little, supervising attorney for the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami,
said, "We're getting consistent reports from reliable sources that Haitians
returned to Haiti are being singled out for repression."

She said she had received a letter from a Greek Orthodox priest in
Port-au-Prince who said he had firsthand information of what he called
disappearances as well as "incidents of torture and punishment meted out to
those who have already returned." However, the letter, dated Feb. 2, did not
include names, dates and examples to support his assertions, Little said.

Anne Fuller, an advocate for the boat people at the National Coalition for
Haitian Refugees in New York, said: "It's hard to trace these things in Haiti. .
. . I recognize the need to gather undeniable, hard facts to put in the face of
the court and the administration."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              29 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 11, 1992, Wednesday, Final Edition

Let Soviet Jews Come To America

Alton Frye

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A23

LENGTH: 901 words


Another wrinkle is creeping into the fabric of Middle East diplomacy. The search
for ways to reconcile U.S. and Israeli policy toward settlements in the occupied
territories with loan guarantees to help Israel absorb immigrants from the
former Soviet Union has revived an old question. Should the United States itself
accept a larger number of emigrants who might otherwise go to Israel?

The question arises in part from the need to interpret U.S. immigration statutes
in light of the Soviet Union's breakup. The INS indicates that the statutory
ceiling on immigration from the Soviet Union, roughly 25,000 a year, applies
separately to each of the states emerging from the union's breakup. That means
that, beyond the 61,000 refugees from those countries already authorized for the
current fiscal year, tens of thousands of additional emigrants may be eligible
to apply for entry into the United States.

With numbers like that, the United States could be accessible to many emigres
who would otherwise head for Israel. That is especially true for the better
educated and more productive emigrants, for the law provides priority
allocations for preferred professions. Not incidentally, those individuals could
include scientists and engineers from the Soviet military-industrial complex
whom the West hopes to prevent serving the nuclear ambitions of other countries.

Couple that startling increase in immigration slots with the precipitous
downturn in actual immigration to Israel from the former Soviet Union. Fewer
than 5,000 arrived last month, less than half the number coming a year ago.
Several factors account for this. An unemployment rate of 38 percent among
recent immigrants and hard-luck stories filtering back to Russia do not
encourage others to come. Particularly when there are flickers of hope that
liberty and prosperity may yet be achievable in the post-Soviet non-union, there
are fewer incentives to move to a distant danger zone.

These considerations bear on the moral, economic and political aspects of the
current U.S.-Israel impasse. There has been much unease, not least in the Jewish
community, over a policy that in effect steers emigres toward a war-prone Middle
East rather than allowing more of them an American option. Why should those who
prefer the United States be denied that choice in order to accommodate Israel's
ambition to attract them to a Jewish homeland?

The ethics of the point are perplexing. Some Israeli officials argue that the
United States is exploiting the immigration issue to impose its will on the
peace process. That gets things backward. It is Israeli policy that is
exploiting emigres, directly or indirectly, to perpetuate the occupation of
territories that are essential topics in the peace negotiations. Elements in the
Israeli regime are quite ready to place the immigrants in harm's way, and it is
rather disingenuous to say that few of them actually reside in the occupied
areas. By overloading an already strained housing supply, the newcomers face
pressures to settle amid the violence of the West Bank or displace other Israeli
citizens who will do so.

Much evidence indicates that, given a choice, a large number of those emigrants
would come into the United States. That is not surprising. Most of them are
secular in orientation with little religious conviction to compel their movement
to the land of Zion. Apart from America's historical appeal as a land of
opportunity, the U.S. Jewish community is larger and more affluent than the
population of Israel. In cultural and economic terms, the United States has far
greater resources to absorb the emigrant surge.

But the economic implications are more far-reaching. If fewer emigrants go to
Israel, there will be substantially less justification for the proposed $ 10
billion in loan guarantees to assist their absorption there. Furthermore, an
increased flow of immigrants to America is bound to affect the level of
philanthropic assistance to Israel. Private contributions will be needed to
resettle immigrants here.

This argument develops against a backdrop of shifting opinion in Israel. Writing
for the New Republic from Tel Aviv, Hillel Halkin calls into doubt the policy of
maximizing immigration: "If it's a question of utility, the country can profit
from Soviet Jewish professionals, but only so many; if it's one of rescuing
Jews, few Jews in the Soviet Union today are gravely threatened." Thus, there is
not the sense of urgency that once attended the problem of emigration.

Politically, these considerations spell leverage for Secretary of State James
Baker's effort to persuade the Israelis to be more forthcoming in the peace
process. Baker has articulated an American consensus: "Yes" to generous help for
Israel, "no" to subsidizing the permanent occupation of contested territories.
The latitude to admit more of those fleeing the former Soviet Union offers
powerful reinforcement to Baker's diplomacy.

This prospect will be unwelcome to the regime of Yitzhak Shamir, ideologically
committed to the goal of a Greater Israel and determined to attract as many
immigrants as possible. The issue now confronting Shamir is stark: Either find a
path to compromise or risk the loss of U.S. loan guarantees -- and of the
dwindling stream of immigrants from Russia and its neighbors.


The writer is Washington director of the Council on Foreign Relations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              30 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 20, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Michael A. Feighan, 88, Ohio Representative, Dies

Claudia Levy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C8; OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 1271 words


Michael A. Feighan, 88, a former U.S. representative who once tried to bar actor
Richard Burton's entry to the United States on moral grounds, died of cancer
March 19 at Georgetown University Hospital.

The chairman of the House immigration and naturalization subcommittee, Mr.
Feighan was a vocal anti-communist and protector of America's borders. For years
he blocked efforts to liberalize U.S. immigration policy before being convinced
by President Johnson that reform was needed.

The result in 1965 was a sweeping immigration act largely shaped by Mr. Feighan,
a Democrat, that was designed to phase out the 50-year-old system of quotas by
national origin and open immigration to Asians and relatives of U.S. residents.

Earlier in his career, Mr. Feighan wrote the Captive Nations Resolution passed
by Congress and supported regulations to allow refugees fleeing the Hungarian
revolution of 1956 to enter the United States.

A member of Congress for 28 years, Mr. Feighan represented a westside Cleveland
district made up largely of Poles, Hungarians, Slovaks and Byelorussians until
it was redistricted in the late 1960s to include a number of black
neighborhoods. He was defeated in the Democratic primary in 1970.

Mr. Feighan made headlines in 1964 when he tried unsuccessfully to get the State
Department to revoke a visa issued to Richard Burton, then involved in a highly
public affair with actress Elizabeth Taylor.

Burton was planning to bring "Hamlet" to New York, but Mr. Feighan said it was
more important to protect America's children against exposure to an adulterer.

Michael Aloysius Feighan, the son of John T. Feighan, former owner of the
Cleveland Indians and president of Standard Brewing Co., was born in Lakewood,
Ohio. He attended John Carroll University, Princeton University and Harvard Law
School.

Mr. Feighan practiced law in Cleveland with four of his brothers before being
elected to the Ohio State Legislature in 1936. He became minority leader in 1939
and was elected to Congress in 1942.

Mr. Feighan received an honorary doctorate from the University of Munich. He was
a member of the Burning Tree Club, City Tavern Club, Congressional Country Club
and the Princeton Club.

His wife, Florence Mathews Feighan, died in 1980, and a son, Michael A. Feighan
Jr., died in 1942.

Survivors include his companion, Lelah Rodenberger of Washington; a son, William
Feighan of Paradise Valley, Ariz.; a daughter, Fleur Jones of Greenwich, Conn.;
a sister, Anne Feighan O'Brien of Light House Point, Fla; and two grandsons.
Also surviving is a nephew, Rep. Edward Feighan (D-Ohio.)

JOHN JOSEPH LIEB

Police Lieutenant


John Joseph Lieb, 76, a retired lieutenant in the Metropolitan Police Department
who was active in veterans, service and Catholic Church organizations, died of
heart and kidney ailments March 19 at his home in Beltsville.

A native of Philadelphia, Mr. Lieb was reared there and in Washington, where he
graduated from St. John's College High School. During World War II, he served in
the Army in Europe.

He joined the D.C. police department in 1942. He served in various precincts
over the years, rose to the rank of lieutenant and retired in 1970. From 1972 to
1982, he worked in the maintenance department of the Great Oaks Mental
Retardation Center at Beltsville, which is run by the Maryland Classified
Employees Association.

Mr. Lieb was a member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Riverdale Elks Lodge,
the Knights of Columbus and the parish of St. Joseph's Catholic Church in
Beltsville. He also was an usher at the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception.

Survivors include his wife of 51 years, Hazel M. Lieb of Beltsville; three
daughters, Carole Knisley of Kansas City, Mo., Anita Long of Odenton and Mary
Margaret Lieb of Beltsville; seven sons, Michael John Lieb of Laurel, John
Joseph Lieb of Atlanta, Joseph Peter Lieb of Bishopville, Md., James Philip Lieb
of Mount Holly, Va., Stephen Anthony Lieb of Gaithersburg, Patrick Aloysius Lieb
of Berlin, Md., and Mark Andrew Lieb of Silver Spring; 20 grandchildren; and
four great-grandchildren.

A son, Thomas Vincent Lieb, died in 1991.

HARRY FOUCH REID

Travel Adviser


Harry Fouch Reid, 87, a retired federal energy adviser who also was a recreation
department supervisor and travel agent, died of a heart attack March 12 at the
National Hospital for Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation. He lived in Arlington.

Mr. Reid was a founder in 1980 of Pairs and Spares Travel, a Washington travel
business for older customers. Until 1990, he escorted tour groups on trips in
the United States and abroad. Earlier, he was a seniors club supervisor for the
Arlington Recreation Department and an electricity and gas adviser at the
Federal Power Commission.

Mr. Reid was born in Fennville, Mich., and he attended Ferris Institute, now
Ferris State University.

Before moving to the Washington area in 1953, he worked in Flint, Battle Creek
and Jackson, Mich., as a bank and power company official, credit bureau manager
and bean-processing company controller and director.

He was ration director in Jackson County, Mich., during World War II.

Mr. Reid was a former national director of the National Retail Credit Bureau, a
Mason, and a member of Sigma Alpha Delta social fraternity, the Riviera Club and
the Michigan Club of Washington.

His marriage to Ruth Bonney Kelly ended in divorce.

Survivors include a daughter, Kathryn Reid Henkel of Tecumseh, Mich.; a sister,
Noma Pear Reid Brice of Norfolk; five grandchildren; and two
great-grandchildren.

JAMES VIRGIL SMITH

Educator


James Virgil Smith, 43, a teacher in the education service program at the D.C.
jail, died March 16 at Georgetown University Hospital. He had AIDS.

Mr. Smith, who lived in Washington, was born in Chicago. He graduated from St.
Mary's College in Minnesota and received a master's degree in American history
from DePaul University in Chicago.

He was a teacher and counselor in the Chicago public school system and later
taught sociology and directed a black studies program at San Diego State
University before moving to the Washington area in 1980.

He was a counselor at the Lorton Youth Center from 1980 until joining the
education service program at the D.C. jail in 1985.

Mr. Smith was a member of the pastoral council at St. Augustine's Catholic
Church in Washington, where he also helped plan the annual Trinity Sunday
celebration of the church's founding. He was an oral historian with the Office
of Black Catholics of the Catholic Archdiocese of Washington and with the
Washington Historical Society and the Martin Luther King Jr. Library.

Survivors include two brothers, Donald and John Smith, and a sister, Margaret
Smith, all of Chicago.

GEORGE CHARLES GUARINO

Buyer


George Charles Guarino, 32, an assistant buyer in the merchandising department
of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, died March 3 at Georgetown
University Hospital. He had AIDS.

Mr. Guarino, who lived in Washington, was born in Buffalo. He settled in the
Washington area in 1980 after his discharge from the Army.

He had worked for the National Trust since 1985. Earlier he had been a mail
clerk and computer operator with the law firm of Baker & Hostetler.

He was a founding member of the Gay Men's Chorus of Washington and a member of
ACT UP/DC.

Survivors include his companion, Frederick Nunley of Washington; his parents,
Elaine and George Guarino, four sisters, Sharon Wyfocarski, Barbara Lucas,
Bonnie Schoephel and Kathy Marenus, and three brothers, Dennis, Richard, and
Terry Guarino, all of Rochester, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OBITUARY

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              31 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 17, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Germany and Immigration

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 418 words


THE NEWS that Germany is now considering major changes to its immigration law
propels further a Europe-wide review of the related but not identical subjects
of immigration and cultural diversity. Such efforts in Germany have special
difficulty and resonance. No country has less excuse to ignore where racist and
xenophobic feelings can lead. Meanwhile, the social strains of reunification
have left German society vulnerable to an upsurge in anti-foreigner feeling and
neo-Nazi manifestations, reflected in unexpected far-right gains. Then, Germany
has an exceptionally liberal political asylum law, adopted (by West Germany) as
postwar reparation for the deaths of millions who had nowhere to flee. The major
political parties, especially the opposition Social Democrats, have been
reluctant to be seen recommending any change in this stance.

But the asylum law has a major drawback. It is coupled with a prohibition on any
other type of legal immigration and a near-total ban on anyone besides ethnic
Germans ever attaining German citizenship, even when they are born on German
soil. This means that (1) the children and grandchildren of Turks and Yugoslavs
brought in as guest workers usually cannot become citizens; (2) large numbers of
ethnic German Russians, Poles and Ukrainians attain immediate citizenship and
refugee benefits, which strains already stressed government finances, and (3)
large numbers of Third World would-be immigrants apply instead for asylum
status, which kicks off a long evaluation process and bars them from working
legally in the meantime.

As the overflow presence of such asylum-seekers inflames existing anti-foreigner
feeling, the German government has made matters worse by describing the problem
exclusively as abuse of the asylum law. This past fall, for instance, in the
wake of rising numbers of attacks on foreigners, it proposed to collect refugees
in camps -- tacitly legitimizing hostility against legals and illegals alike.

So the attempt by the governing Christian Democrats to introduce the notion of
legal immigration and tighten the asylum law represents not just a pragmatic
possible solution but a conceptual step. It could begin to separate the notion
of racial difference from that of illegality. The idea being floated involves a
system of American-style quotas -- for ethnic Germans as well. Debating such a
measure could help Germans and other Europeans grapple with immigration as a
matter distinct from polemics about national identity.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              32 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 7, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Md. Lawyer Guilty in Alien Case;
Lying to INS Agents Admitted in Court

Paul W. Valentine, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, May 6


A Silver Spring lawyer pleaded guilty today to lying to U.S. immigration
authorities in what investigators said was a scheme to help scores of Central
Americans obtain bogus political asylum status in 1990 and 1991.

William R. Diaz-Fontana, 47, admitted concocting stories of threats and
pressures by Salvadoran guerrillas to help two undercover informers posing as
political asylum applicants get U.S. work permits.

Diaz-Fontana could be sentenced to five years in prison and $ 250,000 in fines.

But federal prosecutor Robert M. Thomas Jr. said his office has recommended that
the immigration lawyer serve four to six months in a halfway house and pay a $
10,000 fine.

Diaz-Fontana is scheduled for sentencing Aug. 4 by U.S. District Judge J.
Frederick Motz.

In recent years lawyers throughout the United States have assisted thousands of
immigrants in seeking permanent refuge here from foreign governments and
guerrilla movements, especially in El Salvador, Nicaragua and Guatemala.

The number of aliens granted political asylum in the United States has
fluctuated between 4,200 and 11,600 a year in the last decade, according to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

INS agents said Diaz-Fontana ran a prosperous alien assistance service at his
Colesville Road office in Silver Spring, processing 20 to 40 clients every
Saturday and charging each about $ 400.

"It was very high-volume business," agent Thomas E. Perryman said in an
interview.

He said an undetermined part of the business was legitimate.

He said clients entered the office and "took a number" to await their turn to
see Diaz-Fontana.

Perryman said a fraudulent application for political asylum often is used as a
device by aliens to get work in the United States.

Applications filed in 1990 and 1991 typically are taking two or three years to
process because of a backlog, he said, and applicants are given work permits for
the interval.

With the work permits, he said, they are able to obtain Social Security cards
and driver's licenses, giving them the appearance of permanent residents and
making them more attractive to employers even though they may ultimately be
deported if political asylum is not granted.

"That's the scam," Perryman said.

He said applications processed by Diaz-Fontana claimed, for example, that the
aliens had "worked for the El Salvadoran government or military, so the
guerrillas were trying to harm them . . . or they had been pressed to aid the
guerrillas, so the military was trying to harm them."

Defense attorney Steven A. Allen disputed Perryman's claims, saying Diaz-Fontana
was a "legitimate practitioner, performing a legitimate service . . . .
Unfortunately, an error or two was made."

He said Diaz-Fontana had many fewer clients than what Perryman claimed and that
he "charged a fraction of what other lawyers charged for filing political asylum
petitions."

As part of his guilty plea, Diaz-Fontana consented to being disbarred.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              33 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 1, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Plans Fee-Based Express Lanes At Selected U.S. Border Crossings

From News Services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 504 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to establish express lanes at
certain border crossings to Mexico and Canada -- and charge for the expedited
service.

INS spokesman Verne Jervis said the agency will inaugurate the system this
spring at a few unspecified locations. It has not decided on the amount of the
fee.

The pay lanes would be staffed with additional inspectors to speed border
crossings, which now can take two to three hours. The service would be available
for anyone who is legally eligible to cross the border.

"We are stressing that use of the fee lanes is voluntary," said Duke Austin,
another INS spokesman. "There will still be non-fee lanes for those who choose
not to pay."

Immigrant rights groups have criticized the revenue-raising method and said it
could lead to a tax on anyone entering the United States. Such a tax, activists
said, could saddle poor migrant workers, who cross the border often and are
least able to afford additional expenses, with the brunt of the responsibility
to pay for faster inspection service.

Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La Raza questioned the precedent of
establishing any fee, even if optional, for crossing the U.S. border. "We're
living in an age when walls are coming down in other parts of the world and yet
the United States is considering a fee for coming in," she said.

And she questioned whether INS can handle another new program given its current
management and financial woes. The General Accounting Office, in a recent draft
report on the INS, was harshly critical of the agency's administration and
budget process.

"Charging fees at the border is not the way to take care of the gross
mismanagement of the INS," said Mario Morean, an attorney for the
Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund.

Supporters of a border-crossing toll were critical that the INS has not gone
further. They said the agency is authorized by legislation passed by Congress
last year to adopt a more ambitious fee program to pay for improved border
security.

"They have an opportunity for an aggressive, intelligent program, and the
results could provide for a permanent, effective financing vehicle for sound
border security, and they're ducking for cover already," said Dan Stein,
executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Stein said quicker inspections funded by a toll would be a boon to commerce in
border communities.

"The biggest detriment to trans-border commerce is the two- to three-hour wait
currently encountered in cross-border excursions," Stein said. "Those who are
crossing the border for legitimate reasons will be more than happy to pay for
better and faster inspections. Time is money."

Stein said a toll of $ 2 would increase the agency's budget by 50 percent. The
additional money and manpower also could be used to help control drug smuggling
and violence on the border, Stein said.

But Jervis said the fees would be used solely to finance the express-crossing
program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, MARCIAL AMIGO FOR TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              34 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 9, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Salvadorans Find Cost Of Clemency Too High;
Fee Keeps Some From Seeking Legal Status

Carlos Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6

LENGTH: 486 words


Community activists who are helping hundreds of Salvadoran immigrants obtain
temporary clemency from deportation say the filing fees are so high that some
people will not apply.

Applicants may have to pay as much as $ 330 each over the next 18 months, the
length of the program that provides "temporary protected status" for all
Salvadorans who entered this country illegally before Sept. 19, immigration
officials and community activists said.

"The filing fees are outlandish," said Daniel A. Katz, executive director of the
Central American Refugee Center in Washington. "This is going to discourage
people from applying."

But a spokesman with the Immigration and Naturalization Service said the
administrative costs must be paid by applicants or taxpayers. The program is
expected to affect as many as 300,000 Salvadoran immigrants nationally and
50,000 people locally.

"Should the general taxpayer pay for a benefit being allocated to an
individual?" asked INS spokesman Duke Austin. "That's the bottom line."

But Katz contends that the bottom line is the humanitarian intent that Congress
expressed when the measure was passed in November.

"It seems the INS, if they go through with this, is going to sabotage a program
they claim they want to see work," Katz said.

Although several local agencies have reported that hundreds of Salvadorans have
inquired about applying or begun filling out the paperwork since the program
began last Wednesday, the INS reports that relatively few applications have been
received.

"It's in the low hundreds," Austin said. INS officials said they expect the
number to rise. "There's usually two peaks: one not too long after a program
starts and one at the end," Austin said.

But the slow start this time may mean people cannot afford the application fees,
Katz said.

"I don't have it, but I'm going to look for a loan somehow," said Maria M.
Mendoza, 42, a Salvadoran who started the application process at Katz's agency
yesterday, but didn't have the money for the filing fee.

"If you work, it's not going to be hard," said Mendoza, who works in a
neighborhood carry-out restaurant. "But, for example, my son doesn't have a job,
and he hasn't worked for a month. I have to look for a way to help him."

The program, which Congress mandated last November, offers a six-month window of
opportunity for Salvadoran immigrants. They must prove they have not left the
United States since September, and that they have been convicted of no felonies
and no more than one misdemeanor while in this country.

Under the temporary clemency, the illegal immigrants could gain legal status
after 18 months, and ultimately U.S. citizenship.

Austin said the INS still has time to change the fee schedule because it is
based on interim regulations.

The public has 30 days to comment on the regulations, Austin said, and to try to
persuade INS officials to lower the fees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              35 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 11, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. Set to Photograph, Fingerprint All New Iraqi and Kuwaiti Visitors;
Unusual Move Taken to Try to Counter Possible Terrorist Attacks

Sharon LaFraniere, George Lardner, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A23

LENGTH: 1047 words


The Justice Department yesterday ordered immigration authorities to begin
photographing and fingerprinting anyone entering the United States with an Iraqi
or Kuwaiti passport as part of an effort to counter what the administration
views as a mounting threat of terrorism.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said it was the first
time he could remember that the government has adopted such a measure. The
Justice Department said the new rule applied to visitors holding Kuwaiti as well
as Iraqi passports because Iraqi authorities confiscated credentials of many
Kuwaitis and gained control of blank Kuwaiti passports during the August
invasion.

"While travelers may incur some inconveniences, this is more than
counterbalanced by United States security needs," said Deputy Attorney General
William P. Barr.

The new procedures, effective immediately, come two days after the FBI began
nationwide interviews of 200 Arab-American business and community leaders.

The agency said it wanted to collect information about possible terrorist
threats and inform the Arab Americans that it wants to protect them from any
backlash here.

At a meeting in Detroit, home to North America's largest Arab-American
community, Arab Americans called the FBI initiative discriminatory and
offensive.

Some civil rights attorneys were critical as well, saying it appears to violate
constitutional and privacy act rights of Arab Americans.

"If we were on the verge of going to war with Nigeria, and the FBI started
interviewing black Americans, I don't think anybody would stand for it," said
David Cole, a constitutional law professor at the Georgetown University Law
Center. "This kind of selection violates the principles of the [Constitution's]
equal protection clause . . . that you be treated as an individual and not
singled out by the government on account of your race or ethnic origin."

An administration official, who asked not to be identified, said the initiative
was clearly within the FBI's legal authority. "Basic constitutional law is that
a law-enforcement officer can direct an inquiry to any person and that person
has the option of either speaking to them or not.

"It's only logical if you are asking about the activities within a particular
ethnic group to ask people who are members of that ethnic group what they know
about it," he said.

Officials declined to comment on what other measures might be taken to stem the
possibility of terrorist attacks in the United States, but both FBI and INS
spokesmen denied reports that members of suspected pro-Iraqi cells who have been
under surveillance since August will be rounded up if war breaks out.

The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this week that such roundups, aimed at
harassing and disrupting terrorist groups, would take place here and in
countries around the world in the event of hostilities.

In Germany yesterday, it was reported that anti-terrorist units in Bonn had
conducted raids at the homes of several Arabs, carrying out searches and
arresting two Arabs.

Asked about the possibility of preemptive arrests, FBI spokesman Thomas F. Jones
said, "I can't speak for other countries, but the FBI has no plans along those
lines."

The Justice Department decided against a proposal that would have required INS
to fingerprint and photograph all visitors with Kuwaiti or Iraqi passports who
have entered the country since August. INS officials said about 8,500 Iraqis and
more than 5,000 Kuwaitis are now visiting the United States.

Civil rights attorneys said the FBI's interviewing of Arab Americans, because it
is directed at U.S. citizens, is more open to legal challenge than the policy of
fingerprinting visitors.

Still, Cole said, "I don't think that a court is going to enjoin the FBI from
engaging in this kind of activity. The courts, particularly in times like this,
bend over backwards to accommodate the federal government's national security
claims."

Kate Martin, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union, said "the
presumption" behind the FBI's activity is "outrageous" and "clearly
unconstitutional."

"The presumption is that because you are of Arab descent, you might have some
connection to terrorism," she said.

Civil rights attorneys said the FBI and the INS have harassed and closely
watched Arab Americans in the name of national security since the 1979-80
hostage crisis in Iran.

Officials of the Arab-American Institute here, already alarmed about the FBI
interviews, voiced fears that the government might be thinking of implementing a
controversial "contingency plan" drawn up in 1986 by INS investigators for
dealing with "Alien Terrorists and Undesirables."

The 31-page proposal, drawn up after the retaliatory U.S. air attack on Libyan
targets in April 1986, suggested "wholesale" invalidation of the visas of
visitors or "non-immigrants" in a particular nationality group so they would
have to re-register. It also recommended vigorous pursuit of aliens suspected of
terrorism, including jailing without bond, closed-door deportation hearings and
a routine use of "fallback" charges in case the main charge could not be
established.

INS spokesman Duke Austin said yesterday the proposal, including a plan to use a
Louisiana detention facility if suspected terrorists numbered between 500 and
1,000, was drawn up by some "low-level staffers" and disavowed when it became
public in 1987.

"The INS commissioner at the time [Alan Nelson] never even saw the plan," Austin
said. "It was summarily discarded."

Lawyers for eight Los Angeles-area Palestinians arrested in 1987 on civil
charges of subversion said the government's conduct of the case contained many
elements of the INS "contingency" plan.

The eight Palestinians were accused of affiliation with the Popular Front for
the Liberation of Palestine, a group with a terrorist record, and initially held
without bond. Despite their denials and key court rulings in their favor, they
are still facing the threat of deportation. One initially charged with
subversion now faces ouster because he worked at a convenience store without INS
permission.

"The 1986 [contingency] plan reads like a blueprint for these prosecutions,"
said Cole, who represents the Palestinians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              36 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 27, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

The Russians Are Coming . . . . . . And the West Needs an Immigration Policy
That Makes Sense

Leon Aron

SECTION: OUTLOOK; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 2097 words


THE PERSIAN Gulf War has our immediate attention, but 1991 may become known as
the Year of the Russian Immigrant. Indeed, the largest peacetime emigration of
ethnic Russians to the West in history is likely to occur. The scale of the
exodus may surpass even that of 1918-1920 when, in the wake of the Bolshevik
revolution, nearly 2 million Russians left Russia.

The exact number of would-be immigrants is unknown. However, according to Moscow
News, 500,000 Soviet citizens applied for exit visas in the first six months of
1990. Only 41 percent were allowed to leave (Soviet law recognizes "family
reunification" as the only legal basis for emigration), but KGB Chief Vladimir
Kryuchkov estimated recently that exit visas for 1990 may nevertheless reach
460,000. At the present rate of rejection, this means that 1,112,000 Soviets
applied to emigrate. And since the great majority of those allowed to leave were
Jews, Germans and Armenians, it suggests that at least 652,000 ethnic Russians
have applied to emigrate.

The impetus for this huge movement of population is no mystery. The Soviet Union
ranks 77th in the world in terms of personal consumption; its people are among
the poorest. The average Soviet citizen has to work 10 to 12 times longer than
the average American to buy meat, two to eight times longer to buy bread. While
65 percent of Americans own homes, every third Soviet citizen -- more than 100
million people -- has less living space than even the meager Soviet "sanitary
minimum" of nine square meters (about 100 square feet) per person.

The miserable day-to-day living is aggravated by the ongoing economic collapse,
bringing food shortages and galloping inflation. As more Soviets travel, what
they see in the West is dramatic enough to compel many of them to leave.

Meanwhile, the dissolution of the Soviet internal empire lends urgency to the
issue of exodus. In all, 25.7 million ethnic Russians live outside the Russian
republic and, increasingly, they feel like unwelcome foreigners, especially the
9.7 million living in Central Asia and Azerbaijan.

Between 1979 and 1989, 1,633,000 more people left the Soviet Central Asian
republics than migrated in -- most of them ethnic Russians, Ukrainians and
Russian-speaking minorities. (Several hundred thousand ethnic Germans in
Kazakhstan went to West Germany.) In the last two years, following a slew of
legislative measures passed by the Central Asian republics to increase their
autonomy, the outflow of ethnic Russians grew sharply.

In March 1990, then-prime minister Nikolai Ryzhkov put the total number of
internal Soviet refugees at 500,000. Today, according to Galina Starovoitova, a
People's Deputy of the U.S.S.R., there are over a million domestic refugees.

Yet, plagued by unemployment, poverty and shortages of everything, Russia itself
is incapable of accommodating the refugees pouring in from Central Asia. By far
the most difficult problem is the shortage of housing. In Moscow, where most of
the refugees come seeking food and shelter, 344,800 families -- 12 percent of
the Soviet capital's population -- are already on the waiting list for housing.

Today a Soviet refugee is given one-time assistance of 100 rubles and 200 rubles
worth of clothes and footwear -- virtually nothing in today's inflated, erratic
Soviet marketplace. Refugees sleep in offices or are sent to live at children's
summer camps, which lack heat, hot water and often indoor plumbing. Even the
meager allowances are stranded in the notorious Soviet red tape: over 60
ministries are responsible for helping refugees.

The last straw in the decision by displaced ethnic Russians to leave the Soviet
Union stems from the bitter feeling that they are not welcomed in Russia. A poll
taken in Moscow last May by the All-Union Center for the Study of Public Opinion
found that only 21 percent of the respondents thought that refugees are entitled
to government assistance. The Muscovites expressed fear that the refugees will
deplete the already meager resources of Russia. "The empire is splitting . . . .
And those who became the first victims of the split are falling between the
cracks," wrote Literaturnaya Gazeta, the popular Soviet weekly.

The "Law on Exit and Entry of U.S.S.R. Citzens" has been under discussion in the
Supreme Soviet for almost a year and is expected to be passed by next summer.
The law will give every Soviet citizen the right to a passport, valid for five
years, for travel anywhere. Once the restrictions to emigration other than for
narrowly defined "risks to national security" have been removed, the floodgates
will be open.

Vladimir Sherbakov, chairman of the Soviet State Labor Committee, estimated that
up to 3 million Soviet citizens will head west when the law is passed. A Soviet
television show last fall said the number could total 8 million.

The inevitable exodus of ethnic Russians from the Soviet Union poses a serious
moral and political dilemma for the West. It may seek to restrict the flow, but
unless the West is willing to resurrect such hated symbols of the vanquished
communism as barbed wire fences and border patrols, it is unlikely to stem it by
much.

Most ethnic Russian refugees will travel to the West through Czechoslovakia,
Hungary and Poland. Thelast, which shares a 540-mile border with the Soviet
Union, is especially vulnerable. Preparing for an unrestricted immigration, the
head of Poland's Office of Refugees, Col. Zbigniew Skoczylas, said last
December: "We are making arrangements for this as though it were a second
Bolshevik Revolution. We expect Russians to come marching barefoot across the
snow . . . like they did in 1917."

But obsession with America permeates Soviet society, assuring that the United
States will be the first choice of emigrating Russians.

Since October 1989, 600,000 Soviet citizens picked up emigration forms from the
U.S. Embassy in Moscow. As of last June, the Washington Processing Center in
Rosslyn processed 150,000 family applications for emigration, representing
between 375,000 and 500,000 people. Clearly, it is not too soon for the United
States to begin thinking about a policy vis-a-vis hundreds of thousands of
potential Russian immigrants. And Washington should, to be sure, be guided by
long-term U.S. interests. Chief among them is seeing the Soviet Union peacefully
evolve toward a democratic state. If the millions of displaced ethnic Russians
are left without hope in their homeland, the effect on the future of the Soviet
Union, at least in the short run, will be devastating.

Like more than a million French pieds noirs repatriants from Algiers who fled
following the collapse of the French colonial rule there in 1962, Russians
returning from the national republics are likely to blame their misfortune on
democracy and decolonization. As these repatriates find themselves within a
homeland that doesn't want them, their bitterness may lead them into the camp of
Russian nationalist reactionaries.

From the standpoint of the United States, current immigration laws offer little
help. There are two ways for foreigners to settle legally here: One is to be
granted refugee status and the other is simply to be admitted as an immigrant.

The refugee solution is hobbled by two problems. One is that, despite a
50,000-refugee quota for the Soviet Union, fewer and fewer Soviet citizens
qualify for a status that requires the applicant to demonstrate "a well-founded
fear of persecution." Another problem with refugee status is that it is costly.
On average, each refugee costs the U.S. taxpayer up to $ 7,500 in direct cash
support as well as such public assistance as food stamps, Medicaid and
vocational placement services.

Very few ethnic Russians would be able to enter the United States as non-refugee
immigrants. The law entitles every nation up to 20,000 qualified immigrants for
permanent residence, but five of the six categories of "preference" are based on
having close relatives in this country -- something that applies to very few
ethnic Russians. Nor is the sixth category of "preference" likely to be of much
help: It calls for "skilled and unskilled occupations in which laborers are in
short supply in the United States." Russians, with few exceptions, are not
likely to qualify.

The United States, then, has little choice other than to respond with a flexible
and imaginative resettlement policy. Otherwise, the freedom of emigration from
the Soviet Union, for which the United States has fought so long and hard, would
seem in retrospect a cynical propaganda exercise. The United States could take a
few useful steps at once. It could, for example, develop a joint immigration
strategy with Western Europe, which is likely to bear the initial brunt of
exodus.

Part of this could be accomplished through cost-sharing: The United States, with
its tradition of welcoming immigrants and unsurpassed economic opportunities,
would resettle the immigrants while West Europeans help defray the cost.

Second, we could normalize emigration from the Soviet Union by introducing a
special category of immigrants. Last year, Congress passed the Immigration Act
of 1990, which raised the worldwide immigration ceiling from 270,000 a year to
700,000 for 1992-94 and 675,000 from 1995 onward. The act also established a
permanent "diversity program" that gives preference in immigration permits to
people from countries with small (less than 10,000 a year) immigration to the
United States. However, the number of "diversity" immigrants is very small:
40,000 worldwide for the years 1992 to 1994 and 55,000 from 1995 onward.

Congress should add a "humanitarian immigrant" category, as suggested by the
Refugee Policy Group, a Washington-based, non-profit organization. Rep. William
O. Lipinski (D-Ill.) sought to redress the "preference" disadvantage by
allotting 200,000 immigration visas a year for five years to applicants from
"countries that, since World War II, have traditionally denied freedom of
emigration." (The Lipinski proposal died in committee.)

Since "humanitarian immigrants" would not have relatives to help them or skills
to make them employable right away, some form of public assistance such as
low-interest loans guaranteed by West European governments, may be advisable.

Two decades of Soviet emigration shows that such loans would be a profitable
investment. Of Soviets who entered the United States in 1987-1988, 95 percent
were judged by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to be eligible to
become permanent residents in 1989 -- the highest proportion of any major
refugee group. According to a 1989 survey, within a year of their arrival in the
U.S., two-thirds of adult Soviet refugees were working. In 1988, the median
household income of Soviet refugees who arrived between 1977 and 1981 was $
34,000. (By comparison, in 1988 the U.S. median household income was $ 29,000.)

Most of those surveyed were ethnic Jews, but Soviet Jews, for all intents and
purposes, are no different from well-educated and skilled urban Russians --
precisely the category that would be the first to leave outlying republics for
the United States. For example, the Russian exodus from Uzbekistan in 1990 was
spearheaded by 30,000 college graduates between 22 and 30 years of age.

Finally, as an alternative to the costly process of emigration abroad, the
United States and its European allies should offer short-term assistance to help
resettle Soviet internal refugees who decide to stay in the Soviet Union. The
Russian exodus is an inevitable result of the collapse of the Soviet empire.
Both outcomes seem remote. Moscow News puts it best: "There is nothing to be
done about all this -- it is a penalty for our past: poverty, hatred, fear . . .
. Our country has slaughtered tens of millions of its children. It has ousted --
and is still ousting -- hundreds of thousands."

Only two developments can halt it: restoration of totalitarian controls or a
speedy economic and social recovery. What better chance is there for the
administration obsessed with Soviet "instability" to do something concrete about
it -- by defusing one of its potentially most dangerous sources, the millions of
destitute Russian pieds noirs?

Unlike the administration's steadfast support of the doomed Gorbachev regime,
which has been prolonging the agony of the Soviet empire, helping to alleviate
the Russian refugee crisis would reduce chances for large-scale violence and
help keep Russia on the road of a peaceful evolution toward democracy and a
productive economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, JOEL BOWER FOR TWP

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, ANALYSIS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              37 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 14, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Long, Cold Line Leads to a Better Life;
Hundreds Stand for Hours Outside NW Center, Seeking Temporary Legal Work Status

Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE E1

LENGTH: 558 words


Hundreds of Salvadorans, many expressing confusion and frustration, gathered in
the cold yesterday outside the Washington center that was opened to process
their applications for temporary legal status.

By 9:30 a.m. yesterday, about 200 illegal Salvadoran immigrants, some of them
mothers with babies, were waiting in an open courtyard outside the Indochinese
Community Center at 16th and Corcoran streets NW. The center is serving as the
processing office for walk-in applicants from the District and Northern
Virginia.

Many people waited for hours, some after having waited fruitlessly all day
Tuesday, the first day of operation.

"I waited all day, for nothing," Vilma Campos, of Falls Church, said yesterday
afternoon. Campos and the other Salvadorans had gathered to submit applications
for what the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service calls temporary
protected status. The congressionally mandated program allows undocumented
Salvadorans who have not qualified for amnesty political asylum or other
benefits and lets them apply to live and work in the U.S. legally for 18 months.

Immigration officials said they want this walk-in approach to replace a system,
operating for several weeks, in which applicants mail in forms and receive dates
for interviews at three processing centers in Alexandria and Arlington. As many
as 50,000 people in the Washington area are believed to be eligible for the
program. Many fled El Salvador, seeking refuge from war and poverty.

While there are long lines at the Indochinese Community Center, the center in
Baltimore is running smoothly, said Rita Soler Ossolinski, acting director of
the D.C. Office on Latino Affairs.

"It's incredible. More than 100 people waiting outside for hours in sub-freezing
weather," she said.

Many people were simply confused. In the chill morning air yesterday, two
Salvadoran women clutching babies stepped out from two big, meandering lines of
people yesterday to talk to a federal immigration official on 16th Street NW.

Immediately, several other Salvadoran men and women surged forward over and
around ropes toward William Gilligan, acting deputy district director of the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"Okay, everybody outside the sidewalk," Gilligan said politely but firmly.

Judith Cortez, of Falls Church, said she had arrived at the center Tuesday
morning, application in hand, and waited all day without being seen. She came
back yesterday. Officials, she said, had announced that they would process first
those, like herself, who had signed up on lists Tuesday.

But there was a problem. "They can't find my name on any of the lists," she said
in Spanish. In the meantime, Cortez said, people who arrived after her were
being processed. "There's no order," she said.

Nancy Bruns, an INS spokeswoman, said a number system would be initiated today.
She said the center has issued about 350 temporary legal residency cards in two
days, and plans call for INS officials to process about 150 people a day at the
site.

The temporary clemency is available to Salvadorans who entered the country
illegally before Sept. 19. The program requires that applications, which include
a $ 110 filing fee per person, be made by June 30. Renewals, also costing $ 110
per person, are to be made at six-month intervals up to 18 months.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SALVADORAN IMMIGRANTS WAITING OUTSIDE CENTER AT 16TH AND
CORCORAN STREETS NW LISTEN TO OFFICIAL, WITH BULLHORN, ON APPLYING FOR LEGAL
PAPERS. GERALD MARTINEAU

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              38 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 26, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Additional Early-Outs?

Mike Causey, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C2; THE FEDERAL DIARY

LENGTH: 502 words


Thousands of IRS revenue officers and inspectors with the U.S. Customs and
Immigration and Naturalization services would move into a pension plan that
allows them to retire earlier under a bill introduced by Sen. Barbara A.
Mikulski (D-Md.).

Canine enforcement officers also would be put in the early-out plan.

The officers and inspectors now are under the same retirement rules as
white-collar workers. The earliest most can retire with immediate, unreduced
benefits is at age 55 with 30 years' service.

Adding them to the law enforcement-firefighters plan would allow retirement at
age 50 with 20 years. Employees and agencies each would contribute 7 1/2 percent
of pay to the pension plan to help finance higher, earlier benefits. In the
regular civil service retirement system, employees and agencies each contribute
7 percent of pay.

Benefits under the law enforcement-firefighter plan are figured by taking 2 1/2
percent of the individual's high three-year average salary and multiplying by
the first 20 years of law enforcement-firefighter service, plus 2 percent of the
high three-year average multiplied by service exceeding 20 years. That formula,
which only a statistician could love, produces the higher benefit level.

Mikulski says customs and immigration officers were victims of more assaults in
1988 than those in the FBI, Marshal's Service or the Secret Service. IRS
officers, she said, are attacked more frequently than any other federal law
enforcement group.

The White House -- whether Democratic or Republican -- usually opposes adding
new groups to the early retirement plan because of cost, and the demand it
creates from other groups that want the early-out.

Mikulski's bill could overcome the usual objections. First, it covers people
doing tough jobs that lead to early burnout. Second, there is a new,
war-inspired emphasis on security, and the burdens it places on civil servants
who are rarely featured as TV series heroes, but who often are on the dangerous
front lines close to home. Job Mart

The Bureau of Mines has an opening for a supervisory librarian, Grade 12 or GM
(merit pay) 13. Call 202-634-4719.

The Environmental Protection Agency's inspector general is looking for
supervisory auditors, GM 15. Call 202-382-2973.

The Uniformed Services University in Bethesda is eager to hire federal retirees
for short-term assignments as personnel management specialists and classifiers
at the GS 13 level. Call Rosemary Orsini at 703-697-6428. People

Michael J. Murphy, deputy commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, and
Frank C. Conahan, an assistant comptroller general at the General Accounting
Office, have been named the federal winners of this year's National Academy of
Public Administration's public service award. March Meetings

The VA Alumni Association's March 7 luncheon is scheduled for the Holiday Inn at
Ballston. Insurance expert David A. Backus will talk about long-term health
care. For details, call Jim Derhaag at 703-820-8436.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              39 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 31, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Lawyer's Persistence Helps Reshape Immigration Law;
Advocate's Novel Courtroom Argument Brought Salvadorans Victory After String of
Defeats

Carlos Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 1216 words


Few paid attention to Washington lawyer William Van Wyke in immigration court
that day. The judge shuffled papers. The opposing lawyer stared at the walls.
Even the client looked bored.

Undaunted, Van Wyke droned on for 20 minutes, hoping to persuade the judge not
to deport his Salvadoran client. When he finished, the judge thanked Van Wyke
and promptly ruled against him, as immigration judges had done countless times
before.

"Someday it's going to work," Van Wyke later told a colleague who had witnessed
the scene in a Richmond courtroom.

And one day it did.

What finally worked, in a courtroom last year, was a novel argument: that
Salvadoran immigrants, like ships at sea, have a right under the law to safe
haven in America during a storm, in their case the deadly political storm raging
in their homeland.

It was a crowning moment for Van Wyke, a Michigan-bred, Dutch Calvinist lawyer
who holds a master's degree in Chinese studies but has chosen instead to
champion the cause of 300,000 Salvadorans living illegally in this country,
50,000 of them reportedly in the Washington area.

Although the ruling in the Richmond case later was superseded by federal
legislation that granted all Salvadorans in the United States temporary asylum,
it solidified Van Wyke's reputation as one of the nation's best advocates for
refugees.

"Bill has cut out an area of expertise and has won the admiration and respect of
lawyers across the country," said Washington lawyer Michael Maggio, one of the
pioneers in the legal asylum field.

Another asylum lawyer, Rex Wingerter, said Van Wyke is "on the cutting edge of
the law."

Van Wyke, 41, has been ridiculed by immigration officials for stretching out
losing cases in court. His obsession with his clients makes him hard to work
with, said a former law partner. His compulsion with cases considered legally
hopeless drove his firm into the ground, colleagues said.

What's more, he has lost about nine of every 10 cases he has taken on.

But those losses have little to do with his abilities, colleagues said, and much
to do with the standard for asylum demanded by U.S. immigration courts, which
want proof that immigrants personally would be endangered if deported.

In 1988, the most recent year for which statistics are available, 14,000
Salvadorans applied for asylum. U.S. officials granted it to 337, or 2.4
percent, of those applicants.

"What keeps him going is, he knows he's doing the right thing," said Jim
McGovern, an aide to Rep. Joe Moakley (D-Mass.), who has been an advocate for
immigrant rights. "He knew all along that he might be losing a string of cases.
And, deep down, he knew ultimately he would win."

The victory came in a case known as the "Matter of Santos."

Maria Elena Santos came to the United States after a man hacked her father to
death, saying he was a guerrilla in the Salvadoran civil war, and then soldiers
raped and shot to death two of her nieces.

But Santos, her mother and son were ruled ineligible for asylum because they did
not meet the legal criteria: having a "well-founded fear of persecution" based
on race, religion, political opinion, nationality or membership in a social
group.

"She may not have been able to prove that she had a [personal] fear of
persecution, but she was someone who had a right to get out of there," Van Wyke
said.

He thought it was a perfect case to test a legal argument that had failed him
many times before. It was based on a law that states that ships cannot dock in a
foreign country without permission, except if there is a storm at sea. Then they
can take shelter until the storm subsides. It should be so for Salvadorans, Van
Wyke said.

"This was an issue that maybe a handful of advocates had worked since 1985,"
said Enid Gonzalez Aleman, a colleague. "But no one had been successful, and
most had given up -- except for Bill."

In the Santos case, Immigration Judge Paul A. Nejelski denied asylum, but he
ruled that the family could not be deported home while war raged.

"It was one of the most impressive victories ever in an immigration court," said
Bruce A. Hake, editor of Immigration Briefings, a monthly law review.

Not long after the ruling, Congress gave Salvadoran immigrants living illegally
in this country "temporary protective status," approving an 18-month moratorium
on deportations. Although immigration experts say TPS, as the protective status
is known, probably would have passed even without Van Wyke's victory, it "gave
Congress a legal basis for TPS," said Rafael Barreto, an immigration lawyer.

One month later, the U.S. Department of Justice agreed in a California lawsuit
to reconsider all polticial asylum requests that had been denied to Salvadorans
and Guatemalans since 1980. Officials said the decision probably stemmed from
the federal legislation and, indirectly, Van Wyke's victory.

"It was a tacit admission by the INS that they hadn't been doing right by the
Salvadorans and Guatemalans," Van Wyke said of the two largest Hispanic groups
living in the Washington area.

Ironically, Van Wyke's all-consuming legal battle on behalf of those refugees
began after he moved to Washington to get away from law.

Van Wyke had been working in an east Arkansas legal clinic, and he jokes that he
avoided much of the scorn reserved for Yankees when he settled in Forrest City,
Ark. Residents there found a remarkable resemblance between Van Wyke and the
town's namesake, Confederate Gen. Nathan Bedford Forrest, who founded the Ku
Klux Klan.

But Van Wyke said he soon was burned out by the area's poverty, a huge legal
caseload and a divorce.

His arrival in Washington in 1982 coincided with the start of a wave of
Salvadoran immigration here. While working at a Takoma Park-Silver Spring food
cooperative, Van Wyke learned about the immigrants.

But Van Wyke saw abuse.

"I couldn't believe these people were being deported," he said. So when the
Central American Refugee Center, a Washington-based legal aid clinic, told Van
Wyke it needed a lawyer, he decided to return to law.

In the next two years, Van Wyke represented more than 140 clients, nearly half
of all asylum cases heard in the District. He won five of them.

"I faced a lot of disillusionment, a lot of setbacks," Van Wyke said. "But I
genuinely enjoyed doing it."

"Looking at a person's situation -- from their point of view -- to understand
their fear is a very complex idea," Van Wyke said of his legal approach. "But
the idea of taking someone else's perspective is at the heart of understanding
refugee law. You have to walk in their shoes."

But that walk often cost money, said Marty Millet, a former law partner of Van
Wyke's. "There were a couple of big cases he was spending months on and making
absolutely no money," he said. "It was tough. We were going down the tubes
financially."

Van Wyke and Millet parted amicably after eight months. "He needed to survive,
and that was it," Millet said. "He's certainly not doing this for the money."

Yet, practicing law is still not something Van Wyke fully embraces.

"I've never found a home in the law," he said. "I have respect for what the law
can do, in part, because I don't have any illusions about what it can't do. But
the law does hold hope for bringing order to chaos."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, VAN WYKE TALKS WITH JOSE ALONSO RAMIREZ, HOLDING SON MANUEL
ALONSO SANTOS, AND RAMIREZ'S WIFE, MARIA ELENA SANTOS. RAY LUSTIG

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              40 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 18, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Spanish-Speaking Hot Line Opens

SECTION: DISTRICT WEEKLY; PAGE J3

LENGTH: 92 words


Georgetown University's Center for Immigration Policy and Assistance has opened
a Spanish-language hot line to provide the Washington area Latino community with
information on recent changes in U.S. immigration law.

Congress recently granted temporary protected status, including work permits, to
Salvadorans who can prove they lived in this country before Sept. 19, 1990. A
Supreme Court ruling allows Salvadorans and Guatamelans to apply for political
asylum if they lived here before last fall.

The 24-hour hot line is 202-543-0049.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              41 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 22, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Immigration Rules to Alter Hiring Plans

Daniel B. Moskowitz

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE F22

LENGTH: 779 words


On Oct. 1, the rules change dramatically on bringing in foreign executives to
work in the United States.

"There are probably more questions now than answers in almost every area of
immigration," Warren Leiden, executive director of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association, told a Washington conference last month. In some cases, it
will be easier to get permission for nationals of other countries to work here;
in others the Immigration Act of 1990 will make it a much more cumbersome
process.

Lawyers are advising their clients to keep an eye on the Oct. 1 date and to move
now on personnel actions that will be more difficult if put off.

The rules changes have great impact on non-immigrants: Citizens of other
countries who see a career boost from an American work experience, but who do
not intend to stay in the country long term. The key is where the prospective
transferee is working now. If he or she is at a branch of the company offering
the new position, getting approval to move to the United States for a few years
becomes easier under the new law.

The special L visa set aside for those filling such managerial roles has so far
been available only to executives whose jobs involved supervising significant
numbers of persons. To the Immigration and Naturalization Service, that's what a
manager is. The new law expands the definition to include those who supervise
processes as well.

A project manager, for instance, will qualify after Oct. 1 but did not fit the
previous requirements. Now the transferee needs to have unique skills, but after
Oct. 1 all that will be needed is special skills -- an easier standard to meet.
And it is no longer necessary for the transferee to be on the company payroll in
the year before the transfer. The new requirement: work at the overseas branch
for 12 months during the previous 36 months.

That means, for example, that a woman who has just returned to work after a
maternity leave can be reassigned in short order to the United States, as can an
employee wooed back after working for a year or so for a competitor.

But if the person the U.S. company has its eye on is not currently on the
company payroll, the new procedures -- for H-1B visas -- get much more
complicated.

It's common to tighten the bond with overseas suppliers, customers or agents by
having key employees of those firms work a while for the U.S. company. But
getting official approval for that kind of arrangement -- or for any alien with
in-demand skills -- will get tougher.

"File H-1B petitions on behalf of prospective employees promptly," Philadelphia
immigration lawyer H. Ronald Klasko wrote last month to members of the Society
for Human Resource Management.

To begin with, notes Washington lawyer Arnold H. Leibowitz, "in a concession to
organized labor, numerical limits were placed on H-1 professional visas for the
first time." Only 65,000 H-1B visas can be issued a year.

More of a headache than the numerical limits are new procedures that give the
Labor Department a significant role for the first time. Now, all the company has
to do to get an approval is prove that the potential hire's special training is
needed to do the job. But when the new law clicks in, Leibowitz said, a business
has to file a petition with the Labor Department attesting that the foreigner
will get prevailing wages or the pay that others in similar jobs at the company
are getting -- whichever is higher.

The same filing requires certification that there's no strike or lockout
involving the job to be filled, that a union representative has been told of the
plans or that a notice of them has been posted "in conspicuous locations at the
place of employment," and that the foreigner's working conditions will not
adversely affect the working conditions of his or her American peers. Klasko
said that only after the Labor Department approves the petition can a visa be
applied for. And, Leibowitz warns, "the law envisions a significant post-filing
review with strong penalties on the employer for failing to abide by the
conditions in the application."

But it's not just the Labor Department that will be policing the certification.
The new law demands that the U.S. company make it easy for local workers to make
sure that the company isn't getting the foreigner at a bargain rate.

The application has to include the wage rate and working condition that will
apply to the job -- and it will be open for public inspection. That may be the
most onerous change of all in a lot of companies where salary information is
considered the most sacrosanct of secrets.? Daniel B. Moskowitz is a Washington
writer about legal subjects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              42 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 13, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

The Artist Visa Quota Fight

Kim Masters, Todd Allan Yasui, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE B7; ARTS BEAT

LENGTH: 943 words


The National Endowment for the Arts advisory council has stepped into another
controversy -- this time over new legislation limiting the number of foreign
artists who may visit this country each year.

Last week, the council passed a resolution stating its concern that the
Immigration Act of 1990, which takes effect in October, will have "unintended
adverse effects" on international cultural activity. This places the council
squarely in opposition to organized labor, which says the NEA council is siding
with performing arts presenters rather than with U.S. artists. The council
resolution is "a reflection of the elitist attitude of the endowment," said Jack
Golodner, president of the AFL-CIO's Department of Professional Employees.

Among the council's concerns is a provision allowing a maximum of 25,000
artists, athletes and entertainers to enter the country each year when those
performers apply as part of a group -- as would an orchestra or ballet company.
Visas would be issued on a first-come, first-served basis; the law would deny
visas to individuals who have been affiliated with a company or group for less
than a year.

The NEA council also takes issue with a set of proposed rules being prepared by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. According to a draft of those
proposals, an individual artist could get a visa only by showing evidence of
extraordinary ability or achievement, such as a Nobel Prize. In many fields, the
NEA council contends, such documentation doesn't exist.

Visas would be issued only after the INS consults a peer group, union or
management organization about the applicant's artistic ability. The NEA
council's resolution says such consultation "devalues the artistic integrity of
American cultural institutions and impedes effective planning."

Another planning problem: Visa applications would have to be filed no more than
90 days in advance. Presenters argue that they plan their schedules a year or
two in advance and need early assurances that visas will be available. The NEA
council calls the 90-day requirement "unworkable."

Organizations that present performing artists -- such as the League of American
Theatres and Producers and the American Symphony Orchestra League -- are
cranking up opposition to the law. Some say the provisions in question slipped
through late in the last congressional session while they were distracted by the
bitter fight over NEA reauthorization.

In a May 7 letter to the INS, actress Carol Channing said the new law "will
seriously jeopardize the performing arts in the country and ultimately deprive
numerous Americans of job opportunities created by ... temporary aliens, putting
further economic strain in this most fragile industry."

But the AFL-CIO's Golodner said that's the viewpoint of "the employers of
artists, who would love to be able to employ whoever they want." The NEA jumped
into the fray without talking to any of the artists' unions, he said.

"The immigration law that was passed was thoroughly debated by Congress,
hearings were held," he added. "The endowment never said a word, nor did any of
the major or minor institutions who were employers of artists. It seems a little
late for them now to be complaining about something which they have passively
contributed to by not advising or saying anything."

Writers' Week

Area scribes get their due as Washington Writers' Week gets underway tonight
with the first of four literary awards ceremonies. At "A Celebration of
Washington Poets" (5:45 p.m., International Monetary Fund Visitors Center,
free), Belle Waring will receive the Poetry Committee Book Award for the best
book of poetry by a local writer in the past year. Waring, a nonresident faculty
member at Vermont College, was chosen by poet laureate Mark Strand "for her
vitality and tough-mindedness." Waring's winning entry, "Refuge," also won the
Associated Writing Programs' Award Series in Poetry. Tonight's event will
feature readings by Waring and other local poets, as well as an exhibit by local
presses and independent publishers.

Tomorrow night Paul Derek Moore, a senior at Georgetown University, will receive
the first annual Zora Neale Hurston/Richard Wright Award for exemplary fiction
writing by a local African American college student. The award was conceived by
author-poet Marita Golden "to encourage black students to consider fiction
writing as a career possibility and to encourage the creative impulse." Moore
will receive a $ 750 prize at the ceremony (7:30 p.m., Stables Art Center, $ 10
suggested donation), which will feature guest speakers Mary Helen Washington and
Barry Beckham.

At a private event Friday at the Folger Shakespeare Library, the D.C. Commission
on the Arts will announce the winners of the ninth annual Larry Neal Writers'
Awards. Named for the late executive director of the commission, the awards are
presented to adults and youth for excellence in poetry, fiction, dramatic
writing, essays and criticism.

And finally, the prestigious PEN/Faulkner Award will be presented to John Edgar
Wideman for "Philadelphia Fire" at a private ceremony Saturday at the Folger.
Wideman and the other finalists will read from their works.

Carla Perlo Day

Three cheers to Dance Place founder and director Carla Perlo, who is celebrating
her 10th anniversary at the performing arts center. Perlo will be feted Saturday
by the board and staff of Dance Place. "It's one thing to work hard for yourself
to make a dream," said Perlo last week. "It's another to rally people to do it
also. I'm moved that people have the same vision that I have and are dedicated
to making it exist."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              43 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 18, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration Fees Slashed For Eligible Salvadorans

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B5

LENGTH: 442 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, under pressure from Congress and
immigrant rights groups, has agreed to a substantial reduction in the processing
fees it charges Salvadoran immigrants enrolling in a special 18-month amnesty
program.

With the application deadline barely six weeks away, only about 60,000 of the
estimated 300,000 to 500,000 Salvadorans in this country believed eligible have
taken advantage of the Temporary Status Program, INS officials said yesterday.

Advocacy groups and congressional sponsors of the amnesty blame the INS for the
low enrollment in the program, which gives Salvadorans legal resident status for
18 months and, most importantly, work permits. After that period, however, they
would again be subject to deportation if the attorney general declines to extend
the amnesty.

U.S. Rep. Joe Moakley (D-Mass.), one of the key sponsors of the program, told a
congressional oversight subcommittee this week that high INS processing and work
permit fees totaling $ 380 for an individual and $ 1,435 for a family of five --
dissuaded applicants, and said the agency failed to grant waivers for those who
could not pay.

Moakley demanded that the INS lower the fees, and introduced a bill extending
the deadline period for applications by four months, to Oct. 31.

INS officials said yesterday that a formula, which will go into effect next
week, would charge $ 75 a person and $ 225 for a family of three or more. The
agency would charge an additional $ 60 for each six-month work permit. Those who
have already paid will not get refunds.

INS Commissioner Gene McNary, testifying after Moakley, said that given the
planned fee reductions, he did not feel an extension of the eligibility deadline
was necessary. McNary said the low enrollment so far was not that troubling
because the agency expected a rush of applicants as the deadline approaches.

The INS estimates that a total of about 100,000 to 150,000 Salvadorans
eventually will enroll in the program, an agency spokesman said yesterday. As
many as 50,000 Salvadoran immigrants are believed eligible in the Washington
area, and nearly 11,000 have enrolled so far.

Despite the fee reductions, Moakley is going to continue to push for an
extension in the enrollment deadline, his press secretary, Jim McGovern, said
yesterday.

Congress intended to provide a six-month sign-up period, McGovern said, and the
INS, through its actions, has "reduced that period by 4 1/2 months." McGovern
said Moakley, chairman of the House Rules Committee, will likely attach the
deadline extension amendment to a bill the Bush administration strongly
supports.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GENE MCNARY

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              44 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 25, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Reversal of AIDS Exclusion Is Said to Be Shelved;
4-Year Bar to Immigration Criticized as Discriminatory and Medically Unjustified

Malcolm Gladwell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6

LENGTH: 808 words


The federal government's plan to reverse current immigration policy and allow
people infected with the AIDS virus into the United States has been shelved,
according to congressional and administration sources.

The Department of Health and Human Services proposed in January to strike HIV
infection from the list of diseases for which a person can be barred from the
United States. The four-year-old policy had been denounced as discriminatory and
medically unjustified by public health groups and AIDS activists. The new
regulation was to have been finalized by June 1.

But in the wake of 40,000 overwhelmingly negative letters and strong opposition
from conservatives outside and inside the administration, federal officials said
they will probably let the proposal die.

While officials review options about how -- and even whether -- to revise
federal immigration policy in this area, the government will maintain its
original policy of excluding AIDS-infected immigrants. According to health
officials, it is possible that the government will reintroduce its proposal or
that a new, compromise position will be reached, allowing HIV infected people to
come to the United States under certain, limited circumstances.

"This is a very distressing case of political cold feet," said Rep. Barney Frank
(D-Mass.), who was one of the leaders in pushing the administration to drop the
HIV restriction. "This is another case where the Bush administration gives the
semi-civilized wing of the Republican Party a veto over health policy."

But some medical groups and conservatives in Congress welcomed the move, which
they hoped would allow for a more thorough discussion of the implications of
changing the government policy.

"This is very encouraging," said Rep. William E. Dannemeyer (R-Calif.), who has
long battled against rights for gays. "It is simply not in the interests of this
nation to allow into this country as permanent immigrants people who have a
noncurable disease. Our health care system is already inundated trying to keep
up with the health needs of American people who are here as citizens."

The issue of how HIV should be handled by immigration authorities arises because
of a long-standing federal policy that people carrying communicable and
dangerous diseases such as tuberculosis should not be allowed into the country.
In 1987 Congress approved an amendment sponsored by Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.)
that added HIV to that list.

Subsequently this amendment came under heavy criticism from the Red Cross, the
World Health Organization, the National Commission on AIDS, and dozens of
foreign governments and health groups that argued that AIDS, which can be
transmitted only through direct blood-to-blood or sexual contact, did not pose a
health threat comparable to that of TB, which can be transmitted casually. To
single out AIDS, they said, was evidence simply of an irrational fear.

In January, Health and Human Services Secretary Louis W. Sullivan agreed,
proposing that AIDS as well as syphilis, gonorrhea and leprosy no longer serve
as grounds for exclusion.

Few appear to disagree with the rationale of Sullivan's proposal for short-term
visitors and tourists. But in letters to HHS over the past few months, the
American Medical Association, numerous state medical societies, and dozens of
other groups have argued that limiting the entry of longer-term visitors or of
immigrants still makes sense on economic grounds. The estimated lifetime cost of
medical care for someone with AIDS is $ 75,000.

AIDS groups say that this argument is just as discriminatory as the previous
policy because the country admits people with a number of other conditions, such
as heart disease, kidney failure and cancer, that place at least as great a
burden on the U.S. health care system as AIDS.

Health officials also point out that there is a simple way around the costs
incurred by allowing HIV-infected immigrants. Under the current provisions of
immigration law, anyone applying for a long-term visa or permanent residency is
required to show that they have enough financial resources not to become a
"public charge." The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), they say,
would be within its rights to permit immigration of HIV-infected people only if
they could make it clear that they had financial resources to provide for their
own care.

When health and human services officials suggested to the INS that they weed out
immigrants who might become a burden to the health care system, however, the
agency balked, unwilling to shoulder the extra responsibility that full-scale
medical analyses of new immigrants would entail.

Federal officials conceded yesterday that the resulting impasse is unlikely to
be resolved before the June 1 deadline and may require completely rethinking the
proposed changes.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, REP. BARNEY FRANK.

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              45 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 26, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Refugees in Florida: Rescue or Rejection;
Different Rules Mean U.S. Treatment of Cuban and Haitian Boat People Is Poles
Apart

Laura Parker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A5

LENGTH: 1499 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Every few days, another boatload of tattered refugees, dehydrated and scorched
by the Caribbean sun, appears off the Florida coast.

If Cuban, they are rescued and taken to Miami, quickly processed by immigration
officials and released. They are hailed as local heroes and regaled in the
newspapers for braving the perilous crossing through shark-infested waters.

If Haitian, their treatment could not be more different. U.S. policy requires
that their boats, often rickety and dangerously overloaded, be intercepted and
burned or sunk on the high seas. The refugees are herded onto a Coast Guard
vessel and returned to Port-au-Prince, where they are turned over to the
government they sought to escape.

The few Haitians who make shore, such as the 16 young men who turned up at a Key
Largo yacht club earlier this month, are imprisoned in the infamous Krome
immigration holding facility here while officials consider their applications
for political asylum, the only means by which Haitians entering illegally are
allowed to stay. That process takes months, sometimes years, and it is not
unusual for a Haitian refugee to remain incarcerated all that time.

The growing exodus of boat people this spring from the two impoverished
Caribbean island nations again has brought attention to the stark contrast in
U.S. treatment of the two refugee groups and brought renewed demands by Haitian
activists that interdiction of Haitians at sea be ended.

"The story of the Haitian refugees has largely been a story of discrimination
and prejudgment by immigration authorities," said Arthur C. Helton, director of
the New York-based refugee project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.
"It is a sad tale, and one must ask whether this program of interdiction should
be pursued at all."

The disparity in treatment is felt most acutely in this racially tense city,
where Cuban Americans dominate politics, economics and culture, while Haitian
immigrants have virtually no political or economic clout. Last summer,
long-smoldering resentment of Haitians erupted into a violent confrontation with
police when a minor dispute between a Cuban store owner and his Haitian customer
over a pair of pants set off several days of angry demonstrations in front of
the store.

Immigration officials counter that it is unfair to compare treatment of Cuban
and Haitian refugees, and they cite several technicalities that are imposed by
Washington and dictate different policies. For example, the United States has no
formal relationship with Cuba, and therefore no official way to return Cuban
rafters who ride the Gulf Stream north to Florida.

"If we had a way to send the Cubans back, believe me, we would," said Duke
Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in
Washington.

In addition, Cubans are protected by the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act that
recognizes Cubans who flee Fidel Castro's communist government as political
refugees. It allows them to apply for permanent residence after a year in this
country.

On the other hand, the United States and Haiti have had an agreement since 1981
calling for the Coast Guard to patrol the Windward Passage off the Haitian coast
and intercept boats of Haitian refugees. Without such an agreement, officials
said, Florida would be overrun with thousands of people fleeing the most
desperately poor country in the Western Hemisphere.

But Haitians said the practice has acted as a wall to block virtually all
Haitians, even those with legitimate claims of persecution by Haiti's various
violent and oppressive governments. Between 1981 and last year, Haitians endured
dictatorships more brutal than Castro's. But of the 23,000 Haitians intercepted
by the Coast Guard, only 11 were brought to the United States to apply for
asylum.

"The approval rates for asylum claims for Haitians has never exceeded 1 or 2
percent, even during the most brutal periods of repression and human rights
violations," Helton said. "On average, about 25 percent of other nationalities
who apply for asylum in the United States receive protection."

Haitians said policies used at the INS detention center on Krome Avenue in Miami
provide an even more graphic illustration of disparity in treatment of Cuban and
Haitian aliens.

The facility is a prison-like camp, surrounded by barbed-wire fences and
situated at the outer reaches of Miami's suburbs on the edge of the Everglades.
It holds about 450 inmates and is known locally as "Krome."

All aliens apprehended while attempting to sneak into Florida illegally by boat
or air wind up at Krome. But because Cubans are processed and released so
quickly by immigration officials, almost all of Krome's inmates are Haitian.
They have long complained of abusive treatment by guards. Last year, after the
Miami Herald reported allegations that several Haitians had been physically and
sexually abused there, the Justice Department launched an investigation.

Krome often is overcrowded, and sometimes illegal aliens are transferred to
other U.S. facilities where they may be isolated by language, away from friends
or relatives in Miami's huge refugee community.

In May 1989, when Vilvert Exume, 26, a Haitian soldier, was picked up at the
Miami airport with a false passport, the inmate population at Krome had swelled
to about 800. He spent only six days at Krome before being awakened in the
middle of the night and transferred to an immigration holding facility in
Laredo, Tex., where he spent 16 months.

"We were handcuffed," he said in an interview here. "We were shackled and
chained around the waist. A long chain hooked us together. I was afraid. In
Haiti, when they do that to you, you are about to be killed."

Krome had an interpreter who spoke Creole, the language of most Haitians. In
Texas, Exume said, officials spoke only English or Spanish, so he had to rely on
another Haitian inmate with limited English to help him complete his application
for asylum.

As a result, the application was incorrect and his claim denied, although, he
said, the Haitian army had been hunting for him because, as a young soldier, he
had helped a political dissident escape a firing squad.

In Texas, Exume said, he and other Haitian inmates started a food strike to
protest treatment. They ended up spending 15 days in the county jail, where
Exume said he was beaten.

Most Haitians in the group were deported to Haiti after their asylum claims were
denied. But after several Haitian activists intervened, Exume was returned to
Krome last November. He was paroled on Christmas Eve to await the outcome of his
asylum appeal, now scheduled for next spring.

Exume's release is considered by activists a success story, although he still is
waiting for the INS to grant him a temporary work permit that would enable him
to support himself; his claim may be rejected again.

While the activists are quick to note inequities in treatment, they also are
quick to acknowledge any progress. The FBI did investigate complaints of abuse
at Krome, and it forwarded a report to the Justice Department's Civil Rights
Division, which has five years to act.

This spring, the INS made a minor adjustment in its interdiction policy, so
frightened Haitians aboard Coast Guard cutters are interviewed more carefully.
They are given 30 minutes, instead of 10, to explain to immigration officials
why they should be granted asylum.

As a result, 17 of 964 Haitians intercepted this spring have been returned to
Miami to apply for asylum.

"In comparison to the prior decade, that's quite an improvement," Helton said.
"We're gratified with the progress. But we're still concerned that the program
is inherently incapable of recognizing legitimate refugees."

Meanwhile, the larger tragedy of the Haitian refugees continues. It is rooted,
activists said, not in the fine points of the immigration code but more deeply
in American attitudes about race and poverty.

At the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami's Little Haiti neighborhood, volunteers
recently noted what they said was a very telling example of the Haitian plight.

Last month, as several hundred journalists descended on the rich community of
Palm Beach 80 miles north of Miami to track the alleged rape at the Kennedy
estate, an overturned wooden boat washed up on a nearby beach with the bodies of
three refugees.

Despite the presence of an international press corps, the drowned refugees
remained a strictly local story. The rest of the news media continued reporting
the peccadilloes of the Palm Beach rich and famous, ignoring the bodies on the
beach.

"This is our point exactly," said Cheryl Little, the center's director. "How
many Haitians have been interdicted over the years, and how often have you read
about it in the newspaper? Even when we learn that they died during the journey,
it's not a story. The problem is Haitians are black and poor and powerless, so
who cares? No one is going to yell and scream and say, 'What are we doing?' "


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, "WE WERE SHACKLED AND CHAINED AROUND THE WAIST," SAYS HATIAN
VILVERT EXUME. BILL COOKE FOR TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              46 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 30, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Plan on Admittance of HIV-Infected Foreigners Will Be Deferred

Malcolm Gladwell, Spencer Rich, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A9

LENGTH: 572 words


The Bush administration yesterday confirmed that it will temporarily shelve its
plan to allow HIV-infected foreigners to enter the United States. The proposal,
which would have reversed a long-standing prohibition on the entry of those
infected with the AIDS virus, was to have taken effect June 1.

But officials of the Department of Health and Human Services who are responsible
for the policy pledged that they will revisit the issue and propose regulations
governing visitors and immigrants infected with HIV within 60 days. HHS also
said that it is strongly committed to lifting restrictions on entry at least for
short-term visitors to the United States.

"I don't think that in any way this implies a change in [HHS Secretary Louis W.
Sullivan's] position," said David Rogers, co-chairman of the National Commission
on AIDS. "He did the logical thing in taking AIDS off the list in the first
place and I think he will hang firm on this."

The decision by the administration is the latest twist in a complicated
political drama over how HIV infection should be treated by immigration
officials.

In 1987, at the request of Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), HIV was added to the list
of infectious diseases -- which includes other venereal diseases and
tuberculosis -- that could be used by border officials to bar entry to the
United States. That policy was denounced by numerous health experts and AIDS
groups as discriminatory and medically unjustified because the presence of more
people with HIV did not place uninfected Americans at any greater risk of
contracting AIDS.

As a result, Sullivan proposed in January to take HIV off the list. Last week,
however, administration officials backtracked, saying they were concerned that
infected foreigners would place an extra burden on the public health care
system. Such a criterion had never before been applied when sufferers of other
chronic diseases sought to come to the United States.

Yesterday's announcement clarifies that decision. Administration officials said
they will return to the original immigration policy only for 60 days. During
that time, they said, they will attempt to answer questions about U.S. policy
toward the HIV-infected that have been raised inside and outside the
administration over the past few months.

The principal argument against the original HHS proposal, for example, is that
it lifted restrictions for both tourists infected with HIV -- who nearly
everyone agrees pose little health or economic threat -- and longer-term
visitors, whose medical condition some argue could lead them to become a public
financial burden.

One option is to exclude long-term visa applicants with AIDS who clearly have no
means of paying for their care. The legislative authority for this exists, but
Justice Department officials have balked at the idea.

Another option is to ask Congress for the authority to draw up two lists of
diseases governing immigration. One, covering short-term visitors, who already
can get in under special waivers granted by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, would not include HIV. The other, covering long-term visa applicants,
would. This proposal is problematic, Justice Department officials said,
principally because of the difficulty in making distinctions among three groups
of applicants: short-term visitors, students and others here for longer periods,
and those seeking permanent residency.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, DAVID ROGERS

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              47 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 14, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. to Purge Immigration List

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A23

LENGTH: 383 words


The Bush administration agreed yesterday to drop hundreds of thousands of names
from the "lookout list" it has kept throughout the Cold War to exclude people
from the United States on ideological grounds.

The agreement is largely symbolic, since the Immigration and Nationality Act of
1990 prohibited such exclusions.

But the State Department still had old lists with an estimated 250,000 names
that had accumulated during the 40 years of Cold War. The existence of the list
continued to concern members of civil liberties groups who feared officials
might use it anyway as an obstacle to entry, requiring those seeking entry to go
through an appeal process, according to Morton H. Halperin, Washington director
of the American Civil Liberties Union.

The provision agreed to by the State Department, according to congressional
sources, is that within three years it will have deleted from the lists the
names of anyone who can no longer be excluded under the 1990 immigration law.
The agreement follows passage of measures requiring the purge by the House in
March and by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Wednesday. Rep. Howard L.
Berman (D-Calif.) sponsored the House bill; Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan
(D-N.Y.) was the sponsor in the Senate.

Under the agreement between department and congressional negotiators, the State
Department can still keep names on the list for legitimate law enforcement
purposes. If a known drug dealer, for example, applies for a visa, the State
Department can notify the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Those whose names will be purged from the list were individuals who got on it
solely for engaging in activities that, had they occurred in the United States,
would be protected under the First Amendment's guarantee of free speech, such as
making speeches or attending political demonstrations.

The State Department can still maintain a list of known terrorists and
criminals, and there continues to be a provision to exclude certain former
Nazis.

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee version would allow the secretary of
state to exclude certain people after certifying that their admission would
"compromise a compelling United States interest." Such findings would have to be
reported to Congress, noting who was excluded and why.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              48 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 15, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Secrecy in Deportation Trials Opposed;
Former Senior INS Officials Criticize Proposal Aimed at Terrorism

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A13

LENGTH: 686 words


A group of former senior Immigration and Naturalization Service officials
yesterday asked President Bush to withdraw a proposal, likely to be voted on by
the Senate next week, that would allow secret trials to deport noncitizens
suspected of terrorism.

The proposal, part of the administration's anti-crime package, would set up a
special tribunal to hear Justice Department requests to deport aliens accused of
terrorism or of aiding terrorists.

The deportation hearings would be public, but the evidence on which the
government's allegations are based -- and the specific charges themselves --
could be kept secret if the judge were to conclude that disclosure would
compromise national security, harm foreign relations or disclose confidential
sources.

The administration considers the bill essential because current deportation law
requires the government to reveal classified information. That presents the
government with a "Hobson's choice," Deputy Assistant Attorney General Steven R.
Valentine said yesterday. The government must "either disclose classified
information, which would endanger informants' lives . . . or allow people to
remain here and engage . . . in terrorist acts."

But human rights groups say the measure puts the United States in the company of
nations such as Iraq, China and Cuba, whose use of secret trials is routinely
condemned by the State Department. As an example, they cite State Department
spokesman Margaret Tutwiler's condemnation last March of Israel's deportation of
four Palestinians in which she said the United States "believes that charges of
wrongdoing should be brought in a court of law based on evidence to be argued in
a public trial."

Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Joseph R. Biden Jr. (D-Del.) called the plan
"the very antithesis of our legal system. It would be extremely ironic if, at
the same time we are pressing governments all over the world to have open
trials, with fair proceedings, our own courts would be headed in the opposite
direction."

If the bill becomes law as written, the Justice Department would trigger the
process with a secret request for a deportation hearing before one of five
special judges, who are to be selected by the chief justice of the Supreme
Court. If the judge decides there is sufficient evidence to believe the person
engaged in terrorist activities, the judge can order a special hearing, during
which the government may present evidence in secret for the judge to consider
without letting the accused see the evidence.

Opponents say the measure, which would apply to any noncitizen living here,
would allow for the deportation of anyone who raised money for the African
National Congress, Kurdish, Salvadoran or Afghanistan rebels or any other
foreign resistance group, depending on which group the U.S. government labeled
as terrorist.

In their letter to Bush, eight immigration law professors, four former INS
general counsels and Maurice A. Roberts, former chairman of the Board of
Immigration Appeals, called the proposal "Draconian" and said it was
"unconstitutional, unnecessary and unwise." They said the government "already
has ample authority to ensure that dangerous immigrants do not remain free and
at large."

But Rep. Gerald B.H. Solomon (R-N.Y.), who proposed similar legislation last
year, said passage of the anti-terrorist provision "would provide a valuable new
tool to combat aliens who use our country as a base to launch terrorist
attacks."

Valentine accused the plan's opponents of "demagoguery when they [call it] a
Star Chamber and Kafkaesque. This is a real serious dilemma we face in the fight
against terrorism. . . . I don't see them proposing an alternative."

It is unlikely that the government would need to invoke the act very often,
Valentine said. "It is a great exaggeration to say that we would be trying to
deport people for raising funds for an organization" engaged in charitable
activities. The law would be used "where it is clear that the alien is raising
money for a terrorist organization with knowledge that it is going to fund
terrorism," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              49 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 24, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

New Tide of Mexicans Crossing U.S. Border;
Job Search Outweighs '86 Reform Law

Edward Cody, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A13

LENGTH: 1082 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


As the sun sank into the Pacific, Mauricio, Jesus and Julian gathered with
dozens of compatriots along the cement sewer canal known in Tijuana as The Edge.
On the other side -- down a concrete slope, across the pestilent gray stream
that demarcates the U.S.-Mexican border and beyond a 12-foot wire mesh fence --
U.S. Border Patrol agents sat watching from green panel trucks.

The nightly rush was about to begin, and they all knew the rules.

The Mexicans would dash across the border under cover of darkness to seek jobs
in the United States. The Border Patrol agents would give chase. A few would be
caught, but most would scurry past the overwhelmed agents and join the thousands
of Mexicans who enter the United States illegally every day along 2,000 miles of
porous border.

Despite years of concern in Washington, hard economic realities appear to have
frustrated U.S. efforts to stem the migrant flow, according to U.S. and Mexican
specialists monitoring the illegal border traffic.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act, which Congress enacted in October 1986
after five years of controversy over how to hold back the human tide, was hailed
as a success after it led to a falloff in the number of nightly crossings. But
since last year, the numbers have started to climb again, surpassing the 1985
level in a demonstration of the inexorable pull of a higher-paying job market
for Mexicans -- who say they are unable to make a decent wage in their own
country.

Officials on both sides of the border have said that the North American Free
Trade Agreement now under negotiation could help in the long run by stimulating
the Mexican economy and raising living standards for Mexicans in their own
country. But that is a long way off, at least five years down the road, experts
have estimated, and in the meantime Mauricio, Jesus and Julian have decided that
their future lies north of the border.

"You make triple over there what you would make in Mexico," said Mauricio, a Los
Angeles-based coyote, or crossing guide, who was assembling customers on The
Edge directly across the street from local headquarters of the ruling
Institutional Revolutionary Party. "You just don't earn enough in Mexico."

Julian and Jesus are old hands at crossing. Julian dropped out of his Mexico
City secondary school at 15. After trying the job market there without success,
he sneaked across the border to find something better. For the last several
years, he has been working in nearby San Diego as a construction worker for $ 16
an hour -- earning in a day what he would be lucky to earn in a week back home.

"They just don't pay in Mexico City," he explained as he waited to return from a
visit to his family. Like the others getting ready to cross illegally into the
United States, Julian was reluctant to reveal his family name for fear of
trouble with U.S. immigration authorities.

Jesus, sporting an incipient mustache and a fake diamond earring, has completed
three years of U.S. high school while serving ice cream in an Oakland carryout
and living with his parents, also illegal immigrants. He plans to enter his
senior year this September, he said, and go on to a U.S. college without looking
back toward his native Guanajuato.

Jorge Bustamante, whose Tijuana-based Colegio de la Frontera Norte pioneered
research into migration along the U.S.-Mexico border, said such movement remains
inevitable as long as U.S. employers need laborers and Mexicans need better
paying jobs than they can find in their own country. That is why Washington's
efforts to treat the border issue as a law-enforcement problem have not produced
the desired results, he added in an interview.

"There is a demand for workers in the United States and a supply of workers in
Mexico," he said. "It is the interaction of this supply and demand that creates
the border phenomenon."

Bustamante said the drop in border crossings after the 1986 Immigration Reform
and Control Act was due mainly to its provision granting legal status to more
than 2 million illegal aliens who could prove they lived in the United States
without interruption since before 1982. These Mexicans no longer had to sneak
back and forth, he explained.

But those border-crossers by now have been replaced from among the hundreds of
thousands of young Mexicans who enter the labor market every year and look north
for jobs, he said.

"That's the basic motivation, just like it's always been," said Michael Gregg, a
line supervisor in the Border Patrol's busy San Diego sector.

The number of Border Patrol apprehensions dropped from 1.6 million in 1986 to
1.1 million in 1987. Apprehensions, the only way to measure illegal crossings,
are estimated from 10 percent to 40 percent of illegal border crossings,
although nobody really knows.

After more drops in 1988 and 1989, however, the number of apprehensions headed
back up last year. In the San Diego sector, where about half the illegal
crossings occur, apprehensions rose to 473,323 in fiscal year 1990 from 366,757
in fiscal 1989. Monthly rates so far this year indicate that 1991 will probably
show yet another rise.

Provisions of the 1986 legislation requiring employers to inspect documents
before hiring potential illegal aliens have proved easy to evade, according to
U.S. and Mexican specialists. An industry has sprung up in southern U.S. states
to supply illegal immigrants with documents they need to get a job.

"The foremen can't tell the difference," boasted Mauricio.

Rep. Bill Lowery (R-Calif.) recently proposed legislation to create a
counterfeit-proof identification card that employers could demand from potential
illegal immigrants. His proposal also would have the Immigration and
Naturalization Service repair border fences to prevent cars from driving across
breaches and to erect stadium-type lights to assist agents during the nightly
stampede.

Under prodding from Lowery and Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.), who both represent
border areas near here, the California National Guard already is helping improve
borderline patrol roads, and Navy Seabees are repairing the border fence.

Seabees and Border Patrol agents also have welded mats of thick steel mesh,
usually used to construct temporary landing strips, as reinforcements along the
border fence from the Pacific beach about four miles inland. In addition, more
lights have been set up, illuminating the U.S. bank of The Edge like a football
field as Mauricio and his customers make their run.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, FIVE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS BED DOWN ON AN TERRACE ABOVE INTERSTATE
5 IN ENCINITAS, NORTH OF SAN DIEGO. DON BARTLETTI

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              50 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 25, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Many Marielitos Languish in Prison As Special Justice Dept. Reviews End

Laura Parker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A10

LENGTH: 917 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


When rioting Cuban inmates seized control of the federal penitentiary here for
11 days in 1987, the Justice Department promised a special hearing to each of
3,800 Cubans imprisoned at the time.

They had arrived with the masses in the 1980 Mariel boatlift and ended up in
jail, caught in the netherworld of an immigration policy that trapped them
between deportation to Cuba and freedom in the United States.

With the last special reviews of those cases scheduled this month, about 2,500
unwanted Cuban Marielitos remain in 23 prisons and county jails nationwide with
little hope for imminent release. Hundreds of them were among the original
3,800; the rest were arrested since the rioting. Their supporters say little has
changed, except some of the faces.

"We are left in the same position we were in before the riot," said Gary Leshaw,
an attorney for the Coalition to Support Cuban Detainees, the prisoners' most
persistent advocate. "We have a large number of Cubans being held indefinitely.
That's what used to happen in Soviet gulags."

Leshaw works in a small, cramped Atlanta Legal Aid office in a quiet suburb. He
helped to negotiate an end to the prison siege, during which 78 prison workers
here were held hostage. He and volunteers Carla Dudeck and Sally Sandidge have
argued appeals for hundreds of Cubans and lobbied Congress to devise a new way
to handle Marielitos caught in this peculiar never-never land.

As the special immigration reviews conclude, the coalition is disbanding. The
Marielitos have no real constituency in Congress, Leshaw said, and have gained
no ground in court.

"The courts have held that they don't exist," he said. "They're excludable
aliens, so legally, they're not here and they're not entitled to due process.
But that's ridiculous. The guy is here. He's sitting in a cell somewhere, and
ultimately there is going to be another incident someday."

The Mariel boatlift washed about 125,000 Cuban refugees onto U.S. shores between
April and October 1980.

Soon after, immigration officials discovered that Cuban President Fidel Castro
included in that number convicts and mental patients. Some of them, including
violent criminals, remain in prison.

By the mid-1980s, the number of Marielitos imprisoned grew as those convicted
for crimes in this country were sentenced. The Cubans were not freed after
completing their sentences, no matter how minor their crime. A federal judge
found in 1983 that about one-third of the prisoners had been arrested for
offenses such as shoplifting or drunk driving. Once in the prison system, they
were turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to be held
for deportation.

Efforts to send them home have been arduous. In 1984, Castro agreed to take back
2,746 Mar- ielitos, but only 201 were deported before Castro slammed the door
after five months. He did so after expressing anger at the start-up of
U.S.-sponsored Radio Marti, which broadcasts from Florida to Cuba.

The 1987 announcement that the deportation agreement had been renewed touched
off the rioting at the Atlanta Federal Penitentiary and at a prison in Oakdale,
La., which had been used to ease overcrowding here.

To end the Atlanta siege, the Justice Department agreed to hold full status
reviews for any Cuban whose appeal for parole was turned down by the INS.

Within six months, immigration officials paroled 2,400 of the 3,800 Cubans
imprisoned at the time of the riots. An additional 500 won parole through the
special review process.

INS officials said the reviews were never intended as a permanent procedure.

INS spokesman Duke Austin said in Washington that work by the Atlanta activists
should dispel doubt about whether the Marielitos have had adequate legal
representation.

"They have had exhaustive opportunities," he said. "They have had reviews upon
reviews upon reviews, more than any other nationality."

Some of the Cubans held today have been approved for release to halfway houses
but are awaiting available space.

As new Cuban prisoners enter INS hands, they will be provided an annual
opportunity to apply for parole, Austin said. INS officials said that is more
than adequate, but Leshaw contends that such a policy sparked the riots.

According to Leshaw, INS parole hearings are inconsistent and often last only a
few minutes. Information in official files is often incomplete or wrong,
decisions sometimes appear arbitrary and a prisoner may not gain parole for
several years, he added.

"The fact that INS released so many of them so quickly after the riots only
proves our point," Leshaw said.

One of the last cases reviewed by the Justice Department involved Agrispina
Manzo-Guevava, 32, who could not persuade INS officers to parole her although
she had never been convicted of a crime in this country.

She has been in prison since she got off the boat in Miami in 1980. Immigration
officials determined she had been in trouble as a juvenile in Havana. After she
arrived, an effort to place her with a family in Arkansas did not work out and,
when the last refugee camp closed in 1982, she was sent to prison.

In 1984, she was paroled briefly to a halfway house, but that also failed. She
has since been shuttled among prisons in West Virginia, Florida, California and
Kentucky. A group of women in Kentucky has offered to sponsor her should she be
released.

"The law says excludable aliens can be held a reasonable time," the coalition's
Dudeck said. "Is 11 years reasonable?"


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ATTORNEY GARY LESHAW AND AIDES CARLA DUDECK, LEFT, AND SALLY
SANDIDGE WITH SOME OF THEIR FILES ON CUBAN IMMIGRANTS. JOHNNY CRAWFORD FOR TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              51 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 29, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Illegal Salvadoran Immigrants Win Reprieve

Carlos Sanchez, Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D3

LENGTH: 550 words


Illegal Salvadoran immigrants in the United States got a late-breaking reprieve
yesterday as the Senate approved a four-month extension in the filing deadline
for those seeking to enroll in an 18-month amnesty program.

The action, which followed a similar move by the House on Wednesday, came just
two days before eligibility for the program was to expire. The rush to sign up
before midnight tomorrow had brought long lines to centers signing up immigrants
for the program, which allows them to live and work in the United States.

Some centers were so overwhelmed with last-minute applicants that people began
camping out overnight.

Supporters of the bill said President Bush would sign it into law.

Known as TPS, or temporary protective status, the program bars authorities from
deporting Salvadorans for 18 months -- time to allow U.S. officials to evaluate
human rights conditions in that war-ravaged country.

About 100,000 of the estimated 300,000 people believed to be eligible for the
amnesty had signed up by yesterday, U.S. immigration officials said. That total
included at least 17,000 in the Washington area, although about 50,000 local
Salvadorans are believed eligible for the program.

In anticipation of the original Sunday deadline, an average of 600 applicants
had been waiting up to 16 hours in line at the Spanish Catholic Center in
Northwest Washington, which the Immigration and Naturalization Service used as a
processing center, the Rev. William Ryan said.

"I think the fact that the numbers in line were rising so dramatically as the
deadline approached is a good indication that there are large numbers of people
out there who would still take advantage of an extension," he said yesterday.

Hundreds of people, including mothers with children, huddled on dark streets
outside the center and in church stairwells in the predawn hours yesterday. One
man, Carlos Portillo, 23, said he drove past the center about 7 p.m. Thursday
night just to make sure he knew where to go the next day. But when he saw the
lines, he decided to join them overnight.

The new Oct. 31 deadline does not extend the 18-month amnesty period, which
began in January, INS officials said. Even those who win amnesty face possible
deportation in a year.

The four-month registration extension, proposed by Rep. Joe Moakley (D-Mass.),
came after program supporters complained that steep fees were preventing many
prospective participants from enrolling.

Initially, the INS recommended filing fees that would have cost a family of
five, for example, $ 1,650. But in response to widespread criticism, the INS
lowered the fees and set a family limit of $ 765.

But the INS did not lower the fees until the end of May, prompting immigrant
groups to push for a new filing deadline to compensate for the delays and allow
families to save enough money.

The extension, though widely supported in Congress, ran into a last-minute snag
when Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.) held up consideration by the Senate, saying he
was concerned that it would benefit opponents of the U.S.-backed Salvadoran
government. But El Salvador's ambassador in Washington, Miguel A. Salaverria,
reassured Helms that the government strongly supported the extension.

Staff writer Brian Mooar contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              52 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 1, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

The Senators' Visa Proposal

Kim Masters, Todd Allan Yasui, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE C7; ARTS BEAT

LENGTH: 953 words


Three influential members of the Senate subcommittee on immigration and refugee
affairs, responding to intense lobbying by arts and athletic organizations, are
proposing a solution to the controversy over new visa requirements for foreign
artists.

In a letter sent last week to Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner Gene McNary, the three lawmakers propose legislative changes in the
Immigration Act of 1990 (which takes effect in October) and changes in the draft
copy of new INS regulations that would resolve some of the arts presenters'
concerns.

The INS has yet to issue the proposed regulations, but a draft has floated among
arts groups in the past few weeks, setting off an alarm among presenters that
the regulations would be "a serious threat to their programs," according to the
letter. The INS says the proposed rules will be published sometime this week.

In the letter to McNary, who could not be reached for comment, Sens. Edward
Kennedy (D-Mass.), Paul Simon (D-Ill.) and Alan Simpson (R-Wyo.) claim that
certain provisions in the bill passed by the House last year were accepted in
conference "with the clear understanding that the new categories were
noncontroversial."

But arts presenters strongly oppose a provision that limits to 25,000 the number
of artists, athletes and entertainers entering the country each year when the
performers apply as part of a group -- such as dance and opera companies or
athletic teams. The senators propose that group visa applications be counted as
one petition. Also in the senators' proposals: elimination of a required 90-day
waiting period to reenter the United States if a performer leaves the country,
however briefly; and removal of a provision that denies visas to individuals who
have been associated with a group or company for less than a year.

Among the controversial provisions in the draft regulations is a requirement
that the INS consult with labor organizations to determine "extraordinary
ability" before issuing a visa. The senators wrote, "In our view, the
consultation requirement can be met through a written notice to the appropriate
labor organization. ... The unions would have the option to respond within a
fifteen-day period, but a written advisory opinion would only be necessary when
their input is desired by the INS."

Jack Golodner, president of the AFL-CIO's Department of Professional Employees,
said that certain arts presenters are "just leading a merry chase around the
barn" because the INS draft will change significantly before it is proposed.
"This is the problem. You're dealing with hysteria and speculation," Golodner
said. "No one knows what the INS is thinking. You can look at all the drafts and
leaks and they're going to change next week."

Duke Austin, spokesman for the INS, agrees. "Somewhere in that chain, [the
draft] got leaked to the public and I don't think that works constructively to
the process," he said. "You get the back-door complaints on the regulations
before they get published and it slows it down by trying to accommodate
[proposed changes] in the draft."

Savage Attack The volatile Rep. Gus Savage (D-Ill.) gave the Smithsonian a
paddling last week for trying to fund construction projects without first
getting the go-ahead from the subcommittee on public buildings and grounds,
which he chairs.

Savage opened by recalling that he had "respectfully, clearly and firmly"
advised Smithsonian officials that "continuing the practice of violating the
House's rules of procedure and jurisdiction of its committees would not be
tolerated."

"We are very sensitive to the criticisms that you mention," Smithsonian
Secretary Robert McC. Adams hastened to say. "And I want to apologize to the
committee for the fact that we were slow to adjust to the very reasonable
requests of [Savage]. We will do better in the future."

The day before the hearing, Rep. Robert Roe (D-N.J.) got the House to block
spending on two construction projects until the Smithsonian got authorization
from Savage's subcommittee. Adams said that approach "has our full support."

In part, Savage was upset with the Smithsonian for seeking federal
appropriations for an environmental research center, renovation of the Natural
History Museum's East Court and the National Air and Space Museum annex.

Savage also frowned on a Smithsonian plan to borrow money privately to build an
administrative service center. The Smithsonian says it can save money that way,
but that kind of move could diminish congressional control. Savage said the
institution might need to rethink the project.

But subcommittee member James Inhofe (R-Okla.) said after the hearing that he
expects the Smithsonian to get authorization for the projects soon. That
apparently means that the Smithsonian finally will get to start planning
construction of the long-delayed annex to the Air and Space Museum at Dulles
Airport.

Fees at the Phillips


For the first time since the 1930s, the Phillips Collection will charge a
mandatory admission fee on weekends beginning Saturday. "It was a difficult
decision to make," said Laughlin Phillips, director of the museum. "Naturally no
one wants to do it. But all cultural institutions in this country are feeling
the recession very seriously. And this is one of the measures we're trying to
take that will keep us from cutting back on our programs."

Phillips estimated that the museum has been losing up to $ 100,000 a year and
said that admission fees could bring in $ 50,000 a year based on weekend
attendance figures. The fees will be the same as the suggested weekday donation:
$ 5 for adults, $ 2.50 for students and patrons over 62, and free for those 18
and under.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              53 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 4, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Local Immigration Officials Get Authority to Speed Inspections

From news services and staff reports

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A13; THE FEDERAL PAGE; SHORT TAKES

LENGTH: 274 words


Local immigration officials have been given greater authority to decide when to
implement a program designed to avoid long waits at international airports
during the peak summer-travel season, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS) said yesterday.

Responding to airline industry complaints, INS officials said local officials
may now implement the Accelerated Citizen Examination (ACE) system when they see
that a problem might develop rather than waiting until inspection centers become
overcrowded.

The program, announced last month, allows local INS officials to speed airport
lines by selectively letting U.S. citizens show a passport rather than undergo a
computerized background check.

The INS announcement did little to settle a continuing dispute with the
airlines, which charge that the INS has too few inspectors and such cumbersome
procedures that summer delays have become unbearable. The INS has criticized
airlines for scheduling too many arriving flights at the same time of day.

"We've been informed that the ACE program will be implemented full-time at all
gateways," said William Jackman, spokesman for the Air Transport Association,
which represents major airlines. That is not the case, said INS spokesman Verne
Jervis.

Asked about the discrepancy, Jackman said, "The only way I can explain it is
that maybe the word hasn't filtered down."

Jervis, informed of Jackman's remarks, replied, "I can assure you that isn't
so."

Government sources said meetings have been held over the last week involving the
White House, the Justice Department and the INS to ensure that airport delays
are minimized.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              54 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 15, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Artist Visa Rules Proposed;
Groups Dispute Effects of INS Changes

Todd Allan Yasui, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE B7; ARTS BEAT

LENGTH: 593 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service issued proposed regulations last week
on visas for foreign performing artists, setting off yet another round of
controversy and negotiations among organized labor, arts presenters and the INS.

Arts organizations charge that certain provisions in the regulations -- such as
a requirement that the INS consult with labor organizations to determine an
artist's "extraordinary ability" before issuing a visa -- could seriously affect
international cultural performances. "It's a jobs issue and it's a consumer
issue ... because it may ultimately affect what each of us can see and do," said
Jonathan Ginsburg, a local lawyer who represents a coalition of major arts
service groups.

But INS spokesman Richard Kenney disputes the idea that the proposed rules would
restrict either the number or the quality of foreign performers allowed in the
United States. "I don't sense that it will make much of a difference, in
practice, in who comes and what they do," Kenney said. "What the [arts
presenters] now have to do to get them over here ... is they have to learn a new
[visa application] category. It's more specific, and in that sense it's better
because it's clearer."

"There's been a Chicken Little syndrome around," agreed Jerry Tinker, staff
director to the Senate subcommittee on immigration and refugee affairs. "[Arts
presenters] are fearful of the unknown. I think a lot of those fears are
unjustified."

But Ginsburg pointed out that the regulations were issued just two weeks after
three senators wrote a letter to INS Commissioner Gene McNary proposing changes
in a draft copy that had been circulating among arts groups for weeks. In the
letter, Sens. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.), Paul Simon (D-Ill.) and Alan Simpson
(R-Wyo.) proposed that certain controversial provisions -- including a rule
denying access to any individual affiliated with a performing company for less
than a year and a restriction on filing visa applications more than 90 days
before a tour -- be changed before the draft was proposed and "certainly in any
final regulations."

"The proposed regulations do nothing to reflect the concerns expressed by the
senators," said Ginsburg. "If these regulations are implemented in the final
form, they would have the effect the arts presenters were concerned about."

Arts groups had already opposed a provision in the Immigration Act of 1990 --
which takes effect in October -- that limits to 25,000 the number of artists,
athletes and entertainers allowed to enter the country each year when the
performers apply as part of a group. That rule was addressed in a statement
released last week by Simon. The statement said that Simon, Kennedy and Simpson
"have suggested to Attorney General [Richard] Thornburgh that he lift the
[25,000 visa limit] for the first 18 months and grant as many visas as there are
qualified applicants."

Tinker said he anticipated an outcry from the arts community over certain
regulations, but predicted arts groups would be satisfied when Congress passes
statutory amendments to the Immigration Act, hopefully before the August recess.

The INS regulations are now subject to a 30-day comment period in which the
public can air its concerns and lobby for changes.

"We expect it and encourage people to give us a better picture of what's
reasonable and what's realistic," said Kenney. "We're not making judgments about
what these people do. All we're trying to do is apply the requirements of the
law to the granting of an immigration benefit."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              55 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 27, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. to End Waivers for Romanian Adoptions

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 467 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, concerned about reports of
baby-buying in Romania, yesterday imposed an Aug. 15 cutoff of waivers from U.S.
immigration laws for Americans trying to adopt Romanian infants.

Americans in Romania who have adopted or are in the process of adopting may be
eligible for waivers from strict immigration regulations on foreign adoptions,
INS officials said yesterday. But any Americans arriving in Romania after Aug.
15 probably will not be granted waivers, according to an announcement by INS
Commissioner Gene McNary.

The announcement followed passage last week by the Romanian government of new
restrictions that ban private adoptions and make adoption in general much more
difficult. State Department officials said the new law recognizes the legality
of adoptions completed under the prior law.

The new Romanian law, along with the end of waivers from U.S. regulations,
should enable U.S. officials "to regain control of the situation without hurting
people who may have been acting in good faith" when they adopted children in
Romania, said INS spokesman Verne Jervis.

Thousands of Americans and other foreigners were drawn to Romania by news
reports in 1990 describing the plight of abandoned infants during the regime of
the late dictator Nicolae Ceausescu. The State Department said last week that
2,220 babies had been adopted by Americans since January 1990.

But there were widespread accounts of baby-selling, and some of the babies
obtained did not meet the strict requirement of U.S. law that they must be
either orphaned or abandoned in institutions and not, as many were, handed over
to Americans by their natural parents.

In the past, the U.S. Embassy granted visas for the children with little
examination of how they were obtained, according to knowledgeable sources.

U.S. officials, stung by reports on the CBS program "60 Minutes," tightened
screening procedures in April and warned Americans to avoid "unscrupulous
middlemen."

According to one source, an INS team sent to Bucharest in May reviewed 80 cases
at one point and 79 of them did not comply with U.S. regulations even though the
children were validly adopted under Romanian law.

As a result, dozens of American couples, unable to meet the immigration
standards, were stranded for months in Bucharest hotels and rented apartments.
The INS finally granted waivers from the standards for about 200 infants, Jervis
said, although there have been a few cases in which a waiver was denied.

Jervis said efforts by INS officials to warn people about the situation in
Romania appeared to have reduced the number of those needing waivers. "There are
not a huge number in the pipeline" needing waivers, he said. "We have the
definite impression that the message has sunken in."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              56 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 29, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Amending the Immigration Bill

Dana Thomas, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE C7; ARTS BEAT

LENGTH: 833 words


The battle to adjust the Immigration Act of 1990 has begun. In the omnibus
legislation, passed by both houses of Congress in November, are a handful of
clauses that have outraged the arts community, including: limiting to 25,000 the
number of foreign artists who can enter the country each year; requiring an
artist to be affiliated with the institution or performing group for more than a
year before applying to come to the United States; prohibiting application for a
visa until 90 days before a scheduled arrival; and requiring presenters to
explain how the United States would benefit from a performing artist's visit and
to consult with labor unions before bringing the artist in.

"If Pavarotti came," said a congressional aide who asked not to be identified,
"they would have to ask a union if it was okay."

The law is scheduled to go into effect Oct. 1. Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.)
and Alan Simpson (R-Wyo.), sponsors of the Senate version, have offered a bill
that would amend the law to postpone implementation of the restrictions until
April. And last week, Rep. Romano Mazzoli (D-Ky.) introduced a bill in the House
that would repeal the restrictions before they are implemented. Kennedy will
introduce the Senate version of the Mazzoli bill this week.

Members of the arts community and labor leaders are debating loudly on the
necessity of the Mazzoli bill.

"What happens if you're the Berlin Philharmonic and you lose your principal
violinist?" asked Anne Murphy, director of the American Arts Alliance, a
consortium of performing and exhibiting arts institutions. "You have to replace
him, but you can't bring that person in because he's been with the organization
for less than a year. ... And obviously the limit of 25,000 visas is bad. It
might be nice to count before we put on artificial caps.

"And you can't file a petition until 90 days before, when most arts are
scheduled three years before. The Bolshoi wouldn't know if they could come in or
not," she added. "We have to make others aware of ... why it was necessary to
introduce this piece of legislation, identifying problems and putting forth
solutions."

Jack Golodner of the AFL-CIO disagrees. "I don't see any reason for the Mazzoli
bill," he said. "Either Congress is there to make laws or to play games. ... Do
we have a Congress that governs with some kind of consistency? ... All the
issues raised were thoroughly discussed. We had hearings on [the restrictions],
passed by both houses of Congress, and to come back 10 months later and say we
want to change it before it's even been put into effect causes turmoil.

"We know there are certain minor things that need to be changed, but think that
the Mazzoli bill is throwing out the baby with the bath," he said. "It
completely ... confuses the matter."

The AFL-CIO concedes that the one-year affiliation restriction and the 90-day
application time schedule should be reconsidered. Golodner said, however, that
the 25,000 cap is reasonable. He added it has been reported that only about
19,000 performing artists enter this country each year. (The 25,000 is an
arbitrary figure, sources from both sides say. Said Kenneth Kaufman, general
counsel to the Kennedy Center: "To the best of our knowledge, there has never
been a comprehensive study with numbers that people can agree on.")

"What about artists in Kansas?" Golodner asked. "How are we going to take care
of our artists, those graduating from Juilliard looking for their first break?
[The performing arts community is] overly concerned about people who they can
get for less than [union pay] scale but not doing anything for the artists from
this country."

He said he would like to see more American performers traveling to foreign
countries. "Your Romanian can break into the field here as long as there is some
reciprocity," he said.

However, this may become an impossibility. At least two countries are following
the debate. According to the Los Angeles Times, the Canadian Parliament may
enact retaliatory legislation to bar entry to American artists scheduled to
perform there, and the Soviet Union is watching to see how the restrictions will
affect cultural relations with the United States.


Dance Videos Go to Library of Congress

This morning the Library of Congress is to receive a gift from the Martha Graham
Center of Contemporary Dance: a collection of 44 dance instruction videos
narrated by Graham, and a copy of "Frontier," a short 1934 film featuring Graham
dancing.

National Endowment for the Arts Chairman John Frohnmayer will present the
collection to Librarian of Congress James Billington on behalf of the center.

The collection is the first major retrospective of Graham's work. The project
was initiated in 1984 with a grant of $ 250,000 from the NEA -- the largest
grant the endowment has given to a dance organization for preservation. The
films will become part of the motion picture, broadcasting and recorded sound
division of the library.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              57 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 31, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Performance Anxiety

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A20

LENGTH: 518 words


IN THE VAST landscape of last year's immigration bill, there appeared a molehill
few bothered to notice. Now, just months before the law is to take effect, this
small heap of statutes is the subject of fierce contention. It pertains not to
those who want to come to this country permanently but to those who desire
temporary admission to perform -- artists, entertainers, athletes and those
accompanying them. Organized labor and arts leagues and assorted others are
going at it. The restrictive provisions are necessary to preserve jobs for U.S.
workers, says the AFL-CIO. But they are likely to stifle artistic expression,
counter the people who produce Broadway shows, symphonic music, operas,
festivals from foreign lands, exotic troupes, even the Greatest Show on Earth.

The bill creates two new visa categories where one now exists. One category
applies to individuals of "extraordinary ability" who will need to supply some
sort of evidence of their talent, such as a recently earned prize. The other
category applies mainly to "internationally recognized" or "culturally unique"
performing artists and entertainers, including the orchestras and ballets of
note. Of these, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is to permit entry to
only 25,000 people and must make sure that each has been affiliated with the
touring group for at least a year.

There's a lot more to the statutes than this, but you can begin to understand
the fear of the arts presenters. How does one define "extraordinary ability" and
"internationally recognized"? These visas are evidently intended for the likes
of Pavarotti but not the emerging opera singers (it's suggested that Kiri Te
Kanawa would have been denied her debut in America under a statute like this).
They're meant for the Budapest String Quartet but not, it seems, for the Moscow
Academy of Ancient Musicians, in a different sort of vanguard. The 25,000 cap is
absurd. One symphony brings more than 100 people, the Bolshoi Ballet more than
400, foreign circus acts even more, and then there are all the Canadian hockey
players to think about. There aren't any reliable statistics for the number of
athletes and entertainers who enter, but there's no reason to limit that number,
whatever it may be. Equally absurd is the stipulation that each individual must
be associated with a group for at least a year. What of the soloist who falls
ill and must be replaced?

Labor concedes some of the provisions are clumsy. But they're worse than clumsy;
they overreach. What's at issue, really, are jobs. And there's no evidence to
suggest that these foreign artists and entertainers take away work from U.S.
residents. While there are undoubtedly abuses, these shows featuring foreign
performers generate employment, from stagehands to carpenters to restaurant
workers.

Both the House and Senate judiciary committees are preparing legislation to
correct this poorly crafted segment of the 1990 immigration act. Despite the
somewhat histrionic testimony of the arts producers (the law could mean the
demise of Broadway etc.), corrected it should be.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              58 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 17, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

AIDS Meeting to Move Abroad Due to U.S. Immigration Rules;
Harvard Decides 1992 Conference Won't Be in Boston

Malcolm Gladwell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A2

LENGTH: 632 words


Harvard University, the sponsor of next year's International Conference on AIDS,
announced yesterday that it will move the meeting from Boston to a site overseas
because of the Bush administration's restrictions on the immigration and travel
of people infected with the AIDS virus.

Numerous countries, scientific groups and AIDS activists had pledged to boycott
the meeting if it were held in the United States while the immigration
restrictions remain in place.

"Harvard is taking the very courageous and unprecedented step of moving the
conference abroad rather than risk losing it altogether," said Jonathan Mann,
who will chair the conference.

Harvard officials had been postponing their decision, hoping that the Bush
administration might change its immigration policy earlier this summer. However,
several weeks ago it became clear that the White House would consider lifting
the restrictions only for visitors infected with the AIDS virus, a half-step
that already had been rejected by Harvard officials and many AIDS groups.

"Up until the last moment, there was great hope that the travel restrictions
might change and it might be possible to hold the meeting in Boston," said Mann,
professor of epidemiology at Harvard's school of public health. "But we could no
longer afford to be held hostage to uncertainty. Had there been any further
delay, we would have had to cancel the meeting."

The four-year-old U.S. policy barring the entry of those infected with the human
immunodeficiency virus has sparked numerous international protests and caused a
partial boycott and repeated protests at the 1990 AIDS Conference in San
Francisco. The U.S. stance is shared by Iraq, China, the Philippines, the Soviet
Union and Thailand.

Daniel Bross, executive director of the AIDS Action Council in Washington,
applauded the pledge to move the conference, calling it "a decision to draw the
line against discrimination."

"This sends a loud message that the academic community as well as the larger
AIDS community disapproves very strongly of the official policies of this
administration to create impediments to the free movement of people across
borders," said Mathilde Krim, president of the American Foundation for AIDS
Research.

In a prepared statement, however, the Health and Human Services Department
called the decision regrettable and unnecessary, saying that current immigration
policy allows short-term visitors to scientific meetings to enter the country
without restriction simply by requesting a waiver.

Speaking at the Cape Arundel golf course in Maine yesterday, President Bush also
expressed regret at the move, but defended his administration's stand.

"I understand they might have canceled at Harvard, which is too bad. . . . " he
said. "That policy is a good, sound policy. The American people, I think, are
supportive of it." Calling the U.S. scientists the best and most
"forward-looking" in the world, Bush said, "They'll find other ways to get
together, so it doesn't bother me."

Organizers of next year's meeting said they had not decided where to move the
conference. Cities reportedly under consideration include London, Madrid,
Montreal and Sydney.

"We will be working with determination to find a location that is logistically
feasible and expect to announce a new conference site within a month," said Max
Essex, chairman of the Harvard AIDS Institute.

The move sets up a potentially troubling situation for government scientists,
several hundred of whom were denied permission by Congress to travel to the
meeting this year in Florence because of the high cost of overseas travel.
Boston had been considered an ideal choice because of its proximity to the
world's major site of AIDS research, the National Institutes of Health in
Bethesda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              59 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 27, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Probe Urged Of Consultants To Immigrants;
Area Lawyers Allege Fraudulent Practices

Carlos Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 679 words


Immigration lawyers are asking state and federal officials to investigate
Washington area businesses that advise immigrants eager to obtain legal
residency status or work permits.

The businesses, generally referred to as visa consultants, offer services
extending from notarizing documents to filling out complicated legal forms to
immigrants who are seeking benefits from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Lawyers who object to the firms contend that some consultants are practicing law
without a license and defrauding immigrants.

No one knows how many such firms there are in this area. But supporters and
critics say that the industry has grown virtually unregulated during the last
five years, since immigration reform laws created new opportunities for hundreds
of thousands of immigrants to obtain the right to remain in this country
legally.

The first official scrutiny of visa consultants here is being conducted by the
INS and the Virginia State Bar in separate investigations.

"We've gotten quite a few complaints, most from attorneys," said Don Crocetti,
the deputy director of the Baltimore District INS office, which handles all of
Maryland.

"I can tell you that a few consultants are under active investigation and we
expect indictments," he said.

A spokeswoman for the Virginia State Bar would not confirm that there is an
investigation, but a Northern Virginia lawyer -- who spearheaded complaints
against area visa consultants -- said an investigator told him that she is
recommending prosecution of several visa consultants. The lawyer said he had
given the bar association a list of 27 consultants.

Lawyers say visa consultants often mislead their clients about what benefits
they can receive from the INS and occasionally persuade clients to make
fraudulent statements.

"The visa consultants are thumbing their noses at the legal profession," said
lawyer Vernon Gutjchar, who gave information to the Virginia State Bar.

Visa consultant Julio Gagnon, manager of Immigration Consultants Inc. in
Arlington, defended such business as "necessary for people who can't afford an
attorney. Besides, most attorneys cannot speak Spanish."

Maryland lawyer Arturo Hernandez said the lawyers' push for investigation of the
consultants may be more an attempt to save business than to protect immigrants.

"Immigration practice is almost dead," he said. "Consultants are doing more
business than lawyers."

In June, the American Immigration Lawyers Association launched a national
campaign decrying visa consultants as a consumer threat. The association claims
3,000 members.

The group's goals are to educate immigrants, to strengthen regulations governing
the industry and to prosecute all visa consultants who are not licensed by the
INS, said Lory D. Rosenberg, an attorney with AILA.

"There's a real danger with unregulated people, even if they mean well," she
said.

The INS certifies certain community agencies, as well as law students, to
perform some immigration services. It also allows family and friends to help
immigrants on a one-time basis for no charge.

But most visa consultants are for-profit businesses that charge hundreds or
thousands of dollars for their services.

One recent immigration program drew more than 10,000 immigrants to the Baltimore
INS office, Crocetti said. Of those, one-third were represented by attorneys or
nonprofit community organizations and the rest likely used a visa consultant.

"One problem is that the INS, or any agency, is not always aware of who an
individual consulted with," said Crocetti, who added that current laws should be
strengthened. "For the most part, [visa consultants] do not sign the
applications."

There needs to be accountability, said William Van Wyke, a Washington-based
immigration lawyer.

"There may be room for people to do the same thing in immigration law that H&R
Block does for income tax," Van Wyke said. But if there are errors on the income
tax form, people pay more money, he said. "If you mess up an immigration form,
you may be deported."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              60 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 2, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Many File for Amnesty

Carlos Sanchez

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B5; UPDATE ON THE NEWS

LENGTH: 328 words


Hundreds of illegal Salvadoran immigrants waited up to 16 hours in line outside
a building in Northwest Washington in late June to sign up for a temporary
immigration amnesty program that would legitimize their status and give them the
right to hold jobs here.

Then, when it seemed that the Immigration and Naturalization Service could not
possibly process the requests of all those waiting outside the Spanish Catholic
Center at Connecticut Avenue and Calvert Street NW before the deadline,
President Bush signed a four-month extension for registration.

Congress and the president approved the extension because of a delay by the
immigration service in setting up the program.

Since June, Salvadorans have been registering in a steady stream for the
"temporary protective status," officials said last week.

The long lines disappeared after the extension was granted, but many people have
continued to register, said Celia Rivas, the immigration service coordinator at
the Spanish Catholic Center, which has processed many of the Washington area's
applications.

The program will prevent those who register from being deported through the
middle of 1992 while U.S. officials assess human rights conditions in their
war-ravaged homeland.

Salvadorans make up the largest Hispanic population in this area.

With two months to go until the new deadline of Oct. 31, an estimated 18,500 of
the Washington area's 50,000 illegal Salvadoran immigrants have signed up --
about 1,500 of them since the registration time was extended.

But the Washington area's Salvadorans are behind those in the rest of the
country in signing up, according to the immigration service.

Nationally, about half of the estimated 300,000 Salvadorans who are eligible
have registered, said Duke Austin, an immigration service spokesman.

The Spanish Catholic Center and other locations are being used for registration.
Those wanting information about the program may call 202-483-1520.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              61 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 16, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Limit on Foreign Artists Delayed

Al Kamen, Todd Allan Yasui, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE D7; ARTS BEAT

LENGTH: 828 words


A House subcommittee, pounded by a coalition of arts groups, foreign governments
and the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, last week approved a
six-month delay in a provision of the 1990 immigration law that would limit
foreign artists coming to perform in this country.

The action follows similar moves in the Senate to delay implementation of a
25,000 yearly limit on visas for such artists. The limit, along with other
restrictions -- such as a requirement that an artist be affiliated with a
performing group for more than a year before applying for a visa -- was tucked
into the Immigration Act of 1990 that was passed in November and set to go into
effect Oct. 1.

Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) are expected to
introduce legislation this week that would amend the 1990 law to eliminate the
cap and other restrictions for three years.

Rep. Romano L. Mazzoli, (D-Ky.) chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
International Law, Immigration and Refugees, said Thursday that he would hold a
hearing next month on a bill he has introduced to remove the cap and other
restrictions permanently.

The unanimous voice vote from the subcommittee last week came after no debate --
only a little grousing by one member that the arts community had registered no
objections when the 1990 bill was under consideration. Indeed, much of the
outcry from arts groups didn't occur until the advisory council of the National
Endowment for the Arts passed a resolution in May stating its concern that the
law would have "unintended adverse effects" on international cultural activity.
This placed the NEA firmly in opposition to the AFL-CIO'S Department of
Professional Employees union, which was concerned about protecting American
artists' jobs.

Since then, lobbying against the restrictions has been formidable, not only from
the arts community but from a number of countries, including Canada and members
of the European Community. Some of the protests have been accompanied by veiled
threats of retaliation. "Any attempt unilaterally to restrict this flow [of
performers between the United States and Britain] weakens the relationship
between us and, as such, is against the interests of the United States and the
United Kingdom," wrote Barbara Rosen, a cultural affairs officer at the British
Embassy, in a letter sent to the Immigration and Naturalization Service late
last month. Barbara McDougall, Canada's secretary of state for External Affairs,
wrote to Secretary of State James A. Baker III in July stating that "pressure
will undoubtedly develop to have Canada introduce reciprocal measures. Such a
situation would not be in the best interest of either country."

Although organized labor agrees that some provisions in the act may not be
necessary -- such as a requirement prohibiting visa applications until 90 days
before a scheduled arrival -- the 25,000 cap limit seems to be causing the most
concern. Both sides agree that the figure is arbitrary since no comprehensive
study has ever been done to show the number of foreign performers allowed here
each year. But given such a backlash, congressional aides say it appears likely
that Congress will now pass some kind of legislation delaying a limit at least
in order to study the matter further.


On the Horizon


The Kennedy Center announced its 1991-1992 season of Theater and Music for Young
People in a festive news conference Thursday in the Dirksen Senate Office
Building.

Following a song-and-dance routine by the Kennedy Center Traveling Young
Players, center Managing Director Lawrence J. Wilker released a schedule of 26
theater and music presentations, including two commissioned plays and four
National Symphony Orchestra education programs. The season will also include the
16th annual "Imagination Celebration" in April, a month-long festival focusing
on performing arts for youth and children. For information about the programs,
call 202-467-4600. ... Give an artist 10 minutes on a soapbox and there's no
telling what you'll get in return. But that's half the fun of the "Ten Minutes"
program at the Washington Project for the Arts, which starts up Sept. 23 after a
successful tryout in June. Between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., 10 artists will have 10
minutes each to present their work in an open-mike format. They may perform or
show a videotape, slides or small works. Another session will be held Monday,
Oct. 21. Artists may sign up at the WPA during regular gallery hours. ... It
continues to be the best show in town each year and it's also free: Tickets for
the 10th annual National Heritage Fellowships concert -- to be held Sept. 26,
7:30 p.m. at Lisner Auditorium, featuring B.B. King -- are available on a
first-come, first-served basis at George Washington University's Marvin Center
news desk, the House of Musical Traditions in Takoma Park, or by calling the
National Council for the Traditional Arts at 301-565-0654.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              62 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 29, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

An Investment in American Citizenship;
Immigration Program Invites Millionaires to Buy Their Way In

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1028 words


Lady Liberty may still beckon to the "huddled masses yearning to breathe free,"
but Uncle Sam now extends a special welcome to those who can pay cash.

Under a new immigration program that goes into effect Tuesday, 10,000 visas for
permanent residence in the United States will be available each year for those
who agree to invest at least $ 1 million in businesses here.  Full citizenship
will be available for them and their families after five years.

The program, part of the Immigration Act of 1990, is an unabashed attempt to
attract wealthy foreigners -- especially Asians and, most particularly, Chinese
from Hong Kong who are worried about living under communist rule in 1997.

The response -- 100 applications so far -- has been less than overwhelming.
Officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service say they are confident
many more people will apply once final regulations are issued. But immigration
lawyers and others are not sure, saying the program is too restrictive and
expensive.

The plan is patterned after highly successful programs in other countries,
especially Canada and Australia. Canada's program, which began in 1986, has
brought in more than $ 3 billion a year and has created more than 40,000 jobs,
Canadian officials said.

Australia's program, begun in 1982, brought in $ 1.3 billion in new investment
last year, with about 10,000 settlers coming mostly from Asia, according to the
Australian Embassy.

Those figures -- and a sluggish U.S. economy -- overcame the discomfort some
lawmakers felt about the notion of a dollars-for-visas program.

Sen. Dale Bumpers (D-Ark.), who led the opposition, thundered on the Senate
floor against "auctioning off our souls" by "allowing somebody into this country
simply because he or she happens to have $ 1 million, either inherited, made in
the drug cartel, regardless of where the money comes from."

But Republican backers, such as Sen. Phil Gramm (Tex.), countered by quoting
Calvin Coolidge that "the business of America is business" and the country
needed entrepreneurs as much as any other category of immigrant. Democrats, such
as Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.), insisted the program was not selling visas,
but creating jobs because, in addition to the money, investors also would have
to create 10 jobs to qualify for permanent residency.

The bill's supporters predicted that about 4,000 millionaire investors, along
with family members, would sign up, bringing in $ 4 billion in new investments
and creating 40,000 jobs.

Immigration lawyers and business promoters went into a feeding frenzy at the
possibilities, shuttling back and forth to the Orient, conducting dozens of
seminars and discussions with prospective clients.

But now, after all the congressional angst and the promotional activity,
immigration lawyers and business brokers are not sure wealthy foreigners will
bite.

One problem, said Harold Ezell, a former INS official and now an immigration
consultant in California who is advising foreign investors, is that "INS dropped
the ball," and has yet to publish regulations to implement the law. As a result,
applications cannot be processed. Ezell is confident applications will increase.
The Canadian offer is attractive, he said, "if you want to go to Canada and
freeze your buns off."

Even when final regulations are issued, possibly in the next few weeks, there
still may be uncertainties, immigration lawyers said. Immigration officials are
debating whether to lower the ante to $ 500,000 for investments in rural or
high-unemployment areas.

Entrepreneurs will receive a two-year provisional visa and, if
still-to-be-decided criteria are met, a permanent green card may be issued, with
citizenship three years after that. One question unanswered, however, is what
happens to the visa if after two years the business falls on hard times and
employs only seven people or if other regulations aren't met.

"One million dollars is not chump change," said St. Louis immigration lawyer
George Newman. "People with that kind of money didn't get it because they are
idiots," he said, and they are not going to jump into the program without a
clear idea of what will happen.

Newman said many of the inquiries he has received have been from European
entrepreneurs. He said many have gone to Canada, but "the country of choice is
the United States."

"The Canadian program has been a spectacular success," he said, "and we just sat
here and let them do it."

Canada and Australia were also a lot easier to enter, said attorney Austin
Fragomen of New York City. Even if all the uncertainties are cleared up,
Fragomen said, "our program is not a competitive product" with the Canadian
program.

Australia's program requires an investment of only $ 120,000. Canada's program
requires $ 220,000 and no "hands-on" directorship of 10 employees. The U.S.
requirements are obstacles, Fragomen said. "Who wants to run a McDonald's in the
South Bronx?" he asked. "It's very difficult."

The other advantage with the Canadian program, said San Francisco investment
banker Tony Angotti, is that Canada has a list of hundreds of pre-approved
investments, so that when people invest, they know that after three, not five
years, they can be citizens.

"People tend to forget that for the wealthy the United States is not the only
game in town," he said. "If you are Hong Kong Chinese, wealthy and worried about
1997, you've been concerned for some time and you already have a New Zealand [or
other] passport. These guys are the first ones out" when trouble is coming, he
said.

Irvin Philpot, office manager of a Palm Beach, Fla., holding company called
Global Group, said ads he has placed worldwide have generated substantial
responses, "but we're not getting as many people that have a million in liquid
cash that we had hoped for." To have that much, he said, "you've got to be worth
between $ 10-$ 12 million."

Philpot, who has submitted four applications for the visas, said he was looking
for investors in any of 27 companies, including fast-food franchises, light bulb
manufacturing or taxi and limousine companies. The response has been cautious,
he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SEN. DALE BUMPERS

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              63 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 3, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Arlington Business Accused of Forging Immigration Documents;
3 Charged

Charles W. Hall, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15

LENGTH: 665 words


A visa consulting business that allegedly bilked at least 100 illegal aliens by
selling them forged immigration documents has been shut down, and three people
have been arrested in the case, Arlington County police and federal officials
announced yesterday.

The case is one of several in the last year in which Hispanic immigrants,
unfamiliar with American laws and business customs, are alleged to have been
preyed on by countrymen posing as intermediaries.

Delia Rocio Rivera, president of Multi-Services Corp. in Arlington, was charged
with eight counts of grand larceny and one count of practicing law without a
license. The company's vice president, Fernando Alfredo Guillen, 44, of
Springfield, was charged with four counts of grand larceny and one count of
practicing law without a license.

Officials said a third suspect, Beatriz Athil, of Annandale, was charged with
one count of conspiracy. Athil allegedly provided the documents, which officials
said yesterday were forgeries.

The papers, called employment authorization documents, are issued to allow
immigrants to stay in the United States temporarily while seeking permanent
status.

Police said records found at the company's office, in the 900 block of South
Walter Reed Drive, showed receipts for at least $ 115,000. Officials said the
immigrants, most of whom were from Bolivia, had paid as much as $ 3,500 each in
hopes of receiving temporary work passes.

"Anyone practicing immigration fraud should be put on notice that we will not
let that happen," said William Carroll, Washington district director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. "This is not something new, but it's
something we're going to focus in on."

The Immigration Service itself came under investigation briefly last month after
Rivera told officials that she had paid $ 75,000 in bribes to employees of the
agency to receive fraudulent documents.

Carroll said yesterday that an investigation by the Inspector General's Office
of the Justice Department showed no fraud by agency employees.  "That was a
fabrication to shield herself from prosecution," he said.

Police said they learned of the alleged scheme after one victim, described as a
Montgomery County employee, complained to his supervisor about the visa company.

Arlington Detective Jim Griswold said Rivera used false identification papers
linking her with the FBI, CIA and INS to convince clients that she could obtain
work documents. Rivera, 31, of the 6300 block of Meeting House Way, Alexandria,
promised to obtain the documents in six to eight weeks, police said.

Because of the crushing backlog of immigrants seeking permanent residence in
this country, such documents usually take years to obtain legitimately.

Griswold said that many of Rivera's clients became suspicious, and that she told
them she could not return their money because she had given $ 75,000 in bribes
to immigration officials.  Police said 12 victims have agreed to cooperate with
prosecutors.

Vernon Gutjahr, a Falls Church lawyer who represents five of them, said some of
his clients "felt ashamed that they had been duped or thought the Immigration
Service would go after them."

Gutjahr said economic pressure and the long wait for legitimate documents
encourage many immigrants to seek assistance from unscrupulous operators. "They
need to work, and they need to eat," Gutjahr said.

In the last year, hundreds of Hispanic immigrants lost money deposited with
Latino Investment Corp., an unregulated company that catered to customers
suspicious of traditional banks. In recent months, a Fairfax man purporting to
ship goods to customers' relatives in Central America vanished with his clients'
money.

Duke Austin, spokesman for the Immigration Service, said immigration fraud is
rampant. "A lot of these undocumented aliens are a ready and ripe audience," he
said. "Of course, their problem begins with the fact that they are here
illegally. They are looking for a quick fix."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              64 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 10, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Palestinians Rescued From Kuwait Now Face U.S. Deportation

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1198 words

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C.


When Isam Ikreishi and his family -- including an American-born son -- arrived
here last year aboard a "Freedom Flight" from Iraqi-occupied Kuwait, they were
given a heroes' welcome by hundreds of area residents.

Now Ikreishi and an estimated 2,000 former Kuwaiti residents brought to this
country are threatened with deportation after Dec. 31, when their temporary
visas and work permits expire.

The State Department, desperate to get all U.S. citizens -- including Ikreishi's
8-year-old son Rami -- out of Kuwait, bent the rules and allowed entire families
to come here if one person, most often a child, was a U.S. citizen.

But the Immigration and Naturalization Service says it does not have the
authority to bend the rules to allow them to stay. Under the law, Americans
under 21, although citizens by virtue of being born here, cannot petition to
bring in their foreign parents.

Worse yet, Ikreishi and his family, like nearly all the non-Americans on the
flights, have nowhere to go. They are Palestinians, and Kuwait won't take them
back. Even though many were born and raised there, the Palestinians are not
Kuwaiti citizens. Some of them hold Jordanian travel documents, issued in
Kuwait, and may be able to go there. But many say they have never been to Jordan
and have no homes or family there.

Ikreishi, a mathematics professor with a graduate degree from Idaho State
University, said he once lived a comfortable, middle-class life in Kuwait,
teaching and consulting. Now he is living on welfare, borrowing money from
friends.

"I've wasted one year of my life and I'm still wondering why," he said, sitting
in an apartment furnished with donated, used furniture. Taking welfare and loans
is "shameful," he said, holding 20 job rejection letters from colleges and
universities. "It's very hard to get a job," he said, especially with only a
temporary work permit that expires Dec. 31. "I've spent 23 years studying," he
said. "For what? Sitting home?"

The majority of the Palestinians were part of a highly educated, middle-class or
even wealthy elite in Kuwait. They were businessmen, engineers, accountants,
lawyers or doctors. The U.S.-citizen children often were born when their parents
were in school here. About 50 to 60 families, who came here in three flights
last year, remained in the Raleigh area. The rest scattered, with a large number
going to California.

Their initial elation last year has turned to bewilderment, frustration and
anger. Several, in interviews last week, said that while they were grateful to
the United States for taking them out of occupied Kuwait, they were never told
their stay would be temporary.

"The same government that took so much trouble to bring us here now wants to
send us back to nowhere," said Tariq Elborno, a structural engineer who left
with his wife and two children, one of whom is a citizen. "Why should we be
victimized twice, once by the Iraqis and now again? Aren't they [immigration
officials] human? Aren't we human?"

"They say the law is the problem," Ikreishi said. "But the laws are made by men
and they can be changed by men."

INS associate commissioner Jim Puleo angered 200 Palestinians and their
supporters when he outlined those laws at a Senate subcommittee hearing in
Raleigh in August chaired by Sen. Terry Sanford (D-N.C.).

Puleo, asked whether the State Department and INS wanted to "break our
families," restated the applicable immigration law. "It is up to you whether you
want to leave your child here or not," Puleo concluded. "I cannot make the
decision for you, nor can I create the laws."

Nicholas J. Ricciuti, director of the Citizens Emergency Center in the State
Department, defended the decision to take "extraordinary means" to get people
out of Kuwait. The U.S. Embassy in Kuwait was "surrounded and cut off. We had no
way of determining eligibility [for immigration]," he said at the hearing.

"So we made a decision: If there was one American in the family, the entire
family would be evacuated. We did that to save lives. Looking back, it was the
right decision," he said. Until the Persian Gulf War began months later, "No
American citizen lost his life or her life in Kuwait," Ricciuti said, "and that
is why we are here."

INS officials said in interviews that they will do whatever they can to assist,
but that the Palestinians should try to improve their situation by applying for
employment-related visas or perhaps asking for asylum. Those requests would be
considered on a case-by-case basis, but the Palestinians must take the
initiative and apply. "We can't wave a magic wand and grant them residency," one
INS official said. "The law prevents us from doing that."

A Kuwaiti Embassy spokesman in Washington said last week that while the door to
Kuwait was not closed to all Palestinians, it may be difficult for many to
return. "We will consider people on a case-by-case basis," said press attache'
Raed Rifai. But "we are not going back to a situation where we are a minority in
our own country." Kuwaitis, embittered by the support of many Palestinians for
Iraq's invasion, are especially opposed to permitting their return.

"But we were not brought here on a case-by-case basis," Elborno said in an
interview, and many people likely will not be approved for employment-related
visas, a time-consuming process that normally requires a potential immigrant
remain outside the country until approval. "Their [the government officials]
answers don't fit our situation," he said. Elborno and an attorney working with
many of the families said it was doubtful that any of them would qualify for
ayslum.

Basim Ali, an electrical engineer with an undergraduate degree from Louisiana
State University who has worked here as a waiter and a $ 10 an hour technician,
said a major company offered him a job as a production manager. The owner "even
showed me where my new office was," Ali said. But when he showed his temporary
work permit at the personnel department, they refused to hire him. "He told me,
'Sorry, I can't hire you,' " Ali recalled. "I don't blame him."

U.S. officials say their hands are tied. "There is no avenue to make them
permanent residents," said INS spokesman Duke Austin. "There is no discretion in
the INS to make someone an immigrant. There is no route from [their emergency
situation] to immigrant status. They are in a never-never land."

One solution, now being explored by Sanford, would be special legislation to
allow those airlifted out of Kuwait to remain in the United States. A second
would be to ask President Bush to issue an executive order similar to one he
issued for Chinese students here after the Tiananmen Square massacre so those
students could remain in the country for several years.

Sen. Alan Cranston (D-Calif.) is planning to circulate a letter for his
colleagues to sign urging Bush to issue such an order.

A State Department official said the Palestinians were "sort of a victim of
circumstances. . . . I wish we could do something fairly quickly for these
people," he said, but the decision to evacuate them was proper. "We felt we had
to solve the problem and worry about the details later."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, THE IKHREISHI FAMILY IN THEIR BACK YARD IN NORTH CAROLINA, FROM
LEFT: NADIA, NOUR, LINA, ISAM, SUZAN AND RAMI. RAMI, 8 IS A U.S. CITIZEN. JOHN
ROTTET FOR TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              65 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 13, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

SUPREME COURT CALENDAR

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4

LENGTH: 144 words



No. 90-1205. U.S. v. Mabus. School desegregation. Has Mississippi done enough to
dismantle its previously segregated system of colleges and universities? (One
hour.)

No. 90-6531. Hudson v. McMillian. Prisons. Does use of force by corrections
officers that does not cause significant injury constitute cruel and unusual
punishment? (One hour.)

No. 90-727. Holmes v. Securities Investor Protection Corp. Securities. Is party
that is neither purchaser nor seller of securities, and therefore lacks standing
to sue under federal securities law, able to sue under federal racketeering law?
(One hour.)

No. 90-1090. Immigration and Naturalization Service v. National Center for
Immigrants' Rights. Aliens. Does attorney general have authority to require that
aliens facing deportation not take jobs as a condition of being released on
bond? (One hour.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: SCHEDULE

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              66 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 30, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Deport for Acts, Not Speech

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 500 words


LAST YEAR, as part of a major overhaul of the immigration law, Congress repealed
parts of the McCarran-Walter Act, a statute that barred from the United States
people who advocated world communism or other totalitarian systems. The statute
had prevented countless individuals from obtaining visas to visit this country
and had occasionally been used to deport those already here. In recent years
legislators have (finally) seen the discrepancy between the free speech rights
guaranteed to all Americans and the harsh law that penalized would-be visitors
and immigrants for exercising those same rights. The new immigration law will
keep out those who actually engage in terrorist activity, but not those who
merely advocate a political philosophy of any kind.

In spite of this change, the government is proceeding under the old law against
a group of aliens in Los Angeles whose case began in 1987. According to the
terms of the new statute, these old cases can be continued to completion. Eight
individuals -- seven Palestinians and a Kenyan -- were arrested almost five
years ago and scheduled for deportation because of their links with the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a group the government charges with
advocating world communism. At various times since their arrest, the grounds for
deportation have been changed. Six were charged with technical violations of the
terms of their visas, like failing to take enough college credits to qualify as
students. Two of the group, however, were long-term residents of the United
States -- one was to become a citizen a few days after he was arrested -- and
had no technical violations on their records. The government could deport them
only if it could prove advocacy under the old law or actual terrorism under the
new law. It has chosen to proceed on grounds of advocacy.

Before the government moved against these eight aliens, it conducted a
three-year investigation of all their activities and affiliations. No criminal
charges were brought, and William Webster, who was head of the FBI during the
investigation, told Congress that his agency had no evidence they had committed
any crimes or had supported or engaged in terrorism. The whole point of the 1990
immigration law revision was to require some act or some pattern of conduct that
would pose a threat to national security as a justification for exclusion. The
Palestinian cause may not be popular here, but beliefs, words and advocacy are
protected in this country, if they are unpopular or not.

The government is technically within its rights to continue to proceed against
these individuals because of advocacy, but this course has been repudiated by
Congress and is at odds with constitutional guarantees that apply generally in
this country. If there is evidence these people engaged in or facilitated
terrorism, that evidence should be produced. If there is none and the
deportation proceedings are grounded in speech alone, they should be dropped.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              67 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 23, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Rules Seek Fewer Detentions

From staff reports and news services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE; SHORT TAKES

LENGTH: 189 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has issued new rules that may reduce
the number of political asylum seekers who are now held indefinitely in
detention centers while waiting for their claims to be resolved.

INS Commissioner Gene McNary, in a memo issued Monday, said the new system would
allow the agency "to be able to detain those persons most likely to abscond or
to pose a threat to public safety, rather than to base the detention decision
solely or primarily on the availability of detention space."

Under the new procedures, adopted after completion of a lengthy test project,
INS officials would quickly interview people entering the United States and
recommend release from detention if the applicants appear to have valid claims
to political asylum, have a place to live if released and agree to show up for
further hearings.

About 1,000 asylum seekers are now being detained by the INS.

INS spokesman Verne Jervis said that the new uniform standards "don't change
much as a practical matter" because there was very little space to detain the
tens of thousands of asylum seekers arriving each year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              68 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 11, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

Indictment Alleges Immigration Scam

From news services and staff reports

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B3; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 138 words


A Maryland lawyer masterminded an immigration scam whereby she and her
assistants used phony documents and lied to federal officials to help illegal
immigrants obtain work and residency permits, according to a federal indictment
unsealed yesterday in Alexandria.

Gail Fuller, 40, of Glenarden, was charged with 51 felonies, including
conspiracy, harboring aliens and encouraging clients to perjure themselves.

Illegal immigrants were charged fees ranging from $ 1,500 to $ 3,000 each for
the permits and were recruited from as far away as Rhode Island, the indictment
states.

Also charged was a recent law school graduate working for Fuller and three
defendants who allegedly acted as scouts seeking clients. Fourteen immigrants
already have pleaded guilty to felony charges stemming from Fuller's alleged
scam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS, VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              69 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 13, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

In Virginia, a Safety Net For Hispanic Immigrants;
Agencies Help Ease Transition to New Life

Carlos Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B3

LENGTH: 1206 words


On her first stop of the day, Patricia Moreno sees a new client who responds to
the question "What's wrong?" with the answer "Everything."

There is no food in the house, the woman tells Moreno. Both she and her husband
have lost their jobs. They have no medicine to treat their seriously ill
daughter. All Moreno can offer today is an emergency food voucher.

Minutes later, Moreno visits a 68-year-old woman who is going blind from
glaucoma. Moreno drives her to the Fairfax County Department of Human Services.
But there is no help, Moreno is told, because the woman is an illegal immigrant.

Before the day is over, Moreno will see six such cases. It is a routine day in
her work with Comite Hispano de Virginia.

The agency is part of a well-used safety net of a half-dozen private agencies in
Northern Virginia that serve Hispanic immigrants. Often, these agencies are the
sole lifeline for needy people whose status as illegal immigrants disqualifies
them for most government-financed help. The agency also serves legal immigrants
who have little or no understanding of what help is available, or how to get it.

In the last decade, the number of Hispanics in Northern Virginia has increased
by 169 percent, to more than 100,000 people, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau. More than half of them live in Fairfax County. The majority are
dispersed throughout the county, making their presence -- and their needs --
less visible.

Comite Hispano is struggling to meet that nearly invisible need in one of the
nation's wealthiest counties. The agency's 16 social workers saw nearly 10,000
clients last year, but they admit they are reaching only a fraction of those who
need help.

"I think the majority [of the immigrants] fall through the cracks," said Marta
Wyatt, director of Comite Hispano. "We do our part, but we are just a small
agency."

"It takes a special quality of person to deal with these kinds of problems,"
said Irma Ortiz, assistant director of Comite. "There is a lot of work and it's
very stressful."

Moreno's part is to be detective, teacher, psychologist, disciplinarian and
often the only family for uneducated and frightened immigrants.

"What has always impressed me about new immigrants is the sense of awe they have
for the system," said Donna M. Foster, head of the Fairfax County community
health care network, which serves legal immigrants who qualify for help. "But
these people are still shut out of the mainstream of American life. They are
disadvantaged and disenfranchised."

Moreno's clients seek help with everything from health services to food to
shelter -- and many times all three. Mostly, it's understanding they want,
Moreno said.

"They come here and are so ill-prepared for life in general," Foster said.

"It makes assistance so much more important," she said of the role that Moreno
and others like her play for these immigrants.

Coming from countries with virtually no social support network, these immigrants
often have no idea that help is available to them, Moreno said.

Jaime Perdomo, for example, spent a year in bed as a quadriplegic after being
severely beaten during a mugging. The 21-year-old lived with his father, who,
not knowing what else to do, left his son a bowl of food every morning before
heading for work. Perdomo ate from the bowl "like a dog," Moreno said.

When social workers with Comite were informed about him by county officials and
responded, they found him lying in his own urine and feces. He had not left his
room for more than a year. Within days, the agency found him a wheelchair and a
private nurse, and he is now on a regimen of physical rehabilitation.

But it was the birth of Jose Sanchez that best illustrates the challenges of
Moreno's work.

His birth 18 months ago actually began as a low point in Moreno's career, she
said.

Born prematurely, Jose contracted encephalitis, Fairfax County records said. He
was hooked up to a respirator for a week before doctors called Moreno in to
translate for the baby's mother, Emperatriz Salvador.

"They told me it was better to remove the baby from the machine," Moreno said.
"At that moment, I didn't know how to translate this to the mother. I was very
frustrated. As a Catholic I had second thoughts about translating this, but as a
worker I knew I had to."

Salvador, the mother, was well known to workers at Comite, even before Moreno's
arrival. Uneducated and extremely shy, the woman came to Comite after she
learned she was pregnant, seeking medical care.

Moreno described Salvador as completely dependent on social workers. "She used
to call me to ask me to call other agencies. She was so afraid that these people
would speak English that she couldn't call."

She also had a boyfriend who beat her, according to county records, which
specify one instance in which Salvador was severely beaten while she was six
months pregnant, forcing her to flee to a shelter.

At one point, Salvador's only contact with the outside world was through Moreno.
But the social worker prevented total reliance, often scolding Salvador into
acting on her own, Moreno said.

Salvador's assertiveness did not reveal itself until that day in the hospital,
when Moreno translated the doctor's recommendation to remove Jose from
life-sustaining machines.

"She said she would never kill her son," Moreno recalled. So bowing to her
wishes, the hospital kept the boy on machines, and eventually he grew well
enough to leave the hospital.

But the county's child protective services moved to take custody of the baby,
contending Salvador was unequipped to care for him. For Salvador, it was no
longer a matter of being intimidated; it was a matter involving her child.

"I felt like running," Salvador said when told the child could not be with her.
"I felt like dying." Ultimately, this woman who had been terrified of the system
felt like fighting.

Her fight against a governmental system that had so frightened her in the past
was remarkable, Moreno said. Such assertiveness, she said, is an integral part
of acculturating into the often intimidating American lifestyle.

Once Salvador made the decision to keep her son, Moreno found her legal help and
offered constant moral support. She became the baby's godmother, and she watched
in amazement as independence flowered in Salvador.

This mother with virtually no education was learning cardiopulmonary
resuscitation -- for her child. This woman who knew no English was learning how
to provide complete care for a baby so disabled that he cannot be left alone for
more than a few minutes.

This mother, whose fear of the system was so acute she wouldn't seek help by
phone, waged a legal battle to keep her child -- and won.

Now, Salvador is able to live in federally subsidized housing because her son is
an American citizen. She has recently completed a basket-weaving course and runs
a modest business selling the baskets.

The highlight of Jose's story came shortly before Moreno had the child baptized.
For four months, the child had been on machines. And for the first time, his
mother, who fought to keep him, held her son.

"Everybody, the doctor, me, was holding back the tears," Moreno said. "Every
problem has some kind of solution."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, COMITE HISPANO'S YOLANDA CAMBERDS HUGS AGENCY BENEFICIARY JAIME
PERDOMO. JAMES A. PARCELL

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              70 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 28, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

High Cost of Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 245 words


Lawrence E. Harrison's Jan. 12 op-ed column was one of the best presentations I
have seen on the problems caused by unchecked immigration. These problems are
especially severe in Southern California, where illegal immigration has been a
major cause of the current fiscal crisis.

For example, nearly two-thirds of the births in L.A. County-operated hospitals
today are to parents who are illegal aliens. Because most of these births are
covered by Medicaid, they are costing taxpayers nearly $ 100 million a year. And
because these children are automatically U.S. citizens and eligible for welfare
benefits, their illegal parents are collecting nearly $ 250 million a year in
welfare, up from a little more than $ 100 million in 1989.

Given that the Border Patrol estimates that more than 2 million illegal
immigrants entered the United States last year, it is safe to say these costs
will continue to climb unless we as a nation, as Mr. Harrison said, redouble our
efforts to control illegal immigration. I have introduced a package of bills to
do that, by devoting more resources to enforcement and the elimination of
document fraud and by stopping the payment of federal welfare and unemployment
benefits to illegals.

As the extent of the problem becomes better known outside California, public
pressure to take action will intensify. Clearly, Congress has an obligation to
address this problem.

ELTON GALLEGLY U.S. Representative (R-Calif.) Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              71 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 18, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

Mexicans Undeterred by Barriers on the Border

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1780 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


Attorney General William P. Barr's new multimillion-dollar plan to curb illegal
immigration calls for new border lights and fences and 150 additional Border
Patrol agents in this area, where nearly half the 1 million arrests along the
southern border are made each year.

Javier Ortega, a 40-year-old auto body repairman from Guadalajara, is not
impressed.

Ortega and dozens of other men and women -- and a 4-year-old girl -- are
standing on the Mexican side of a recently constructed 10-foot-high, solid steel
barricade. There is a gaping hole dug under the wall.

"It doesn't matter how many people, horses, bicycles, helicopters or planes they
use," Ortega said. "People will go. It doesn't matter if the fence is electric,
we'll fry, but we're still going."

If the United States really wants to keep people out, said Carlos, a 28-year-old
restaurant worker who did not give his last name, "They need to do it like in
[East] Germany and put soldiers every 10 feet and shoot people.

"But even then we'll go," he laughed.

A few hours later -- just after the Border Patrol's afternoon shift change -- a
group of eight young men sat atop another section of the wall staring down at a
lone agent. The agent turned away for a moment and the group jumped down and
dashed about 200 yards toward a K-mart on the U.S. side of the border in San
Ysidro, Calif. Other agents gave chase and it appeared some were caught. Others
got away.

The nightly ritual had begun. On a rainy night last Wednesday, agents chased as
many as 2,000 people -- no one knows for sure -- through the narrow canyons,
parking lots, apartment complexes and businesses along the border. Some were
picked up by friends or smugglers waiting on the other side. Others walked up
Interstate 5.

"We'll always come back," said Luis, a 21-year-old shoe repairman from Mexicali.
He said his job last year at a Nebraska meat-packing plant paid eight times what
he could earn at home. "We have to look for a way to survive." A Huge Economic
Temptation

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) officials, civil rights activists
and immigration experts interviewed on both sides of the border generally agreed
with Luis and his friends: Short of a Berlin Wall solution, with agents
instructed to shoot to kill, the huge wage disparity between the United States
and Mexico will always tempt large numbers of people to sneak across the border.

They shared Border Patrol agent Ed Conlin's observation shortly after the group
dashed to the K-mart. "If someone really, really, really wants to make it, he
will. We can't stop him."

They also agree that the number of people trying to cross has increased in
recent years, although Hispanic rights groups say INS inflates its estimates,
and fails to take into account multiple apprehensions of the same people.

The number of people caught at the border dropped sharply for three years after
the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act legalized more than 3 million aliens
already living in the United States. But apprehensions have increased in the
past two years to pre-law levels, with more than 1 million likely to be
intercepted this year.

The sharpest disagreement is a longstanding one over whether the barricade and
increased agents, sanctions on employers who hire illegal aliens and other
enforcement measures can ever succeed in substantially reducing the numbers of
illegal entrants.

Barr, announcing the plan Feb. 10 in a speech in San Diego, just north of here,
said it was needed to stop illegal aliens from "flouting our sovereignty and
ignoring our process." He said he recognized his proposals were not "a silver
bullet," but they were a "steady march in the right direction."

Critics of the U.S. enforcement effort say it is a waste of time and resources
and may even impede efforts to address the underlying problem -- the 8 to 1 wage
gap between the two countries.

U.S. emphasis on police measures, such as the new wall, increases resentment and
economic nationalism in Mexico, said Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the Center
for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California at San Diego. Barr's
proposals "make it more difficult for the Mexican government to adopt free trade
policies" needed for a long-term solution.

Focusing on enforcement is "highly inflammatory on the Mexican side, much more
than U.S. people realize," he said. "Even if the practical impact [on
immigration] is negligible, the symbolic effect is great."

"Every country has a right to control its borders," said Jorge Bustamante,
president of the state-funded College of the Northern Frontier in Tijuana, which
closely studies immigration.

"But the United States wants to have its cake and eat it too. You want to stop
illegal immigration, but you want and need cheap labor," he said. "You cannot
have both. It is a U.S. schizophrenia, wanting to open and close your borders at
the same time."

As a result, the State Department and economic interests want free trade and a
partnership with Mexico, he said, while the INS "treats Mexico as the enemy."

Increased enforcement of the type outlined by Barr "is just a political game,"
he said. The new steel barricade will do little to stop people, he said, "but it
will have a very strong effect on political consumption in Southern California,"
where anti-immigrant sentiment is strong and growing.

There is some evidence that increased enforcement may in some cases worsen the
situation, he said. Higher entry difficulties and costs -- the smugglers dropped
their fees after the 1986 law but have raised them back to more than $ 300 a
person -- may be encouraging people to stay longer each time, Bustamante said.
The increased stay in the United States then encourages some to bring their
families across, actually increasing the magnet effect by the very effort to
keep them out.

The 1986 law itself may have created a strong magnet, legalizing millions of
male workers who now appear to be bringing over their families in increasing
numbers.

But immigration officials insist that, unless the United States is willing to
declare the border to be open, the laws must be enforced. James B. Turnage Jr.,
INS director for the San Diego area, said the 1986 law, which introduced
employer sanctions for the first time, can eventually do a great deal to "turn
off the [jobs] magnet."

The sanctions, which include fines of up to $ 3,000 per worker and jail terms
for repeated offenses, are "the last best chance short of militarizing the
border," he said. "We can certainly control this, and we must.

"This is the most generous country in the world," in terms of number of people
legally admitted each year, Turnage said. "It's not closing the golden door, but
we can't continue on having people crashing in through the back door." Those
trying to do so must be told to "get in line and wait your turn like everyone
else."

"If this goes on," he said, "there will be a backlash" against all immigration.

Civil rights groups argue there has been a backlash against sanctions, whose
effectiveness has been undermined, if not destroyed, by widespread use of forged
documents. The threat of sanctions causes employers to discriminate against
Hispanic citizens and legal residents, opponents say, and employers also are
calling for repealing sanctions. More enforcement, critics argue, will simply
increase opposition.

Much of the criticism against new enforcement efforts is misguided and
overstated, INS officials said, focusing on each element, rather than the
broader enforcment plan.

No one enforcement tool will deter illegal immigration, Turnage said, adding
that there needs to be a "comprehensive approach" including employer sanctions
and increased border security.

INS officials say they are under no illusions that the new steel barricade,
which will eventually extend inland from the ocean for about 14 miles, will keep
people out. "It's not a people fence," said Gustavo De La Vina, head of the
Border Patrol here. "It doesn't stop people."

But it has dramatically reduced the ability of large numbers of people and drug
smugglers to simply drive pickups and cars across the border. It has reduced
rock-throwing at agents in their vehicles, he said, and has made it more
difficult for some to get across, especially women and children.

Fence Provides 'More Control'

The fence has had a "funneling effect," he said, forcing people to circle around
it, which moves them away from business and residential areas into rougher and
more open terrain, where they can be caught.

The fence has provided "more control to a situation that had been out of
control," he said, and "the more difficult it is, the less they come. It's a
deterrent."

But Cornelius said the "Keystone Kops" approach only "forces migrants and
smugglers to change tactics," and will simply "cause the revolving door to spin
faster."

The barricade itself, critics speculate, may have induced hundreds of men, women
and children earlier this month to adopt the dangerous tactic of running en
masse through Mexican customs checkpoints and up Interstate 5 against the
southbound traffic. The new ploy has been blocked by Mexican authorities who
have stopped people from congregating on that side of the border.

Employer sanctions, Cornelius said, have spawned a "cottage industry" of
fraudulent documents.

There is "no alternative" but a "developmental approach" under a
Mexican-American free trade agreement, he said, so that Mexican wages would
become more comparable with U.S. wages. They need not be equalized, he said, but
reducing them from 8 to 1 to roughly 4 to 1 would be enough to dramatically
reduce the northward flow.

Critics of that approach argue that it will take decades or generations to have
any effect, and the problem is growing now.

"Free trade is not a quick fix," Cornelius acknowledged, "but it is not going to
take decades. I think you could see some significant improvement in five to 10
years . . . not generations. The current levels of illegal migration are not
inevitable. What happens on the Mexican side is what will determine the flow."

Later Wednesday evening, a dozen would-be entrants sat in a Border Patrol van en
route to processing and a brief detention. Some of them had been among a group
of about 100 who had gathered an hour earlier at the eastern edge of the steel
fence, waiting only for agent Conlin's van to move on.

Several were in good spirits, having been caught many times before, and
cheerfully vowed to try again the next night. But one woman, about 25 years old,
sat forlornly at the front.

"We Mexicans have to suffer so much," she said to a reporter.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, EVERY WEEK, THIS MAN CLIMBS A FENCE NEAR TIJUANA TO ENTER U.S.
ILLEGALLY FOR WORK. DAYNA SMITH

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              72 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 12, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

The Search for the Lo Sing No. 3;
Chinese Paying Crime Syndicates to Be Smuggled East to the West

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 884 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is looking for a 145-foot Taiwanese
fishing boat with 216 passengers and crew somewhere in the Pacific.

The passengers on the Lo Sing No. 3 are from Fujian Province in China, and each
paid smugglers thousands of dollars to be taken to the United States. They are
believed to be heading for Southern California.

In the last six weeks, five boats, with perhaps 600 passengers, were found in
the waters near Guatemala, Honolulu and Los Angeles.

The boats are part of a new high seas smuggling operation run by Chinese
organized crime syndicates, INS officials said, and it is an operation that
promises to be very difficult to stop.

"It's a big ocean out there," a senior INS official said, and the Coast Guard,
focusing on drug interdiction and maritime safety, has few resources left to
watch for illegal aliens. The Coast Guard has reported numerous sightings of
Taiwanese fishing trawlers throughout the Pacific. "We've seen a big increase in
the use of boats," the official said.

An INS internal memo last month warned that "the use of fishing and/or cargo
vessels is particularly disturbing because of the relative ease with which large
numbers of smugglees can be transported."

In the past, smuggling gangs flew people, mostly from Fujian Province, through
various countries and then to the United States by plane or overland from Latin
America. Chinese organized crime syndicates made hundreds of millions in the
smuggling, according to INS official Bruce J. Nicholl. The gangs then used many
of the aliens, who were heavily indebted to pay for their journeys, for drug
running, gambling, prostitution and other illegal operations, he said.

INS officials believe the new and immensely more profitable method, controlled
by criminal syndicates from Taiwan and Hong Kong, can bring in hundreds of
people at one time directly from China much more cheaply and with far greater
chance of success.

The operation usually begins with a smaller boat ferrying people from the
mainland to a larger, Taiwan-registered fishing or cargo boat, investigators
said. At the dropoff, the larger boat generally stays miles offshore, sometimes
hundreds of miles away, and moves passengers ashore in smaller boats.

The Guatemalan navy intercepted the Lo Sing No. 3 and a second Taiwanese fishing
ship in Guatemalan waters on Jan. 29 after the ships made a 45-day crossing of
the Pacific. The second ship was empty when intercepted, apparently having
dropped off its passengers. It was not clear why the ships were allowed to leave
Guatemala after refueling, officials said.

Two fishing boats carrying 144 Chinese arrived in Honolulu last month and 85
others were taken off a 57-foot yacht off the coast of California in February.
The yacht was believed rented by the Wo Hop To, a Chinese crime syndicate based
in Hong Kong that is active in San Francisco, INS officials said.

The seaborne smuggling may be taking passengers not only to the United States
mainland, but also throughout the Pacific, including to Japan, which has a
growing illegal alien population, INS officials said.

The new methods will not be easy to counter, INS officials said.

For example, legislation being pushed by the INS to allow summary deportation of
illegal aliens will affect airport smuggling, officials said, but it will do
nothing about people arriving in rickety, unseaworthy boats like the Lo Sing No.
3.

"The airlines are more than happy to take back people from the airports," one
INS official said, but it would not be possible to put someone back on many of
the boats, which are barely afloat when they arrive. Given the limited detention
space available, officials said, that means that people brought in by boat
likely would have to be released pending processing of their cases.

INS officials also see formidable tactical problems in capturing high-seas
smugglers and difficult questions over the scope of their legal authority to do
so.

A Los Angeles federal judge recently threw out a number of arrests made in
September in a case involving a "mother" ship hundreds of miles offshore. The
judge said the INS did not have authority to operate in international waters.
The agency is appealing the ruling.

There are also sensitive diplomatic concerns in dealing with boarding other
nations' ships on the high seas. International cooperation is far easier to
obtain on drug interdiction than it is on enforcement of U.S. immigration laws,
INS officials said.

The practical problems include the need for the already overextended Coast Guard
to spend days tracking both the "mother" ships offshore and the smaller ferrying
boats, unable to act until the smaller boats come into U.S. waters to deposit
the passengers.

More often than not, INS officials said, the Coast Guard ships have to break off
surveillance for other priorities.

INS officials concede that seizing the ships will have some deterrent effect,
but that is limited because the boats are worth little. Stiffer fines on crews
and captains, however, may be a useful deterrent, they said.

U.S. officials have contacted Taiwanese authorities for assistance, and the
Taiwanese response has been "encouraging," one INS official said. China has not
responded to U.S. requests for help, he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, TRAWLER LO SING NO. 3 WAS INTERCEPTED JAN. 29 IN GUATEMALAN
WATERS AND RELEASED. IT CARRIES 216 PASSENGERS AND CREW. IMMIGRATION AND
NATURALIZATION SERVICE

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              73 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 28, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

4 Guilty in Scheme To Fake Permits

From news services and staff reports

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D5; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 161 words


Gail Fuller, a Maryland lawyer, was convicted by a federal jury in Alexandria
yesterday of 38 felonies for masterminding a scheme to obtain work and residency
permits for illegal immigrants by creating phony documents and lying to federal
immigration officials.

Fuller, 40, of Glenarden, and three others convicted in the six-day trial
manufactured false employment verifications, social security statements, school
transcripts and other documents that were then presented to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service on behalf of her clients, according to testimony.

Fuller recruited immigrants from as far away as Rhode Island and charged them as
much as $ 3,000 for helping them obtain the illegal permits.

The lawyer was found guilty of conspiracy, making false statements, encouraging
others to perjure themselves, harboring aliens and other charges. David Fuller,
the lawyer's husband, was convicted of 25 felony counts for his role in the
scheme.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              74 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 1, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

3 Indicted in Aliens' Fraud

From News Services and Staff Reports

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D6; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 188 words


An Arlington lawyer was indicted in federal court in Alexandria yesterday for
allegedly conspiring to help hundreds of illegal immigrants remain in the United
States by filing falsified petitions with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Clifford C. Cooper, 42, of Silver Spring, was charged with 66 other counts,
including mail fraud, wire fraud and harboring illegal aliens.

Michael Oluwole Oloyede and Justus Shoyoye, both 46-year-old Nigerian citizens,
also were indicted in the case.

The three men allegedly charged each immigrant between $ 2,000 and $ 5,000 to
prepare fraudulent documents, such as letters of identification from the
Nigerian Embassy, letters of employment and tax forms.

The documents were then allegedly used to support the immigrant's petition to
remain in the country or to seek work in the country.

Federal prosecutors allege in the indictment that the conspiracy ran from early
1989 to late last year and involved illegal aliens from throughout the Eastern
seaboard.

If convicted, Cooper could be sentenced to as much as 300 years in prison and
fined more than $ 14 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              75 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 8, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Illegal Aliens?

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A30

LENGTH: 418 words


THIS WEEK'S disorder in Mount Pleasant has focused attention on the city's
Hispanic population and has in some cases led to derisive references to "illegal
aliens" who are supposedly the cause of all the trouble. Radio call-in shows
have reflected this sentiment with suggestions that the situation would best be
handled simply by deporting everyone who is here without papers, a category that
some callers seem to assume covers every rock thrower and public drunk. In fact,
no one knows what proportion of those looting, burning and pitching rocks was
native born and what proportion foreign born -- presumably there were some of
both. But to the extent that the trouble is centered on discontents in the
Hispanic community and to the extent that recent immigrants were involved, it is
important to get the facts straight concerning these people in our city.

Hispanics began arriving in Washington in large numbers about a dozen years ago
as Central Americans sought refuge here from poverty and war. Great numbers came
legally with proper visas. Once they became permanent residents, and then
citizens after a few years, they began to bring in relatives who also entered
the country legally. The major immigration reform legislation enacted in 1986
enabled many more immigrants to regularize their status. All who had come
illegally before 1982 were eligible for the amnesty offered in that law. Later,
all the spouses and minor children of those granted amnesty were also given
legal status.

Finally, two separate events in the last seven months have been a boon to
Salvadorans in particular. In October, Congress passed another major immigration
bill, one provision of which suspends for 18 months all deportation proceedings
against Salvadorans who entered this country illegally. And in December, a
long-standing lawsuit against the government was settled, giving temporary legal
status to an estimated 500,000 undocumented Salvadorans and Guatemalans who have
had petitions for political asylum rejected since 1980. Many of them live in
this city.

The Hispanics in this city ought not be stereotyped. No group should. The talk
about kicking them out and the rest of such rot that has been ventilated in the
past couple of days is worse than crude. This country, and this city in
particular, must address their problems with the same respect and sense of
urgency accorded to every other group that lives here. Whatever the basic issue
is in this case, it surely isn't immigration status.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              76 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 14, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Illegal Aliens and the Mount Pleasant Riots

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 437 words


I must take issue with the May 8 editorial about illegal aliens. I run the Mount
Pleasant Soccer League and use Lincoln Junior High School Hispanic youths to
officiate at games. Last fall I paid stipends out of player fees. This spring it
was suggested I use a D.C. Neighborhood Planning Council program to hire these
youths, but four out of five had no Immigration and Naturalization Service
status and, hence, were unemployable. Community youth workers tell me that fully
three-quarters of the students at Lincoln Junior High have no INS status.

With no status, Hispanics must shun authority, accept menial jobs, live in
substandard, overcrowded housing and be excluded from essentially all city
services except schooling (at a cost at Lincoln alone of $ 1.5 million per
year).

These people are here to stay, and they are our neighbors. Let us recognize that
and provide them with INS status.

JAMES P. FARRELL

Commissioner

Mount Pleasant Soccer League

Washington

Membership in mobs is not determined by one's immigration status. The recent
riots in Mount Pleasant and Adams-Morgan are not fundamentally immigration
problems so much as they are urban economic and social problems.

People are more likely to riot when they lack economic opportunity, political
representation or access to authority. Not speaking English limits opportunity
and hinders communication with authority figures like the police. New ethnic
communities take time to establish grass-roots political organizations that help
them gain a voice in our political process.

However, the costs of immigration are real and are not spread out around the
country. Immigrants tend to settle in urban areas where family and ethnic ties
are already established. For Washington, that means a lack of housing in
Hispanic neighborhoods because of the quick and sizable increase in the number
of Central American immigrants.

Policy makers must realize that we have a choice: Be willing to spend the money
and resources necessary to help immigrants who come to this country, or adopt an
immigration policy that sets stricter limits on the number of people we accept
as new residents.

The Post editorial is correct in that Hispanics should not be stereotyped, and
nobody should consider kicking entire segments of our community out of the
country. Perhaps unintentionally, however, it also implied that we should not
deport illegal aliens. Illegal aliens should be deported, not because of the
riots in Mount Pleasant, but because they have broken our laws and are in the
country illegally.

LAMAR SMITH U.S. Representative (R-Tex.) Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              77 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 18, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Mount Pleasant Anger Stirred by Distrust of INS;
Hispanics' Wariness, Fear See Out of Proportion to Activities of Immigration
Agency

Christine Spolar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B5

LENGTH: 750 words


For many District Hispanics, the arrival of four federal agents at the D.C.
police department's mobile command post during the Mount Pleasant disturbances
was almost as unsettling as the disturbances themselves.

The four agents were from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service,
called by the D.C. police to help cope with the unfolding street violence last
week. So swiftly did Hispanic leaders condemn their involvement that D.C.
officials quickly disavowed their presence -- a mark of how pervasive is the
fear of the INS among immigrants.

"The INS has a long, long history of abuse with whoever it comes in contact
with," said Cecilia Munoz, a senior policy analyst for the National Council of
La Raza, a non-profit organization representing the rights of Hispanics. "It was
very offensive that they were there . . . .  It didn't help the community calm
down, and it didn't help dispel myths about the community."

Dislike for the INS, whose mission is to remove illegal immigrants from the
United States, appears out of proportion to the agency's activities in the
Washington area.

In the last two years, INS efforts in the Washington area have been geared, not
toward catching illegal aliens, but toward pursuing employers who hire them.
During that time, it has imposed nine fines totaling $ 38,700 against employers
in Montgomery County; 14 fines totaling $ 124,700 in Prince George's County, and
four fines totaling $ 8,450 in Howard County. In the District and Northern
Virginia, the total in fines was $ 608,000.

In the last year, it has deported fewer than 100 people from the District and
Northern Virginia, and 219 from Maryland, out of an immigrant population in the
metropolitan area of well more than 100,000.

"We do not do a lot of deportations," Vern Jervis, INS spokesman, said
yesterday. "Either people go voluntarily or they contest it, which can take
years. On the one million cases we go after a year [nationwide], about 20,000
people are actually deported."

Moreover, the Salvadoran community is now enjoying a reprieve from
investigations, thanks to a federal law that provides its people temporary
protective status into next year.

Hispanic activists say their community's antipathy remains great nonethless,
rooted in the trauma of their escapes from their war-torn homeland and everyday
threats now made by landlords and employers who vow to turn immigrants over to
INS agents.

It continues to fester, they said, precisely because of the appearance of INS
officers in incidents such as that in Mount Pleasant, a disturbance sparked when
a Hispanic man was shot by a police officer who alleged that he lunged at her
with a knife during an arrest.

Members and representatives of the Hispanic community here acknowledge that the
granting of temporary protective status, part of an immigration measure passed
by Congress last year, has relieved some of the Salvadorans' fears. They now can
register and apply for work permits that will allow them to work through
mid-1992.

But questions about the future remain. Not everyone has the money to apply for
temporary status -- the $ 380 qualifying fee and work permit cost for
individuals was cut by more than $ 100 last week -- and not everyone is
convinced that temporary status is the answer.

Those who apply for such status will, in fact, be telling the INS where to find
them. If the status is not extended beyond mid-1992, many Salvadorans fear that
the INS will move quickly to deport them -- aided by their own information.

"The level of fear is so high and so intense that it really colors their whole
world," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum.

INS and District officials acknowledged that the presence of federal agents
during the Mount Pleasant disturbances "could have been incendiary" to the
community during its worst hours of unrest.

Although the agency's role is still being debated, INS officials have said that
they provided only background checks for local police. District officials have
denied using the INS as a retaliatory tactic in the fracas.

Of the 230 people arrested in the melees two weeks ago, 25 percent were
Hispanic, according to police. A separate Washington Post compilation found that
about 38 percent were Hispanic. INS officials said they completed background
checks on about a dozen of those arrested. All proved properly documented.

"Nobody's afraid of INS if you're here legally," INS spokesman Duke Austin said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              78 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 17, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

A Dark Road From China to Chinatown;
Smugglers Bring Increasing Flow of Illegal Immigrants to U.S.

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1503 words


The chartered Boeing 707 from Peru, its tail numbers and other identification
covered by white paint, rolled to a stop at the airport terminal in Belize last
March.

The passengers, 173 young men from Fujian province in China, each carried a
single small suitcase as they moved quickly to waiting vans, cars and a yellow
school bus to continue their journey on through Mexico to their ultimate
destination -- New York's Chinatown.

The plane, called the "Ghost Plane" by the U.S. officials who tracked it, is one
of the dozens of ways tens of thousands of Chinese enter the United States
illegally each year in what immigration officials say is an increasing and
seemingly unstoppable flow.

They typically pay from $ 35,000 to $ 50,000 to Chinese smugglers, many with
connections to Chinese organized crime, and use illegal documents and an array
of circuitous routes by land, sea and air to make their way to this country.

They will become essentially indentured servants, working in sweatshops in the
garment district, in restaurants, laundries or other businesses. They will work
as long as five years -- often seven days a week, day and night, for minimum
wage or less -- while living in squalor, to pay off the loans that brought them
here.

Some are lured to the quicker money to be made by smuggling drugs, becoming
enforcers or engaging in prostitution for the Chinese gangs that lent them
money. One man who refused to pay the smugglers was badly beaten by a gang of 23
other Chinese. After they were arrested, Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials discovered that all 23 were recently arrived illegal aliens.

It is that aspect of the new wave of illegal immigration that worries U.S.
officials. "This is a whole new ballgame," said Michael T. Lempres, INS
operations director. "The patterns have changed, and the type of people have
changed. Anyone who scrapes together $ 50,000 -- about 100 years' salary for the
average Chinese -- is compromised on arrival in the U.S.," he said.

The newly arrived are living "in a form of slavery," paying rent and buying food
from the smugglers, he said.  The pressure on these immigrants to turn to crime
can be overwhelming.

Fifty-four of the Ghost Plane passengers were caught crossing the border near
Brownsville, Tex., and probably will apply for asylum, INS officials said.
Because of a processing backlog of more than 111,000 cases, the application
alone guarantees years in the United States -- with a work permit -- while their
cases are pending.

The 119 other passengers who made it to New York likely will stay underground
and blend into the 300,000-member Chinese community there, which includes about
30,000 illegal workers, according to New York City estimates.

There are two main groups of emigrants, according to U.S. officials and
immigration lawyers. Many of the new arrivals, especially those going to New
York, come from Fujian, a coastal Chinese province across from Taiwan that has
been long associated with shipping and smuggling.

But the bloody crackdown in Tiananmen Square in 1989 and concern over the 1997
transfer of Hong Kong to Beijing's control have pushed people from other
provinces, especially the Canton area, and from Hong Kong into the stream
leaving China. Many of these emigrants head for Canada and the U.S. West Coast
and seek political asylum.

Those emigrating are certain "there is no future for them in China," said
Houston immigration lawyer Gordon Quan, who has many Chinese clients. "They feel
next time is going to be worse. I did see a steady flow before" the crackdown,
Quan said in an interview, "but not like now."

The number of Chinese entering illegally each year is much smaller than the
estimated hundreds of thousands of illegal entrants each year from Latin
America. There also is an increasing number of Chinese entering the United
States legally each year, with 32,000 coming from mainland China and tens of
thousands more from Hong Kong, Taiwan and Southeast Asia.

Many of the illegal immigrants arrive through Latin America. INS officials
estimate there are at times as many as 4,000 Chinese in Bolivia, many living in
safe houses on the outskirts of Santa Cruz, which has become a transit center
and a center for manufacturing fraudulent documents.

Another 4,000 are believed waiting in Panama, which periodically threatens to
kick them out. They were brought in with false tourist visas and other documents
sold to them by officials in the regime of former dictator Manuel Antonio
Noriega.

Thousands more are in Haiti, other parts of the Caribbean or Peru, all waiting
for their chance to get to the United States.

About 20 Chinese were picked up by U.S. officials off the coast of Florida near
West Palm Beach two months ago as they headed in by boat from the Bahamas, and
Bahamian officials have reported more coming in, according to INS officials.

Dozens of Chinese who have been caught entering illegally are detained in the
Krome Detention Facility in Miami. Other Chinese enter after being ferried from
Belize up to New Orleans in small boats.

Thousands of Chinese enter the United States through Canada, either from
Vancouver into Washington state or from Toronto through Buffalo or Detroit. They
hide in the trunks of cars or behind cargo in trailer trucks, INS officials
said.

One smuggling ring from Vancouver took vanloads of immigrants at night to a town
along the U.S. border. The van stopped on the Canadian side, and the passengers
would dash a few yards into a van waiting on the U.S. side of town, officials
said.

Other crossing attempts are more dangerous. INS officials broke up one smuggling
ring a few years ago after four Chinese, including a 6-year-old girl, drowned
when their raft capsized while they were crossing the Niagara River near Buffa-
lo.

In a sting operation last year, INS agents arrested 48 men, 15 women and two
Panamanian smugglers after undercover agents flew them in a chartered plane to
Fairhope, Ala.

The smugglers send the Chinese emigres through a labyrinth of sophisticated
travel routes, according to Bruce J. Nicholl, who heads the INS Chinese
anti-smuggling effort, code-named Operation Golden Dragon.

INS officials have counted 51 countries that are connected to the smuggling
rings, either as part of the transportation web or the manufacture of documents.
Some emigrants arrive in New York via Bangkok, Bucharest, Helsinki and Toronto.
Others have gone through Moscow, Havana, Managua and Mexico to get to Tucson and
then New York. One Cantonese route goes through Singapore to Auckland, Tonga,
Fiji and Vancouver.

Typically, the journey will start in Fujian or Guangzhou (Canton) province,
where the aspiring emigrant scrapes together between $ 3,000 and $ 5,000 to pay
to a local "fixer," who procures a passport, exit permit and transport to Hong
Kong. A contact in Hong Kong then arranges for a ticket and visa -- real or
counterfeit -- to Thailand.

Chinese passports have become suspect, according to INS officials, so new ones
from Hong Kong, Singapore or Japan are provided. The new passports and other
documents are picked up in Bangkok, where a guide often organizes the groups and
accompanies them to Amsterdam for flights to South America. The plane tickets
often must be for a round trip; the smugglers resell the unused portions.

From South America, the emigrants hopscotch through Central America if they
cannot afford a flight to Montreal. The smuggling ring that chartered the Ghost
Plane, which cost $ 100,000 for the flight from Peru to Belize, booked it from
Hong Kong.

Several other 175-passenger blocks of tickets had been bought for the same route
from Hong Kong to Amsterdam, Lima and Belize, INS officials said.

The most expensive route, which takes only a few days, is to fly from Hong Kong
to Vancouver and Toronto followed by land transportation to New York. Other
routes can take up to six months, starting in Fujian and going overland across
China to Burma, into Thailand and then to London, Bolivia, Panama, Honduras, New
Orleans and then New York.

The smuggling rings' profits are enormous, while the price for getting caught is
a sentence of at most six months for a first offense, under federal sentencing
guidelines.

Of the $ 35,000 to $ 50,000 fee smugglers collect from the emigrants, only about
$ 10,000 goes for the trip itself: an estimated $ 4,000 for air fare, $ 2,000
for documents, $ 2,000 for other travel expenses and $ 2,000 in miscellaneous
costs to various middlemen, drivers and other assistants. The rest, as much as $
40,000, is divided up by the rings, with "big cuts going to the syndicates in
New York, Hong Kong and to a lesser extent in Bangkok and maybe South America,"
Nicholl said.

U.S. officials are worried by what they see as a new upsurge in organized
criminal activity in smuggling Chinese and the spread of that activity outside
New York. "I have a very serious concern about what's going to happen in the
next few years," Nicholl said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, TYPICAL ROUTES USED BY CHINESE ENTERING THE UNITED STATES
ILLEGALLY(DATA FROM THIS GRAPHIC WAS NOT AVAILABLE.), BRAD WYE

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              79 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 5, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

INS Official Scrutinized

ns

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 154 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A high-ranking Immigration and Naturalization Service official in Washington is
under investigation by the Justice Department for allegedly taking $ 5,000
bribes from illegal aliens seeking permanent residency cards, according to
papers filed here Wednesday in federal court.

The Justice Department's Office of Inspector General says in the documents it
was told by a confidential source that Luis Del Rio, who is INS director of
foreign operations, took $ 5,000 payments from Chinese, Colombian and Venezuelan
aliens for the residency cards, commonly known as green cards.

No charges have been filed, but the allegations are detailed in an affidavit
that asks a federal judge to allow the government to inspect Del Rio's bank
records over the next 90 days without Del Rio's knowledge. Despite that, the
document was among other court papers available to the public.

Del Rio could not be reached for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              80 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 11, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

Immigrants Line Up In Merrifield to Play 'Green Card' Lotto

Jane Seaberry, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 964 words


As many as 50,000 illegal immigrants are expected to descend on a Fairfax County
post office this weekend to dump thousands of applications for a lottery of
40,000 green cards, creating potential problems with traffic and crowd control.

Signs of the scramble for the documents, which permit legal residence in this
country, erupted yesterday when about 100 illegal immigrants surrounded a postal
official at the Merrifield Post Office and angrily demanded information about
how best to mail their applications to get a good chance of winning a green
card.


"We are angry," said Aiden Sheils, an Irish construction worker who took off
work this week and drove from New York to mail 5,000 applications for himself
and three friends. "We've been waiting for this for months. They can't control
100 people, how are they going to control 100,000?"

The State Department is accepting the first 40,000 applications that arrive at
its special post office box after 12:01 a.m. Monday, the first of three annual
massive handouts of green cards on a first-come, first-served basis. Applicants
can live outside the United States.

Only people from 35 mostly European countries and territories that have had
little emigration to the United States in the last 25 years are eligible for the
lottery. Under a provision of the Immigration Act of 1990, 40 percent of the
green cards must go to Irish applicants.

U.S. Postal Service officials designated the Merrifield station, at Lee Highway
and Prosperity Avenue, as the processing station for an estimated 5 million
applications. Postal officials said the estimated 50,000 people expected to show
up will not be allowed to camp at the post office and must mail their
applications and leave.

"This will be as if they were giving out free season tickets to the Redskins
game to the first 40,000 people who arrived at Tysons Corner, with parking at
Tysons Corner forbidden," said immigration lawyer Michael Maggio. "My concern is
the possibility of automobile accidents, both involving vehicles and human
beings."

Sheils said that immigrants may ignore the ban on forming a line at Merrifield.
"We're going to form a queue tomorrow night," he said. "That's it. If the cops
want to move us, they're going to have to move us."

Because of the vagueries of the postal system, postal officials said it is
unclear when the best time to mail applications is, and letters mailed from
anywhere in the United States, or the world, have an equal chance of reaching
the special post office box at the same time.


Two green card lotteries have been held in recent years and neither program
generated major logistical problems, immigration lawyers and government
officials said. In one of those programs, however, only one application was
permitted per applicant, and each applicant had the same chance of being
selected after a one-month application period.

Already, many Washington area hotels are booked nearly to capacity for what they
say is traditionally a slow weekend. "We thought maybe it was for a convention
or something," said Claire Carey, director of marketing for an Arlington Holiday
Inn.

An Irish lobbying group on Capitol Hill said it plans to mail thousands of
letters sent to it from across the United States, and has routed hundreds of
out-of-towners to popular Irish spots such as the Phoenix Park Hotel and the
Dubliner restaurant and pub.

The illegal immigrants "will be coming from Chicago, Milwaukee, Detroit, Florida
and quite a lot of people in New York," said Gosia Lamot, an administrative
assistant for the Polish American Congress in Washington.

Immigration lawyers and groups said they have received thousands of letters from
people around the world who want them to mail applications at Merrifield. Maggio
said he has 20,000 applications and received a delivery of 40 Federal Express
boxes from a colleague in San Francisco yesterday.

A Fairfax County police spokesman said authorities expect "a rather sizable
crowd" at Merrifield and urged local residents to avoid major roads near the
post office. The facility is between Falls Church and Fairfax City.

Police spokesman Bill Coulter said police expect to handle the crowds the way
they do at the federal tax filing deadline every April: by directing traffic
alongside bins available to accept mail. Signs also will be placed along the
Capital Beltway showing applicants which exits to take to reach Merrifield.

"You're going to have thousands of people from all over the country who are
unfamiliar with the location of the facility and the traffic pattern, seeking to
deposit hundreds of pieces of mail, and who want to mail it in a way that's
going to enhance the likelihood of their winning this lottery, which for them is
a life or death matter," Maggio said.

Merrifield postal spokesman Henry C. Cleffi said he understands that people who
want instructions on when and where is best to mail applications may be
frustrated because there are no answers. The process was designed as a lottery
so that no one receives an advantage, he said.

Some illegal immigrants already have started camping out at a gas station next
to the Merrifield Post Office. Because government officials will not organize
them, they have organized themselves, signing up about 120 people on a makeshift
list to keep their place in an unofficial line. Their system probably will
become moot by tomorrow.

"We expected a queue here," Sheils said. "We drove down. We're sleeping rough
here, sleeping outside, anywhere, sleeping in a car."

Sheils said that by taking off work he will lose $ 1,000 in pay and will spend
more on food and drinks. But, he added, "There'll be plenty of drink if things
don't go right this weekend."

Staff writer Al Kamen contributed to this report.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, FROM LEFT, IMMIGRANTS MAROSLAW KALOWSKI, KIERAN ALLEN, PAUL
KIERNAN AND AIDEN SHEILS GATHER AT MERRIFIELD STATION. MARY LOU FOY

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              81 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 12, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Officials in Va. Prepare For Immigrants' Visit;
Number at Post Office Grows

Jane Seaberry, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 594 words


The crowd of illegal immigrants waiting to mail applications for a lottery of
40,000 green cards next week swelled in front of a Fairfax County post office
yesterday, as postal officials and police prepared for as many as 75,000 people
there this weekend.

U.S. Postal Service officials, who are trying to discourage the immigrants from
congregating at the Merrifield Post Office, reluctantly decided to set up 12
portable toilets on a grassy area in front of the building. White barricades
also were placed in front of the building's nearly floor-to-ceiling front
windows.

Parking at the post office, at Lee Highway and Prosperity Avenue, will be banned
after about 7 tonight to make the building's driveway "a pedestrian haven," said
Robert Faruq, a spokesman for the Merrifield station.

"We're going to keep a watchful eye on people doing gross things in terms of
parking," Faruq said. "We anticipate towing. They can't just bring their car in
and park."

The State Department is accepting the first 40,000 applications that arrive at
its special post office box after 12:01 a.m. Monday in the first of three annual
massive giveaways of green cards on a first-come, first-served basis. A green
card grants an immigrant legal residence in this country.

Only people from 35 mostly European countries and territories that have had
little immigration to the United States in the last 25 years are eligible for
the lottery. Under a provision of the Immigration Act of 1990, 40 percent of the
green cards must go to Irish applicants.

The immigrants are flocking to Merrifield because it was designated as the
processing station for an estimated 5 million applications. Although Postal
Service officials have said applicants have an equal chance of being selected if
they mail their applications anywhere in the country, many immigrants believe
they can beat the odds by mailing their applications at Merrifield.

"We've really tried to put the message out that it doesn't make sense to come
here," Faruq said.

Nevertheless, he said, officials expect the largest crowd about 7 tonight and at
midnight Sunday. Postal officials have said applications mailed after 7 p.m.
will not arrive in the post office box too early, but they may be too late to be
included in the first 40,000.

Faruq said there are no plans to close the roads around the post office. Law
enforcement officials have suggested that residents avoid the area this weekend.


Yesterday, rain did not deter the applicants, who stood in small groups, some
with umbrellas, on a grassy area in front of the post office.

"It makes no difference if it's hot and sunny or if it rains," said a Polish man
from Chicago who would identify himself only as Zbigniew J. "We came a long way.
It's like a dream. I don't know how long we're going to wait for another dream."

The immigrants have tried to organize themselves by having people sign a list to
reserve their place in an informal line this weekend. After signing the list,
people were handed a ticket. As of 2 p.m. yesterday, nearly 700 people had
signed the list.Arlington was looked at for the post office box, which actually
is a large room in the Merrifield post office, but because all mail in Northern
Virginia is processed through Merrifield, anyway, it was decided the
applications would go through there, Faruq said.

Faruq said there are no plans to close off Lee Highway or Prosperity Avenue, the
two main streets around Merrifield. But law enforcement officials suggested that
people stay away from the area this weekend.END NOTES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              82 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 4, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Kuwait Guest-Worker Proposal Gives 'Boat People' False Hope

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 643 words


A proposal last March by Rep. Robert K. Dornan (R-Calif.) to have Vietnamese
boat people in refugee camps go to Kuwait as guest workers didn't go far. The
idea was rejected as unworkable a few weeks later by State Department officials.

But the proposal, reported by the Voice of America, quickly raced through
refugee camps in Southeast Asia and throughout Vietnam, helping to spark a flood
of new boat people desperate to leave Vietnam for anywhere, even war-ravaged
Kuwait, according to United Nations officials.

The Kuwaiti guest worker proposal, along with rumors of a possible relaxation of
U.S. immigration restrictions, also played havoc with United Nations' efforts to
persuade more than 100,000 Vietnamese refugees in squalid refugee camps
throughout the region to go home. About half those refugees are in facilities in
Hong Kong.

"You have no idea how much trouble that [the Dornan proposal] caused," Sadako
Ogata, U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees said yesterday. "It created false
expectations and placed a great strain on the whole program."

U.N. officials said the Dornan proposal and other rumors occurred just as the
refugee departures appeared to have been reduced to a trickle. The number of
refugees in March averaged about 22 a day, according to U.N. figures. That shot
up to 66 a day in April and by May the average reached 170 a day.

The numbers now appear to be slowly declining again, likely a result of a
massive publicity campaign by U.N. officials, with Vietnam's cooperation, to
convince people nothing has changed and that they would not qualify for refugee
status in this or any other country. Dornan also issued a statement May 20
saying that his proposal had been rejected by U.S. and Kuwaiti officials.

U.N. officials say that, until the latest rumors, refugees in the camps had been
becoming more receptive to returning to Vietnam under a program that provided
them money to return and had U.N. officials check to make sure Vietnamese
officials did not mistreat them.

But the number of those voluntarily returning took a nose dive from 436 in
January to 50 in April. "We know of two flights in April" that were canceled
when refugees in Thailand and Hong Kong decided to wait and see if any of the
rumored changes were true, a U.N. official said. "These people will grab at any
straw."

That is why rumors spread so quickly. U.N. officials found leaflets in the Hong
Kong facilities that had been distributed in Dornan's California congressional
district, urging people to write President Bush to support the Kuwait idea. The
leaflets apparently were mailed by relatives in Dornan's district, home of the
largest concentration of Vietnamese refugees in this country.

New arrivals reportedly told immigration officials in Hong Kong that they were
on their way to Kuwait, prompting a U.N. official appeared on television in
Vietnam to tell people that Kuwait was not offering them jobs.

A spokesman for Dornan said yesterday it was unfair to blame his proposal for
the decline in the number of refugees in Hong Kong willing to return to Vietnam.
Those numbers have been declining since last fall, according to spokesman Paul
Morrell.

"We are not trying to say that his proposal did not have an impact" in terms of
increasing expectations of people who wanted to leave Vietnam, he said. "but
there were other factors."

Morrell said the arrival of the "sailing season," further deterioration of the
Vietnamese economy and increased repression also contributed to the situation.

The increased departures were "the unintended consequence of what he intended as
a serious proposal to relieve suffering of the people in the camps," Morrell
said. "Unfortunately, people got the wrong impression, and this created a
problem." He said the suggestion was made "certainly with all of the best of
intentions."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              83 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 10, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

AROUND THE NHL

ns

SECTION: SPORTS; PAGE G3

LENGTH: 142 words


SCRATCH HIM:

Jets leading scorer Ed Olczyk will miss up to two months after separating his
elbow and injuring a shoulder Wednesday against Edmonton.

SENIOR CHOICES:

NHL President John Ziegler selected nine-time all-star D Larry Robinson of the
Kings and eight-time all-star C Bryan Trottier of the Penguins as senior choices
for the all-star game.

APPEAL DROPPED:

Federal legislation has eliminated a detention provision in immigration law,
meaning the U.S. Attorney's Office's appeal on behalf of the Red Wings' Bob
Probert has been dropped.

U.S. Attorney Stephen Markman said he has moved to dismiss an appeal of a
decision in Probert's case against the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Probert was jailed for trying to smuggle cocaine into the U.S. in March 1989. He
and Markman contended his detention was unconstitutional.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              84 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 2, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Fence Planned at Deadly Border Highway

ns

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 106 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


An experiment aimed at preventing the deaths of illegal aliens by closing four
lanes of a dangerous eight-lane freeway near the border has failed, and a
10-foot fence will be erected in the median to try to stop the migrants, state
transportation officials said.

Before the lanes were closed, about 600 migrants a day darted across the highway
in an effort to escape U.S. Border Patrol agents. Officials said 22 migrants had
died in the last 18 months when they were struck by traffic, two of them since
the lanes were closed in mid-July. Officials said that the lane closings
attracted nearly twice as many migrants a day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              85 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 30, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Foreigners in Kuwait Find Old Prejudices Remain;
Workers From Other Nations Who Survived Iraqi Occupation Still Scorned by
Emirate

William Branigin, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A13

LENGTH: 1172 words

DATELINE: KUWAIT CITY


After enduring the hardships and often the brutalities of Iraqi occupation,
foreign workers here face an uncertain future in a country determined to get rid
of many of them.

Like the Kuwaiti population they outnumbered, many foreign residents suffered
beatings, rapes, robberies and sometimes death at the hands of Iraqi troops who
occupied the country for nearly seven months. Usually the poorest of Kuwait's
inhabitants, workers from Middle Eastern and Asian countries who opted to stay
here often lost their jobs, went short of food and faced the dangers of war when
allied forces launched an offensive to liberate the country.

Now that the Kuwaitis are back in power, foreign workers say they are running up
against the same prejudices that existed before the invasion in a society that
sharply discriminates against noncitizens.

They tell of standing in line for hours at food distribution points, only to
have Kuwaitis cut in front of them and receive up to three times the amount of
rations allotted to non-Kuwaitis. They describe having to get their water from
drainage pipes or stagnant swimming pools because tanker trucks would not
deliver to their neighborhoods. And they express the doubts they now feel about
a country that clearly needs their services, but mistrusts many of them and
wants to reduce its dependence on foreigners.

Kuwaiti officials have let it be known that they would like to reduce the
emirate's population by about half from the 2.1 million inhabitants it had
before Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion. Of that number, only about 600,000 were Kuwaiti
citizens. The goal would be to make Kuwaitis the majority in their own country
and have them take some of the jobs previously held by foreigners.

[Kuwait plans to issue new identity cards to all residents and re-register its
entire population to weed out illegal aliens and reduce the number of
foreigners, cabinet officials and diplomats said Friday.

[Kuwaiti Planning Minister Salman Abdul Razek Mutawa said a census probably
would be held before the end of this year, Reuter reported.]

"The government's plan is to have fewer non-Kuwaitis in the country, with more
Kuwaitis turning wrenches, driving buses and doing mid-level services," said
Col. Randall Elliott, a U.S. Army reservist who heads the Kuwait Task Force, a
civil affairs advisory group. "They want to go from a society that is dependent
on outside technicians to one that produces its own technicians."

Whether Kuwait will be able to do so is another question, however. Blessed with
oil wealth that has given the country one of the world's highest per capita
incomes, Kuwaitis have earned a reputation, figuratively speaking, as a people
who don't do windows. Traditionally, the heavy lifting has been left to others.
Filling the menial jobs, as well as much of the skilled labor force, have been
Palestinians, Egyptians, Yemenis, Indians, Pakistanis, Bangladeshis, Filipinos
and other Third World job-seekers. "Many ministries were loaded with
foreigners," lamented a Kuwaiti navy captain who favors fewer guest workers.
"Every house used to have two or three maids, which may be unnecessary."

So far, however, Kuwaitis have shown little inclination to take up the slack at
the low end of the labor market. The case of the "circular Egyptians," as relief
officials dubbed them, illustrates the problem.

Employed in Iraq before the invasion, hundreds of Egyptians came down to Kuwait
during the occupation, the officials said. Subsequently deported back to Iraq by
Kuwaiti authorities after the Feb. 26 liberation, many sneaked across the border
again into a refugee camp, where they came to the attention of the Egyptian
army, one of the partners in the U.S.-led coalition that fought the Iraqis. The
Egyptian troops brought several hundred of their countrymen back to Kuwait City
and flew them home to Cairo. Then, a week ago, plane-loads of Egyptian manual
laborers started arriving to clean up Kuwait City, where piles of garbage rot on
the streets and junked vehicles rust on the roadsides.

Compounding the problems of lack of manpower and Kuwaiti aversion to menial
labor has been the government's ineptitude in organizing recovery efforts,
diplomats and relief workers say.

Last week, a diplomat related, the government finally managed to organize the
delivery of a few truckloads of fruits and vegetables to a market near the
Shuwaikh port, only to find nobody available there to unload them.

In the current strained atmosphere, Kuwaitis' suspicions largely have been
reserved for Palestinians, who constitute the country's biggest foreign
population and are considered sympathetic toward Iraq. But other groups also
have come to feel unappreciated.

"We were hoping that the people who stayed [during the occupation] would get the
same help as the Kuwaitis," said a longtime Lebanese resident. "We were in the
same place, facing the same dangers. But if you are not Kuwaiti, you cannot get
what you need easily. This is not fair. It hurts our feelings. If we knew it
would be like that, we would have gone home the first day."

Some who stayed paid dearly for their decision.

The Indian driver for a Kuwaiti military officer in a well-to-do Jahra
neighborhood was killed by the Iraqis when he resisted their attempt to enter
his employer's house, the officer's brother said. "They [the Iraqis] left the
body in front of the house for four days as a lesson to the neighborhood and
didn't allow anyone to touch it," said Saleh Saeed, an Interior Ministry
employee.

"Some of our countrywomen were raped and robbed," said Ninfa Tandoy, 43, a
native of the Philippines who formerly worked in a gift shop here until Iraqi
looters put her out of work.

According to Manila's ambassador to Kuwait, Mauyag Tamano, three Iraqi soldiers
even broke into his official residence last month a few days before the
liberation and raped one of a half-dozen Philippine women who had stayed on as
embassy caretakers. The mission had been closed earlier in the occupation.

Tamano and other embassy staffers also recounted the case of a Filipino who was
raped last September in front of her husband and brother, who were held at
gunpoint. On the same day, they said, another Filipina was gang-raped by 12
Iraqis and had to be hospitalized for 20 days.

Three weeks after the invasion, Tamano said, a housemaid from the southern
Philippines, Rabia M. Sanula, was shot to death when her employer, an elderly
Kuwaiti with poor eyesight, drove through a checkpoint and came under fire from
Iraqi soldiers. The employer escaped unharmed.

In perhaps the worst case, an embassy staffer said, Kuwaiti soldiers last month
found the bodies of eight women, including four who appeared to be Filipinas, in
the oil town of Ahmadi south of the capital. The Kuwaitis who reported the
discovery to the embassy said a captured Iraqi soldier had told them that the
women were abducted, raped and killed by other Iraqi troops on the eve of their
retreat. The women were never identified.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              86 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 2, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Neighbors Welcome Newest Americans;
New-Style Naturalization Ceremony Is a First for State

Jane Seaberry, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: VIRGINIA WEEKLY; PAGE V1

LENGTH: 728 words


For 12 years, Hilma DeCuir rejected the idea of becoming a U.S. citizen. "It was
like giving up your roots," said DeCuir, who grew up in El Salvador but now
lives in Fairfax County. "I don't know how to explain it, but I grew up in
another country, I went to school with other people."

But last month DeCuir became a U.S. citizen anyway, joining 210 other people
from 55 countries in the first naturalization ceremony in Virginia to be
performed outside a court setting.

Previously, the swearing-in of immigrants as citizens had been performed only by
federal judges in courthouses. However, in 1990, after persistent prompting by
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, which screens and interviews
citizenship candidates, Congress allowed the INS to swear in new citizens as
well.

The new law became effective Oct. 1, said Lynn Nelson-Paretta, deputy director
of the Washington district of the INS.

The first so-called administrative naturalization ceremony in the Washington
area was performed at the Justice Department in October.

The ceremony last month at the William Cullen Bryant Center, on Popkins Lane
near Groveton, was the first administrative ceremony in Virginia.

The immigrants were joined in the Bryant Center's auditorium by friends,
relatives and a chorus of crying babies. Fairfax School Superintendent Robert R.
Spillane spoke about the importance of education, and William J. Carroll, the
INS Washington district director, told how his grandfather, an Italian
immigrant, took him to see the Statue of Liberty when he was growing up in New
York.

The West Potomac Singers, from West Potomac High School, sang "God Bless
America" and other patriotic songs, as well as a medley of Christmas selections.

Then Carroll administered the oath of allegiance to the immigrants, whose
homelands ranged from Afghanistan to Yugoslavia.

The oath requires that immigrants renounce all allegiance to any foreign power
and support and defend the Constitution and their new nation against all
enemies.

Renouncing their allegiance to homelands was a difficult step for some of the
immigrants. "I had some reservations about giving up my nationality," said
DeCuir, explaining why it took 12 years for her to apply to become a U.S.
citizen. "I was talking to another lady sitting next to me [at the ceremony] and
she said she had reservations too."

But DeCuir said she decided to become a citizen because it would make getting a
job easier and because her husband and daughter, who was born here, are U.S.
citizens.

Guillermo Fuentes, 70, also of El Salvador, but now living in Alexandria, said
he waited 30 years to obtain citizenship. He is retired from a job at the
Organization of American States.

"I was thinking on this for many years," Fuentes said. "I decided to do it
because all my family is here and I'm completely convinced that living in this
country is something that will make me proud."

"Because my children, my grandchildren are here, I feel I belong to this
country," Fuentes said. "I love this country."

To become a citizen, a candidate must be admitted to the United States as a
permanent resident, have good moral character and clear a criminal record check,
Nelson-Paretta said.

The INS interviews the applicants and quizzes them on knowledge of the United
States and its history.

Once an applicant obtains an appointment with the INS, the process takes about
five or six months, Nelson-Paretta said.

After candidates are accepted for citizenship, they must be sworn in at a
ceremony.

Nadia Izadi, 29, from Iran, was at a loss for words after the ceremony -- she
had laryngitis. She became a U.S. citizen with her 26-year-old Iranian
sister-in-law, also named Nadia Izadi.

Nearby was Nasra Parveen, 31, from Pakistan, whose husband Shaheen Akhtar, 35,
already a citizen, was trying to make his wife become more vocal, the way
Americans are, he said.

When asked questions, Parveen gave her husband the answer to repeat to a
reporter.

She said, through Akhtar, that she wanted to become a citizen because she loves
America and that the people in this country are honest and loyal and enjoy
freedom.

Akhtar said that his wife is an economics graduate from a university in Pakistan
and that she now plans to get a job.  "Here, once you are in and you show your
ability, you can go up, up, up," he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, AT RIGHT, YOHANNES ATSBRA ABAYE, CENTER, AND SOLOMON TESFAY
ABRAHAM, RIGHT, BOTH FROM ETHIOPIA, TAKE OATH OF ALLEGIANCE. BELOW, MUNG THI
NGUYEN, FROM VIETNAM, CARRIES AMERICAN FLAG AFTER CEREMONY. JOHN MCDONNELL

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              87 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     January 3, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

New Israeli Budget Funds Expansion of Settlements;
Army Orders 12 Palestinians Deported

Jackson Diehl, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 906 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 2, 1992


Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir today overcame a parliamentary impasse and won
approval for a 1992 government budget that foresees construction of 5,500 new
housing units in the occupied territories and provides tens of millions of
dollars for new roads and other services for Jewish settlers there.

Later today, the Defense Ministry announced that Israel will deport 12
Palestinian activists from the West Bank and Gaza Strip in reaction to the
ambush killing Wednesday of a Jewish settler in Gaza. The expulsion order is the
first since last May and one of the biggest since the beginning of the
Palestinian uprising against Israeli rule of the territories four years ago.

The two measures appeared likely to cause new difficulties in the Arab-Israeli
peace negotiations as well as between Israel and the United States. The Bush
administration staunchly opposes both settlement construction in the occupied
territories and deportations, and Shamir's government reportedly refrained from
expelling several Palestinians last month because of private objections from
Washington.

The new initiatives were decided only five days before Israel is due to renew
bilateral talks in Washington with Syria, Jordan and the Palestinians. They also
came less than a month before Israel is due to revive its request to the United
States to guarantee $ 10 billion in loans to fund the absorption of Soviet
immigrants. Bush has linked this request to the peace process, and U.S.
officials have hinted that it should be conditioned on the curtailment of
Israeli settlement construction.

The $ 46.5 billion budget, which passed the Knesset late today by a vote of 60
to 53, was approved two days late after weeks of bargaining among Shamir's Likud
Party and the small religious and nationalist parties in its right-wing
coalition. Opposition legislators said today that two small right-wing parties
succeeded in adding $ 75 million in new funding for roads, schools and new
settlements in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip in exchange for their
votes.

Government officials confirmed that right-wing legislators and settlement
leaders also have been promised that 5,500 of the 19,500 state housing units
funded in the budget will be built in the West Bank, Gaza and Golan Heights, all
Arab territories captured by Israel in the 1967 war. Of these, nearly 5,000 will
be in the West Bank, where Israel is already carrying out the largest Jewish
settlement-construction program in its 24-year rule of the area.

U.S. Jewish organizations as well as Israel's ambassador in Washington have
warned the Israeli government that it may be impossible to obtain the loan
guarantees if settlement construction continues. Nevertheless, the budget
approved today assumes that Israel will receive the first $ 2 billion in
U.S.-backed financing this year.

If Israel now fails to obtain the funding, leftist parliament member Dedi Zucker
noted today, the $ 4 billion deficit already planned in the budget could grow to
$ 6 billion or more -- nearly 10 percent of Israel's gross national product.
"This is a very risky situation," he said.

Government officials pointed out that the 5,000 additional apartments planned
are considerably less than the nearly 20,000 approved for the territories over
the last 18 months. U.S. officials, they said, should realize that Shamir is
considerably slowing the pace of new construction in the areas.

Zucker, however, pointed out that the new construction plan is still twice as
large as that of 1989, the last budget year before Shamir formed his current,
right-wing coalition. "If the settlers were able to get 5,000, that's a very big
success for them," he said. "It's 25 percent of the public housing budget for
the year."

Zucker said the $ 75 million added to the budget in the last few days will be
spent, among other things, on building 18 new roads serving Jewish settlements.
The roads, totaling more than 70 miles, would take several years to complete,
meaning that the government has implictly committed itself to additional
spending in coming years, he said.

Key leaders of the Jewish settlement movement waited in the parliament members'
private dining room this afternoon as the budget vote was taken, wrapping up
what legislators said was an intensive lobbying campaign over the last two
weeks. Their host was Housing Minister Ariel Sharon, the hard-line Likud leader
who has overseen the huge settlement expansion over the last year.

Hours after the budget was approved, the army issued a statement confirming the
new expulsion orders. It did not name the Palestinians targeted, but said,
"Several of these persons were involved in terrorist activities and others were
involved in incitement." The statement cited three factions of the Palestine
Liberation Organization and the militant Islamic Hamas movement.

The action followed the shooting death Wednesday of Doron Shorshan, 35, a Jewish
settler in the Gaza Strip, whose car was ambushed near the Deir Balah refugee
camp. He was the fourth Jewish settler to be shot and killed in ambushes in the
last two months. Palestinian militants claimed responsibility for two previous
incidents.

Jewish settlers in the Gaza Strip today set up trailer homes at what they said
would be a new settlement near the site where Shorshan was killed. However,
there were reports tonight that Defense Minister Moshe Arens had ordered the
settlers to leave.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              88 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 11, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

Area Koreans See No Need for Enclaves;
Educated and Urbanized, Recent Immigrants Are Dispersing

Joel Garreau, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: REAL ESTATE; PAGE E1; WHERE WE LIVE

LENGTH: 1415 words


Washington has no Koreatown, which seems odd.

In the last decade unprecedented waves of immigration have been rippling through
the metropolitan area. And yet, few neighborhoods have formed that are in any
way comparable to the great ethnic enclaves of Irish, Chinese, Italians, Poles
or Jews that were common during the last great surges of newcomers in the 19th
century.

While there are clusters of Salvadorans, Vietnamese and Ethiopians here and
there, Korean immigrants are particularly visible because of all minorities in
the United States, Koreans are the most likely to own a business, according to
the Census.

In Annandale at Little River Turnpike and Evergreen Road, for instance, there
are office condominiums full of Korean attorneys, accountants and associations.
In the District, the wholesale market district at Florida and New York avenues
has an increasingly Korean cast. In Wheaton, at the Korean Korner shopping
center on Viers Mill Road, one can buy the hot Korean condiment kimchi by the
gallon. Lotte, a Korean shopping center that publishes its own weekly newspaper,
is a mile away.

Yet there is no Koreatown, nor is there likely to be.

Even in the most heavily Korean residential neighborhood in the region, only one
home in 12 is Korean, according to the U.S. Bureau of the Census. The highest
concentration is 8.6 percent, and most Koreans live in Montgomery and Fairfax
counties.

The main reason is the overwhelming value Koreans place on education for their
children, according to real estate agents and sociologists. Montgomery and
Fairfax schools are frequently ranked as among the best in the nation, according
to average Scholastic Aptitude Test scores and the number of National Merit
Scholarship winners.

But the dispersion of Koreans throughout the area points up the significant
differences between these immigrants and those of 100 years ago.

"These are people who are already urbanized," said Hyung Chan Kim, author of
"The Korean Diaspora." "They are highly educated already. There's no difference,
whether it is Washington, D.C., Seoul or Tokyo. Once you're suburbanized, the
tendency is to individualize your home style, your housing. You don't see
subdivisions attracting a whole lot of Koreans. The only difference is the
language. And they have acquired at least a moderate use of the [English]
language."

Take the example of Yong Bin Jun, a Montgomery County accountant whose family
moved in 1988 from the Aspen Hill area to a new colonial-style four-bedroom, 2
1/2-bath $ 270,000 house in North Potomac, an area near Gaithersburg. "My people
try to work with other people -- they want to get into the mainstream," Jun
said.

Ann Greenwood, admissions administrator for Fairfax County's Thomas Jefferson
High School, a science and technology magnet school, said: "Koreans, especially,
will move wherever it takes" to find a good school. Other factors in home
selection that are obviously important -- including resale value -- are
frequently secondary.

"Education is one of the most important factors in the life of the Korean
people, and is of far greater concern to the average citizen than to his
counterpart in Western countries," said Horace Underwood in "The Korean Way." In
Korea, "Families go to great lengths to maintain a house in Seoul, wherever the
father's work requires him to live, so that the children can go to good schools
and thus have a better chance of entering a top-ranking university. This
dual-home system often leads to divided families and broken homes, but the risk
is considered worth it for the schooling."

The quality of the schools shapes Korean settlement patterns no less in America.
"You shop for the school district. Education is the number one priority," Jun
said. He added that in the Confucian value structure that has shaped Korea, the
same levels of respect are accorded the king, the teacher and the parent. "Put a
lot of value on the teacher -- same as the king!" Jun said. "That's why
success."

Jun and his wife, Young Sook, who have two sons -- Alex, a sixth-grader, and
Allen, a fifth-grader -- speak knowledgeably of the comparative Scholastic
Aptitude Test and California Achievement Test scores of various area high
schools. The Montgomery County high schools his family were particularly
interested in when he moved in 1988 were Whitman, Churchill and Wooton, as well
as Springbrook.  In the Fairfax County schools Korean is the third most common
language after English and Spanish. Korean students cluster around Annandale,
Woodson, Lake Braddock and West Springfield high schools, said Albert A.
Verville, coordinator of central student registration. At Thomas Jefferson, 22
percent of the students are Asian, and while the school does not break down
enrollment further by ethnic group, a significant share is clearly Korean,
admissions administrator Greenwood said.

The quality of schools explains why only 800 out of 44,000 Koreans in the
Washington area live in the District, real estate agents said.

But other forces besides the distribution of good schools mitigate against the
creation of ethnic ghettos today.

For example, today's immigrants are entering a different America than that of
100 years ago. "They are entering the United States after the rise of the
welfare state, state capitalism and state intervention in almost every major
area of contemporary American society," said Illsoo Kim, author of "New Urban
Immigrants." "They are entering when civil rights and anti-discrimination
policies have limited the most manifest discrimination against all ethnic and
racial minorities."

The level of physical and economic threats and hatreds that caused immigrants to
stick together out of a sheer sense of self-preservation a century ago are
simply not the same today.

But the immigrants are different too. This leads to them having a distinctly
different idea of what constitutes a "community." As Kim and others noted, a
century ago, immigrants from Europe were usually going through three changes
simultaneously. They were coming:

To a new country for the first time.

Into industrialized urban life for the first time, straight out of centuries of
rural life in the forests and potato fields.

Into the modern world for the first time, with little education, and less
experience with ideas more current than feudalism.

By contrast, Koreans and many other recent immigrants are only going through one
major change: the adjustment to America.  Take the Juns, for example. Like many
Korean immigrants, they were familiar with prestigious universities and
automobiles and a metropolis like Seoul and all the other modern conveniences
well before they came to America in 1978.

This by no means eliminated the shock of entering a new world and a new language
and a new set of social customs. But it did lessen any inclination to cluster
into tight geographic knots with other people from Korea.

In their North Potomac subdivision, they estimate there are 270 homes, of which
perhaps five or six are occupied by Koreans. "We're not going to go to a
neighborhood because there are many Korean guys," Jun said.

Instead, the Juns, who have only been in this country 14 years, made all the
standard American calculations when they picked a location. After the quality of
the schools, these included the large size of the house, its access to
Interstate 270, its price and the fact that it was brand new.

Yet the Juns have not abandoned their cultural roots. Young Sook's mother lives
with the Juns, and so did her father until he died in 1986. "The family bond is
strong," said Jun.

And most of the Juns' life revolves around other Koreans. "We are very
relationship oriented," Jun said. They estimate that 90 percent of the clientele
of their accounting firm is Korean. Their church, Montgomery Baptist, is Korean.
Jun's prestigious high school has an alumni association in Washington, as does
the Seoul National University, from which he received his bachelor's degree. Jun
belongs to both.

But the big source of companionship is friendships with three Koreans -- a
stockbroker, a civil engineer and a bank accounting officer -- who Jun met while
getting his MBA at George Washington University. "We meet almost every week,
informally. We're the best of friends," he said.

And like other Americans, it simply makes little difference that one friend
lives in Clifton, Va., and two in Bethesda. "An hour's drive. It's not that big
a deal," Jun said.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: MAP, MANAGER ANDY MIN WAITS ON SOON HAE KIM AT ROCKVILLE'S LOTTE
GROCERY STORE. JOSEPH ROBINSON AND DAVE COOK; PHOTO, ANDRE CHUNG

TYPE: COLUMN, DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              89 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 17, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Defying Politics on Boat People;
INS Counsel Confounds Administration Convention on Haitians

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 1111 words


Immigration issues know no political boundaries.

Take the case of the 2,000 Haitian boat people whose asylum applications have
been preliminarily approved in recent months.

The State and Defense departments had insisted that virtually all the Haitians
fleeing their troubled island after a Sept. 30 military coup were economic
migrants, ineligible for asylum in this country.

Enter one Grover Joseph Rees III, the very conservative general counsel of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Rees, former point man for the Reagan
administration's drive for conservative control of the judiciary in the
mid-1980s, has adopted a seemingly liberal stance toward the Haitians and others
seeking refugee status.

Rees, who had been an aide to then New Right conservative Sen. John East
(R-N.C.), was the official who took the lead within the INS to send newly
trained asylum officers to hold expanded asylum hearings for the 8,000 Haitians
held at a camp at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo, Cuba. Since the coup, the
approval rate for asylum applications shot up from virtually zero in the first
days of the exodus to more than 25 percent.

Rees "insulated those people [the asylum officers] from political pressures" to
deny virtually all Haitian applicants asylum, an INS official said.

Rees would not discuss the interagency debates. But he said in an interview that
"many people have mixed motives for leaving their countries. Just because you
have an economic motive [to leave] doesn't mean you don't have the other
[political persecution]," he said.

Once roundly castigated by liberals when he ran the controversial judicial
selection operation at the Justice Department, Rees now gets cautious praise.
"We are impressed at his sensitivity to refugee issues," said Arthur Helton of
the liberal Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

But those who are conservative on immigration issues inside the agency and out,
worry that his views may interfere with what they see as proper enforcement of
immigration policy. He finds himself called a moderate -- or worse -- by his
detractors.

No stranger to bucking conventions, Rees once trading in his Justice Department
pin stripes for a Samoan kilt.

In 1986, Rees stunned legal observers when he left the Justice Department to
become chief justice of American Samoa.

Then 34 years old, Rees was a professor at the University of Texas School of Law
and a rising star in the conservative legal movement. He seemed a likely pick
for a district or appellate court seat.

The surprise move to the Samoan bench -- an Interior Department appointment --
was explained away by Washington observers as a clever means for a conservative
bomb thrower to let dust settle and improve his chances of Senate confirmation
for a federal judgeship.

When he left Washington, the youthful-looking Rees had a full beard and was
known as "Rocky," a childhood nickname he says he had long stopped using.

He exchanged his three-piece suit for an ie (pronounced ee-ay), a Samoan kilt,
kept the beard -- which made him look older and more judicial -- and made sure
his nickname did not follow him to the Pacific bench, where he was called
Joseph.


He strayed from traditional career patterns once again last June, when he traded
the ie back in for a suit, shaved the beard upon hitting the mainland -- he is
nearly 40 -- continued to shun the nickname and became general counsel of the
INS.

It was another odd choice for a constitutional scholar who comfortably quotes
Bentham and Kant.

Despite the liberal praise, Rees insists that, "If anything, I'm more
conservative than I used to be." He added, "I still have a tendency not to keep
my mouth shut."

Rees said that he "didn't want to send anyone back" to a communist country. "I
still don't. But the law doesn't always correspond with my policy preferences."

Now, Rees adheres to mainstream INS policy when he insists U.S. borders must be
controlled and says he strongly supports agency efforts "to get tough on people
who are abusing the system" to remain in the country improperly.

On the other hand, he said his "is not the [traditional] INS perspective. I take
mine from the words on the Statue of Liberty. . . . My bias is in favor of
exercising discretion in favor of what made this country great," said Rees.
"Many American conservatives, including the commissioner [Gene McNary] and the
attorney general [William P. Barr], believe profoundly in the words on the
Statute of Liberty, that America lifts its lamp beside the golden door."

Rees's policy decisions on the Haitian boat people reflect his reading of the
asylum law. It "is not only to keep people out but also to allow bona fide
political refugees" to enter the United States, he said. "The purpose of the
asylum hearing is to find the truth. If the asylum applicant has a well-founded
fear of persecution, we are not doing our job if he's denied asylum. It is not
our job to think of the cleverest arguments against asylum."

In addition to taking a controversial stance on the Haitian boat people, Rees
has single-handedly stymied agency efforts to deport thousands of Nicaraguans,
most of them in Miami, who fled the leftist Sandinista government in Managua in
the 1980s. A moderate government took power nearly two years ago, but the
Nicaraguans remain in this country pending resolution of their cases. Agency
sources say few of the Nicaraguans qualify for asylum and blame Rees for
bottling up the cases.

Rees acknowledged the pressure within INS to begin deportation of the
Nicaraguans. "I have resisted it so far," he said, because he didn't "want to
single them out" for deportation. "It is unwise to discriminate on the basis of
nationality."

INS critics and by immigration opponents also maintain Rees allows his
anti-communist and antiabortion views to influence immigration policies toward
China.  Rees issued an internal memorandum in November urging his lawyers in the
field to look favorably on asylum claims based on "coercive family planning
policies" such as forced sterilizations or abortions or punishments for having
too many children.

Critics say the memo would make hundred of millions of Chinese eligible for
asylum because of China's one-child policy. Dan Stein, head of the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, which advocates strict immigration limits,
described the memo as "political posturing and ideological extremism," and
showed a kind of "ideological gamesmanship" by Rees.

Rees said that "all the memo did was reiterate the president's 1990 executive
order" to give "enhanced consideration" to those claims. "I didn't invent this
stuff."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ABOVE, GROVER JOSEPH REES III, COUNSEL TO INS. RIGHT, REES
TRADED TRADITIONAL BUSINESS SUITS FOR A SAMOAN KILT WHEN HE BECAME CHIEF JUSTICE
OF THE TERRITORY. LUCIAN PERKINS; PHOTO, LEGAL TIMES

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              90 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 25, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Extends Safe Haven For Lebanese

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15

LENGTH: 399 words


The Bush administration has granted a one-year extension of temporary safe haven
in this country to more than 11,000 Lebanese and Liberians who fear it would not
be safe to return to their troubled home countries at this time.

But the administration, concluding that conditions in Kuwait have stabilized,
has decided to lift protections for 312 Kuwaitis stranded here after the Iraqi
invasion last year.

The action, announced yesterday by Attorney General William P. Barr, affects
6,761 Lebanese and 4,393 Liberians, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Under the Immigration Act of 1990, the attorney general has discretion to grant
Temporary Protected Status here to people from countries torn by armed conflict.
On March 27, 1991, that protection was granted for one year to Lebanese,
Liberians and Kuwaitis then in the country. Many of them were working, studying
or visiting here and felt they could not safely go home.

Liberia, which is still mostly under the control of rebels except for the
capital of Monrovia, is still gripped by the turmoil of a devastating civil war
that caused half the country's 2.6 million people to flee their homes. Barr
concluded Liberians here could not safely return to their country.

While the situation in Lebanon has improved in recent months as the central
government slowly asserts its authority, Barr said "there still exist
extraordinary and temporary conditions . . . that prevent [people] from
returning to Lebanon in safety as a result of the continued armed conflict in
that nation."

Albert Mokhiber, president of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee,
said the group is "extremely appreciative" of the extension for Lebanese.

But Mokhiber expressed concern that the administration's decision on Kuwait may
leave a number of Palestinians who were longtime Kuwaiti residents in limbo. In
December Congress expanded the safe-haven program to include stateless
Palestinians who resided in Kuwait but who were in this country on March 27,
1991. Since Kuwait generally has not permitted Palestinians to return, Barr's
decision may leave them with nowhere to go after March 27.

Mokhiber urged the administration "to make special provisions to extend their
stay until" they can make other arrangements. A Justice Department official said
some of the Palestinians may be able to apply for asylum here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              91 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 26, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

My Images of Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C6; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 584 words


I would like to respond to Lawrence E. Harrison's Jan. 12 Outlook article "Those
Huddled, Unskilled Masses."

I teach English as a second language at Montgomery College in Rockville. My
students are almost all immigrants from totalitarian regimes in Asia, South and
Central America, Africa and Haiti, so I have gotten to know some of the
"huddled, unskilled masses" to whom Mr. Harrison referred.

First, meet Dung, from Viet Nam. Her reddish curly hair and freckles are an
uncomfortable reminder of our post-war legacy to that nation. Dung, who weights
no more than 85 pounds, works 40 hours a week as a welder's assistant. Her
ambition is to learn English and then accounting so that she can work in an
office "like a lady," as she puts it.

Meet Solomon, a well-spoken young man from Ethiopia. In his suit and tie, he
looks like any white-collar worker on K Street; but in fact he's working in the
mail room of a small company in Rockville. English is his passport to the job he
dresses for. Solomon told the class that he escaped Communist brutality in Addis
Ababa by walking three days across the Sinai desert to Egypt without food or
water. I can't explain how he survived, but I know that he will continue to
survive and prosper here.

Cornelia comes from Romania. In her leather jacket, carefully careless hair and
makeup, she looks like any American teenager. She works as a hairdresser and
would like to open her own shop. When Cornelia applied for a visa in Romania,
she was fired from her job, and no one else would hire her. Cornelia stuck it
out for 18 months and made it to Montgomery County. Like so many of my students,
her listening and speaking skills are close to native level, but the written
language marks her as a foreigner and bars her from managerial postions.

There's Fu, a Chinese doctor, whose poor speaking skills keep her from working
at her much-needed profession; Yeugeny, a Soviet engineer, who works as a
janitor; Nadia, another Soviet who's an urban planner, who makes sandwiches in a
deli.

I could go on. These people have fled repressive or bankrupt nations where they
were neither free nor fed. They are not unskilled, except in the use of English.
Yet in order to live, they work in unskilled service jobs or unsafe, underpaid
and insecure production jobs. Is that their fault? Mr. Harrison says immigrants
are responsible for the fact that employers take advantage of them. That line of
reasoning is so staggering that one gropes for an adequate comment. Are
U.S.-born college graduates also responsible for their poor working conditions?

The foreign students I described are not atypical. Yet the least gifted, the
least educated among them still bring much to our society. They bring optimism;
the willingness to work hard; loyalty to family, friends and authority figures;
strong families, which emphasize the value of education; honesty; and, finally,
gratitude for the personal freedoms and the freedom from want that they have
here. These qualities will be our salvation, if we are to be saved.

The kind of xenophobic thinking engaged in by Mr. Harrison does not advance our
need for better families, better education or more responsible employers -- it
only serves to give workers someone less advantaged than they are to blame. How
about moving the blame upward, where it belongs, toward the bankers, the real
estate vultures, the Iacoccas and the Stempels, instead of downward toward the
hard-working immigrants?

SUSAN MEADER TOBIAS Bethesda

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              92 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 30, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Tables, Charts, Smoke and Mirrors -- Annual Budget Process Begins;
JUSTICE;
Increasing Funding For Prisons, Agents

Sharon Lafraniere

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 240 words


President Bush is seeking $ 11.3 billion for the Justice Department, an increase
of $ 1 billion over last year. About $ 353 million would be used to expand the
federal prison system. Another $ 100 million would update the FBI's system to
identify criminals' fingerprints.

Most of the remainder would go for an additional 276 FBI agents, 305 federal
prosecutors and 140 Drug Enforcement Administration agents. The new FBI agents
would be directed toward white-collar crime and drug-trafficking investigations;
prosecutors already have stepped up their efforts on violent crime and drug
cases.

In addition, the Immigration and Naturalization Service would gain 295
investigators and border-patrol agents.

Eighty-five FBI agents working espionage cases would be reassigned to
violent-crime investigations. The bureau has already transferred 300 of its
foreign counterintelligence agents to violent-crime cases.

The department also proposes a $ 116 million cut in the Office of Justice
Programs, set up to help state and local law enforcement agencies. It again
reduced funding for juvenile justice programs -- a cut Congress has repeatedly
restored. The department's "weed and seed" program, which targets particular
neighborhoods for an infusion of law-enforcement and social services, would grow
from $ 11 million to $ 30 million. Department officials said that would allow
the program to expand from about eight cities to 30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              93 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 4, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

Cutters Return First 381 of Fleeing Haitians

Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A11

LENGTH: 557 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Feb. 3, 1992


Denied asylum by the United States, 381 Haitians who fled political chaos and
economic turmoil in their country arrived back home today from Guantanamo Bay
Naval Base aboard two U.S. Coast Guard cutters.

Their faces expressionless and their voices subdued, they stood under the gaze
of a dozen blue-uniformed Haitian immigration officials at the docks here and
told journalists that they expected no problems from the authorities.

Many of the estimated 12,500 Haitians at the U.S. base in Cuba or aboard
patrolling cutters have said they fled violence and repression and feared
further persecution. But at least upon their arrival today -- with Red Cross
officials, U.S. diplomats and a horde of journalists watching -- there were no
signs of trouble.

The Red Cross furnished each of the returnees with $ 15 in cash and food
vouchers to provide a family of five with beans, rice, cooking oil and other
staples for nearly a month. Haitian immigration officers took the returnees'
fingerprints and personal information. A Red Cross shuttle bus gave them a lift
to the bus station. Most were expected to return to villages on the other side
of this Caribbean nation of 6 million people. There was no way to know today
what awaited them there.

"They seem fine and they were very well treated" by the Coast Guard, said Jean
Ayoub of the International Committee of the Red Cross. He added, however, that
they seemed "a little bit afraid of the unexpected." Asked if he foresaw any of
the repatriated Haitians to be targeted for reprisals by the military, Ayoub
said: "We have to wait and see. I don't think so, [but] this is the first day."

Since a Sept. 29 military coup toppled president Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the
country's first freely elected leader, the 6,000-man Haitian army and police
have carried out a campaign of terror and intimidation against Aristide's
supporters, international human rights groups say. Aristide, a leftist Roman
Catholic priest, is popular with Haiti's poor people, and the army and police
have targeted the slums.

Obviously wary of the danger of being tagged as backers of Aristide, most of
those interviewed by journalists today presented themselves as apolitical.
Several even insisted they had never intended to flee the country at all, and
had been simply out fishing when they were picked up by the Coast Guard.

Most of those who fled beginning a month after the coup were practically
destitute, having sold their possessions for passage on rickety, barely
seaworthy boats. Their destination was Florida; none is known to have made it.
The Coast Guard says all who did not drown were picked up, and most were taken
to Guantanamo.

Following a decision Friday night by the U.S. Supreme Court, the Bush
administration ordered the repatriation of the Haitians to begin. The two
cutters -- the 210-foot Steadfast, with 162 Haitians aboard and the 270-foot
Bear with 219 -- docked here after crossing the Windward Passage from Cuba, a
voyage that ordinarily takes about 14 hours. The Haitians received two hot meals
aboard the cutters before they were dropped off in this capital.

Two more cutters are expected to arrive here Wednesday, and U.S. authorities say
they intend to return the Haitians at a rate of about 1,000 a day until the tent
city that had been erected at Guantanamo is empty.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, BACK HOME IN HAITI; ONE OF 381 HAITIANS DEPOSITED BY TWO U.S.
COAST GUARD CUTTERS IN PORT-AU-PRINCE YESTERDAY AWAITS INTERROGATION BY
IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS. ABOUT 12,500 HAITIANS WERE INTERCEPTED IN EFFORTS TO
REACH U.S. REFUGE. AP; PHOTO, AFP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              94 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 6, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Closing the Golden Door

MARY McGRORY

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A2; MARY MCGRORY

LENGTH: 777 words


Not so long ago, the United States was "unalterably opposed" to forcible
repatriation of migrants. In 1989, when Britain was trying to cope with
thousands of Vietnamese boat people in Hong Kong, we let them know that by our
high moral standards, deporting refugees was "unacceptable."

But times change. Now the lamp of the Statue of Liberty is burning dim as we
prepare to send home some 10,000 Haitians, who, we say, do not qualify under our
laws to be treated as "political refugees."

We are saying they are "economic refugees" even though they have come in numbers
only since the bloody coup that toppled the country's first democratically
elected president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, a left-wing priest whom the Haitians
like better than we do. The British, at least, made sure that some protection
was given the unwilling returnees. U.N. monitors watched over them. They had
their own ambassador visit the returnees in their villages. Our ambassador to
Haiti is in Washington. The country is too dangerous for him.

The administration is embarrassed to be sending people back to a regime that
President Bush heatedly condemned. But how could he accept large numbers of
poor, hungry black people at a delicate moment in the New Hampshire primary
campaign, where he is being challenged by anti-immigrant commentator Patrick J.
Buchanan?

Straying from his new and rigid rule of totally domestic preoccupation obviously
strikes him as risky -- particularly in Florida, where an ill-timed exodus of
Cubans caused then-incumbent President Jimmy Carter to lose the state in 1980.

Callousness is not quite so totally in vogue as might be suspected. Floridians
who would be most affected and possibly inconvenienced by an influx show more
mercy than their government. A New York Times poll shows a majority think the
Haitians should be allowed to stay. Conservative Sen. Connie Mack (R-Fla.),
called Bush's policy "discriminatory" and "morally wrong."

But the Demcrats have shown no inclination to point it out. Although the
Haitians are obviously a natural constituency, this is not the season for
compassion for foreigners. Senate Majority Leader George J. Mitchell (D-Maine)
coolly indicated in a speech this week that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service had followed the law and had granted asylum to a third of the boat
people. When Secretary of State James A. Baker III appeared before the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, not a single Democrat asked him to defend an
indefensible policy.

"They have been Willie Hortonized," says Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy II (D-Mass.) of
his fellow Democrats. "They are afraid of a Republican campaign commercial that
will say they helped black people from another country while neglecting the
needs of Americans."

The champion of the Haitian boat people is Rep. Charles B. Rangel (D-N.Y.), an
exuberant congressman from Harlem. He regards the policy as "racism" pure and
simple. "You can be sure if they were Europeans . . . we could find some way to
give them protection until democracy could be restored to their country," he
says.

The Bush administration's move to relax the economic embargo seems to him a way
to ease their consciences for the unconscionable thing they are about to do.
Sending the boat people back to one of the poorest countries in the world, which
is being made poorer by our embargo, would have been howling hypocrisy. Rangel
sees it as a break for the thugs who run the country. If we must send them back,
we should have a U.S. helicopter hovering overhead.

"I would ride on that damn helicopter as long as it had an American flag painted
pretty clearly on the side. That damn army never shot at anything but their own
people. They wouldn't shoot it down."

Rangel rails at the assurance of State Department spokesman Margaret Tutwiler
that the Haitians do not face death at home. "What does she know about it? Two
thousand people have been killed since the coup."

He has been rallying human rights and religious groups to his cause. Cardinal
John J. O'Connor, New York's archbishop, has called on Catholics to take action,
black Baptist ministers have promised to take at least one refugee in each of
their churches, and Jewish organizations have called Rangel and said, "Whatever
you do, include us."

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) addressed the Democratic Caucus luncheon on
Tuesday about the boat people and our shameful treatment of them. He later
introduced a bill providing for increased monitoring by the Organization of
American States and other international organizations. It would also stay
involuntary deportations until Congress gets back from vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              95 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 8, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

'We're the Perfect Americans';
South Florida's Haitians Build Proud, Vigorous Community

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 7


From a distance, Haitian refugees can seem a desperate, dazed and diseased
people hopelessly adrift in rickety boats, a horde of economic outcasts. The
Bush administration is having them intercepted and returned home.

But here in south Florida, Haitian immigrants have built a growing and vigorous
community. While not exactly affluent, they own hundreds of businesses, send
their children to school and generally are known as law-abiding and hard
workers.

"We're the perfect Americans," said Michel Lubin, a Haitian immigrant whose
outlet of beauty supplies for blacks is among the nation's largest. He was
speaking in a cramped office surrounded by an American flag, a picture of
President Bush, a portrait of ousted Haitian president Jean-Bertrand Aristide
and a painting of a nude woman in a jungle setting.

The administration maintains that the Haitians are economic, not political,
refugees and thus ineligible for asylum. Critics, however, have said the policy
is driven in part by a belief that thousands of new immigrants would overwhelm
south Florida and disrupt the regional economy, already reeling from a 9.6
percent unemployment rate and the demoralizing collapse of such stalwarts as Pan
American and Eastern airlines.

However, many researchers, business executives, teachers, doctors and
politicians here do not seem too disturbed by potential influx of 10,000 or more
Haitians.

In fact, the heads of schools and hospitals, the very institutions most likely
to be burdened by incoming Haitians, said they are no more disruptive than any
of the other refugee groups that have poured into this city over the past
decade.

Miami Mayor Xavier Suarez often speaks about the plight of Haitians, who
comprise a growing number of his constitutents. He would like to see more of
them allowed into the United States. So too would Sen. Connie Mack (R-Fla.), who
today called on Bush to delay the refugees' return.

"By and large, their impact is not measurably different from any other
in-migrating group," said Ira Clark, president of Jackson Memorial Hospital,
which works with many of the Haitians. "If it is different, it's probably
positive. They're very hard-working people."

Marietta Mischia, principal of Toussaint Louverture Elementary School, 85
percent of whose 1,220 students are Haitian, said Haitian children "are no more
of a burden and no less than the Nicaraguans, the Cubans and everybody else."

About 6,600 Haitians are among the 300,000 children in Dade County public
schools here. In the hallways of Louverture Elementary, a visitor can hear
Spanish, English, Creole and French. Mischia said Haitian children generally
learn English in about two or three years.

"Haitians really believe in education," said Alex Stepick, an anthropologist at
Florida International University, who has tracked the lives of Haitian "just
comes," as the immigrants are called, over the past decade. "Haitians are
forever enrolling in classes."

Twenty years ago, few Haitians were counted in south Florida. Now, authorities
said, there could be 100,000 or more in Dade and adjacent Broward County. The
"Little Haiti" neighborhood, which began with a few shops in the mid-1970s,
encompasses scores of city blocks from south to north.

Ringo Cayard, president of the Haitian American Foundation, said Haitians own
800 businesses in Miami, most of them "mom and pop" shops selling records and
tapes, car repairs, groceries, clothes and services. "Haitians are good for
America," he said.

Those coming here, particularly by sea, usually come from the Haitian
countryside and are poor and often illiterate, Cayard said.

When they arrive, Stepick said, they work as cooks, maids, busboys and
gardeners. Many drive gypsy cabs.

Rarely do they take welfare because many are here illegally and because welfare
does not provide enough money to support living here and sending some back home.
Haitians customarily put up relatives and friends for months, Stepick said.

In general, Haitians have no significant impact on the rate of violent crime,
according to Miami police. Cayard said Little Haiti is one of the safest
neighborhoods in Miami. Indeed, tourists on foot often stroll the heart of
Little Haiti.

"For the past decade, most refugees I've seen are like country boys coming to a
big city," said Sgt. Yves Fortune, a Haitian-American officer on the Metro Dade
police force. "Contrary to what most people think, newly arrived Haitians are
more likely victims of crime than perpetrators."

Polling by Robert Joffee of Mason-Dixon Opinion Research for the Miami Herald
and a local television station found that, in December, most Floridians did not
want the Haitians ousted.

"Most folks are sympathetic," Joffee said. "I didn't see any evidence of
widespread xenophobia. People seem willing to give them a chance."

Some critics said the Bush administration's policy of sending back refugees is
racially motivated, and many people here said they detect a double standard.
Cuban refugees are welcomed as heroes, but Haitian refugees are sent home.

"There's an ambivalence," said economist Antonio Jorge of Florida International,
who has written widely on the regional impact of Cuban refugees. "Everybody
wishes them well. But from a practical standpoint, any large migration of
unskilled laborers causes problems."

Hospital President Clark said that, "with some preplanning, with some accurate
information and with some federal support, we could assimilate the Haitians with
less problems than we had taking in the Nicaraguans."

Gov. Lawton Chiles (D) has requested $ 35 million from the federal Emergency
Immigration Fund to help south Florida resettle the Haitians.

"That's the point," Joffee said. "People here are willing to take them. They
just want some help."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HAITIAN EMIGRE MICHAEL LUBIN'S BEAUTY SUPPLY STORE IS ONE OF THE
ESTIMATED 800 HAITIAN-OWNED BUSINESSES IN MIAMI. CARL JUSTE FOR TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              96 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 11, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

State Dept. Finds No Evidence of Reprisals Alleged by Haitian Refugees

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 602 words


The State Department said yesterday it had found no evidence to support the
reprisal claims of four Haitian refugees who had been taken back to Haiti after
being denied asylum in this country.

The four had made specific allegations of Haitian military abuses against other
boat people. They were among 41 Haitians who were picked up at sea by the Coast
Guard and returned to Haiti in November, fled again, and were recently
interviewed at a tent city set up on the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

U.S. Embassy officials in Haiti have "checked them out," State Department
spokesman Richard Boucher said, and "we've not found information to corroborate
these stories; we don't have evidence that people are being persecuted upon
going back."

The allegations became public after refugee advocates obtained copies of some of
the interviews conducted at Guantanamo by United Nations officials. The
advocates said the interviews came from a group of 41 "double-backers" -- people
whose asylum claims were denied the first time they arrived on Guantanamo.

This time, the Immigration and Naturalization Service apparently has found some
merit to their claims for asylum, advocates said, because the group has been
granted preliminary asylum status pending further review of their claims.

The Coast Guard has intercepted more than 15,000 Haitians who fled the country
by boat after a Sept. 30 military coup ousted the country's first elected
president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide. About 500 were returned in November before a
federal judge blocked forced repatriations.

The judge's ruling forced the administration to set up a tent city at
Guantanamo, which yesterday housed more than 11,000 boat people.

More than 3,900 Haitians have been granted preliminary asylum status by the INS.
The Coast Guard began returning those not deemed asylum candidates on Feb. 1, a
day after the Supreme Court lifted the judge's ban.

Since then, nearly 1,600 boat people have been returned, including 510 people
who arrived yesterday.

A State Department official said embassy officials had gone to the home towns of
those making specific allegations to try to find corroborating witnesses. In one
instance, an officer went to a town about 50 miles from Port-au-Prince to check
out the story of a man who claimed his brother and two other men were killed by
police after the Coast Guard returned them to Haiti in November.

"An embassy officer went to the town and located the two men and talked with
them in their . . . hut . . . and they said they were fine and they had just
seen the brother down the street."

The official said the other stories also were not found credible after similar
investigations.

But refugee advocates said the administration should at least halt the
repatriation pending further investigation.

"The State Department response fundamentally misconceives the evidence," said
Arthur Helton, an attorney with the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. "These
were detailed accounts of abuse credited by immigration authorities and
interview transcripts prepared by United Nations personnel. To simply dismiss
them in this fashion is fundamentally wrongheaded," he said. "The burden is on
the . . . government to show that it is safe to return in the face of this
evidence."

But a State Department official said the INS had been giving the claims of boat
people initial credence as long as they were at least plausible. The INS's
preliminary assessment did not mean a final determination had been made on
either the individual refugee's claims or any claims of persecution of others,
he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              97 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 11, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

Multicultural D.C. Area Becoming Multilingual;
Businesses, Agencies Adjust to Immigrants

Sue Anne Pressley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1140 words


WPWC radio (which stands for "Wonderful Prince William County") is the home of
"The Southern Gospel Hour" and Loretta Lynn is a favorite performer. But last
week the station in Dumfries added something different: "Hora Latina," the Latin
Hour.

Hora Latina is Northern Virginia's first all-Spanish radio show and it reflects
the kind of changes that are occurring throughout the Washington area. Every
Saturday at 4 p.m., Julio Iglesias sings in Spanish, local job opportunities are
outlined in Spanish, and community news is broadcast in Spanish. Then the
station goes back to Buck Owens.

The radio program is a recent example of the intermingling of cultures that is
always taking place in the area. During the last decade, as its immigrant
population has grown, the Washington area has become a place where many
languages are spoken, where bank machines offer instructions in Spanish,
political candidates send out their pleas in Korean, and county recycling
reports are printed in Cambodian, Laotian, and not one, but two, Ethiopian
languages.

"We've been multicultural and multilingual and not quite realized it," said W.
Robert Higgins, the president of Southeastern University in the District, which
includes students from 40 countries. The school recently has helped to teach
basic Spanish to Alexandria police officers and basic English to workers at the
District's waterfront restaurants.

There are many examples of this multilingual shift; all it takes is a look -- or
a listen -- around the area.

At the McDonald's on Rockville Pike, for example, workers shout the orders back
and forth in Spanish; at the Taco Bell in Van Ness, employee reminders, in
Spanish and English, are posted side by side. Among Giant Food Inc. employees,
20 languages are spoken, according to a company survey, and signs in both
Vietnamese and Spanish have been added in 45 stores.

Each year, almost 50,000 calls are made to the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone
Co.'s Spanish-speaking hot line. Every week, government agencies in Montgomery,
Arlington and Fairfax counties churn out health notices and voting guides in a
dozen different languages. Peoples Drug is selling Spanish Valentines, and last
fall, local ads featured a Spanish version of the Butterball Turkey Talkline.

The reason for those adjustments is obvious. During the last decade, the area's
Hispanic and Asian populations have doubled, and in recent years, only five
other U.S. cities have attracted more immigrants. Because Hispanics are the
largest group of newcomers, numbering nearly 250,000, Spanish has emerged as the
dominant second language in the area, reflected most often in bilingual
help-lines, signs and other special services.

Concessions toward this changing population began as early as the late 1970s.
Potomac Electric Power Co. opened its Spanish-speaking line in 1978. The signs
at Giant Food in Vietnamese and Spanish began appearing seven years ago. Last
summer, the Toys R Us store in Baileys Crossroads added signs in Spanish that
mark the restrooms and outline the return policies.

There has been national debate about how far to go with the multilingual
approach. Some argue that English should remain the only national language and
that newcomers should learn it more quickly.

On Friday, a Maryland House of Delegates committee killed a measure that would
have made English the state's official language. Del. Peter G. Callas
(D-Washington) said this is the 10th year he or others have tried to get the
General Assembly to approve such a measure. Callas said it would have helped
prevent the "Balkanization" of the United States and isolation of minority
communities.

But many in the area believe the more important issue is easier communication.
In Arlington County, for example, police are recruiting for "hombres y mujeres
que dominen a perfeccion el ingles y el espanol" -- officers who are fluent in
Spanish and English. With the county's population now 13.5 percent Hispanic --
and only seven Hispanic officers on the 300-plus squad -- police say they cannot
afford to ignore the language barrier.

Local Hispanic leaders applaud those efforts and predict the appearance of many
more multilingual services and signs. They argue that newcomers are in a
difficult transition. They want to learn English, but often, while working
several jobs, don't have the time to attend classes. They say that any bilingual
gestures on the part of the English-speaking community are viewed as a sign of
respect and kindness.

"My general impression is that there is a recognition by politicians, by
business people, by anybody providing services, that the demographic fabric of
this area has changed, and to stay competitive and do business and to respond to
the needs of the community, there is a need to be able to communicate," said
Mara Lopez, acting director of the mayor's office on Latino affairs in the
District. "When you see a sign in Spanish, it says, 'We know you are here. We
value your business. We value your input.' "

Some local residents are taking it a step further; they are learning to speak
Spanish. Berlitz International reports a huge rise in requests for Spanish
instruction in the last five years -- people who want to talk to their
babysitters, their housekeepers, their neighbors. At Potomac Hospital in
Woodbridge, employees recently were learning "Beginning Spanish for Medical
Personnel." And, on a personal note, Wheaton paint store owner Jack Lass has
returned to the classroom.

After realizing that more than half of his customers were Spanish-speaking
painters and contractors, Lass signed up this semester for evening Spanish
lessons that he expects to take for several years. He is tired, he said, of
knowing only the Spanish words for "quart" or "gallon."

"I feel, in order to really communicate, to explain products and new approaches,
I need to know Spanish," said Lass, 52. "My attitude is, these folks are going
to be here, we should respect them. I absolutely agree they should learn
English. But in the meantime, I'm in business, and it doesn't hurt you to know
another language. I think we should all learn something, just to expand our tiny
constricted little minds -- Spanish, Japanese, something."

At the Germantown post office last week, an electronic scale was installed for
use after hours. It offers instructions in Spanish. At some Giant stores, clerks
wear buttons that say they speak Vietnamese.

At Takoma Park Intermediate School in Silver Spring, a recent newsletter to
parents included the "Principal's Message" and its Spanish equivalent, "Mensaje
de la Directora." But Principal Maria Montgomery wishes she could have done
something more.

The problem, she said, is that her message covered only two of the languages
spoken by the 560 students at the school.

There are 23 others.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SIGNS IN TWO LANGUAGES MARK CHECKOUT LANES AT GIANT FOOD IN
SILVER SPRING. HARRY NALTCHAYAN; PHOTO, JAMES M. THRESHER

TYPE: DC NEWS, MARYLAND NEWS, VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              98 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 29, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

IN BUCHANAN'S WORDS

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A2

LENGTH: 371 words


"I think God made all people good, but if we had to take a million immigrants
in, say Zulus, next year, or Englishmen, and put them in Virginia, what group
would be easier to assimilate and would cause less problems for the people of
Virginia.?"

-- ABC-TV's "This Week With David Brinkley," 12/8/91


"David Duke is busy stealing from me. I have a mind to go down there and sue
that dude for intellectual property theft."

-- as quoted in the Manchester (N.H.) Union Leader, 12/15/91


"Does the First World nation wish to become a Third World country? Because that
is our destiny if we do not build a sea wall against the waves of immigration
rolling over our shores."

-- nationally syndicated column, 7/6/90


"The central objection to the present flood of illegals is they are not
English-speaking white people from Western Europe; they are Spanish-speaking
brown and black people from Mexico, Latin America and the Caribbean."

-- national syndicated column, 6/15/84


"With 80,000 dead of AIDS, 3,000 more buried each month, our promiscuous
homosexuals appear literally hell-bent on Satanism and suicide."

-- "From the Right" (newsletter), 10/22/90


"If Communism was The God That Failed the lost generation, democracy, panacea
for mankind's ills, hope for the world, may prove the Golden Calf of this
generation....Anyone who grew up in D.C., when there was no right to vote and no
city government, can empathize with the Congolese peasants who begged the
Belgian diplomat to ask the king if he would be willing to take them back."

-- "From the Right," 1/25/90


"If U.S. Jewry takes the clucking appeasement of the Catholic Cardinalate as
indicative of our submission, it is mistaken. When Cardinal John O'Connor of New
York seeks to sooth the always irate Elie Wiesel by reassuring him, "There are
many Catholics who are anti-Semitic....it is deep within them,' when he declares
this 'is not a fight between Catholics and Jews,' he speaks for himself. Be not
afraid, your eminence; just step aside, there are bishops and priests ready to
assume the role defender of the faith."

-- nationally syndicated column on the controversy over building a Carmelite
convent at Auschwitz, 9/26/89.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PATRICK J. BUCHANAN. TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, ANALYSIS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              99 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 7, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

IN BRIEF

Compiled by Gagan Nirula

SECTION: METRO; PAGE G11; RELIGION

LENGTH: 803 words


Hickey Says Salvadorans Need Extension of Immigration Act

In a Mass celebrating the signing of peace accords for El Salvador, Cardinal
James Hickey called for an extension of the Immigration Reform Act of 1991,
which provides temporary residence to Salvadoran nationals in the United States.

In a statement last Sunday at the Shrine of the Sacred Heart in Northwest
Washington, Hickey called for an 18-month extension of the act, which is due to
end June 30. He said the extension is necessary because El Salvador needs time
to adjust to a new system that would reintegrate the guerrilla forces and a
demobilized military into society.

"Even if the fragile peace continues, El Salvador, which has been torn apart by
10 years of civil strife, is not yet ready to receive an influx of returning
men, women, and children," Hickey said.


'Wrestling With Angels' Lectures

"Hope for a Shared Healing: Joining Our Spiritual and Psychological Journeys" is
the first of six discussions to be held from 7 to 8:30 p.m. tomorrow at Berwyn
Presbyterian Church, 6301 Greenbelt Rd., College Park.

The discussion is part of "Wrestling With Angels," a series of lectures
presented by counselors from the Pastoral Counseling and Consultation Centers of
Greater Washington. Discussions will take place every Sunday evening through
April 12.

For more information, call the Rev. Kenneth L. Haman at 703-281-1870.


Biblical Paintings to Be Displayed

Three biblical paintings by local artist Edward Knippers will be on display
tomorrow through April 12 at Metropolitan Memorial United Methodist Church, 3401
Nebraska Ave. NW. The exhibit is sponsored by the church's arts council.

For more information, call the church office at 202-363-4900.


Speech to Focus on Children

The Beth El Hebrew Congregation Sisterhood of Alexandria is sponsoring "Leave No
Child Behind: The Children's Defense Fund's Partnership With Citizens and
Children," a speech by Shannon P. Daley, coordinator of religious affairs for
the Children's Defense Fund, at 11 a.m. Wednesday at Temple Beth El, 3830
Seminary Rd., Alexandria.

For more information and reservations, call 703-370-9400.


Gay Catholic Group Hires Director

Dignity/USA, the largest organized movement of homosexual Catholics in the
world, hired Barry P. Goodinson, former director of development for AIDS Action
Council and House of Ruth, as its national executive director.

The position was created in an effort to increase membership and establish
better relationships between the national office and its chapters.

Washington-based Dignity/USA was founded in 1969 and has 4,000 members in 85
chapters.


Faith Missionary to Install Pastor

The Rev. Michael C. Turner will be installed pastor at the first anniversary of
Faith Missionary Baptist Church in Largo during tomorrow's services. The Rev.
John M. Alexander, pastor of St. John United Baptist Church, will be the guest
preacher at the 10:50 a.m. service for the church, which was founded by 12
people last year and now has about 300 members.

For more information, call 301-350-2200.


Dead Sea Scrolls Discussions Set

"Introduction to the Dead Sea Scrolls" is the first in a series of four
discussions to be held at St. John's Episcopal Church, Norwood Parish, 6701
Wisconsin Ave., Chevy Chase, beginning at 11:15 a.m. tomorrow.

The lecture will be presented by William Felder, associate professor of surgery
at Georgetown University Medical Center.

Other lectures will include "The Essenes: Who Were They?" on March 15;
"Essene/Early Christian -- Shared Beliefs and Practices," on March 29; and
"Early Christian Contact with the Essenes," on April 4.

For more information, call 301-654-7767.


Maple Springs Baptist, Pastor Celebrate

Maple Springs Baptist Church, 4131 Belt Rd., Capitol Heights, will celebrate its
29th anniversary and the 25th anniversary of the ministry of its pastor, the
Rev. Chester A. McDonald Sr., at 7 p.m. Monday.

For more information, call 301-735-1020.


Davies Author Will Discuss Book

The Rev. George N. Marshall, author of "A. Powell Davies and His Times," will
discuss and autograph his book at 11 a.m. tomorrow at All Souls Church,
Unitarian, 16th and Harvard streets NW.

The book, based on the life of the human rights advocate and former minister of
All Souls Church, won the Gustavus Myer award in 1991 for "Outstanding Book on
the Subject of Human Rights in the United States."

Under Davies's leadership, the church's congregation played an instrumental role
in desegregating the former Police Boys Club No. 10 in 1954, after the Brown v.
Board of Education decision. Davies also helped establish progressive
organizations such as Americans for Democratic Action and Americans for
Separation of Church and State. Call 202-332-5267.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: SCHEDULE

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              100 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      April 3, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15

LENGTH: 187 words


SENATE Meets at 11 a.m. Committees:

Appropriations -- 10 a.m. Agriculture, rural development and related agencies
subc. FY93 approps. for Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service,
Foreign Agricultural Service, General Sales Manager & Soil Conservation Service.
138 Dirksen Office Bldg.

Armed Services -- 9:30 a.m. Conventional forces & alliance defense subc. DOD
acquisition plans & policies & impact on industrial base. 222 Russell Office
Bldg.

Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs -- 10 a.m. Housing & urban affairs subc.
Performance of Federal Housing Administration. 538 DOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Immigration & refugee affairs subc. Mark up relaxing
immigration criteria for Soviet scientists; pay equalization for immigration
judges; Chinese students. Implementation of employer sanctions. 430 DOB.

Joint Economic -- 9:15 a.m. March employment situation. 628 DOB.


HOUSE Meets at 11 a.m. Committee:

Banking, Finance & Urban Affairs -- 10 a.m. Housing & community development
subc. Federal Housing Administration's Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund & other
FHA issues. 2128 Rayburn House Office Bldg.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: SCHEDULE

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              101 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      April 6, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

THE IMMIGRANTS;
For Foreign-Born, School Is Survival

Lisa Leff

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A9

LENGTH: 574 words


Although many students at B-CC question the relevance of their classes and see
few consequences in not working hard, it is a different story in the third-floor
hallway that houses the school's English for Speakers of Other Languages
program.

Here, in what teachers and students describe as a "school within the school,"
there are freshmen such as 18-year-old Maribel Zavala, who arrived at B-CC in
September "beaming like a kid who just got into kindergarten," according to one
of her teachers.

The analogy is apt. Zavala, from a poor, isolated Salvadoran village, had never
gone to school before she enrolled at B-CC. Illiterate in her native Spanish,
she knows only the barest of English and yearns to "learn everything."

"I love it. I always wanted to go to school, but I thought it was too late,"
Zavala said through an interpreter. She decided it wasn't last summer after
co-workers at the restaurant where she supports herself preparing Caesar salads
convinced her that she must learn English.

Recent immigrants such as Zavala, who make up more than 10 percent of the
school's population -- a proportion that is growing rapidly -- tend to see
learning not as a vague ideal with uncertain value, but as a matter of survival
with clear rewards.

"Only if they speak English can people get more better jobs," said B-CC senior
Hector Barrera, 19, explaining why he pushes himself to get to school by 7:30
a.m. each day after cleaning offices each night until 11.

"My parents, they did not study enough, and they think I can go straight ahead,"
said senior Maria Elizabeth Lopez, 18, who comes from Mexico, explaining why she
stays after school twice a week for math tutoring. "I try to do my best to show
them I am using this opportunity."

"The people from Central America, they have friends and they are working
construction and painting and in restaurants. I don't want to work in painting
or in construction," said junior Edwin Morales, 17, who lives with his
22-year-old brother.

According to The Washington Post Poll, one-fifth of B-CC's students speak a
language other than English at home, a level of diversity that has become
increasingly common in area schools with the relaxation of immigration rules.
These students are more likely to find their schoolwork meaningful, useful and
interesting than are their U.S.-born peers, the poll found.

Nowhere is that attitude more evident than in the ESOL department. One hundred
and twenty students from 32 countries take special classes in English, math,
science and history here, learning the vagaries of American speech and the
difference between George Washington and Benjamin Franklin. It is education at
its most basic, and its most compellng.

"I often consider it a success if they graduate from high school and they are
reasonably literate and can hold reasonably well-paying jobs," said Dora
Klayman, the motherly chairman of the department. If past trends hold, a vast
majority will get their diplomas, while the most privileged and a handful of the
most driven will go to college.

B-CC's foreign-born students say that as outsiders, they are struck by the
tremendous freedom afforded their American schoolmates.

"Here, the relationship between teacher and students, it is like friends," said
Jie "Jane" Jin, 16, a junior who came to Bethesda with her parents 18 months
ago. "In China, if you don't do something the teacher asks, you are like so
bad."




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE LEARNING CURVE; Inside An American High School, Part 2 of 3

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, BILINGUAL STUDENTS BY THE NUMBERS

TYPE: SERIES, MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              102 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 16, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

America's Many Tongues;
Immigration Changing How the Nation Speaks

Barbara Vobejda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 857 words


A substantial and growing number of Americans speak a foreign language at home,
the Census Bureau reports, with significant percentages of big-city residents
saying they have trouble speaking and understanding English.

The most detailed information yet from the 1990 census underscores the extent to
which the nation is becoming a multilingual and multicultural society, and
points out the potential problems facing new Americans with limited English,
from finding jobs to getting health care.

In New York City, for example, 41 percent of residents age 5 and older speak a
foreign language in their homes, and nearly half of those said they did not
speak English very well, the Census Bureau reported yesterday. In 1980, 35
percent of city residents spoke foreign languages at home.

Even more striking is Miami, where nearly three-quarters of the residents speak
a language other than English at home, with 67 percent of those saying they
don't speak English very well.

The figures are high in many other cities, especially those that draw large
numbers of immigrants. In Paterson, N.J., half of the residents speak a language
other than English at home; the figure is nearly 40 percent in Santa Fe, N.M.,
and Hartford, 30 percent in Providence, R.I., and 26 percent in Boston.

"We're clearly in a new era in the last 20 years," said Jeffrey S. Passel, a
demographer at the Urban Institute. "It's not just that there are immigrants,
but immigrants from a lot of different places."

While the United States has always drawn immigrants and been home to bilingual
families, the number of foreign-born residents today, at about 20 million, has
reached an all-time high. The previous peak, in 1980, was about 14 million.

As a result, bilingualism also is increasing as the combined number of first-
and second-generation immigrants reaches record numbers, Passel said.

"It is the children of immigrants who are bicultural. And it's through the
immigrants and the children of immigrants that forces are exerted on American
society that cause it to change," he said.

A national figure on how many families speak a foreign language at home is not
yet available because the results of the 1990 census have been released for only
a portion of the states.

Cities in California and Texas, for example, are likely to show large
proportions of bilingual families, but those figures have not been made public.

A separate 1989 Census Bureau survey showed a 40 percent increase during the
1980s in the number of Americans speaking foreign languages at home.

The 1980 census showed that about 11 percent of the nation's residents spoke
another language at home, and about half of those said they did not speak
English "very well," according to Rosalind Bruno, a Census Bureau demographer.

Bureau officials cautioned that the figures include many families who speak a
combination of English and a foreign language at home.

The United States "has always been a multilingual nation, and it's rather odd
that there's always been this myth that English is the official language and the
only language," said Gillian Stevens, a sociologist at the University of
Illinois.

Much bilingualism is hidden, Stevens said, because the children and
grandchildren of immigrants may speak a foreign language at home but speak
exclusively English, with no accent, outside the home.

Most of those who speak languages other than English at home are not immigrants
but are born in this country, Stevens said.

Still, those most likely to suffer language problems are recent immigrants, and
the figures released yesterday point out the enormity of the current influx.

In New York City, for example, 28 percent of residents said they were foreign
born; nearly half of those came during the 1980s.

The arrival of so many foreign migrants and the proportion with language
difficulties -- about 22 percent of recent immigrants say they speak little
English -- carries major implications for society and its institutions.

New York City's public schools, for example, reported this week that 120,000 new
immigrant students, from 167 countries, had enrolled in the schools over the
past three years.

"New York City spends a lot of time and money recruiting bilingual teachers,"
said James Vlasto, a spokesman for the school system.

The flood of immigrant students has pushed public school enrollment in New York
back up toward 1 million, and this wave has hit the city during a fiscal crisis.
This means that while the school system is cutting back on the number of regular
teachers, it is trying to fill vacancies for bilingual teachers.

Lisandro Perez, director of the Cuban Research Institute at Florida
International University, said the concentrations of immigrant communities,
primarily in coastal cities, have preserved foreign languages and enabled some
non-English speakers to fare better in those cities than they would elsewhere.

In Miami, he said, it is likely that if you get stopped for a traffic violation,
the police officer will be a Latino. "He is probably young and prefers English,
but he can give you a ticket in Spanish," Perez said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, OTHER VOICES (DATA FROM CHART WAS UNAVAILABLE.), TOBEY

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              103 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 22, 1992, Wednesday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

English Is Foreign in More Homes;
Area's Newcomers Are Less Fluent

D'Vera Cohn, Barbara Vobejda, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1109 words


In tens of thousands of Washington area homes, the conversation that flows
across the kitchen table is not in English. It is in Spanish. Or Vietnamese. Or
Arabic.

The last decade's wave of immigration to the area brought massive growth in the
number of people who speak a foreign language at home, according to 1990 Census
figures released yesterday. In all, more than 568,000 area residents say they
do.

In Arlington County alone, a quarter of residents speak a language other than
English at home. In Montgomery County, more than a fifth do. And more than 40
percent of those -- up sharply from a decade ago -- say they do not speak
English very well.

That lack of English-language fluency, combined with the tendency for today's
immigrants to be poorer and less educated than those of the 1970s, creates one
more factor hampering adjustment to American life, according to specialists.

"The first newcomers [in this area] tended to be people who had had contacts
with Americans where they came from," said local demographer George Grier. "But
subsequently, we began to get people lower in income, not as urbanized and not
as acquainted with Americans."

The 1980s influx of immigrants was a significant factor in keeping the area
highly mobile. A fifth of suburban Maryland residents and more than a quarter of
Northern Virginians reported that they had moved into their homes in the 15
months before the census was taken.

Although the Washington area long has been a magnet for immigrants, the new
numbers underscore the extent to which foreign-born residents are changing its
culture. And the growing likelihood that foreign-born residents must struggle to
make themselves understood in English means that financially strapped local
governments are overwhelmed with demand for social programs.

"It's going to be difficult in the '90s to provide the special training that
children of immigrants are going to need in the future," said Robert Griffiths,
of the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments.

In Montgomery County, Carmen Nakassis, who coordinates the school system's
English classes for adults, said the number of students in the program has grown
from fewer than 10,000 in 1986 to more than 16,000 now.

"It seems as if there just is a never-ending flow of students wanting our
classes," she said. "We can't seem to reach the bottom of the well. We always
have to turn people away."

Karin Yanez, an immigration specialist with the Hispanic Committee of Northern
Virginia, said she is swamped with calls for help from recent migrants. "I don't
have an appointment until May 4," she said.

The demand that they describe stems from a flood of foreign immigration here
during the last decade, especially in the suburbs. One in seven Northern
Virginia residents is now foreign-born. Montgomery's immigration during the last
decade doubled its foreign-born population.

A result of this immigration boom is the now-significant population of people
who have trouble speaking English.

One in 12 Northern Virginia residents does not speak English very well,
according to census figures. In suburban Maryland, the number of
foreign-speakers who said their English is not very good doubled during the
decade.

Although the foreign-born population in the District rose by more than 45
percent, suburban areas were more popular destinations. Twice as many newcomers
went to Fairfax or Montgomery counties. Specialists say that immigrants can
bypass the central city now because many suburbs offer public transit, jobs and
affordable housing.

One such immigrant is Jose Pena, who moved to Alexandria from Bolivia in 1982.
He is proud that he passed his driver's license test in English, he said, but
his wife still needs his help with the language.

And his 13-year-old granddaughter, he brags, is typically American: She speaks
English fluently, is a champion piano player and recently won a beauty contest.

When Ban Nguyen, office manager in the Silver Spring government center, helps
new immigrants find their way around Montgomery County offices, it takes her
back to her own beginnings as a Vietnamese immigrant here.

The people she sees often do not know that Americans do not wear hats indoors.
They do not know how to place a long-distance phone call. Foreign speakers, she
said, "are very easy to be taken advantage of."

Her mother, who is over 70, has learned to take the bus, but still speaks very
little English 17 years after the family arrived here.

"I have to take off [work] whenever my mom goes to the doctor," Nguyen, 46,
said.

The tendency of many immigrants to move to neighborhoods where friends and
relatives live can slow adaptation to the English-speaking world, said Lisandro
Perez, director of the Cuban Research Institute at Florida International
University.

The large growth in the Hispanic population means that for many immigrants,
Spanish has become the language to use in public, he said. Before, "it was a
language of intimacy, spoken with family and friends. English was the language
used for the outside world."

Specialists say that although immigrants may not speak English well when they
arrive, they usually become proficient in the language within 10 years. Many
continue to speak their native language at home, sometimes in combination with
English.

Recent immigrants were not the only Washingtonians moving around in the 1980s.
The 1990 Census showed that some areas are highly mobile: More than 60 percent
of the householders in Fairfax County, 65 percent in Alexandria, 68 percent in
Prince William County and 62 percent in Arlington moved into their homes or
apartments in the five years before the census.

In Maryland, the figures were 62 percent of Howard County householders, 56
percent in Montgomery County and 54 percent in Prince George's County.

This mobility, according to researchers, is driven by the baby boom generation,
which is marrying, having children and moving into larger homes. The Washington
area is one of the nation's most popular regions among baby boomers, as it is
with immigrants, census figures show.

But experts say that house-trading in the area may be dampened in coming years
by the stalled economy and the tendency of people to settle down as they get
older.

"You will see some slowing down [in mobility] because the baby boom households
have basically been formed," said Michel Lettre, assistant director of the
Maryland Office of Planning. "They had their children in the '80s, and they've
probably been looking for stability."

Staff researchers John R. Butler, Bridget Roeber and Barbara Saffir contributed
to this report.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: Two charts yesterday detailing data from the 1990 census were
mislabeled. The charts showed the percentage of the total population -- not the
percentage of households -- in each jurisdiction speaking a language other than
English at home.

GRAPHIC: CHART, THE LANGUAGE LEAP, TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, MARYLAND NEWS, DC NEWS, VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              104 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 26, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Salvadorans Rally at White House to Stay in U.S.

Saundra Torry, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A14

LENGTH: 451 words


Hundreds of Salvadorans marched from Adams-Morgan to the White House yesterday
afternoon, chanting and waving banners to protest the scheduled end of a program
that gives them temporary legal residence in the United States.

Salvadorans from the Washington area and as far away as New York, New Jersey and
Massachusetts took their case to Lafayette Square, across from the White House.

In the park, the event became both rally and festival, as Salvadoran bands
played and the protesters chanted in Spanish, "Quieren irse? No, no, no. Nos
quedamos? Si, si, si." The translated message was, "Do you want to leave? No,
no, no. Do we stay? Yes, yes, yes." D.C. police said about 500 people took part
in the rally. Organizers said 2,000 people participated.

The protesters want the administration to extend "temporary protective status,"
known as TPS, granted under federal law in 1990. The 18-month program expires
June 30, but Attorney General William P. Barr could extend it.

The Bush administration has not indicated whether it will extend the program,
Immigration and Naturalization spokesman Duke Austin said yesterday. He added
that no one will be deported without full proceedings, which are not expected to
begin until March 1993.

Meanwhile, Austin said, Salvadorans who have work permits under TPS will be able
to continue working legally. The program affects about 187,000 nationwide, more
than 26,000 in the Washington area, according to the INS.

"Things are not so good [in El Salvador] since the war stopped and we will not
get any jobs," said 23-year-old Carlos Alberto Hernandez, who lives on Long
Island and does factory work. "I want to stay here. I want to live here
forever."

The peace treaty signed in January between the U.S.-backed Salvadoran government
and its leftist guerrilla opponents ended 12 years of civil war. But it seemed
to give little comfort to those who had fled and marched yesterday.

Maria Vides, 20, who came to Washington with her family as a tourist five years
ago and now lives in Northwest Washington, said, "I don't believe a peace treaty
means peace" in El Salvador.

She and her family -- father, stepmother and four siblings -- planned never to
go back to El Salvador, she said, where her teenage brother might have been
drafted and where they felt their lives in danger.

Vides is a bookkeeper and has been attending college classes. In El Salvador,
she said, "It is hard for students, for women to find work."

The INS's Austin said that "there should be a conclusion to [the Salvadorans']
situation sometime in the future. We are talking about people who entered the
U.S. illegally."Staff writer Gabriel Escobar contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              105 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 30, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Hispanics Get Pledge Of Action;
Kelly Program Marks Anniversary of Unrest

Saundra Torry, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 785 words


Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly yesterday marked the upcoming first anniversary of the
Mount Pleasant disturbances by promising Hispanics more city services, setting
target dates for their delivery and appointing a director of the D.C. Office of
Latino Affairs.

The mayor also promised to push for extension of a federal law that temporarily
granted legal residency to illegal immigrants from El Salvador and reissued a
mayoral order promising certain benefits to immigrants, regardless of their
legal status.

Pedro Aviles, chairman of the D.C. Latino Civil Rights Task Force, called the
initiatives "an excellent beginning," but pointedly noted that they come six
months after the task force gave the mayor its blueprint for improvements.

Some other task force members also welcomed the mayor's program, but showed
exasperation over the pace of her actions.

"I'd be lying if I said we weren't frustrated it has taken so long . . . . But
I'd also be lying to say this is not positive," said Juan Milanes, a task force
member and civil rights lawyer.

The task force and its proposals were spurred by two nights of disturbances in
Mount Pleasant that began May 5, when a Hispanic man was shot by a D.C. police
officer during an arrest.

Yesterday, the mayor faced critics by asserting that there has "been a lot of
progress in a year," and that it takes time and effort to ensure that policy
initiatives "are translated to real results."

Her actions yesterday included:

The long-expected appointment of Carmen Ramirez as the new director of the D.C.
Office of Latino Affairs, an agency that has been without a permanent director
for two years. The appointment ends -- on the mayor's terms -- a year-long
battle of wills between the mayor and the Commission on Latino Economic
Development. The mayor angered many in the Hispanic community by rejecting the
commission's nominees because their list did not include Ramirez. The former
Kelly campaign worker is currently a University of Maryland nursing professor.

The reissuance of a mayoral order that prohibits D.C. employees from asking
those applying for many types of benefits about their citizenship or immigration
status. At the time of the disturbances, the D.C. police asked U.S. immigration
officials for information about several Hispanics who had been arrested -- a
practice that was suspended almost immediately when Hispanic leaders complained.

A letter by the mayor to Attorney General William P. Barr supporting Salvadoran
immigrants in their battle for extension of temporary protective status, a
program that gives them temporary legal residency but is due to expire in June.

A mayoral "multicultural initiative" to promote what Kelly called "respect for
multicultural qualities in every agency" to cover hiring, promotions, awarding
of contracts and evaluation of senior officials.

The mayor also set target dates for several programs -- some new, some
previously announced -- to improve services in the Hispanic community. One would
provide "culturally relevant" substance-abuse treatment in the Mount Pleasant
and Columbia Heights neighborhoods. Others focus on youth job counseling, infant
and child immunization and employment services for Hispanics who, according to
the Office of Latino Affairs, number about 65,000 in the District, about 10
percent of the population. Kelly said 10 percent of the participants in this
year's summer youth employment program would be Hispanic youths.

The mayor also promised to provide "cross-cultural training" to D.C. police
officers in the 3rd and 4th Districts and to open a bilingual police community
center by June 1. As for the task force's call to move Hispanics into the top
levels of the D.C. police department, the mayor and Police Chief Isaac Fulwood
Jr. acknowledged that there still are no Hispanic officers above the rank of
lieutenant.

Fulwood, joining the mayor at the news conference, said that promotion to
captain is based on civil service examinations and that once a Hispanic officer
reaches that rank, the next step could be deputy chief.

Kelly said the city has an "aggressive plan . . . to put people on track," but
she is opposed to waiving civil service requirements to promote Hispanics more
rapidly. "As an African American," she said, she feared such a move could
"undercut the persons when they get the authority they are entitled to
exercise."

Aviles withheld a more complete response until a news conference scheduled for
today. "The mayor is definitely trying to make a difference," he said, adding
that "we need to bring aboard the city council" to provide the money for
long-term programs.

Staff writer Nell Henderson contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              106 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                       May 1, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

England's Race Issue

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 357 words


Michael Kinsley's analysis of the British election ["In Britain, John Major,"
op-ed, April 16] emphasized the role of the press in fostering fear of the Labor
Party's platform and distrust of its leader, Neil Kinnock. But he only briefly
mentioned the issue of immigration as a factor in the Conservative Party's
surprising victory. As a social science researcher who spent a month in England
before the elections, I think it is important to note the timing and impact of
the immigration issue on the outcome of the elections.

The Labor Party surged ahead in the polls by April 5, the Sunday before the
election. Shortly before those polls were published, a Conservative Scottish MP
had raised the specter of "floods of immigrants" overwhelming Britain in the
event of a Labor victory, and he was quickly chastised and denounced by the
Conservative Party leaders. However, after the Sunday polls were published, John
Major and several of his cabinet ministers raised the issue of immigration again
as an argument to vote against Labor.

Since "immigration" in Britain functions as a code word for minorities and
appeals to the latent racism and xenophobia of the British electorate, the
Conservatives cut Labor's lead in the polls within 48 hours and proceeded to win
the election just four days later.

We have seen elections in the United States in which the race issue was raised
to defeat liberal candidates. I was not surprised to see the same tactic work in
Great Britain. Although the Labor Party had a moderate platform addressing the
serious issues of education, health care, unemployment and the deterioration of
the country's infrastructure, voters were still swayed at the last minute by a
blatant appeal to their racial prejudice, their economic anxieties and their
declining role in world affairs. Similarly, the British press, which does not
even pretend to be impartial, fueled the flames of voter anxiety and uncertainty
by focusing on the personalities and past foibles of the candidates rather than
on the bona fide issues and their significance for the future of British
society. JEWELLE TAYLOR GIBBS Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              107 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 7, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

D.C. May Give Vote to Noncitizens

From news services and staff reports

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C5; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 69 words


D.C. Council member Frank Smith Jr. (D-Ward 1) introduced legislation yesterday
to grant local voting rights to immigrants who are legal permanent residents and
have applied for citizenship.

Smith, who could not estimate the number of potential voters, said the measure
would "expand democracy" and should encourage immigrants to become citizens.
Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly has said she opposes the measure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              108 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 11, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

L.A. Swept by Decade of Social, Economic Change

Barbara Vobejda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1009 words


Enormous social and economic changes swept over the city of Los Angeles during
the 1980s, including rising poverty and unemployment and a wave of immigration
that transformed the city's racial profile, according to census figures released
today.

The detailed statistics, issued early by the Census Bureau to help guide the
city in rebuilding from the recent riots, underscore the metamorphosis that many
say helped set the stage for the violent upheaval.

At the heart of that change is an increasingly multi-ethnic population, fueled
by the arrival of more than 750,000 immigrants since 1980. When the census was
taken in 1990, nearly 40 percent of city residents were foreign-born, an
increase of two-thirds in just a decade.

Hispanics and Asians together now make up half of the city's population, while
both the white and the black share fell. And language and cultural forces made
the new racial dynamic even more complex: Half of all Los Angeles residents
speak a language other than English at home and, of those, the majority said
they did not speak English very well.

Referring to the "extraordinary demographic developments that help account for
these riots," Alan Heslop, professor of government at Claremont-McKenna College,
located outside Los Angeles, cited the displacement of blacks by these newcomers
in some areas of the city and the relative economic success of some immigrant
groups.

"There was the emergence in the 1980s of a new commercial middle class," he
said, made up mostly of Koreans and replacing the Jewish-owned corner stores
destroyed in the 1965 Watts riots. These new shop owners, he said, "are
attracting some of the same envy and enmity and becoming, unfortunately, the
target of racial animosity."

The figures also point to other sources of social and economic anxiety: More
than 40,000 teenagers -- 20 percent of the city's 16- to 19-year-olds -- are
both out of school and unemployed. Unemployment for all city residents grew from
6.8 percent to 8.4 percent over the decade and poverty among children rose 3
points to 27 percent.

In part, the statistics reflect the loss of manufacturing jobs available to
unskilled workers, a long-term trend that has altered the employment picture
nationwide.

Davis Rodgers, who spent much of his life in the Watts section of the city,
remembers when two tire companies, a steel factory and an auto plant employed
thousands of black men in his neighborhood. Rodgers, 71 and head of the Watts
branch of the NAACP, said most of those jobs are gone now.

"Then in the last 10 years, the Latinos have flooded this area," he said. And at
the same time, tensions between blacks and Koreans have grown.

"This area is without jobs," he said. "If a kid wants to go to a movie, there's
no movies. There's no skating rink. There's no recreation."

The south-central area hardest hit by the riots is also a portrait in contrast
to the surrounding region. Nearly 17 percent of households in the south-central
region are headed by a single mother, for example, compared to 8 percent in Los
Angeles County as a whole, according to figures compiled by the National
Planning Data Corp., a market research firm.

And the south-central area is overwhelmingly made up of minorities: 60 percent
of residents are Hispanic and nearly 35 percent are black, compared to 38
percent Hispanic and 11 percent black in the county.

Like many urban centers across the country, said Stephen Levy, director of the
Center for the Continuing Study of the California Economy in Palo Alto, the
south-central area of Los Angeles has been bypassed by economic progress during
the past two decades.

While income in the area grew over the decade, so did poverty, the result of
disproportionate gains among higher income groups while the plight of the poor
did not change, Levy said.

The new census figures also point out the extent to which many city residents
are house-poor. Among renters, for example, four out of 10 are spending at least
35 percent of their household income on housing. In the District, by comparison,
another area where housing costs are high, the same is true for three out of 10
renters.

Underlying the shifting profile of the city was extraordinary population growth,
among the fastest in the nation. A "demographic roiling of the waters" has left
some areas of the city "deeply unstable," Heslop said, pointing to the departure
of the middle class and the rise of a sweatshop economy of garment and furniture
factories hiring mostly immigrants.

The phenomenal population changes have rewritten the mandate for public
institutions in the area, none more so than the schools.

The Los Angeles Unified School District is growing by 15,000 students a year,
crowding the system so much it has been forced to bus children across town,
resort to a year-round schedule, spill over into temporary trailers and jam
classrooms with as many as 37 students per teacher.

More than half of the students are from families with incomes low enough to
qualify for free meals and a third -- up from 7 percent a decade ago -- have
limited English.

"On top of everything else, we've got the gang problem," said Patrick Spencer,
public information officer for the school system. "The problem is once they get
out the [school] door and jump in their cars, there are lots of drive-by
shootings. There are frictions because of ethnicity and frictions caused by
overcrowding."

The Rev. Cecil L. Murray, who has watched the neighborhood surrounding his First
AME Church in south-central Los Angeles shift from predominantly black to
Hispanic, argued that the multi-ethnic character of the city could be a source
of strength. He described a food distribution project that was set up jointly by
whites, Latinos and blacks after the riots.

At the same time, he said, the "black-white society has died forever. We're
going to have racial tension for the next 50 years. Then it will ease for the
next 100 years."

William Casey, director of computer-assisted reporting, contributed to this
report.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, PROFILES OF LOS ANGELES, TWP; PHOTO, FRED SWEETS

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              109 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 12, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

The French Ask: Can L.A. Happen Here?;
Alienated Immigrant Population, Class Differences Stir Worries of Urban Strife

William Drozdiak, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15

LENGTH: 1528 words

DATELINE: MARSEILLES, France


Just a couple of miles from the gleaming yachts and spacious villas that adorn
this Mediterranean port city, North African youths from the shabby suburban
ghetto of La Cayolle are locked in an uneasy coexistence with their wealthy
neighbors.

"What happened in Los Angeles can definitely happen here," said Ahmed, a
17-year-old born of Algerian parents. "Police brutality is also a problem in
France, and if one of my friends got beat up, I would be ready to take to the
streets."

The North African youths are the second generation of immigrants who came here
during the postwar economic boom; they were born in France yet still yet feel
stranded between two cultures. Many have dropped out of school, some have
succumbed to heroin or other drugs, still others have adopted a routine of petty
crime to make ends meet.

The worst riots in the United States in more than a quarter century have
suddenly prompted a closer examination of France's own racial and class
troubles, as politicians, pundits and common citizens ask a question fraught
with renewed anxiety: Could it really happen here?

Last year, in the soulless, high-rise housing complexes on the outskirts of
Paris and Lyons where many immigrant families live, bands of alienated Arab
youths fought with police and pillaged stores in spasms of violence that shocked
the French population.

The incidents in Sartrouville, Vaulx-en-Velin and Mantes-la-Jolie "were in
effect an alarm signal from a population of youths who feel cast aside by our
society," said Harlem Desir, president of SOS Racisme, an organization that
promotes racial harmony in France. "The events in the United States should alert
us to the fact that the ferment of exclusion and the dangers of a dual society
are present among us too."

The flashes of urban disorder led France's Socialist government to identify 400
"highly volatile" areas -- 15 of them in Marseilles -- that have been made ripe
for social explosion by a combination of high illiteracy, school-dropout rates,
joblessness and concentration of immigrant residents.

But since the disturbances ceased, the commitment to reform has flagged,
according to leaders of France's Arab communities. The government, facing a
budget crunch, has been unable to devote large sums to enhance education or
create jobs. Actual improvements seem pathetically cosmetic, such as former
premier Michel Rocard's call to repaint elevators and change mailboxes to
relieve the drabness of ghetto life.

Despite 11 years of Socialist rule, France has done little to encourage upward
professional mobility among racial minorities. Affirmative action programs do
not exist here, and very few students of Arab origin have been admitted to the
top schools that provide entry into the elite business and government circles
that run France.

"Nothing has been done to defuse what is getting to be a desperate situation,"
said Adrien Akroune, an Algerian immigrant's son who was elected to Marseilles'
municipal council three years ago. "All it will take is a spark, a minor scuffle
with the authorities, and these neighborhoods will become battlegrounds."

Akroune is one of only two representatives on Marseilles' 100-member City
Council who are of Arab origin, even though those with North African backgrounds
now make up more than 10 percent of the city's 850,000 residents.

"There is a lot of talk but little action in terms of racial integration in
France," Akroune said. "In contrast to some American cities, where blacks can be
elected mayor, French political parties are very reluctant about letting someone
of Arab origin get into a position of exercising power."

In the aftermath of the Los Angeles riots, President Francois Mitterrand said in
a radio interview that the acquittal of four white policemen in the Rodney King
beating case was "scandalous" and that the violent turmoil set off by the court
verdict was actually the result of a "conservative society" governed by
Presidents Reagan and Bush for the last 12 years. "There can be no comparison
between us and what may happen elsewhere," Mitterrand said, "for France is the
country where the level of social protection is the highest in the world."

Bernard Tapie, a self-made Marseilles millionaire who recently was named
minister for urban affairs, also emphasized French welfare benefits as a
prescription against riots, "contrary to the United States, where virtually no
minimal assistance is given to people who live in the ghettos."

Tapie said on French radio that social turmoil here was implausible because
"nobody in France can be called totally impoverished" and the country was
"practically free of crack, that drug that makes you crazy."

But Jean Poperen, a former Socialist minister, warned that France "was on the
same slippery slope" as the United States in terms of racial and class
disparities and should not discount "a phenomenon of the same magnitude" as the
Los Angeles riots.

The reassurances expressed by Mitterrand and the other officials have failed to
alleviate the pent-up frustrations and anguish among Arab youths who see no hope
of finding meaningful jobs or leading fulfilling lives. A tour of the immigrant
quarters around Marseilles and interviews with more than dozen residents showed
that many people disbelieve the government's comments and feel that social
tensions are becoming so acute that the possibility of a significant urban
uprising can no longer be dismissed.

The appointment of Tapie, whom Mitterrand praised as "a man of action," to solve
urban problems has evoked derision among Arab youths in Marseilles. While
gaining early popularity as a successful businessman and football club owner who
rose from humble origins, Tapie has alienated many residents of La Cayolle, who
say he did not fulfill campaign promises.

"He came here a few years ago asking for votes and telling all of us he would
take us out for an excursion on his huge yacht so we could see how the rich
people live," said a disgruntled teenager. "Well, we're still waiting for our
boat ride, along with everything else he has promised."

Besides growing disaffection among the Arab community, signs of white backlash
are becoming abundantly clear. The extreme right-wing National Front posted its
best showing ever in March's regional elections by capturing nearly a quarter of
the vote in the Marseilles area. The front favors the expulsion of most
immigrants and wants to grant French citizenship on the basis of blood ties
rather than residence.

Bruno Etienne, a Marseilles sociologist, says that much of the far right's
support comes, ironically, from the children of earlier Portuguese, Spanish and
Italian immigrants who harbor strong anti-Arab resentment and feel their jobs
and citizenship may be jeopardized by problems caused by the Arab presence.

The seeds of racial conflict were planted here at the end of World War II, when
Charles de Gaulle opened France to Algerian, Tunisian and Moroccan workers so
they could help rebuild the country and compensate for the many Frenchmen who
died during the war. Many such immigrants, drawn by the warm climate and
proximity to their homeland across the sea, decided to settle in the Marseilles
region. A second large wave of migrants arrived following the Algerian war for
independence in the late 1950s.

As prosperity spread, more North African males were allowed into France to
perform the necessary manual labor and maintenance work that French whites
increasingly disdained. The immigrants eventually were allowed to bring their
families here.

Police say that most recent immigrants scrupulously avoid scrapes with the law
in order to prevent expulsion and that the biggest delinquency problem is among
the offspring of earlier immigrants born in France. The anger and frustrations
of those children comes through in nearly every conversation about living in a
country where they were born and raised, yet where they still feel like
outcasts.

"Even if you study hard and get through school, it is getting practically
impossible to find a job that matches your skills, so you turn more angry and
hostile toward the society," says Abdel-Karim Abour, a Tunisian immigrant's son
who has earned a master's degree in urban development yet has not been able to
find a job in his field.

Pointing to a cluster of idle adolescents near a corner cafe, Abour said that
many youths no longer bother continuing with school because they see that, as in
his case, it does not pay off with a good job. "I don't know who is more
frustrated -- them or me," he said.

Still, according to French writer and social critic Jean-Francois Revel, the
most feasible long-term solution for peace among the country's races and
religions lies in improving education, whatever the cost.

"The lesson, for both of our countries, is that holding nationality is not a
sufficient guarantee of integration," Revel wrote. "The key problem is that as
society gets more complex, we are turning out more under-qualified people who
are incapable of adapting to it." The remedy, Revel adds, is not an identity
card or a passport. It is a diploma that leads to a satisfying job.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              110 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 3, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Tracking Genealogy

Jene Stonesifer

SECTION: HOME; PAGE T27

LENGTH: 214 words


It's a common misconception, says John Philip Colletta, that all European
immigrants came to the United States through Ellis Island. In fact, "there were
many ports and receiving stations," he says.

In a series of six lectures, Colletta, a Washington-based professional
genealogist, will discuss the receiving stations as well as sources of
information for persons interested in ancestral research. He also will talk
about preparing for genealogical research trips to Europe. The course, which
begins Jan. 23, is designed to help participants place their own ancestral
stories within the larger context of immigration to the United States, Colletta
says.

Using case studies of three immigrants arriving from France, Italy and Germany,
Colletta hopes to show that the flow to America, was not automatic. There was
the option of moving to another country in Europe or South America, he says.
"We'll look at each immigrant as an individual," Colletta says, "and the
emotions, motives and personal choices that were made during the immigration."
The lecture series, sponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program,
meets at 6 p.m. on Wednesdays Jan. 23 through Feb. 27. Members, $ 60;
nonmembers, $ 94. Reservations required. For class location, call 202-357-3030.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

TYPE: SCHEDULE

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              111 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 3, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

'Freedom' They Can Hold On To;
Immigrants Become Parents Hours After Landing at Dulles

Whitney Redding, Peter Baker, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D1

LENGTH: 597 words


Like so many immigrants who come to the United States, Vardges Hakopian and
Siranoush Amirian expected to find freedom when they left the strife and
hardship of Armenia and landed at Dulles International Airport on New Year's
Day.

So when their daughter was born under dramatic circumstances just 2 1/2 hours
after her young parents stepped off an Aeroflot jet, they named her "Freedom" --
or Angelika Azadouhi to be exact. That is Armenian for "Angel Freedom."

"This is considered like an angelic gift," Hakopian said through an interpreter
yesterday at Reston Hospital Center as his 6-pound 9-ounce daughter slept in a
soft white blanket. "I feel very happy that everything turned out okay. I did
have some moments of fear in the airport."

He wasn't the only one.

The first baby of the New Year born at Reston Hospital arrived after paramedics
in the ambulance racing to the emergency room could not detect her heartbeat,
and feared she might be dead.

The placenta had separated from the mother's uterine wall, meaning that the
unborn child was cut off from her blood supply, officials said.

Paramedics came into the hospital "assuming this was a catastrophe about to
happen," said Susan Sigleo, the physician who delivered the child. "By the time
[Amirian] arrived, she was lying in a pool of blood."

The Armenian couple do not speak English, but while hospital workers tried to
communicate with them, Sigleo determined that the child was still alive and
delivered the baby by Caesarean section. Hospital officials are calling the
infant a "miracle baby."

Amirian, 20, who suffered from toxemia, a potentially fatal complication of
childbirth, could not speak to reporters yesterday. Doctors said her condition
is improving, and they expected her to be moved out of intensive care last
night.

For Amirian, a preschool teacher, and her husband, a carpenter, the story began
18 months ago when they began trying to leave Armenia, a troubled republic in
the southern part of the Soviet Union.

Hoping to find work and join relatives in Los Angeles, they waited two months to
get airline tickets. Eventually, Hakopian said, they bought four tickets in a
"roundabout way" for 4,000 rubles, or about $ 670, each for themselves and his
mother and brother -- about four times the normal price.

Amirian felt uncomfortable on the 12-hour flight from Moscow to Dulles, where
they were to change planes, but because the baby was not due until Jan. 15, she
did not suspect she was in labor, her husband said.

After the couple arrived at Dulles at 2:15 p.m. on Tuesday, an immigration
office worker noticed her discomfort and called for emergency medical help.

"Most of us might think, 'Why would you fly under those circumstances?' But
their situation was so different," said Claudia Smith, a spokeswoman for the
nearly two-year-old hospital, which delivered 1,130 babies in 1990. "This was
their opportunity to get out, and they were waiting and they needed to take it."

The parents chose the first name and Smith said she suggested "Freedom" for the
middle name.

By waiting to be born until after the plane landed at Dulles, Angelika has
automatically won what her parents will seek once they settle on the West Coast:
U.S. citizenship.

"Angelika Azadouhi Hakopian, president of the United States. How do you like
that?" asked a smiling Vertanes Kalayjian, pastor at St. Mary's Armenian
Apostolic Church in Northwest Washington. Kalayjian was summoned by the hospital
to translate and help the family find temporary housing.

Hakopian laughed at the thought.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, VARDGES HAKOPIAN WITH DAUGHTER ANGELIKA. MARY LOU FOY

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              112 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 5, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Will Stop Excluding Immigrants, Travelers With AIDS Virus

Susan Okie, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A5

LENGTH: 724 words


Secretary of Health and Human Services Louis W. Sullivan has decided to remove
infection with the AIDS virus from a list of medical conditions for which
immigrants can be excluded from the United States, a department spokesman said
yesterday.

The decision came two months after Congress passed a law requiring Sullivan to
revise the list of such conditions. It was welcomed yesterday by public health
experts and AIDS activists, who have strongly opposed the U.S. policy barring
HIV-infected immigrants and travelers since it went into effect in 1987.

"It's long overdue," said June E. Osborn, chairman of the National Commission on
AIDS. The exclusionary policy "has been an embarrassment internationally and a
source of potentially very painful discrimination for people with HIV and AIDS,"
she said.

Sullivan also has proposed removing several other conditions from the list,
leaving active tuberculosis as the only disease for which immigration officials
could refuse an immigrant or traveler entry to the United States. Under the new
rule, expected to take effect June 1, leprosy, syphilis, gonorrhea and three
less common sexually transmitted diseases would no longer be considered medical
reasons for exclusion.

In revising the list, the secretary accepted the conclusion of a group of
government and nongovernment scientists that people infected with the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) -- the AIDS virus -- or with other sexually
transmitted diseases pose no threat to others as a result of casual contact,
said HHS spokesman Bill Grigg. Leprosy is being removed from the list because it
now can be treated with drugs to eliminate the risk of transmission, he said.

The proposed changes will be presented to officials at the State and Justice
departments and will be published in the Federal Register, he said.

The policy restricting HIV-infected immigrants and travelers has generated
fierce controversy since 1987, when Congress passed an amendment by Sen. Jesse
Helms (R-N.C.) adding HIV infection to the government's list of "dangerous,
contagious diseases" for which an immigrant or visitor could be excluded.

Under the policy, all immigrants -- including undocumented aliens applying for
permanent U.S. residence -- have been required to be tested for HIV infection.
"The effects were really harsh," said Judy Rabinovitz, staff counsel for the
American Civil Liberties Union's immigrants rights project. "The whole hysteria
around HIV and AIDS became, suddenly, directed at immigrants."

The policy also requires HIV-infected travelers to the United States to declare
that they are infected and seek a waiver -- which is stamped on a piece of paper
in their passport -- allowing them to enter the country.

Public health experts have contended from the beginning that such restrictions
were medically unnecessary and discriminatory. A group of organizations
including the National Commission on AIDS, the American Bar Association, the
World Health Organization and the International AIDS Society urged a change in
the policy more than a year ago.

Public criticism intensified last June during the sixth international AIDS
conference in San Francisco, when dozens of AIDS activist groups and medical
organizations boycotted the conference. Activists demonstrating against the
restrictions drowned out Sullivan when he tried to address the meeting.

Harvard University, the sponsor of the 1992 international AIDS conference to be
held in Boston, also announced that it would withdraw its sponsorship unless the
government changed its policy.

Because Congress had placed HIV infection on the disease list, Bush
administration officials said legislation was needed to remove it. Last October,
as part of a broad revision of immigration laws, Congress passed an amendment
requiring Sullivan to revise the list.

"I think this is a clear and very positive assertion on the part of the
secretary in favor of rational policy toward persons with AIDS," said Harvey
Fineberg, dean of the Harvard School of Public Health.

AIDS activist organizations also applauded the move. "It sends a clear message
that this is a disease that is not easily communicated," said Geoffrey Knox,
director of communications for Gay Men's Health Crisis, which boycotted the June
conference. "It sends an education message to the nation."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, LOUIS W. SULLIVAN

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              113 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 11, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

'Green' Light For Comic Tale

Desson Howe

SECTION: WEEKEND; PAGE N35

LENGTH: 454 words


IT'S INSTANTLY forgettable, but "Green Card," about a marriage of convenience
between immigrant Gerard Depardieu and apartment hunter Andie MacDowell, is
nonetheless pleasing. It sheds no light on the real world of arranged marriages,
illegal aliens or culture clashes but it allows French actor Depardieu to work
up an amusing performance.

He's a Frenchman (surprise!), who needs permanent U.S. residency to work in New
York. A mutual friend sets him up with MacDowell, a prissy horticulturalist who
needs to be married in order to secure the sublet of her dreams, an apartment
with an exotic greenhouse.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service gets suspicious, however, and sets up
an investigative interview. Suddenly the faux newlyweds have to get together
fast and learn about each other.

It doesn't take a rocket scientist, or even a Hollywood scriptwriter, to figure
out where this When-Gerry-Met-Andie affair is going. But the screwball marriage
has a lighthearted airiness. Depardieu, in his first major English-speaking
role, turns his language hurdle into a comic asset. He's comically tongue-tied,
as he attempts to convince INS officials that he is her husband and to assure
MacDowell's family and boyfriend that he isn't.

At one point, when the officials ask the couple how they met, he improvises a
desperate anecdote about bumping into MacDowell and making her drop her parcels.
Then, getting over-excited, he starts talking about his parcels.

"Oh you had parcels too?" asks the lady official. "Oh," says Depardieu,
"everyone 'ad parcels."

MacDowell uses the same finishing-school hauteur she did in "sex, lies, and
videotape" to good effect. "You silly . . . French . . . oaf!" she calls him in
a moment of exasperation.

There are other amusing moments: To create a fake photo collection of happy
highlights from the past, Depardieu dresses up in various costumes, from
swimsuit to skiing clothes, and has MacDowell take Polaroid shots. When sitting
down to interview the couple, the immigration officials snap open their
briefcases and click their ballpoints with slapstick synchronicity.

It is slightly disconcerting to realize that this pleasant but lightweight movie
was produced, directed and written by Peter Weir. This means Touchstone Pictures
didn't throw this the Australian director's way; he came up with it himself.
Although Weir is best known for popular hits such as "Dead Poets Society" and
"Witness," there was a time when he was an original director, with moody works
like "Picnic at Hanging Rock," "The Last Wave" and the grimly funny "The
Plumber." Does he remember? Or is this movie part of an application for a green
card?

GREEN CARD (PG-13) -- Area theaters.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, FROM LEFT, BEBE NEUWIRTH, GERALD DEPARDIEU AND ANDIE MACDOWELL
IN "GREEN CARD."

TYPE: REVIEW

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              114 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 11, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

CORRECTION

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 42 words


It was incorrectly reported Wednesday that Salvadoran immigrants who obtain
temporary clemency from deportation ultimately would obtain U.S. citizenship.
Deportation proceedings will be initiated against the immigrants after the
clemency period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: CORRECTION

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              115 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 14, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

DEATHS

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D4; OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 873 words


RONALD SANDERS

Journalist & Historian

Ronald Sanders, 58, a writer and former editor of the monthly Zionist journal
Midstream who specialized in Jewish history and the immigrant experience, died
of cancer Jan. 11 at his home in New York City.

His most popular book, "The Downtown Jews: Portrait of an Immigrant Generation,"
was published in 1970. It detailed the lives of Jews on New York's Lower East
Side beginning in the 1880s. His other books include "Shores of Refuge: A
Hundred Years of Jewish Emigration," "Israel: The View from Masada,"
"Reflections on a Teapot" and "The High Walls of Jerusalem," a history of the
Balfour Declaration.

Mr. Sanders, who was born in Union City, N.J., graduated from Kenyon College and
received a master's degree in history from Columbia University. He was a former
professor at Queens College.


SARDAR SHAH NAWAZ

U.N. Delegate

Sardar Shah Nawaz, 74, Pakistan's chief delegate to the United Nations from 1982
to 1989, died of cancer Jan. 11 at a hospital in New York City.

He joined his country's diplomatic service in 1950. He was ambassador to Iran
from 1968 to 1972. From 1980 to 1982, he was secretary-general of Pakistan's
Foreign Ministry.

SIR ALEC ROSE

Solo Sailor

Sir Alec Rose, 82, a former grocer and market gardener who sailed around the
world single-handed in a 36-foot ketch, died in England Jan. 11 in a hospital in
Cosham, Hampshire. The cause of death was not reported.

He was knighted in 1968 after his 28,500-mile voyage in the ketch Lively Lady.
In July 1967, he set off from Portsmouth, on the English Channel, reaching
Melbourne, Australia, 155 days later. The complete voyage lasted 320 days. He
was accompanied only by a stuffed rabbit named Algy.

Sir Alec fell in love with the sea as a child. He left school at 15 and tried to
join the merchant navy as a deckhand, but was turned away because he was too
small. At 59, he spent his life savings on the round-the-world trip, but
recouped the voyage costs afterward through contracts for newspaper articles,
lecture tours and advertising.

JOSEPH M. HUNT

Psychologist

Joseph McVicker Hunt, 84, professor emeritus of psychology at the University of
Illinois, whose research on childhood development was credited with helping make
"head start" programs key parts of the nation's war on poverty, died Jan. 9 in
Urbana, Ill., after a stroke.

His 1961 book, "Intelligence and Experience," led to research concluding that
intelligence is largely dependent on one's environment. It was cited as an
important factor in persuading the Kennedy and Johnson administrations to make
head start programs for poor children a key element in efforts to break the
cycle of poverty.

He was chairman of an interdisciplinary White House Task Force in 1966 on the
role of the federal government in child development. The task force recommended
follow-up programs to Project Head Start and urged that the project begin with
younger children.

BERRY KROEGER

Radio Actor

Berry Kroeger, 78, a radio actor who had appeared on such hit shows as "Inner
Sanctum," died of kidney failure Jan. 4 at a hospital in Los Angeles.

He had been a fixture on old radio serials such as "Young Dr. Malone," "The
Falcon" and "Inner Sanctum." He also did guest appearances on "The Lux Radio
Theatre," Orson Welles's "The Mercury Theatre on the Air" and "The First Nighter
Program," which brought Broadway plays into American living rooms.

Mr. Kroeger also had appeared in movies. He was a character actor in such films
as "The Iron Curtain," "Cry of the City," "Down to the Sea in Ships," "Blood
Alley" and "The Mephisto Waltz."

CAROLYN E. TREFFINGER

Children's Author

Carolyn E. Treffinger, 99, the author of several popular children's books, who
was a retired Wadsworth, Ohio, teacher and principal, died Jan. 8 in Blue Hill,
Neb. The cause of death was not reported.

Miss Treffinger was the author of "Li-Lun, Lad of Courage," which won the 1948
John Newberry Honor Award from the American Library Association and the 1949
Boys Club of America Junior Book Honor. Her other books included "Rag Doll Jane"
and "Jimmy's Shoes."

OLIVER GLEICHENHAUS

Burger Pioneer

Oliver Gleichenhaus, 79, whose spicy Ollieburgers were sold nationwide, died
Jan. 10 in Miami Beach after surgery for a heart ailment.

John Y. Brown, who made millions building up Col. Sanders' Kentucky Fried
Chicken, was a great fan of the Ollieburger and promised to make the concoction
famous. Mr. Gleichenhaus sold the recipe, which he demanded be kept secret, for
$ 1 million, and Brown introduced the Ollieburger through his Lums restaurant
chain. The burgers also were sold in a new restaurant chain called Ollie's and
from mobile restaurants called "Ollie's Trolleys."

DONALD MADONNA

Pilot & Museum Director

Donald Madonna, 53, the head of the Museum of Flying in Santa Monica, Calif.,
who was commandant of the Edwards Air Force Base test pilot school from 1980 to
1982, died Jan. 10 in the crash of a vintage aircraft.

He had headed the museum at Santa Monica Airport since September 1989. He was a
member of the first graduating class from the U.S. Air Force Academy in 1959 and
logged 4,000 hours in his 23 years in the service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OBITUARY

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              116 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 21, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Amtek Program Provides Immigrants With Skills to Start New Career Paths

Jennifer Caspar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE F6

LENGTH: 723 words


In an Arlington office building, there is a classroom with computer parts and
car parts everywhere. Immigrants from Vietnam, Laos, South Korea, Afghanistan,
Nicaragua and other countries come to learn how to say "keyboard," "printer" and
"hard disk." They come to learn how to dress for a job interview and how to put
a computer back together.

Amtek Systems Inc., a small Arlington software development and computer services
company started by three Vietnamese refugees who met here in the mid-1980s, has
conducted such courses since it was founded in 1986. Last month, the company
regrouped its top executives and formed a nonprofit organization, the Amtek
Institute, to help other refugees struggling with resettlement. With training in
technical skills, as well as language and cultural skills, the newcomers can get
started on career paths, rather than just into jobs.

Long Dinh, Peter Ly and Toa Do, the three principals, know what they are talking
about.

Dinh and Ly came to the United States from Vietnam as refugees in 1975; they
were both students. Do, a former South Vietnamese government official, was in a
relocation camp for several years and finally left during the Vietnamese boat
lift in 1980. With no money or contacts and educations with little value here,
the three took the typical immigrant's path: working several jobs at a time to
feed big families, studying English and learning marketable skills in the
growing computer industry.

"We had educations, but when we came to this country we did not have
opportunities to use the background ... because the education system is
different," Ly said. "So most of the people who even have a very high degree ...
have to start everything from ground zero."

Four years ago they formed the company, but only Dinh worked there full time.
Today Amtek has a dozen employees and is starting to take off, Ly said. Last
year he and Do quit other jobs and came to Amtek full time. The company had
sales of about $ 100,000 in 1990, and Ly predicts gross sales will be nearly $ 1
million in 1991.

By restructuring and incorporating a nonprofit group, they hope to minimize
overhead and expand the training programs, going to local governments in search
of more contracts.

The Amtek Institute, and programs like it, they hope, will cut out some of the
struggle involved in starting over in a new country.

With contracts from the Fairfax County Department of Human Development, Amtek
has taught groups of refugees on public assistance the basics of computer or
automobile repair in four-month courses. The programs are not set up to produce
experts in electronics or auto repair; rather, they teach the immigrants the
basics so they can get entry-level jobs.

Gary Gortenberg, program manager for employment training in Fairfax, said Amtek
is one of several contractors the county uses to train refugees and get them off
welfare. The program's goal is to give them "career latitude and a work history
so they can move up," he said.

Joe Jackson, automotive sales manager in Sears's automotive department in Fair
Oaks, has hired several of the graduates from Amtek's courses. He said that
although they usually need more training after they are hired, the students fill
a big need for him because good entry-level workers are tough to come by.

"They're very good employees," he said. "They're dependable ... if we could find
a way to bottle their enthusiasm we would all be rich. They're dedicated,
they're hard-working, they have a thirst for knowledge. The information you get
from the institute is like a survey course in college... . It's hard to make
somebody a mechanic in four months."

Najibullah Mukhtar, who came here with his wife and five children from
Afghanistan two years ago, hopes the automobile repair course he took will help
him get off public assistance. Mukhtar, 46, who was a truck driver and mechanic
in Afghanistan, said that the four-month course was enough to teach him the
English terms for the parts of a car and introduce him to air conditioning,
automatic transmissions and fuel injection, which cars in Afghanistan do not
have.

Plus, at graduation, he received a certificate for completing the course and a
box of tools, so he can practice working on his own car.

"Those short months, they will help me," he said. "I'm ready to work."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, VIETNAMESE REFUGEES TOA DO, LEFT, PETER LYB AND LONG DINH
FOUNDED AMTEK SYSTEMS FOUR YEARS AGO. ELLSWORTH J. DAVIS

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS, PROFILE

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              117 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 21, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

...And Others

Frank H. Wu

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 733 words


Likemany other Detroit area residents, I enjoy visiting Windsor, Ontario, for
Chinese food. On Saturday mornings when I visit for dim sum, the Canadian border
guards usually ask a few routine questions and occasionally make a friendly
comment about the cuisine. Returning to my own country is sometimes a little
different.

Just over a year ago, I was stopped by the U.S. Customs Service. I was in a car
with two other Asian Americans. I also was with my girlfriend, who is white.
After we were told that we would have to answer a few questions, we went inside
an office and waited in line behind about 10 people, only two of whom seemed to
be non-Hispanic whites.

Then each of us was asked where we were born and what we did for a living. I was
asked a few more questions. The Customs Service wanted to know, for example, how
I had met my girlfriend and how long we had known one another. The entire
incident lasted a quarter of an hour; it was not anything terrible.

Afterward, though, I wondered who the Customs Service thought we were and what
they thought we were doing. So I wrote to them.

A month later, I received a reply. They explained, "Contrary to belief, law
enforcement officials, including Customs and Immigration inspectors, cannot
distinguish between honorable, law-abiding citizens and violators on the basis
of their physical appearance alone."

Of course, they are right. Indeed, that is just the point. You cannot tell the
difference between the law-abiding and the possibly law-breaking simply by the
way they happen to look. That is exactly why you shouldn't guess, especially
when you might be focusing on race.

Other than race, I do not know what difference the Customs Service could find
between me and my non-Asian friend. We have similar social and economic
backgrounds. We speak the same language. We were even dressed similarly.

The letter continued, "Many attempts at alien smuggling are made by people
posing to be friends to a 'non-suspect' traveler... . Even though the questions
may seem irrelevant or out of place to you, there is a purpose for asking them."

The letter does not attempt to explain why I was suspect and my friend was not.
Whatever the purpose of questions about the "authenticity" of relationships
between nonwhite and whites, the same purpose should exist for asking two whites
similar questions, if anyone should be asked at all.

Although I saved the letter, I forgot about this incident. Recent events,
however, lead me to believe that I saw only a small part of a much larger
problem. It is exemplified by the Customs Service approach, which tries to
excuse or justify stereotyping as reasonable.

While we all carry around prejudices, stereotypes that are based on race and
ethnicity are especially dangerous. Race and ethnicity, along with a few other
traits, have been abused so much in the past that we should be wary of relying
on them to prove anything. Even when our beliefs have a germ of truth, it is
distorted and exaggerated.

Now with the Persian Gulf crisis, Arab Americans are facing discrimination. In
Detroit, the metropolitan area with the largest concentration of Arab Americans,
they are harassed with questioning at the airport beyond that directed at most
of us. Nationally, the FBI is paying ambiguous visits to Arab Americans. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service reportedly drew up plans in 1987 to
quarantine Arab Americans in case of war with certain Arab nations.

Quarantine, with its vague scientific sound, would recall the Japanese-American
experience during World War II. They were wrongly accused of being disloyal.
Citizens were placed in "internment camps" not because the government had proved
that any individual was guilty of collaboration or espionage, but because public
sentiment condemned everyone with Japanese ancestry. As Lt. Gen. John L. DeWitt
said, "A Jap's a Jap, and that's all there is to it."

The government has recently owned up to the shamefulness of the internment.
Congress is issuing reparations to the individuals who were imprisoned.

Because of my own experience with having my citizenship questioned, I sympathize
with Arab Americans. If each of us paused to remember history and our own
feelings upon confronting discrimination, we would be able to avoid hysteria at
home as war rages overseas. The writer is a law student at the University of
Michigan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              118 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 23, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Israel Seeks $ 13 Billion More in Aid;
$ 10 Billion From U.S. Would Help Settle Soviet Immigrants, Rest Would Cut War
Losses

William Claiborne, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A24

LENGTH: 776 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 22, 1991


Israel said today that it will need at least $ 13 billion in additional economic
aid from the United States because of the Persian Gulf War and the cost of
absorbing Jewish immigrants from the Soviet Union.

The estimate, which is in addition to the $ 3 billion Israel is to receive this
year from Washington in military and economic assistance, includes approximately
$ 3 billion in estimated losses arising from the war just until mid-February.

The bulk of the total new estimate, $ 10 billion, is in a proposed package of
grants and loan guarantees Israel says it needs to help pay for the absorption
of 1 million Soviet Jewish immigrants by the end of 1992.

Finance Minister Yitzhak Modai, who presented the estimate in a meeting today
with Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger, denied reporters'
suggestions that it is linked to any promise of continued restraint by Israel in
the face of Iraqi missile attacks on Israeli cities. "I can say with certainty
and decisiveness that no such promise was given, not concerning this aid or any
other aid," Modai said.

Defense Minister Moshe Arens also said Israel's restraint was unconnected to
receiving permission from anybody, including the United States.

Speaking to reporters during a visit to an Israeli air force base, Arens said,
"If attacked we will respond, and we have been attacked." Iraq last week
launched two attacks by Scud missiles against Tel Aviv and Haifa, injuring 28
people. Another attack today resulted in three deaths and at least 96 injuries.

Asked before today's Iraqi missile attack whether Israel would retaliate for a
third such strike, Arens replied, "I don't think there is any need to telegraph
our intentions and say how we are going to respond and at what time."

Modai said Eagleburger did not attempt to impose conditions on any future
approval of increased aid by the U.S. administration. "Our guest understood well
that this is not the time to play with all sorts of political conditions and
bureaucratic procedures," Modai said.

Modai said he did not present a formal aid request, but simply outlined
estimated financial needs that he said are expected to mount if the war
continues for months. And, he said, "This is only part of the bill that the war
presents us with."

He said he expects a partial answer from the United States on the aid estimates
in the next few days.

Modai said the Bush administration has been aware of Israel's need for $ 10
billion in grants and loan and investment guarantees for absorbing Soviet
immigrants since a meeting he had with Eagleburger late last year. He said
absorbing the immigrants would cost a total of $ 20 billion, and that Israel
would raise $ 10 billion from other sources.

Of his own estimate of $ 2.96 billion in costs directly associated with the war,
Modai said, "I don't think this was the forecast of Mr. Eagleburger at all. He's
not that optimistic." Modai indicated he meant that the costs could exceed $
2.96 billion between the outbreak of the war and mid-February.

The finance minister explained his estimate of war costs this way:$ 1 billion in
lost economic output during a virtual shutdown since the start of a state of
emergency.

$ 1 billion in lost tourism revenue and higher energy costs.

$ 400 million in direct military expenditures stemming from the conflict.

$ 250 million in lost export orders.

$ 180 million in increased insurance payments.

$ 100 million in loss of transport services.

$ 30 million in property damage caused by the missile attacks before today.

An aide to Modai said the estimated cost for military expenditures would rise
significantly if the threat of Iraqi attack became more general and required
additional military measures, such as mobilizing some reserves.

Another senior official defended Modai for giving the estimates when asked why
Israel would disclose aid estimates associated with the war at a time when
U.S.-Israel collaboration is a sensitive subject for some Arab partners in the
allied coalition.

"All we're saying is, 'Here are our problems. What can you do to help us?' It's
nothing official, it is just estimates. I don't see why we should not say what
we are losing," said Yossi Olmert, director of the government press office.

Olmert added, "We're not complaining to anybody. There's no demand, no linking
and no pressure. We've got to say how devastating this is to our economy.
Besides, everybody else is getting compensated. Why shouldn't we?"

He indicated he was referring to countries such as Egypt and Jordan, which have
received substantial U.S. aid to cover costs associated with Iraq's invasion of
Kuwait.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, DEPUTY SECRETARY OF STATE EAGLEBURGER, LEFT, AND ISRAELI FINANCE
MINISTER MODAI SHAKE HANDS BEFORE TALKS IN JERUSALEM. REUTER

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              119 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 14, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Israel Said to Plan Settlement Buildup;
Opposition Claims Big Housing Projects Set for West Bank, Gaza

Jackson Diehl, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A16

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 13, 1991


The Israeli government is planning to build 12,000 homes for new Jewish settlers
in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip in a three-year program that would
increase the Jewish population of the territories by more than 50 percent, two
opposition members of parliament said today.

The legislators, who said they had obtained internal plans of the Construction
and Housing Ministry, charged that the building program violated guarantees
given by the government of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir to the Bush
administration in exchange for $ 400 million in loan guarantees for housing
construction.

Shamir's government, which is now seeking $ 10 billion more in loan guarantees
from Washington, promised last fall that it would not build housing in the
territories for the hundreds of thousands of Soviet immigrants now coming here.
It also pledged not to direct the immigrants to settlements and said it would
provide the State Department with information about any settlement construction.

However, leftist legislators Dedi Zucker of the Citizen's Rights Movement and
Chaim Oron of the Mapam Party said in a three-page report that about 2,500
Soviet immigrants already are living in occupied territories outside Jerusalem.
They suggested that more Soviets would surely move to such areas if the new
housing were built. The immigration wave has caused a severe housing shortage in
Israel, and Soviet arrivals already are virtually forced to settle wherever
apartments are available.

Zucker and Oron charged that the government building program, which they said
would cost $ 750 million over three years, "has the aim of creating facts on the
ground that will make it difficult for Israel to enter the political process
that is expected after the Persian Gulf War."

They said the building program is already underway and that the government is
putting 1,000 mobile homes into Jewish settlements in the Arab territories.

At least 90,000 Jewish settlers are now estimated to live in about 140
communities scattered through the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which are home to
1.7 million Palestinians. The Bush administration, which says Israel should
trade captured land for peace with its neighbors, strongly opposes further
Jewish settlement of the territories. The issue contributed to a sharp
deterioration in U.S.-Israeli relations over the two years before the gulf
crisis.

A spokesman for the Housing Ministry, which is headed by Ariel Sharon, a
hard-line leader of the Likud Party, did not respond today to several inquiries
about the opposition report. A senior adviser to Shamir, Avi Pazner, said the
report "sounds far-fetched" but added that he did not know whether it was
correct.

Since the formation last June of Shamir's present cabinet, which includes
far-right nationalist and religious parties, the government has refused to make
its plans for settlements public, although it has said settlement of the
territories would continue.

In recent weeks, sources here said, officials in Jerusalem have been at odds
with the State Department over U.S. attempts to obtain the promised information
about settlements. U.S. officials recently complained that Israel's answers to
questions about its settlement policy were inadequate, officials here said.

Aides to Shamir say the government responded that, in its view, it had provided
the State Department with all the information it requested. However, officials
said, the $ 400 million in loan guarantees linked to the information request has
still not been released by Washington, a delay that Secretary of State James A.
Baker III recently attributed to "technical problems."

Israeli commentators say the continuing problems with the housing money -- which
is only a fraction of what Israel hopes to obtain from the United States --
reflect the deep tensions that still underlie the wartime patina of cooperation
between the United States and Israel.

The legislators' report said the Housing Ministry plan for settlement
construction extended from the present budget year, which ends in March, to
1993. For this year, it said, the government has allocated 2,149 new homes to
settlements, of which some will be built directly by the government and some
financed through purchase guarantees to private builders.

According to the report, the overall plan places priority on adding homes to
existing settlements, "to assure that the present claim made to the Americans
can be perpetuated: that no new settlements are being constructed."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              120 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 18, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Va. Church Lays Out Feast of Community;
Immigrants' Social Needs Are Served

Laura Sessions Stepp, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D1

LENGTH: 662 words


Several hundred immigrants from 30 countries gathered for lunch yesterday at
Columbia Baptist Church in Falls Church, and over plates piled high with paella,
fried rice and lamb, they reflected on what a difference one church can make.

Ung In and Sarin Sieng, a Cambodian couple, said they got their jobs through
Columbia. Anna Damajanty, an Indonesian, said she is learning English there. And
Chand Kim, who is Korean, said Columbia has given her a day-care center for her
son, John, as well as a sense of community.

"When I go home after work, I'm all alone with my son, and I get sad sometimes,"
said Kim, a waitress at a Sizzler Restaurant. "But on Sunday, when I come to
church, I see my friends and I am happy."

The immigrants and their American church friends -- some 500 in all -- were
taking part in the church's annual international banquet, this year titled "Love
in Any Language." At a time when some other Protestant churches are struggling
to survive, Columbia, one of Northern Virginia's largest churches with 3,200
members, is thriving. That's partly because its ministers have reached out to
provide needed social services as well as spiritual instruction to the area's
growing ethnic community.

When its senior minister, the Rev. Neal Jones, came to the church 22 years ago,
the congregation was almost entirely white. Today, about 400 immigrants from
about 30 countries pass through Columbia's doors, according to the Rev. James
Perdew, a former Navy chaplain in charge of Columbia's mission program.

With Hispanics and Asians alone now making up at least 14 percent of Northern
Virginia's population, there's potential for growth, Perdew said. "We have
become an urban church," he said.

Columbia Baptist, on Washington Street North and West Columbia Street, holds
five worship services each Sunday morning, including one in Korean and one in
Spanish. Those services are led by a Korean pastor and a Hispanic pastor who
work full time at the church. An international Sunday school class also meets
every week. And on Sunday nights, an Egyptian surgeon leads a worship group in
Arabic.

But what brings many immigrants to the church the first time -- and entices some
to stay -- is the social service program. A full-time worker helps men and women
of any faith find food, furniture, housing and jobs.

Yesterday an Islamic couple expressed privately their thanks that the church had
helped the husband find his first job in several months. Two tables over sat
Chand Kim, who was raised a Presbyterian.

After visiting other churches in the area, she settled on Columbia. "People here
do, rather than just talk," she explained.

Three times a week, 40 Columbia volunteers teach English as a second language to
about 160 people. Volunteer-driven church vans pick up immigrants in their
neighborhoods and shuttle them to the church and back. Other volunteers provide
child care during class time.

Damajanty has been taking English instruction for about a month, aided by tutor
Mary Louiselle, a Catholic from McLean.

"Anna and I started with parts of speech," Louiselle said. "We've done lots of
conversational work and role playing. She reads articles and underlines words
she doesn't understand after she has gone to the dictionary. Then she brings
those to me."

Churches such as Columbia that belong to the Southern Baptist Convention have
always emphasized evangelism, or winning people over to their faith. But until
relatively recently, social programs were not a major part of the package.

Arminda Parodi, a widow from Colombia with four children, is thankful Columbia
Baptist does more than preach and pray. Formerly a housekeeper who had trouble
feeding and housing her children, she now has a steady job as a secretary at the
church and is taking English classes there.

Her spiritual life has matured along with her good fortune, she said, and she
finally has a sense of community. "We're like a big family here," she said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ENGLISH TUTOR MARY LOUISELLE, LEFT, GOES THROUGH THE FOOD LINE
AT COLUMBIA BAPTIST'S BANQUET WITH HER PUPIL, ANNA DAMAJANTY, WHO IS FROM
INDONESIA. JOHN MCDONNELL

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              121 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 18, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Soviet Immigrants Take Gas Masks in Stride

William Claiborne, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A35

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: TEL AVIV


The first thing Jena Segal, 21, a Russian engineering student from Leningrad,
received when he landed at Ben Gurion airport here to settle in Israel was a gas
mask. But he said he had never felt more secure in his life.

Living with the Iraqi Scud missiles that have sporadically fallen in Tel Aviv
residential neighborhoods, resulting in four deaths and nearly 200 injuries,
probably will be safer than life in Leningrad, Segal said.

"There, you wake up in the morning, and you don't know what terrible thing the
day will bring. It's dangerous to walk in the streets. It's very scary," said
Segal, who immigrated here with his mother, father and two grandparents. In his
old neighborhood in the Soviet Union, anti-Semitic bullies regularly beat up
Jews, he said, and many problems face Jews and non-Jews -- hours waiting in line
in sub-zero temperatures for dwindling food stocks, fears of a new wave of
repression by the Kremlin and continuing health hazards posed by the Chernobyl
nuclear power plant accident.

"It may be scary in Israel at the moment, but it was scary there, too," Segal
said. "Here, at least we have the comfort of knowing we Jews are all together.
There, if you are scared, there is no one to help."

The immigration of Soviet Jews here -- which has totaled more than 230,000 in
the last 14 months -- has put a severe strain on Israeli housing, prompting the
government of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir to seek $ 10 billion in aid from the
United States to help handle the influx.

Meanwhile, however, the Persian Gulf War has slowed the pace of immigration from
1,000 a day in December to 500 a day in January to fewer than 400 a day so far
in February, immigration spokesman Yehuda Weinraub told the Associated Press
Sunday.

As soon as they arrived on an El Al airlines flight from Warsaw, Segal and the
other immigrants were handed gas masks and given a briefing on emergency
procedures, including the necessity of finding a sealed, gas-resistant shelter
when air raid warnings sound.

The immigrants appeared to take it in stride. One official said that when the
air raid sirens at the airport sounded recently, arriving Soviet Jews were
noticeably calmer than a group of American tourists who also had just arrived.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              122 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 21, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Major Shakeup Planned At Immigration Agency;
Thornburgh Dissatisfied With Performance

Sharon LaFraniere, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 594 words


Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, attempting to gain control of the
long-troubled Immigration and Naturalization Service, plans to strip the INS
commissioner's chief of staff of much of his power and to replace at least three
other high-ranking officials, according to sources.

The changes signify Thornburgh's unhappiness with the agency's performance and
his willingness to override the wishes of INS Commissioner Gene McNary in a
drive to improve it. They are designed to force the agency to address the fiscal
disarray, inconsistent policies, fragmentation and antiquated data-processing
system that have hobbled the agency for years, officials said.

In changing the role of McNary's chief of staff, Thornburgh is directly
reversing McNary on who should wield power at the agency.

One of McNary's first moves when President Bush appointed him 16 months ago was
to install William A. Skaggs as his chief of staff and greatly enhance the power
of that position. Skaggs, who previously served as a top aide to McNary when
McNary was chief executive of St. Louis County, Mo., was given oversight of the
agency's chaotic administrative machinery.

McNary, in a plan sent to the Justice Department more than a year ago, proposed
that Skaggs would report directly to him, bypassing Deputy Commissioner Ricardo
Inzunza, sources said.

Sources said Thornburgh's staff has decided Skaggs may serve as McNary's
counselor but will no longer exercise any line authority over the agency's
administrative functions, including the much criticized financial and data
processing divisions. Inzunza will be clearly the No. 2 person, the sources
said.

Thornburgh has also decided to replace three high-ranking career employees:
Thomas N. Perrelli, who has served as the agency's controller since 1987; H.F.
Sylvester, associate commissioner for management since 1984, and Elizabeth Chase
MacRae, associate commissioner for information systems since 1986, sources said.

One administration official predicted the replacement of two or three other
lower-ranking officials.

A spokesman for McNary said he had no comment on the reorganization.

In addition to the personnel changes, Thornburgh is expected to order stricter
audit controls and the rotation of managers to bridge a troublesome gulf between
headquarters and the field offices.

Several reports, including one by the General Accounting Office, have
highlighted INS's lack of the basic administrative machinery it needs to
operate, including a modern financial accounting system. In Los Angeles, the GAO
discovered that INS officials mailed thousands of dollars in cash each day to a
bank.

Personnel has also been a major troublespot in the fast-growing agency. Because
of lax procedures, many INS inspectors became accustomed to earning an extra $
10,000 to $ 20,000 a year in overtime pay, the GAO found. Agents needed at the
border were instead assigned to interior offices -- a problem McNary is moving
to correct.

The agency's difficulties deepened in recent years as its duties rapidly
expanded. Legislation last year increased legal permanent immigration by 35
percent. A recent court settlement also requires INS to give temporary legal
status to an estimated 500,000 Salvadorans and Guatemalans.

In November, following the highly critical GAO report, Thornburgh appointed a
panel to study the management problems. Norman Carlson, who heads the panel and
formerly directed the federal Bureau of Prisons, reported the group's findings
to Deputy Attorney General William P. Barr early this month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              123 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 24, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Montgomery Blooms in a Rainbow Cast;
Census Figures Show County's '80s Growth Was Paced by Immigrants and Minorities

Liz Spayd, D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 1385 words


Charlotte Cha left Korea a decade ago dreaming an immigrant's dream of
Washington -- a place with good schools for her children, low crime rates and
business opportunities.

But instead of settling in the District, as thousands of other Asians would
during the 1980s, Cha stopped first and stayed in Montgomery County.

"People come here because . . . everything is better," said Cha, the owner of a
small sandwich shop in Silver Spring's business district. "They like suburban."

If newly released Census Bureau data are any indication, Washington's suburbs
were a powerful magnet for tens of thousands of ethnic migrants during the past
10 years. From Montgomery County in Maryland to Arlington and Fairfax counties
in Virginia, the racial mix in the region changed dramatically, fueled in large
measure by tremendous growth in the Asian and Hispanic populations.

Montgomery, for instance, has only 16 percent of Maryland's population, but is
home to four of every 10 Hispanics and Asians in the state.

The county's overall population increased by 30 percent during the 1980s, while
its Hispanic and Asian populations grew at four and five times that pace. In
Fairfax County, meanwhile, Asians now outnumber blacks, and in Arlington, blacks
are outnumbered by Hispanics, according to numbers from the 1990 Census.

The increasingly diverse character of suburban Washington is showing up in
places such as Bonifant Street, where Cha opened her deli with some savings and
a $ 45,000 bank loan.

Two doors down from Cha's is the jewlery store of Miguel Martinez, a Salvadoran,
and his sons. Another storefront away is the Caribbean Calabash restaurant, and
to its right the red awning of the Thai Derm restaurant hangs above the
sidewalk.

What is happening in Montgomery County is evidence of a trend being played out
across the country, as new arrivals put down their American roots in suburbs,
rather than the urban centers that had attracted the vast majority of
immmigrants to this country.

Immigrants have flocked to the suburbs of Los Angeles, Detroit, Miami and other
major U.S. cities, drawn by the relative wealth, government services and schools
of those once largely white communuties.

The presence of the new suburban immigrants has not escaped the attention of
business. Cable TV Montgomery already carries a Hispanic network, Univision, and
is planning to add an international channel that will offer a mix of Korean,
Japanese, Chinese, Vietnamese, Armenian, Cambodian and other ethnic programming.

Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co. added a bilingual service five years ago to
help Spanish-speaking residents. Initially, one person took the calls; now five
do.

Minorities also have had a powerful impact on the schools. Although minorities
represent less than a quarter of the county's total population, they make up 38
percent of the students in its schools.

Hispanic enrollment has nearly doubled since 1984, fed partly by a flood of
immigration from Central America. Asian enrollment also has doubled and black
enrollment is up by nearly a third.

"This kind of diversity means there has to be much more hands-on involvement,"
said Joanne Busalacchi, principal of New Hampshire Estates Elementary school on
Carroll Avenue in Silver Spring, where the student body is made up of children
from 28 countries.

It means offering language assistance, one-on-one tutorials and special
instruction for parents, Busalacchi said. Sometimes it means providing the food
and clothing to help a struggling family get by.

The efforts made so far, however, may not be enough. An independent report
commissioned by the school system last fall chastised it as ineffective and
inconsistent in educating black, Hispanic and Asian children.

And although the county has generally welcomed newcomers, some fear their
growing numbers could test its social and racial tolerance. The influx of
immigrants and the demands they impose on the county's social services and
schools at a time of economic retrenchment threatens to reduce the services the
county provides.

"There has got to be a concern that in periods of recession, the presure will be
on to kill [some social services programs] by people who don't want their tax
dollars to pay for such things," said Ed Rovner, who served as special assistant
to county executives Charles Gilchrist and Sidney Kramer over the last decade.

There is another downside: Officials report an increase in harassment and hate
violence they believe is provoked by economic hard times and fears that the new
residents could take jobs that might have gone to others.

Last year saw a record number of incidents against minorities that were thought
to be racially motivated, according to county officials. Many more are thought
to go unreported by immigrants unfamiliar or reluctant to deal with the police.

"There's a tremendous fear of reporting, a lack of knowledge about the police in
the United Sates," said Edgar Mantilla, a community relations specialist with
the county's Human Relations Commission.

One of the greatest challenges, said Rovner and others, will be to help new
immigrants hoist themselves into the middle class. Income data from the Census
won't be out for months, but other sources suggest Montgomery's minority
population is more likely than its white population to be struggling
economically. Half of the county's working poor -- households earning less than
$ 15,000 a year -- are minorities, according to an unpublished study by the
Department of Family Resources. A quarter are black, 14 percent Asian, 12.5
percent Hispanic.

The newly arrived often hold two or three jobs just to get by, according to
social service workers and others. They work the counter at McDonald's, they
press clothes in laundries and they make up much of the invisible work force
that cleans office buildings and restaurants when others have gone home.

"When I first came here, I lived with six people in a one-bedroom apartment,"
said Miguel Martinez Jr., who now works at the small jewelry store his father
opened three years ago.

Not all are poor, however, and not all live in the enclaves -- Silver Spring,
Takoma Park and Wheaton -- to which Montgomery's minority population
traditionally has gravitated.

Maps from the county's planning commission reveal a patchwork of ethnic
diversity. The Asian community, for example, is clustered most heavily in the
Potomac area. Many work as engineers or in other white-collar jobs in the
technology companies that line the Interstate 270 corridor. Their median
household income, according to 1986 figures provided by county demographer Drew
Dedrick, is $ 41,600, compared with $ 46,700 for whites.

The concentration of blacks is heaviest in Silver Spring and Takoma Park, but
many reside in Rockville, Kensington and White Oak. The median household income
for blacks is $ 34,800. Hispanics are spread through Takoma Park, Rockville,
Kensington, Wheaton and Gaithersburg. Their median household income is $ 41,000.

Slowly, the county's minorities are beginning to wield political power, though
like elsewhere in the country, it has not been in proportion to their numbers.

"We've made a lot of strides," said Alan Cheung, a native of Hong Kong who
became the first Asian elected to the Board of Education last year. Still, he
says, Asians are underrepresented in the county's top jobs because of an old-boy
network and stereotypes that portray them as technocrats who cannot manage.

If their political progress has been slow, their entrepreneurial achievements
have not.

Many have started their own businesses, the evidence of which is scattered
throughout the county in the form of retail stores, consulting firms, research
labs, technical services and groceries. In Wheaton, a closed "Wall-to-Wall"
stereo store is being converted into a Asian supermarket that is expected to
rival most Giants and Safeways in size.

In all, the number of minority businesses in Montgomery County has grown from
4,000 in 1977 to 16,000 in 1982. New Census data has yet to be gathered, but a
spokesman from the county's minority affairs office said the trend has
accelerated since 1982.

"When I first came here it was quiet," Miguel Martinez said. "It's getting noisy
now. Too many people. Too many businesses."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MONTGOMERY COUNTY'S POPULATION SHIFT(DATA FROM THIS GRAPHIC WAS
NOT AVAILABLE.), CYRENA CHANG; ILLUSTRATION, TWP

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              124 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 25, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

A Shot, an Immigrant's Death, and Two Worlds Destroyed

Gabriel Escobar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D1

LENGTH: 1148 words


The mother, Maria Elena, was summoned by the woman who takes messages from the
sons and fathers abroad, and the next day she made the seven-mile trip from a
hamlet called Canton Encino Gacho to the telephone in Progreso.

It was evening when her call from the town in Guatemala got through to the
nearly bare apartment in Northwest Washington. There, a man from the same hamlet
had been waiting hours to deliver the news. "He was leaving the apartment," he
said in Spanish, remembering his words to Maria Elena. "Someone was standing at
the door of the building, and he shot him."

After the initial shock -- he said she cried first and said, "How did it
happen?" -- Maria Elena asked when the body of Vicente Gudiel Lopez, the oldest
of her 11 children, would be returned to Guatemala. What would it cost, she
asked, and who will pay?

It is hard when you are killed so far from home. It is worse if you are, as the
friend said, a 38-year-old campesino whose $ 225-a-week construction job
supports eight children and a wife back home. And it is much harder and much
worse if you, and those who know you, are illegal immigrants who speak virtually
no English.

The death of Gudiel, fatally shot just before midnight Feb. 11 as he walked out
of a party, will have a profound and lasting effect on a large family that lived
off the $ 300 he sent every month, those who knew him said. His killing has also
forced his friends and three close relatives to deal face-to-face with police, a
frightening prospect for illegal residents who shun all contact with
authorities.

Unable to communicate, scared and poor, a small group of men has struggled to
handle a crisis and the complications it has created. They are all from the same
hamlet, some here only four months and, until the shooting, entirely reliant on
Gudiel.

The fatal shooting occurred at 11:50 p.m. Feb. 11 just inside the front door of
a building in the 1300 block of Park Road NW. Police have released no motive and
no one has been arrested, but interviews with relatives and others who were at
the party shed some light on the events that led to the killing.

About 30 people, most of them illegal immigrants, were at a birthday party for a
woman Gudiel and his friends knew. The party was not unusual. Illegal immigrants
usually socialize at each other's apartments because it is safer, and cheaper,
than drinking and dancing at a club.

About 10 or 10:30 p.m., two men followed a woman into the building and tried to
force their way into the apartment, which is on the first floor and overlooks
Park Road. The two men, who spoke no Spanish and were not known to anyone
inside, were turned away after a brief argument.

Just over an hour later, the two men, possibly accompanied by a third, began
banging on the building's locked metal front door, demanding to be let in.
Several inside said police were called, a claim disputed by police who checked
radio dispatch records and said the only report that night was for the shooting.

Gudiel wanted to go home, but several at the party tried to discourage him
because they feared the men outside. He insisted on going to confront the men,
and walked out into the well-lighted, wide hallway and down seven steps to the
front door. There are windows on either side of the metal door, and it would
have been easy for someone standing outside to see him coming.

One friend, a man who has lived here for two years and is from the same hamlet
in Guatemala, said that as soon as Gudiel unlatched the front door, it was
pulled open by someone outside. One of the men pointed a revolver, and Gudiel
reached for a machete he had beneath his jacket under his left arm.

Three or four shots were fired, and one struck Gudiel on the left side, beneath
his arm, tore through his chest and exited on the right side. He stumbled back
into the foyer. "When he fell, he looked at me and shook his head, as if saying
'No more,' " the friend, who went to his aid, said in Spanish. "He could no
longer speak."

Homicide detectives took several witnesses to police headquarters for
statements, raising unfounded fears among those who remained that their friends
would be deported. The District's policy is not to ask the immigration status of
witnesses, and police officials say their only concern is solving the homicide.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service also does not target witnesses, but
no one was told this. Even when informed, they remain skeptical.

The killing also meant that Gudiel's three relatives, two of whom were at the
party, suddenly faced the prospect of having to come forward to reclaim the
body. No one, friends said, knew what to do, and everyone was scared.

There are about 10 people from the hamlet in the District and Virginia, and the
task of helping the relatives fell to one who has lived here for several years
and works full-time as a maintenance worker in downtown Washington. A religious
man, he asked a priest at a Catholic church in Northwest Washington to solicit
contributions from the pulpit at Sunday Mass, and he called others from the
hamlet who live in Boston and southern New Jersey.

Gudiel left no money, and the immediate job was collecting enough to send him
home. The W.H. Bacon Funeral Home, which ships the bodies of as many as five
Central Americans a month, offered its basic package to the relatives. For $
2,800 -- what Gudiel's family of nine could live on for almost a year -- the
funeral home includes the hermetically sealed coffin, a special "air-tray"
required by the airline, two nights of viewing and all transportation expenses
to Guatemala City, the capital.

On Saturday, about 25 men who knew Gudiel gathered at the funeral home, almost
half of them from the same hamlet. Like the victim, these men in their twenties
and thirties fled a life of planting corn, beans, tomatoes and onions, in search
of jobs and money. They wore jeans and cowboy boots and grim expressions, and
they responded in a whisper when a woman from a church led them in prayer.

One spent the evening taking Polaroid pictures to send to the widow, Teodora.
They signed the book, some in an elaborate hand, others like schoolboys.

Gudiel, who went as far as the second grade, never saw his youngest daughter,
Kenne, born after he left in 1988. A short man with thinning hair and a slight
mustache, he made enough money, had a girlfriend and was considered successful,
friends said. Still, he recently told his relatives he wanted to return to
Guatemala because he missed his family.

The relatives had a hard time describing Gudiel, no matter how often they were
pressed. They were sad and laconic, and they yielded to the man who knew Gudiel
and is helping them now. "Un campesino, un campesino," he said, using the
Spanish word for "peasant" with great respect. "Completely dedicated to his
work. He was a good worker. A very good worker."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              125 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 9, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Red, White, Baby Blue: U.S.'s Littlest Citizens;
40 Children Sworn In at Arlington School

Marylou Tousignant, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B3

LENGTH: 558 words


Tori Anderson, resplendent in her maroon velvet sailor's dress, turned 3
yesterday and received an unusual and precious birthday gift: her U.S.
citizenship papers.

If Tori seemed confused by the hoopla all around her -- asked her name, she held
up three tiny fingers -- it was understandable. Her big event was celebrated
with her family and about 200 strangers at a special Citizenship Day at
Arlington's Key Elementary School sponsored by the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

It was patriotism on parade in the school auditorium as Tori and 39 other
foreign-born adopted children were welcomed to America by a multiethnic sampling
of Key's student body, including "Statue of Liberty" Yeccenia Umana, who proudly
held her aluminum-foil torch aloft as she and her schoolmates serenaded the
newcomers.

Red, white and blue were the colors of the day, with American flags and flag
lapel pins almost as popular as daddies with video cameras.

Nathan Lee Toner, 2, who clutched the string of a blue balloon almost as big as
he was, had on a white shirt, red bow tie and blue pants held up with red
suspenders.

Kathlyn Kesmetis, 3, also from Alexandria, wore red-white-and-blue ribbons in
her long blond hair. With just a little prodding from her mother, Kathlyn
launched into a recital of the Pledge of Allegiance, which she spent six weeks
memorizing, barely pausing at the word "indivisible."

Alex Rieser, of Washington, wandered the aisles clutching a flag from South
Korea, where he was born, and a U.S. flag that his father brought back from the
1988 Democratic National Convention. Joseph Rieser, the party's former general
counsel, said his son, who will be 2 next week, is a "good Democrat."

In all, 13 countries were represented at the citizenship celebration, sponsored
by the Washington District office of the INS, which is celebrating its 100th
anniversary. South Korea led the list with 17 children; other countries
represented included Peru, Japan, Sierra Leone, Romania, Mexico and India.

Andy Plashal, 13, from Great Falls, who came here from Santiago, Chile, seven
years ago, said that becoming an American citizen means he's the same as
"everybody else now" and can do what he wants. And what he wants is to join the
Navy and learn to fly. Korean-born Christopher Schuenke, 7, of Lake Ridge, also
wants to enlist; his father is a cryptologic technician in the Navy.

For 10-year-old Jesse Denham, who was born in South Korea, American citizenship
means, "I get to stay here." The Fairfax County youth also knows that with
freedom comes responsibility: that he must obey the law and pay taxes. "If I win
the lotto, I'll have 2 cents left," he said.

If it was a great day to be a soldier, as Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf was telling
the troops in Saudi Arabia yesterday, it was an even better day to be a newly
minted U.S. citizen. With proud parents, grandparents, siblings and even a U.S.
congressman -- Rep. Frank R. Wolf of Virginia -- looking on, the 40 newest
Americans marched onto the stage to receive their citizenship certificates.

And how did they plan to celebrate later? An ice cream cake with an American
flag on it awaited Nathan Toner, while 5-year-old Manuel Bowen Splain and his
4-year-old sister, Teresita, were headed for Chuck-E-Cheese's.

Now what could be more American than that?


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, AMERICA'S NEWEST CITIZENS CELEBRATE IN SONG AT ARLINGTON'S KEY
SCHOOL. FRANK JOHNSTON

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              126 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 11, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Soviet Jews May Go to West Bank;
Israel Reportedly Will Build Housing

Jackson Diehl, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A13

LENGTH: 845 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, March 10, 1991


An official report by Israel's Housing Ministry on plans for home construction
for the wave of Soviet immigrants pouring into the country indicates that more
than 10,000 units are to be located in the occupied Arab territories, despite
written pledges by the government to the Bush administration to place all the
homes inside Israel.

The document, issued internally last week by the ministry, suggests that the
government of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir is flouting promises that were used
to obtain $ 400 million in loan guarantees for housing construction from the
United States, critics of the government said today.

Spokesmen for Shamir argued, however, that there had been no change in policy,
since the building plan described in the report has not been officially adopted
by the government.

Secretary of State James A. Baker III gave final approval to the loan program
last month after obtaining new assurances from Shamir that the government was
not planning to build housing in the West Bank and Gaza Strip for the hundreds
of thousands of Soviet immigrants expected in the coming years. The possibility
that Israel will place the Soviets in the territories has raised alarms in the
Arab world, and it prompted Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev to warn last year
that Jewish emigration to Israel could be curtailed if it is used to expand
settlements.

Last fall, Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy sent Baker a letter pledging that
no housing for Soviet immigrants would be built beyond Israel's pre-1967
borders.

However, the Housing Ministry's report contains page after page listing new
temporary and permanent homes for Jewish settlements in the territories, all
under the heading "Project Immigration." The report indicates several hundred
trailer homes have already been installed in settlements under the project,
while thousands of other units are in the planning or site-preparation stage.

In all, it shows 7,100 new units are planned in the West Bank and Gaza out of
54,614 for Project Immigration. An additional 1,100 units are planned for the
Golan Heights, which Israel captured from Syria in 1967 and annexed in 1981, and
2,000 units for areas in Jerusalem outside Israel's internationally recognized
pre-1967 border.

Last month, two left-wing members of parliament said Housing Ministry documents
they had obtained showed the ministry planned to build 12,000 new units in
settlements over a three-year period. That report's estimate of 2,149 permanent
units planned for the fiscal year ending this month appears to be roughly
consistent with the 2,200 mentioned by the latest document, while not taking
into account the thousands of trailer and prefabricated units planned.

Official sources here said that following a State Department inquiry about the
leftist legislators' account, Shamir assured President Bush in a letter that
there was no government plan to build 12,000 new homes in the territories.
Israeli officials were told that Baker released the $ 400 million in loan
guarantees on the basis of that assurance, official sources said.

Government officials today offered conflicting accounts of the new report, a
copy of which was obtained by The Washington Post. Spokesmen for Shamir
described it as a plan favored by the Housing Ministry and its minister, Ariel
Sharon, but they insisted it did not represent government policy.

"The government has not approved such construction, and if you go to the
territories you will see there is no such construction," said Avi Pazner,
Shamir's spokesman. "Maybe it's a proposal of the Housing Ministry."

However, another senior official, who asked not to be named, said the absence of
an official decision by Shamir's cabinet did not mean that the housing program
was not being carried out. "They are doing all that and more," the official said
of the building reflected in the report.

One official said Sharon's present initiative was no more than "an attempt to
embarrass the government" on the eve of a visit by Baker.

Israeli radio said tonight that Sharon had resigned from a second cabinet post
as minister in charge of immigration absorption. It said he complained he did
not have enough authority in the job. The resignation was seen as largely
symbolic.

The Housing Ministry spokesman did not respond to inquiries today about the
report, but other sources said it was one of a weekly series prepared inside the
ministry to keep track of construction. The existence of the report, dated March
3, was disclosed Friday by Kol Hair, a Jerusalem weekly newspaper.

The report says 387 trailer homes have been installed in Jewish settlements in
the West Bank. It says 250 more have been acquired and will be set up in the
coming weeks, and that 1,250 trailers will be put in the territories outside of
Jerusalem.

The report shows that 1,840 large trailers, each with two family units, will be
located in 35 settlements in the West Bank and Gaza, and 1,000 prefabricated
homes will be set up. A further 2,200 permanent homes are planned for
construction, it says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              127 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 17, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Puerto Rico's Difference

George F. Will

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE D7

LENGTH: 853 words


Sen. Pat Moynihan (D-N.Y.) thinks he has spotted an old serpent in today's
political garden. "Nativism!" he exclaimed when a Senate committee killed a bill
that would have authorized a Puerto Rican referendum on that island's political
future.

Every president since Truman has affirmed Puerto Rico's right to choose to
retain commonwealth status or opt for independence or statehood. The 1988
Republican platform endorsed statehood.

In the resistance to a referendum, Moynihan sees "nativism, the close associate
of racism." But not all resistance should be so stigmatized.

Nativism is, with reason, an epithet. Nativist movements proliferated in
reaction against the waves of immigration in the 1840s and 1850s. Most
immigrants then were Germans and Irish and Catholics (Moynihan's ancestors).
Xenophobia and religious bigotry (many Protestant immigrants quickly became
violent nativists) fueled the growth of the Know-Nothing Party. (Members were
supposedly sworn to answer all political questions by saying, "I know nothing
about it." Clearly nativists always have had uneasy consciences in this nation
of immigrants.) In 1854, several governors and 75 congressmen were elected with
Know-Nothing affiliation.

There were anti-immigrant urban riots and attempts to legislate a 21-year
residency requirement for naturalization. Liquor, thundered Horace Greeley's New
York Tribune, "fills our prisons with Irish culprits, and makes the gallows
hideous with so many Catholic murderers." A recrudescence of nativism in the
1920s coincided with the revival of the Ku Klux Klan and resulted in the
National Origins Act, severely limiting immigration, especially from southern
Europe and Asia.

But the ugly passions of the past are not dominating today's thinking about
Puerto Rico. Today's question is not whether Puerto Ricans belong in American
society. Of course they do. Several million live on the mainland. The quite
different question is, Does Puerto Rico, a distinct cultural entity, belong in
the federal union?

It was thrilling to read recent Census reports that by 1990 one in four
Americans had an African, Asian, Hispanic or American Indian ancestry. That is
up from one in five in 1980. It marks the most pronounced change in America's
racial composition in this century.

Furthermore, because 19th-century immigration was overwhelmingly European,
whereas today's immigrants come primarily from Latin American and Asian nations
(the Asian component of America's population soared 107.8 percent in the 1980s),
the 1980s brought more cultural diversity than any other decade in American
history. America still welcomes invigorating infusions of immigrants who are
eager to become Americans.

American citizenship is a citizenship of ideas. For immigrants, it flows from an
act of individual affirmation. Immigrants become citizens by personal assents.
But a collective choice by a distinct cultural community like Puerto Rico is
problematic.

Diversity -- e pluribus unum -- is America's boast. But from the Soviet Union to
Yugoslavia to Lebanon to Canada and elsewhere, the world is replete with
cautionary examples of kinds of diversities that are incompatible with the unity
requisite for happy nationhood.

Puerto Rico's religious and political values present no obstacles to statehood.
However, language, which is the carrier and conditioner of all culture, is
another matter.

Puerto Rico is a Spanish-speaking community. Sixty percent of Puerto Ricans do
not speak English. An America with Puerto Rico as a state would be bilingual in
a way that, in spite of various accommodations for today's immigrants, America
today is not.

Bilingualism would inevitably be institutionalized to a new degree and in new
ways within this nation. Bilingualism denies the link between citizenship and a
shared culture. Already we have gone too far, even to bilingual ballots, which
proclaim that people can exercise the most public of rights while being apart
from public life.

Americans should say diverse things, but should say them in a common language
that allows universal participation in the conversation. Most immigrants want to
learn English. Nativists have generally been wrong: Immigrants want to become as
American as possible as quickly as possible. But would an entire island people
hasten to make secondary the Spanish language that is central to their 400 years
of experience as a Spanish and Caribbean community?

Puerto Rico's per capita income is $ 5,825, half that of the poorest state
(Mississippi, $ 11,724) and a quarter that of the richest (Connecticut, $
25,001). Perhaps half -- the poorest half -- of Puerto Rico's population would
gain from statehood because of enhanced access to federal welfare services. But
statehood would nullify the tax break that subsidizes many U.S. corporations
that operate there. Such considerations matter, but if this issue comes to a
vote, there or here, the hands raised for or against statehood should not hold
calculators on which the material benefits have been finely computed. The
important calculations are of cultural costs and benefits.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              128 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 24, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

A Haven In Need Of Help;
Influx of Refugees Overwhelming Md.

Retha Hill, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B8

LENGTH: 512 words


Maryland officials, saying they are overwhelmed by the number of immigrants
flocking to the state, are considering closing a key refugee assistance program
unless the state obtains increased aid from the federal government.

Frank Bien, director of the Maryland Office of Refugee Affairs, said yesterday
that federal reimbursements are not keeping pace with the high costs of settling
the surging number of immigrants seeking refuge in Maryland from economic or
political persecution.

"The state has entered into a contract with the federal government," Bien told a
daylong conference on cultural diversity held at Richard Montgomery High School
in Rockville.

"We accept the refugees, and they [the federal government] pay for it," Bien
said. "It's not working out."

The soaring number of refugees coming to Maryland is but one of the challenges
facing a state that now ranks 10th in the nation as a magnet for those
immigrants, according to speakers at the conference.

The conference also explored the progress of multicultural programs in public
schools, ethnic tensions in a state that until the 1980s was 75 percent white,
and a proposal to make English the official language of the U.S. government.

Noting that 20,000 refugees settled in Maryland in the last decade, Bien said
the cost of medical assistance and cash grants for that population in the last
three months of 1990 exceeded federal reimbursements by $ 120,000.

At that rate, Bien said, that state program will have an $ 800,000 deficit by
September, which could force state officials to shut down the assistance
programs.

New U.S. Census Bureau figures show that Maryland's minority population
increased dramatically in the 1980s, particularly among blacks, Hispanics and
Asians.

The figures show that the black population increased by 24 percent, Asian by 117
percent and Hispanic by 93 percent. The Washington suburbs, particularly
Montgomery and Prince George's counties, led the state with the largest
increases.

Other speakers at the conference, which was sponsored by the Maryland Ethnic
Heritage Commission and the Montgomery County Office of Minority and
Multicultural Affairs, said the state continues to fall short in providing
services to new arrivals from other countries.

For example, several experts said they were disappointed that public schools
have not moved more rapidly toward a multicultural curriculum.

Woodrow B. Grant Jr., chief of the Equal Opportunity Office of the Maryland
State Department of Education, said the Prince George's County school system was
the only one of the 24 in Maryland to meet a 1973 requirement that students be
taught about the contributions of all the state's ethnic groups.

Other speakers clashed over a proposal, now pending in Congress, to declare
English the official language of the U.S. government.

Proponents said the measure was needed to ensure uniformity in official
proceedings. Opponents, many of them members of ethnic minorities, said the
proposal was designed to limit non-English speakers' access to government.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              129 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 26, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Mexican Immigrants' 'Shift to Permanence'

Curt Suplee, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 815 words


If you picture the typical Mexican immigrant as a young, single male who makes
intermittent forays into this country for short-term agricultural work and then
takes the money back to his family in Mexico, you're in agreement with most
Americans and much of the academic literature on immigration.

You're also spectacularly wrong, according to a new study from the Rand Corp.
that examined recent demographic changes in the more than 12 million persons of
Mexican origin now living in the United States.

In fact, about half of new immigrants are female, over two-thirds live with a
family member, and nearly all are here to stay. They are more likely to be
married than their native-born counterparts. And although the number of Mexican
immigrants increased fivefold between 1970 and 1988, the Rand study, published
earlier this month in Science magazine, concludes that recent immigrants "do not
cause adverse economic effects for native-born workers," since they generally do
not compete for the same kinds of jobs held by persons born here.

However, the report warns, the relatively high fertility rates of recently
immigrated Mexican-origin women (about 40 percent above the white, non-Hispanic
average), together with the educational needs of the latest wave of immigrants,
will place substantial increased pressure on government social programs,
particularly education. "In 1980," the report observes, "Mexican immigrant
households enrolled 2.25 more children in Los Angeles elementary and secondary
schools than the average for Los Angeles households."

Demand for public services, already strained by the recent legalization of 2.3
million undocumented Mexican immigrants under "amnesty" provisions of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA), is expected to continue to
increase in the short term. According to 1980 census data, 25 percent of new
Mexican immigrants (legal and illegal) had a high-school degree and about 40
percent had a "working knowledge" of English. But by the second generation, the
Rand report found, "there is dramatic improvement in high school completion . .
. and nearly 90 percent have a working knowledge of English."

"The fertility rate is generally lower in the second generation," said Georges
Vernez, co-director of Rand's Program for Research on Immigration Policy and an
author of the study. "People have a perception that integration and changes in
behavior ought to happen in the first generation of immigrants. But in general
that pattern begins with second generation and increases in the third."

But adult students may pose a more intractable problem. Sylvia Ramirez, an
immigrant-education consultant with California's Department of Education, said
her office recently completed a statewide survey and found that, without
additional funding, there are no classes or facilities for about 300,000 adult
students. "The idea was that the federal government would provide the funds,
through the State Legalization Impact Assistance Grants," Ramirez said. "But now
they're talking about cutting that back."

California educators project they will need between $ 1.7 billion and $ 2.4
billion a year to give each immigrant adult -- one-third of whom are not
literate in their native languages -- an estimated 450 hours of schooling each,
including citizenship training. "California," Ramirez said, "can't do it alone."

The report said the question of whether immigrants "pay their way [through
taxes] for the public services they consume . . . cannot be precisely answered."

Over time, said Edward Lynch, special assistant to the commissioner for policy
development at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the imbalance between
demand and revenue should right itself. "The critical change that IRCA made is
that large numbers of these people are now legally authorized to work. That is,
there's no need for an underground economy. So while you will see an increase in
educational expenditures, you'll also see an increase in tax receipts."

Much of it may already be on the way, and in unexpected segments of the economy.
Over the past two decades, according to the Rand study, Mexican immigrants'
"participation in the agricultural industry has been halved . . . whereas their
role in the manufacturing industry has increased nearly twofold." Many of those
workers are Mexican immigrant women, whose participation rate in the work force
has increased 69 percent over the past 20 years, compared to 50 percent for
native-born women.

Vernez hopes that the Rand findings on the "shift to permanence" will affect
congressional debate on "what we may consider as an appropriate number of
immigrants that the country ought to accept. If you have a perception that the
people who come here are temporary workers, and go back relatively soon, you may
be inclined to accept more immigrants than you would otherwise."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              130 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      April 5, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

Israeli Pushes Housing Plan In Spite of U.S. Objections

Jackson Diehl, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1374 words

DATELINE: EFRAT, West Bank


A thicket of trailer homes has appeared alongside the luxury stone town houses
of this affluent Jewish settlement, and a local real estate agent was eager to
explain why. "Those are reserved for our olim hadashim," or new immigrants, she
said. "Forty families from Russia are moving in."

Though the government of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir will not acknowledge it,
the agent's story is one repeated throughout the occupied West Bank and Gaza
Strip this month. In dozens of settlements, cranes are lifting new
government-supplied trailers into place -- 1,200 in all, according to official
documents. And neither Housing Ministry documents nor many settlement leaders
bother to disguise what the homes are for: newly arrived Soviet Jews.

Israel has repeatedly promised the Soviet government and the Bush administration
that it does not intend to build housing for Soviet immigrants in the occupied
territories, and in exchange has received Moscow's cooperation in a historic
Jewish exodus as well as $ 400 million in U.S. loan guarantees for housing
construction.

Yet according to documents of the Housing Ministry, the trailers are just part
of the biggest settlement construction program ever launched by Israel in the
occupied territories. The ministry now says 14,000 new housing units will be
placed in the settlements outside of Jerusalem in the next two years, enough to
increase their total population, now about 90,000, by more than 50 percent.

Behind this startling contradiction between word and deed lies a many-sided
political conflict that could soon dominate both Israel's politics and its
relations with the Bush administration. If he is to avoid a major clash with
Washington and participate in a new Middle East peace process, Shamir will have
to curtail, or forgo, the massive new building of settlements now starting, his
aides acknowledge.

To do so, however, the 75-year-old prime minister will have to confront a bitter
and dangerous rival: Ariel Sharon, the former general and defense minister who
has made a career out of flouting official policy.

It is Sharon, Shamir's leading opponent in the right-wing Likud party, who as
housing minister and minister in charge of Soviet immigration has launched the
massive new building program. And though Shamir maintains the plan was never
approved by him or his cabinet, Sharon has made clear that he intends to build
the thousands of new homes unless forcibly stopped by the prime minister.

"Sharon is playing chicken," said an American Jewish leader who asked not to be
named. "And at a certain point, Shamir's credibility in Washington will depend
on whether he responds."

Other officials say the stakes go beyond Shamir's fragile relationship with
President Bush. If Sharon's housing program goes forward, it appears likely that
the settlement of Soviet Jews in the occupied territories will rapidly increase
-- a development that would raise alarms throughout the Arab world, and possibly
endanger Israel's relations with the Soviet Union.

At present, estimates of the number of Soviet Jews moving to the West Bank, Gaza
and East Jerusalem range from 3 percent to 4 percent of those arriving in the
country -- or about 7,500 last year. Yet the Soviets make up at least one-third
of the growth in Jewish population in the territories, and some settlers'
leaders say they represent 50 percent or more of new arrivals. If that trend
continues, Sharon's program would lead to the settlement of tens of thousands
more immigrants in the areas in the coming two years.

Settlement leaders describe the program as a chance to decide once and for all
the question of whether Israel or some Arab authority will control the
territories in the future. "Sharon is the right man at the right time in the
right place," said Ron Nachman, the mayor of a West Bank settlement. "The
results of his activity will save the homeland of the Jewish people for the next
generation."

For weeks, as reports of Sharon's building plan began to leak to the press,
Shamir and his aides ignored the incipient challenge, denying that any such plan
existed. In response to queries from Washington, Shamir sent a message to Bush
saying no decision had been made on new settlement construction.

"The government has not approved such construction, and if you go to the
territories you will see there is no such construction," said Shamir's
spokesman, Avi Pazner, on March 10.

But two weeks ago, Sharon stepped up his campaign, personally taking a group of
Israeli reporters on a tour of settlements, and outlining a plan for
"acceleration" of construction under which 13,000 units would be added in two
years. The figure was the highest yet reported and did not include 1,000 housing
units Sharon is planning in the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights or at least 3,000
he has charted for East Jerusalem.

When the Israeli reporters asked Sharon why he was accelerating the building,
his answer was blunt. "We have speeded up building of housing here for two
reasons," he said. "First, we need strategic depth. Second, political dangers
have caused us to hurry up."

To the alarm of some U.S. officials, Shamir did not reply publicly to Sharon's
announcement, which implied that the new program was a response to new U.S.
calls on Israel to trade occupied territory for peace. Instead, sources said,
Shamir had another private message dispatched to Washington, assuring the
administration that Sharon's plan has not been approved by the government.

Critics argue that Shamir's latest tactic is a play for time. By telling the
United States that the government has not approved the settlement plan, "Shamir
is not lying, but he is not telling the truth," said leftist lawmaker Dedi
Zucker.

"Even though the plan was not formally approved, Shamir knows that Sharon
already has all the authority he needs to carry it out," said Zucker, who has
closely monitored the new settlement effort. The parliament, he noted, recently
passed this year's state budget, including funds for the Housing Ministry's
overall building program, without attaching any restrictions as to where the new
units would be located.

An official close to Shamir acknowledged that to stop Sharon's program, the
prime minister would now have to take the initiative, perhaps by raising the
issue for discussion in the cabinet. Yet such a move would be difficult for
Shamir, an ardent advocate of Israeli settlement of the territories who feels
vulnerable to challenge from the Sharon-led right wing of his party.

"Sharon is trying to embarrass Shamir, and provoke him into a confrontation on
very unfavorable terms," said the official. "He is also trying to provoke the
United States into a battle with Israel, because that would also serve his
purpose."

Political observers here point out that Sharon's tactics mirror those he used in
directing Israel's 1982 invasion of Lebanon. Then serving as defense minister,
Sharon obtained the cabinet's approval only for a limited military operation in
southern Lebanon, but nevertheless tried to carry out a far more ambitious
master plan to drive the Palestine Liberation Organization from Beirut and
install a new Lebanese government.

Mayor Nachman's settlement, coincidentally named Ariel, is an example of how
rapidly West Bank Jewish communities are expanding under the twin stimuli of
Soviet immigration and Sharon's aggressive stewardship. Three years ago, when
the liberal Labor Party shared power in the government and an Arab uprising
against Israeli rule raged in the West Bank, the settlement's growth was halted,
Nachman said.

Now, according to the mayor, about 1,000 new housing units are under
construction in the community, 18 miles east of Tel Aviv. The population has
grown from 8,000 at the start of last year to 10,000, he said, adding that about
half the increase was due to the arrival of "more than 200" Soviet immigrant
families.

Ariel now expects to receive several hundred trailers, Nachman said, adding that
plans called for their use to house additional students at the settlement's
college. The settlement's official magazine reported that the college is
planning "special retraining programs . . . for the recent influx of Soviet
immigrants."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ARIEL SHARON

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              131 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 25, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

DMV Crowding, Security Woes Cited in Va. License Fraud Scheme

Robert F. Howe, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B5

LENGTH: 842 words


A massive fraud scheme to issue hundreds of illegal driver's licenses from the
Baileys Crossroads motor vehicle office resulted in part from inadequate
security and crowding, according to Virginia transportation officials.

Transportation Secretary John G. Milliken, calling for a closer review of
immigrant identification documents and a greater reliance on the mail for
routine Department of Motor Vehicle transactions, said the fraud has highlighted
the dangers of the confusion that plagues many of the state's busy DMV branches.

"One of the reasons we get into that kind of problem is that those offices are
crowded, chaotic. Those employees are pressed with lots of people demanding
their attention at the same time," said Milliken, adding that the strain is
worsened by "the increasingly diverse pool" of driver's license applicants.

A federal investigation targeting the Baileys Crossroads branch of the DMV
became public in February 1989, when a team of state and federal agents arrested
the owner of a local driving school and a DMV employee. Issam H. Abu-Ghosh,
owner of A&G Driving School, later admitted that he charged immigrants up to $
450 for the licenses and used part of the money to pay off DMV employees to
process them.

Federal investigators said illegal immigrants often used the licenses to
illegally obtain work and residency permits.

Gail Yvette Shaw, the DMV employee, was sentenced yesterday to three months in
prison and another three months in a halfway house for taking bribes from
Abu-Ghosh and issuing driver's licenses without giving applicants a road or
written test. Abu-Ghosh will be sentenced next month.

During the last two years, three former DMV clerks and owners of three driving
schools have been prosecuted as a result of the investigation, but federal
officials said other school owners and former DMV employees who may have
participated in related scams have been identified.

DMV Commissioner Donald E. Williams, noting that several security changes have
been made in recent months at Baileys Crossroad, said his office is reviewing
the records of more than 2,000 people who received licenses through driving
schools around the facility. He said it has not yet been determined which
licenses were obtained illegally, but said the DMV "may call these people back
in for retesting."

The Washington area's growing immigrant population has created a market for
large-scale fraud schemes aimed at providing documents that immigrants need to
find jobs or become permanent residents, federal officials say.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
conspiracies such as the one at Baileys Crossroads have undermined the
effectiveness of federal legislation passed in 1986 that penalizes employers if
they are caught hiring immigrants without work permits and other valid
identification. Once the government required the documents, Austin said, several
underground networks were quickly established to supply them.

In response to the fraud scheme at Baileys Crossroads, DMV officials said they
have shored up their security.

Daniel W. Byers, assistant administrator for field operations, said the agency
has renewed efforts to train employees how to identify fraudulent Social
Security cards, state ID cards, passports and other documents. The DMV also has
issued a revised list of identification documents that it will accept from
immigrants seeking licenses and increased its effort to rotate employees so that
no one person can issue the eye, road and written tests to an applicant.

Although an additional security officer has been assigned at the Baileys
Crossroads branch, officials said employees are still pressed by a crush of
applicants, requiring even senior managers to pitch in at the information table
or to administer tests. The branch's 39 employees process more than 200,000
transactions and issue about 20,000 driver's licenses each year.

Jake Simms, director of the Baileys Crossroads branch, said one of the most
effective changes so far is a computer-generated written test. A computer
randomly selects 20 questions so that each test is different.

"It used to be sometimes people would sit down and finish the test in 20
seconds. We had people who couldn't read English score 100 percent," Simms said.

Since April 3, when the branch switched over to the computer-generated tests,
fewer applicants have come to Baileys Crossroads and the failure rate has jumped
from 15 percent to 53 percent, Simms said.

But the bottom line, said Simms and other DMV officials, is that an immigrant
with counterfeit documents still can beat the system and that some driving
school instructors continue to take advantage of newly arrived immigrants.

Simms, pointing out cars from seven schools parked in the lot around the Baileys
Crossroads office, said he recently received a call from a woman who was charged
$ 60 by a driving school instructor to help her cheat on a test. "That
instructor is still walking around out here today," Simms said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              132 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 30, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Disparate U.S. Receptions Off Florida;
Haitian Refugees Are Returned, Cubans Are Welcomed Ashore

Laura Parker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4

LENGTH: 712 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 29, 1991


Three wooden boats jammed with 455 Haitian refugees have been intercepted by
Coast Guard authorities off the Florida coast in the last three days.

The group is the largest so far this year in the continuing exodus of people
from the poverty-stricken island nation that has a history of political
repression.

The same Coast Guard cutter today also picked up a boatload of 12 Cubans,
another part of the steady stream of refugees into southern Florida from
troubled Caribbean countries.

But that is where the similarities in the saga of the two groups of refugees
end. Unlike most of the Haitians, the Cubans soon will be living and working in
Miami's Little Havana -- or anywhere else they choose in America.

Most of the Haitians will never see the bright lights of Miami's skyline. The
Coast Guard cutter that plucked refugees of both nationalities from the sea is
already steaming toward Port-au-Prince to return the Haitians.

During the voyage, the Haitians will be given a brief opportunity to explain to
two Immigration and Naturalization Service officials why they fled. Those who
persuade the officials that they face persecution if returned to Haiti will be
brought to Miami where they will be detained at an INS facility until they can
apply for political asylum.

Three Haitians, who were flown to Miami for treatment of dehydration, will be
allowed to apply for asylum. But activists here working on behalf of Haitian
refugees say they expect only a few others to be brought to Miami. They complain
of a double standard.

"What's distressing to me is that the Cubans are welcomed as heroes, and we
can't seem to get the Haitians back fast enough," said Cheryl Little, director
of Miami's Haitian Refugee Center. "I don't think anybody is suggesting at this
point that the situation for the Cubans in their home country is any different
than for the Haitians. Basically we're talking about economic distress more than
anything else. So why is it that the Haitians continue to be treated as outcasts
and we welcome the Cubans?"

Immigration officials say the law requires them to turn away Haitians who
attempt to enter the country illegally. Since 1982, the United States has had an
interdiction agreement with Haiti requiring refugees captured or rescued at sea
by the Coast Guard to be returned.

On the other hand, Cubans who flee the communist regime of Fidel Castro are
uniformly granted political asylum and after a year can apply to become U.S.
citizens.

As Cuba's economy worsens, the number of Cubans attempting the 90-mile journey
to Key West has increased. In April, more than 400 Cubans have been rescued at
sea -- including a group who were picked up by a luxury cruise ship and taken on
a tour of the Caribbean before docking in Miami.

As Haiti moved closer to democracy -- the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide became the
first democratically elected president late last year -- the number of Haitians
trying to reach U.S. shores declined. Last year, 1,196 Haitian refugees were
picked up by the Coast Guard, about a third of the number in 1988, when Haiti
was under the grip of a military regime.

So far, 864 Haitians have been picked up this year, more than half in three
boats intercepted over the weekend.

The first of the vessels, a 45-foot wooden sailboat carrying 210 refugees, was
discovered early Saturday, about 73 miles southeast of Miami. A second 45-foot
sailboat, carrying 216 Haitians was discovered Sunday about noon. The Haitians
filled the entire deck of the 210-foot Coast Guard cutter Tahoma, preventing a
helicopter with food and medical supplies from landing on the flight deck. The
supplies were transported instead by another Coast Guard vessel.

One of the Haitian sailboats was set on fire and the other cast adrift, said Lt.
Cmdr. Jeff Karnis, a Coast Guard spokesman. He described the boats as
"dangerously overcrowded."

"Imagine the most crowded subway car you can imagine, people standing shoulder
to shoulder, and now imagine standing that way for two or three days in the hot
sun," he said.

As the Tahoma headed toward Port-au-Prince, 29 Haitians on a third sailboat were
picked up.

The Cubans were rescued from a motorboat this afternoon and will be transferred
from the Tahoma and taken to Miami.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, COAST GUARD CUTTER TAHOMA IS CRAMMED WITH HAITIAN REFUGEES OFF
FLORIDA COAST. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              133 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 4, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Politically Correct Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 150 words


Your gush piece on the Mejia family's restaurant business [Metro, April 23]
exemplifies a disturbing trend of applying different journalistic standards to
ethnic groups you perceive as "promoting diversity," the 1990s code word for
group rights.

Politically correct immigrants create a "chain immigration" bias in U.S. law. By
contrast, my distant relations in Europe, who are highly educated in critical
skills (symbolic analysis -- not dishwashing) the United States needs and are
willing to assimilate, find getting an immigrant visa almost impossible.

Your paper is known for carefully researched articles on the hidden social costs
of business pollution, disinvestment in ghettoes, ethnic conflict overseas,
white collar crime etc. But on immigration, the only social issue that could
cripple liberal American democracy, you give us emotive, one-sided pieces.

-- Michael Hethmon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              134 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 9, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Former Iraqi Envoy Emigrates to Canada;
Canada Permits Former Iraqi Ambassador to U.S. to Immigrate

William Claiborne, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A31

LENGTH: 750 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, May 8


Mohamed Mashat, the former Iraqi ambassador to the United States who through his
talk show appearances became known to millions of Americans as Saddam Hussein's
greatest defender, but who decided he did not want to return home, was granted
permission to immigrate to Canada, government officials said today.

Mashat, who arrived in Canada from Vienna March 30, satisfied all the "normal
requirements" for admission to Canada and will be eligible for Canadian
citizenship after three years, a spokesman for the External Affairs Ministry in
Ottawa said.

"He was admitted [into Canada] under a fear-for-life consideration, which meant
his life may be at risk. We looked at this quite seriously," a spokesman for the
ministry told the Reuter news agency.

Mashat was Saddam's principal spokesman in Washington following Iraq's invasion
of Kuwait Aug. 2 and left the United States for Vienna Jan. 15, the day before
allied planes began bombing Iraq. At the time it was reported he was being
recalled to Baghdad after the State Department ordered Iraq to reduce its
diplomatic presence in the United States.

Canadian television reported that Mashat, whose wife had received medical
treatment in Austria, was processed through normal channels in the Canadian
Embassy in Vienna.

Mashat did not apply for status as a political refugee seeking asylum, officials
said. However, the Immigration Department and the Ministry of External Affairs
would not disclose where Mashat, his wife and teenage son are now.

John Thompson, assistant director of the Toronto-based Mackenzie Institute, a
policy study group that monitors international terrorism, said that because of
Mashat's knowledge of Iraqi covert activities in the United States, Mashat
probably became a target of his former government from the moment he decided, in
effect, to defect in Austria.

"At the very least, he was engaged in industrial espionage and probably was
aware of the disappearance of Iraqi exiles and dissidents in the United States.
He became a liability when he decided not to return to Baghdad," Thompson said.

In Washington, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said the United States
had no role in Canada's decision. Boucher added, "The Canadians didn't ask us
before they approved [it]. It appears to be one instance in which a senior Iraqi
official discerned the difference between his own interests and those of Saddam
Hussein."

Prior to Mashat's departure from Washington, there had been persistent rumors
that he might ask for asylum. But other State Department officials, who declined
to be identified, insisted that he had never made such a request or even hinted
at the possibility in a way that was taken seriously by the department.

One U.S. official said Mashat had mentioned his wife's need for medical
treatment that would be hard to obtain in Baghdad. But, the official added, he
did not say it in a way that U.S. officials interpreted as a hint that he wanted
to stay.

The 60-year-old diplomat, who studied criminology at the University of
California in the 1950s and later obtained a doctoral degree in sociology at the
University of Maryland, became widely known through appearances on "Nightline"
and the Cable News Network during Operation Desert Shield, when he vigorously
defended Iraq's annexation of Kuwait.

Mashat debated senators, retired military officers and ordinary citizens as he
repeatedly insisted that the gulf crisis was part of the larger Arab-Israeli
conflict and that the U.N.-imposed economic sanctions against Iraq were hurting
civilians.

When Baghdad announced that Westerners trapped in Iraq would suffer along with
Iraqi citizens as a result of the embargo, Mashat denied that holding the
"foreign guests" violated international law. He declared in one interview, "When
you deny our children food and milk, what do you expect?"

Before being assigned to Washington in 1989, Mashat served as Iraq's ambassador
in London. He had earlier diplomatic postings in France and Austria.

Iraq, which broke diplomatic relations with the United States in February, is
scheduled to open an interest section in the Algerian Embassy in Washington
under an arrangement announced Tuesday by the U.S. State Department. The Iraqi
diplomats assigned to the mission will be restricted in their travel to a
25-mile radius of Washington unless they obtain special permission, according to
U.S. officials.

Staff writer John M. Goshko contributed to this report from Washington.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MASHAT SPEAKS TWO DAYS AFTER IRAQI INVASION OF KUWAIT. AP

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              135 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 9, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Official Apologizes

From news services and staff reports

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE; SHORT TAKES

LENGTH: 96 words


The head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's regional office in
Miami has apologized for using a slur when referring to Chinese detainees,
saying he didn't know the term was derogatory.

INS District Director Richard Smith used the word "Chinaman" to refer to Chinese
detainees who were protesting conditions at the Krome Avenue Detention Center
west of Miami.

Smith met Tuesday with about 20 Chinese Americans who were offended by his
repeated use of the word. "My exposure to the Asiatic cultures has been
extremely limited," Smith told the gathering.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              136 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 11, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

D.C. Police Consulted INS During Disturbance;
Immigration Agency Was Asked for Information on Several People Arrested in Mt.
Pleasant

Rene Sanchez, Debbi Wilgoren, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A10

LENGTH: 1094 words


District officials said yesterday that in the middle of the Mount Pleasant
disturbances this week, the D.C. police department asked the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service for information about several of the people arrested.

The administration of Mayor Marion Barry for years tried to distance itself from
the INS to encourage illegal immigrants to use city services. Police have tried
to persuade people cooperating with investigators that their immigration status
is irrelevant. It is a sensitive issue because many Hispanic activists have
lobbied the city not to work with the immigration service and not to limit city
services to documented residents.

Suzanne Cepeda, executive director of the Council of Hispanic Agencies in the
city, said the city made a mistake in summoning immigration service officials.
"The presence of the INS always makes people very concerned," she said. "People
will be afraid and frustrated to hear that. But if it is not continuing, that
will diminish it."

Lt. Reginald Smith, a police spokesman, said yesterday that of the 230 people
arrested this week in the street disturbances and subsequent curfews, 25 percent
are Hispanic, and 16 percent are juveniles. The department did not provide a
further breakdown.

The Washington Post examined a sample of police arrest logs filed at police
facilities in the city and found that the percentage of blacks arrested from
Sunday to Thursday increased each day as the percentage of Hispanics declined.

The Post survey, which included 105 of the 193 adults arrested, found that 53
percent are non-Hispanic blacks and 38 percent are Hispanic, mostly from El
Salvador. Eight percent are non-Hispanic whites, and 1 percent are Asian.

Mount Pleasant and Adams-Morgan remained quiet yesterday, as police maintained a
visible presence along the main streets. Lt. Smith said no new arrests were made
in connection with the disturbances.

Mount Pleasant merchants announced plans for an outdoor party today for the
customers they expect to return. The Mount Pleasant Business Association will
have banners strung across the street that say "Mt. Pleasant Invincible" in both
English and Spanish, and stores will sell posters and T-shirts bearing the same
logo.

On Tuesday, the city's Civilian Review Complaint Board, which investigates
complaints of police misconduct, will hold a forum for residents of Adams-Morgan
and Mount Pleasant to discuss concerns regarding police conduct during the
disturbances.  The forum, from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m., will be at the Shrine of the
Sacred Heart, at 16th Street and Park Road NW.

Yesterday, city officials said that the immigration service had been asked by
someone in the police department to help determine the community ties of a few
people it had arrested, and to help explain the tactics that a few others used
in spreading violence through the Northwest neighborhood.

Mayor Sharon Pratt Dixon has said repeatedly in recent days that the city did
not ask the immigration service for assistance. On Wednesday, while speaking to
Hispanic community leaders, the mayor said, "Under no circumstances has the
government brought in the immigration bureau at all."

"There's no contradiction" between what city officials said earlier this week
and what they said yesterday, said Vada Manager, Dixon's spokesman. "What the
mayor has been addressing is that we had not asked anyone to come in and make
arrests or be on the streets of Mount Pleasant . . . . We just needed to have
intelligence information on certain incidents, to see what kind of tactics we
were dealing with. It was for that purpose only -- not to cart people across the
border on the spot."

Duke Austin, an INS spokesman, said yesterday that the four representatives it
sent one night this week to a police command center near the disturbances did
not request a roster of those arrested.

Austin said police asked them to help check the backgrounds on less than a dozen
people arrested. All those checked were properly documented, Austin said.

"We played a minor role there," he said. "Given the situation, there was a
recognition that the INS could have inflamed the situation. We did not want to
heat it.."

Manager said some people arrested had used violent tactics, such as setting
fires, that "had not been seen in D.C." He added that the city asked the
immigration service to check the backgrounds of some arrested people who seemed
to be leaders in inciting crowds.

Smith said the immigration service was one of many agencies that briefly helped
the department. "There wasn't any hounding, and they didn't play any enforcement
role," Smith said.

The Post's survey of 105 adults arrested out of a total of 193 sketched the
following picture:Forty-nine percent of those arrested are 18 to 22 years old,
33 percent are 23 to 30, and 18 percent are older than 30.

Seventy percent of the arrests were for curfew violations.

Sixty-three percent of those charged with breaking curfew are non-Hispanic
blacks, and 22 percent are Hispanic. Eleven percent are non-Hispanic whites.

Two men charged early Tuesday with curfew violations were also charged with
possession of marijuana. A third man, arrested early Wednesday, was charged with
possession of cocaine.

One police captain who worked the streets every night this week described most
of the curfew violators as "arrogant and defiant, or else curiosity seekers."

He said many non-Hispanics acted surprised that they too were subject to the
curfew regulations.

The captain said police stopped all pedestrians and cyclists, arresting those
who did not have identification or who were not on their way home or to work.

But others told a different story. Amilcar Blanco, 22, said he had just parked
his car and was returning to his apartment on the 1300 block of Irving Street NW
Tuesday night when several officers placed him under arrest.

"I said, 'What's the charge?' and they said, 'Throwing rocks and bottles,' "
Blanco said. "Then they searched me and found nothing, but they said, 'You're
going in anyway.' " He ultimately was charged with curfew violation.

Blanco said he was in Mount Pleasant when trouble broke out Sunday night, but
did not get involved in the melee.

He stayed in Monday night because of the curfew, and went out on Tuesday night
to drop off a friend who was afraid to walk home. After his arrrest, Blanco paid
a $ 50 fine instead of arguing the charge.

Staff writers Patrice Gaines-Carter and Keith Harriston and staff researcher
Robert Thomason contributed to this report.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, POLICE ARREST A YOUNG MAN MONDAY NIGHT WHILE ONLOOKERS STAND
BACK. POLICE SAID 230 PEOPLE WERE ARRESTED IN CONNECTION WITH THE DISTURBANCES
AND CURFEWS. LARRY MORRIS; CHART

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              137 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 13, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

The Man in the Eye of the Storm;
Immigrant Shot in Mt. Pleasant Called Hard-Working, Shy

Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D6

LENGTH: 1057 words


Things seemed to be going well for Daniel Enrique Gomez. The native of El
Salvador had a work permit and a steady job where he was liked and that allowed
him to send money to his family in El Salvador. And, with thoughts of a better
job for his new life in America, he had just started English lessons.

Gomez appeared to be on the road to making it in this country, reasonably
successful in coping with the obstacles that confront immigrants. But a week
ago, in a violent run-in with police in a Mount Pleasant park, this unassuming
30-year-old became both cause and symbol for an outburst reflecting the
frustration of some people in the Hispanic community.

Gomez, in a May 5 incident that provoked two days of disturbances in Mount
Pleasant, was shot by police after, they say, he pulled a knife and lunged at an
officer trying to arrest him.

It started in a small park with Gomez drinking a beer. According to officials,
two police officers were attempting to arrest three men who had been drinking
and had become disorderly. One of those men, Gomez, who one witness said was
drunk, drew a knife, police said. Gomez was shot in the chest.

Some witnesses claimed Gomez was handcuffed when he was shot. That story spread
quickly through the neighborhood, touching off two violent nights in which
police vehicles and private cars were torched and at least 31 businesses were
damaged.

Some characterized the incident as another injustice at the hands of the
disrespectful police in a city where jobs aren't plentiful and the government
doesn't do enough to help.

Family and friends of Gomez, who was in serious condition at Washington Hospital
Center yesterday, described him as shy and hard-working, not a likely candidate
for a confrontation with police.

He was the third of four children born to Jose and Maria Gomez in Morazan, one
of the provinces of El Salvador that has been hit hardest by the civil war.

Gomez's sister, Digna Daisy Herrarte, said their father, now 65, worked in
construction and on a farm before a bad back prevented him from working. Their
mother, who is 60, has a heart ailment, Herrarte said. The parents don't know
their son has been shot. Herrarte said she hasn't told them because she fears
the news could kill her mother.

Gomez went to school for about nine years, longer than many Salvadoran
immigrants, and began working in a factory about age 17 to help the family,
Herrarte said.

Gomez came to the United States in 1984, not so much for himself, but to support
his parents because he reasoned he could make more money in the states. He told
his sister he didn't marry or get serious with any girl because that would leave
him less money to send home. He worked a variety of blue-collar jobs before
returning to El Salvador about 1988 for a yearlong stay. "He was very worried
about my mother's health," Herrarte said.

When he returned to the United States, Gomez stayed in Texas with a brother for
about a year before coming back to the District, Herrarte said.

Herrarte described Gomez as a generous, caring brother. He gave her $ 600 for
her move from El Salvador to the United States several years ago, and told her
not to worry about paying it back. When she was recuperating from an operation
several months ago, he went to her house in Arlington once or twice a week to
cook, clean and help care for her three small children, Herrarte said.

Gomez often visited Herrarte and her husband, Julio, bringing candy and dollar
bills for her daughters, who would rush him for hugs when he arrived.

She said her brother is so shy that he declined an invitation to spend last
Christmas with her and her in-laws because he didn't know them well.

"He didn't like to go to parties; he didn't even know how to dance," she said,
lapsing into the past tense.

Last August, at the suggestion of a friend who was working there, Gomez got a
job as a pan washer with Marriott Corp.'s dining service at Georgetown
University.

A co-worker recalled that Gomez looked out for new Hispanic employees, making
sure they went to the right office after their first week on the job to pick up
their checks. Chris O'Connor, director of operations for Marriott's dining
service at Georgetown, said Gomez was a reliable, hard-working employee.

"He's a good guy," O'Connor said. "We're going to have a hard time replacing
him."

In the last half of 1990, Gomez shared a three-bedroom apartment in the 1400
block of W Street NW with six fellow Salvadorans. A former roommate said Gomez
usually was quiet and well-mannered.

Tomas and Sonia Paz, who lived with Gomez in the apartment for one month, said
they didn't think Gomez became any more aggressive when he drank. "He was a good
guy," Sonia Paz said.

Gomez moved in December and went to live with two friends in an apartment in
Anacostia. One of those friends, Jose Diaz, was with Gomez in the hours before
he was shot.

Diaz, who also works in food services at Georgetown, said he and Gomez took a
bus to Mount Pleasant to buy bus passes for the next week's trips to work.

After buying the passes, he and Gomez had dinner in a Mount Pleasant restaurant.
Then they went for a walk. Diaz said he couldn't remember whether Gomez drank
during dinner. Diaz said Gomez drank beer from a can in a paper bag, but didn't
seem drunk. Diaz said he himself did not drink that day.

Diaz's recollection of the moments leading to the shooting are fuzzy. He said
Gomez walked into a small park at 17th and Lamont streets, apparently to meet
other friends Diaz did not know. Diaz said he left Gomez and walked east to
Mount Pleasant Street to catch a bus home. Diaz said he heard a commotion and
looked over and saw a police officer beginning to handcuff Gomez, then hurried
away because "I didn't want any trouble with the police."

Diaz said he didn't see the shooting or hear it. Juan Llerena, owner of Don
Juan's, a restaurant across the street from where the shooting occurred, said
Gomez asked to come into his eatery moments before the shooting. Llerena said he
didn't allow Gomez and two companions in because Gomez was drunk.

Herrarte, Gomez's sister, was allowed by police to see her brother for the first
time Wednesday. She said that even though he couldn't speak, his face lighted up
when he saw her.

"He wanted to hug me," she said. "But he couldn't."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, DANIEL ENRIQUE GOMEZ

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              138 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 15, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Canada Cites 'Errors' in Mashat Case;
Cabinet Was Not Told Of Decision on Iraqi

William Claiborne, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, May 14, 1991


Canada's Foreign Minister Barbara McDougall said today that "major errors of
judgment" were made in granting permanent resident status to Mohammed Mashat,
Iraq's former ambassador to the United States.

Responding to a controversy over the granting of the status -- known in Canada
as landed immigrant status -- to Mashat, who vigorously defended Iraq's invasion
of Kuwait as President Saddam Hussein's chief spokesman in Washington, McDougall
and Immigration Minister Bernard Valcourt said Mashat was admitted to Canada
without cabinet officials being informed in advance.

Valcourt said there had been "a series of errors in judgment by some officials
but it was not done maliciously," and his department had "identified remedies"
to assure that in future such cases, cabinet ministers will be notified.

Both officials said Mashat will be allowed to remain in Canada. After three
years he will be eligible for citizenship.

In a joint news conference in Ottawa, Valcourt said that Mashat, who, while
living in Vienna in February, first applied to Canada for political refugee
status as a defector, was rejected by an immigration committee because it was
determined that he had no valuable classified intelligence to offer and because
the Canadian Security Intelligence Service ruled his life was in no imminent
danger if he returned to Iraq.

Later, Mashat reapplied, as a potential landed immigrant, and was admitted to
Canada March 30, arriving in Vancouver, where he bought a house. Following
disclosure in Canadian newspapers of the location of the house, he put it up for
sale and has remained, for the most part, out of sight.

Immigrant groups here have protested the handling of his case, saying that
thousands of refugee applicants have waited for years for admission to Canada
and that Mashat was given special treatment ahead of them. Iraqi dissidents have
branded him a "war criminal" who never should have been admitted.

McDougall, who was immigration minister when Mashat was admitted, and
Constitutional Affairs Minister Joe Clark, who was then foreign minister, have
said they were not told in advance of the decision made by their aides in
Ottawa.

McDougall said the highest-ranking civil servant who knew about Mashat's
application, Raymond Chretien, associate undersecretary of state for external
affairs, had apologized to Clark for not informing him about "this sensitive
case."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              139 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 5, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Immigration Has Israel Awash in Scientists;
Country Seeks Ways to Use Soviet Talent

Jackson Diehl, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 1457 words

DATELINE: REHOVOT, Israel


Hard at work in a chemistry laboratory here, David Gidalevich is a good example
of how Soviet immigration is changing Israel. The graduate of a Soviet
scientific institute in Sverdlovsk, Gidalevich was working for the Academy of
Science when he left with his family last summer.

Now the young chemist is making his career in Israel, beginning with a new
doctoral degree at the Weizmann Institute, Israel's elite center for basic
scientific research. The campus dormitory where he lives, he jokes, "is just
like home: Everybody there is Russian."

Still, Gidalevich is uncertain about his future. Although he has found a place
at Weizmann, he said, his parents, both also scientists, have been unable to
find jobs in their fields. Moreover, Gidalevich, like most young Israeli
scientists, is planning to do post-doctoral work in the United States or Europe
after finishing his degree here, and he wonders whether he will find a permanent
job in Israel when he is ready to return.

"All of us will probably do post-doctorates in other countries, and then the
question will be whether to come back, because to get a position in an institute
is very difficult," he said of the approximately 50 new Soviet doctoral students
at Weizmann. "If there are working places in Israel we will come back. But to
come from a post-doctoral fellowship in the United States and be unemployed in
Israel is something nobody wants."

The future of Weizmann's young Soviet scientists, and thousands of others like
them, represents one of the greatest challenges to Israel as it seeks to absorb
the mass wave of Soviet immigration. This huge pool of migrants is one of the
most talent-rich ever to pour into Israel, or any other country, at one time,
top heavy with scientists, engineers and doctors drawn from the professional
elite of Soviet society.

Israeli leaders say the vast influx of expertise gives the country an
unprecedented opportunity to transform itself, remaking its economy with
high-technology industries and guaranteeing it a secure future in a world where
knowledge is becoming a strategic resource. And yet the blessing of the Soviet
talent also could also become a curse, for the scientists and doctors are
arriving so massively, and so quickly, that they threaten to overwhelm Israel's
capacity to absorb them, triggering a crisis that could cause the country to
lose much of the new talent through re-emigration.

"I think in 10 years Israel will be a completely different country. It will be
transformed by the arrival of so many qualified people," said Ruth Arnon, a vice
president of Weizmann who chairs its committee on absorbing immigrant
scientists. "But it will be an immense task. Right now it is very difficult, and
it will probably be more difficult."

Figures compiled by the Science Ministry document the astonishing talent of the
immigration wave, which began in late 1989 and has already brought more than
250,000 Soviet Jews to Israel. Before the immigration, Israel's community of
scientific researchers numbered no more than 16,000. In the last 18 months,
4,000 more research scientists with PhDs and more than 20,000 engineers have
come.

The embarrassment of riches in health care is even greater. Before the Soviets
arrived, Israel already had 12,000 physicians to treat a population of less than
5 million, the highest doctor-patient ratio in the world after Switzerland. Now,
it suddenly has 6,000 more newly arrived doctors, and the flow continues.
Authorities say an average of 600 more arrive each month.

Overall, the proportion of scientists, engineers and doctors among the arriving
Soviets is five to seven times greater than that found in the general population
of Israel or developed Western countries. Veteran Israelis say the concentration
of professionals is rivaled only by the emigration of German Jews to the United
States and the land that is now Israel in the 1930s. "It's because of the German
emigration that we have things in this country today like the Israel
Philharmonic," Amnon said. "The Soviets will have the same kind of influence."

Many of the new arrivals are still unemployed. The Science Ministry said 1,300
to 1,500 of the scientists have found jobs, while 1,200 are enrolled in Hebrew
language courses and the rest, more than 1,000, are looking for jobs. Doctors
have had problems getting places in courses preparing them for Israel's medical
licensing examination, and some of them recently staged a hunger strike outside
the prime minister's office to demand that licensing requirements be eased.

Advocates for the Soviets already have begun to warn of an impending disaster.
"Our establishment is not flexible. If this amount of specialists were to come
to some more dynamic country like the United States or Germany, they would
immediately be used," said Edward Trifonov, a professor at Weizmann who
immigrated from the Soviet Union 15 years ago and now operates a job data bank
to help arriving scientists. "Very special measures have to be taken -- drastic
measures -- or Israel is going to lose these people."

Still government officials say that, after a slow start, the administration of
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir is moving to take advantage of the arriving
professionals. While the Health Ministry negotiates licensing with doctors, the
Science Ministry is overseeing a $ 66 million program to put 2,000 experienced
scientists to work by September.

"This is one of the fields in which the government is now making a major effort
in terms of budget, much higher than for any other group in this immigration,"
said Baruch Eyal, the Science Ministry official who oversees the program.
"Ultimately we believe the scientists have to be absorbed mainly by the private
sector. But the mass is so great that we are trying to do something in the short
to medium term, just to get them started."

In addition to subsidizing hundreds of temporary appointments for scientists at
universities and research institutes, Eyal said, officials came up with the idea
of creating 10 research "greenhouses" in various areas of the country. In each,
50 scientists in groups of five are provided with equipment and given research
projects, either requested by local industry or at their own initiative.

With the luxury of hundreds of surplus scientists at its disposal, the
government is also putting many to work at tasks for which they are bounteously
overqualified. Surplus mathematicians, physicists and biologists are being
retrained at universities to become teachers in community colleges, high schools
and teachers' colleges. Sociologists are being recruited as social workers, to
help other Soviet immigrants. Of 120 Soviet geologists who have already arrived,
some will be persuaded to become land surveyors and others will be employed in a
new project to create detailed maps of the country.

Eyal seems most excited about a program under which his ministry is inviting
immigrant scientists to submit proposals for special grants for research in
"areas of national priority," including microelectronics, superconductivity and
advanced materials. So far the government has received 260 research proposals,
of which 160 will be granted.

"There were a lot of very good proposals, especially from scientists who brought
their research from the Soviet Union," said Eyal. Although in general, the most
accomplished Soviet Jewish scientists are emigrating to the United States, Eyal
said some of those proposing research are in the vanguard of such fields as
theoretical physics, mathematics and space biology.

While Israel's laboratories will be crammed with the immigrants for the next
several years, Eyal and other experts said they expect most of the Soviets will
eventually find jobs in private industry, fueling what is already a rapid
expansion of high-technology companies in such areas as military electronics,
medical technology and biotechnology. Some Israeli economists dream that the
country will become a regional medical center, using its doctors to treat
thousands of people from nearby countries, while selling new research products
from basic science on the world market.

Arnon, who fears that such ideas might lead to huge, wasted state investments in
hospitals and research centers of mediocre quality, counsels depending on
private industry and investment as a long-term solution.

"This is where the Soviets can express their creativity," she said. "There is a
lot of room for forming more sophisticated industries, or expanding electronics
industries, or going into biotechnology. These are industries that employ a lot
of scientists and produce products that are high in science rather than high in
volume. And this will be the solution for us."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              140 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 20, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Four Sisters And a World Of Difference

Mary Batts Estrada

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE D11; BOOK WORLD

LENGTH: 586 words


HOW THE GARCIA GIRLS LOST THEIR ACCENTSBy Julia Alvarez Algonquin Books. 290 pp.
$ 16.95

Julia Alvarez's first novel, "How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents," is the
story of four sisters from the Dominican Republic -- Carla, Sandra, Yolanda and
Sofia -- who along with their parents become political exiles in New York City
in 1960. In telling their story, Alvarez treats the subjects of immigration,
exile, Hispanic culture and the American Dream with a sensitive and often
irreverent touch, giving special attention to the aspirations of female Hispanic
immigrants.

"Garcia Girls" starts in 1989 and moves back to 1956 through stories told by and
about each of the sisters. The novel takes a clear-eyed look at the insecurity
and yearning for a sense of belonging that are a part of the immigrant
experience. Yolanda expresses her frustration when at college in the '60s: "For
the hundredth time, I cursed my immigrant origins. If only I too had been born
in Connecticut or Virginia, I too would understand the jokes everyone was making
on the last two digits of the year, 1969; I too would be having sex and smoking
dope; I too would have suntanned parents who took me skiing in Colorado over
Christmas break." When she returns to the Dominican Republic 20 years later,
Yolanda faces similar doubts about belonging there.

The girls' relationships with their mother mirror the duality of their Dominican
and American identities and their frustration with her as a role model in their
new country. When they need comfort and security, they call her Mami. When she
fails in the Donna Reed department, they call her Mom.

Because of her daughters' closeness in age, Mami color-codes their wardrobes.
When the daughters are older,"the eldest, a child psychologist, admonished her
mother, in a scientific paper titled 'I Was There, Too' by saying that the color
system had weakened the four girls' identity differentiation abilities and made
them forever unclear about personality boundaries. The eldest also intimated
that the mother was a mild anal retentive personality. The mother did not
understand all that psychology talk, but she knew when she was being
criticized."

Their father, Papi, is portrayed as the ideal Hispanic father with all the
pluses and minuses of that role. He builds a successful medical practice in the
Bronx and sends his daughters to all-girl schools in Boston with the expectation
that they will never "go behind the palm trees" -- that is, get pregnant and
disgrace the family. The sisters gather every year to pay homage to him on his
birthday, leaving their husbands at home. It is his rejoinder when asked about
sons, "Good bulls sire cows," that echoes in their memories. Psychotherapy,
anorexia, divorce and defiance are the consequences of the girls' search for Sen

or Right.

One of the last stories in the book is how the family came to leave the
Dominican Republic. It is the signal event that has shaped their lives and
personalities. The family's escape is realistic: Tension builds while the father
hides in a secret closet and the girls play with their cousins in the back yard.
This story is movingly told by the youngest sister, Sofia, and the aged family
maid who is left to watch over the deserted house. It is her words that portend
the stories to follow. "They will be haunted by what they do and don't remember.
But they will have spirit in them. They will invent what they need to survive."
The reviewer is a news aide on the staff of Book World.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: REVIEW

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              141 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 23, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Festival Highlights INS Program for Salvadorans

Stephanie Griffith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C7

LENGTH: 594 words


The sun shone only intermittently on the Pan-American Festival in Alexandria
yesterday, but for Cermando Sanchez, it was as if the brightest weather reigned.

Sanchez, 36, a native of El Salvador, fairly gushed as he considered his new,
albeit temporary, legal status under a program introduced by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in January. The Temporary Protective Status Program
allows undocumented Salvadorans who arrived in this country before September
1990 to live and work in the United States for up to 18 months. Congress
approved the program in an attempt to aid Salvadorans fleeing their strife-torn
country, which has been engulfed in civil war for 12 years.

"I feel lucky to be able to have residency here," said Sanchez, as he sat at a
picnic table with family members, watching the crowd milling about in Oronoco
Bay Park.

Sanchez, noting that he no longer fears deportation, said the temporary
residency is "a miracle" for him and members of his family.

But many undocumented Salvadorans have not come forward to sign up, and
yesterday's festival was an eleventh-hour opportunity to encourage their
participation in the program, the deadline for which is June 30. An INS
spokesman said officials initially hoped that about 300,000 Salvadorans
nationwide would register. So far, however, only 80,000 -- including about
10,000 in the Washington area -- have registered. Some members of Congress are
pushing for an extension of the deadline to Oct. 31.

But Salvadoran activists say they are heartened that the number of applicants is
increasing dramatically as the deadline approaches.

"It's incredible how the numbers are skyrocketing," said Angela Kelley, a
program coordinator for the National Immigrant, Refugee and Citizenship Forum in
Washington.

At the Spanish Catholic Center in Washington, Kelley said, about 300 people are
registering each day on a first-come, first-served basis, and lines begin to
form outside the building hours before it opens.

Israel Rivera, a paralegal for Carecen, a nonprofit social agency in the Mount
Pleasant neighborhood of Washington, said that in the past few weeks, the number
of applications processed has doubled, from about 20 to 40 each day.

"Everybody waits until the last minute," Rivera said. "It's something that
happened with the amnesty program a few years ago, and it's happening again
now."

"We underestimated the very great degree of fear . . .  that at the end of the
18 months, an INS agent is going to come to their house, arrest and deport them
all," said Lael Parish, executive director of CASA de Maryland, which works with
Hispanics in the Silver Spring area.

A changing fee schedule also caused applicants to wait until the last minute to
register. The application fee for an individual is $ 255, payable over the 18
months.

Despite the sometimes gray weather, a mood of levity prevailed at the fourth
annual festival. Seventy stands offered a variety of food from Central and South
America, music groups blared salsa, and by the festival's end, a new Miss
Alexandria Pan-American Festival had been crowned.

"The festival is a tremendous thing," said Leonora Mejilla, 36, between nibbles
of her ice cream cone as she strolled along the festival grounds with her
husband, Abel, and son Jairo, 10. Some people, like Mejilla, who became a
permanent U.S. resident under the first amnesty program in 1986, were at the
festival purely for fun. "It's nice to see different people of different
cultures come together and share their food and music," she said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, IDALIA GUERRERO TRIES ON A SOMBRERO DURING THE PAN-AMERICAN
FESTIVAL IN ARLINGTON. LARRY MORRIS

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              142 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 23, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

The Paradox of AIDS Politics: Equity for a 'Special' Disease;
2 Contrary Attitudes Emerge at International Meeting on Epidemic

Malcolm Gladwell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A10

LENGTH: 1002 words

DATELINE: FLORENCE


Two distinctly contrary attitudes toward AIDS emerged at the international
conference here last week. The outcome of their clash could shape the way the
world deals with the decade-old epidemic.

At a special session at the International AIDS Conference, for example, many of
the world's leading AIDS experts and officials rose to complain about how U.S.
immigration policy unfairly treats people infected with HIV, the virus that
causes AIDS.

The Bush administration says it continues to keep HIV-infected immigrants out of
the United States because of the financial burden they could pose to the
country's health care system. Yet no action has ever been taken against those
with other chronic diseases such as cancer or heart disease, which can be just
as expensive to treat as AIDS.

"It is terribly important for us to fight the false message that there is
something special about HIV," said June Osborne, who chairs the U.S. National
Commission on AIDS.

Even as she spoke, however, precisely the opposite point was being made at
scientific sessions across the conference center plaza. As a deadly communicable
disease, as a worldwide epidemic, as a particularly baffling scientific puzzle,
AIDS is something special, researchers and activists repeatedly argued, a
disease so dangerous that it should command a large share of the medical and
scientific community's time and money.

The conference itself stands as testimony to the unique status that the AIDS
community has carved out for its cause. For no other disease is it deemed
necessary for so many people from so many disparate disciplines and countries to
gather in one place to map out a coordinated strategy of treatment and
prevention.

For many researchers and public health officials, these two, contradictory
messages are an unavoidable consequence of an epidemic as large, as varied and
as persistent as AIDS. But they concede that simultaneously maintaining that
AIDS both is and is not a special disease spells trouble.

Having told the public for years that AIDS was such a threat that it demanded
changes in fundamental human behavior, many of them wonder whether it is now too
late to turn around and tell the world that AIDS poses no special risk in the
health care setting or from immigrants. And if AIDS really does become just like
any other disease, how will it be possible to maintain its privileged political
status as the medical condition on which more is spent per capita than any other
in U.S. history?

"It is a paradox," said Centers for Disease Control epidemiologist Harold Jaffe.

"I think it may be asking a lot of the public to follow this reasoning," said
Jean McGuire, former head of the AIDS Action Council in Washington and now a
fellow at Brandeis University.

The immigration question was the most pressing political issue at last week's
conference. AIDS activists argue that it is unfair to single out HIV-infected
immigrants for restrictions when they pose no increased risk to Americans and
their care would become no more of a public burden than that for any other
serious illness.

One study presented at the conference, for example, found that the 484
HIV-infected immigrants admitted to Canada in 1988 will run up an estimated $
18.5 million in HIV-related health care costs over the rest of their lives. But,
like the United States, Canada doesn't screen out immigrants with coronary heart
disease, and the estimated 2,558 people admitted with that problem will cost the
country about $ 23.2 million.

The same case is made by the AIDS community over the issue of whether to
restrict the activities of HIV-infected health care workers. Here the argument
is that the danger to patients is far from exceptional and in fact is on a par
with a number of other routinely accepted risks. Another study presented at the
meeting here found that the risk of a patient acquiring the AIDS virus from a
surgeon is about one in 11.1 million operations, a probability that the authors
dryly concluded "closely resembles the risk of a vehicular fatality during
transportation to and from the hospital."

But in both debates members of the AIDS community freely admit their cause is
losing ground. Ironically, they say, they are victims in part of their own
success in convincing the world that AIDS is a special disease requiring
extraordinary measures.

In requesting that the United States continue its ban on HIV immigration, for
instance, opponents have simply extended the logic of the AIDS activists
themselves: If treating HIV is really as costly as AIDS groups say it is, why
does it make sense to let people with the virus into the country? And if people
are told to take steps to limit their risks of acquiring HIV in their personal
lives, why shouldn't they also be allowed to limit their risks when they go the
doctor?

"It isn't just liberals that are playing this game. It's both sides," said
McGuire. "When conservatives want to be punitive, AIDS is special, and when they
want to be penurious, it's like any other disease."

At the same time, activists say the basis for their claim that AIDS deserves
special consideration seems to be eroding in other respects as well.

"When you look at the social forces now in place, the 'ghettoization' of the
disease, the fact most Americans no longer feel threatened and the new
therapies, they all suggest that the capacity to view AIDS as completely
different is no longer sustainable," said Ronald Bayer, professor of public
health at Columbia University.

"I think what pushed support for AIDS in the beginning was this fear that the
epidemic would truly spread beyond marginalized groups and affect everyone,"
said Jeff Levi, director of government affairs for the AIDS Action Council. "One
of the difficulties we are having to face now though is that while no one
disbelieves our claim that this is an epidemic, it is not an epidemic happening
to ordinary Americans. . . . If AIDS is exceptional now, it is exceptional in
exactly the wrong way."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              143 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 28, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

Immigrants And AIDS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 291 words


In his June 14 op-ed column "AIDS and Immigration," Richard Cohen makes it a
point to make the reader aware of "the facts that need to be considered" in
deciding whether the United States will admit HIV-infected people to this
country. One of the facts he states is, "To get AIDS, a person has to engage in
certain kinds of (unprotected) sex or use an infected needle." However, the
Around the Nation column that same day had a report announcing the infection of
two more patients of Florida dentist David Acer, who died of AIDS and who might
have infected at least five of his patients. At this point, no one knows how
they got the virus. Although I do not necessarily disagree with Mr. Cohen's
opinion on allowing HIV-infected people into the United States, I do take
umbrage at his opinion that he knows all the facts about AIDS, or enough to
direct U.S. immigration policy, when clearly he does not.

ANDREW BIGDA Washington

I was surprised by Richard Cohen's naivete when he relied on the Justice
Department's response that of the 30,000 letters protesting HIV-infected aliens
entering the United States, "none [were] bearing the telltale signs of an
organized campaign."

As someone who has worked for a national health association and has lobbied the
Department of Human Services regarding regulations for the past 14 years, I can
tell Post readers that no regulation gets 30,000 letters without an organized
campaign. At most, a proposed regulation draws a few hundred reponses.

Mr. Cohen was right on target when he stated, "Nonetheless, medical issues
should not be decided by a show of hands." Public policy regulating communicable
disease should be decided by medical science, not politics.

JOHN C. WHITENER Arlington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              144 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 30, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

ACTing StUPid Over AIDS;
Activists Hurt Themselves by Disrupting the Florence Conference

Jon Cohen

SECTION: OUTLOOK; PAGE C4

LENGTH: 1457 words


A FRIEND of mine who used to rob banks (and currently is doing time at Lorton)
once told me that if you fire your gun while doing a job, you've failed to use
your brains. The activists who traveled to the international AIDS conference
held in Florence June 16-21 could have benefited from my friend's wisdom.

Halfway into the six-day conference, the activists had a throw-down with a few
of the attending scientists over U.S. immigration policy barring entry to people
infected with the AIDS virus, HIV. The scientists and the activists, members of
the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP), have united in publicly condemning
the policy ever since it was put on the books in 1987. And organizers of the
1992 international conference scheduled for Boston have even threatened to
cancel it if the law is not changed by Aug. 3.

But the law has two arms, one that restricts travel of the HIV-infected and one
that forbids their immigration. As became all too evident at a June 19 press
conference in Florence, that is where the bond between the activists and the
scientists becomes unglued.

Most conference organizers and activists believe that immigration poses no
serious health risk to the United States: According to an internal Health and
Human Services Department estimate, changing the law would allow in 600 to 800
HIV-infected people a year -- a small addition to the estimated 1 million-plus
already here. More importantly, HIV is not casually transmitted. It is also
argued that the fiscal rationale falls short because immigrants routinely are
screened for financial solvency. Anyway, others with potentially expensive
illnesses, such as cancer or diabetes, are not automatically barred so the law
is discriminatory.

Yet the meeting sponsors have kept a safe distance from the immigration feud,
maintaining that travel is the only issue directly affecting the gatherings.
Also, if conferences could only be held in countries that permitted HIV-infected
people to immigrate, there would be few places to hold the get-togethers. And
clearly, organizers of the 1992 conference were applying a political calculus
that they thought stood the best chance of making the event come to life. So ACT
UP had reason to fear the scientists' position. But ACT UP's actions, over what
amount to intra-party politics, were self-defeating.

During the 90-minute briefing, both sides made mistakes: the activists by
mau-mauing the researchers; the researchers by letting themselves be cowed.

Organizers of the 1992 conference called the press conference to denounce the
U.S. immigration policy and to recount how the Bush administration had
flip-flopped on the issue. Sharing the stage with Harvard's Max Essex, chair of
the Boston conference, was a collection of some of the most influential AIDS
researchers in the world. To name a few of the Americans: Jonas Salk of polio
vaccine fame, who currently is developing an AIDS vaccine; International AIDS
Society President Paul Volberding, director of the AIDS program at San Francisco
General Hospital; National Commission on AIDS Chair June Osborn, who also is
dean of the University of Michigan's School of Public Health; Harvard School of
Public Health's Jonathan Mann, former head of the World Health Organization's
Global AIDS Programme; and Mathilde Krim, co-founder of the American Foundation
for AIDS Research.

Salk, who rarely has aligned himself with political causes, spoke first,
concluding, "We call upon the president and his administration to adopt a wise,
science-based policy that is truly in the best interests of humanity." After a
few more speakers addressed the media, the conference was opened for questions.

Had the briefing ended after the journalists asked a few questions -- even testy
ones -- it probably would have achieved its goal: Newspaper headlines and TV
images would have told the world that level-headed, distinguished scientists
were outraged at U.S. immigration policy. Surely, this does not mean that the
Bush administration would have capitulated. But it could have been a sharp
political prod.

The trouble started with the first question. National Public Radio's Michael
Skoler asked what the organizers of the Boston conference would do if the U.S.
government lifted the travel ban but not the immigration policy. Conference
Chair Essex hedged. While journalists continued to ask questions, the event
unraveled.

Activists began chanting, "Open the borders, open the gates, people with AIDS
cannot wait!" They moved to the front of the room, where the TV cameras could
shoot such signs as, "#1 U.S. Export: People With AIDS." "Murderers!" activists
yelled at the scientists, arguing that the Boston conference should be canceled
immediately and moved to a more enlightened locale (like, suggested one, the
Spanish resort of Seville). "We're dying!"

At one point, Essex asked Salk if he would speak. Salk took the microphone, but
because of the din, remained silent. This was no place for reason.

The conference ended with speakers, journalists and activists milling about and
trying to make sense of what had happened. "Nobody likes to be shouted at," said
participant Don Des Jarlais, a New York researcher renowned for his work with
people who inject illicit drugs. "But it's helpful to be reminded of people who
are experiencing this on a life or death basis. And they are skilled at
presenting their case to the media."

Des Jarlais, who stressed that he had lost too many friends to the disease to
feel offended by the hubbub, presented what has become common wisdom amongst
AIDS researchers: Activists play an integral, critical role by humanizing the
disease and not tolerating bureaucratic nonsense. Indeed, people with AIDS
generate powerful waves when they stage a die-in on the grounds of the Food and
Drug Administration, "storm" the National Institutes of Health, silently march
with tombstone-shaped placards at international gatherings, display for
photographers passports that U.S. border guards have stamped with a "6" (the
code for HIV-infected), or simply vent their grief and frustration while, as
they say, the whole world is watching.

But what should scientists do when activists act nonsensically? And this was a
nonsensical move.

If the Boston conference is canceled now, as some ACT UP members demanded, the
Bush administration would be tickled. The White House does not want an AIDS
conference in Boston in 1992, an election year. The sight of tens of thousands
of scientists and activists parading through Harvard Square blasting the
president might help Bush with some voters, but, on balance, it could make the
president look, at best, anti-scientific and, at worst, hypocritical. Especially
if the media ran tapes of Bush saying to the National Leadership Coalition on
AIDS in March 1990, "We're in a fight against a disease, not a fight against
people. And we won't tolerate discrimination."

The next day, June 20, ACT UP issued a press release arguing that "THE
CONFERENCE MUST BE MOVED!!!" If the 1992 meeting organizers hold the conference
anywhere in the U.S. while the current immigration laws stand, warned ACT UP,
"we'll give them a Tea Party they'll never forget!" The activists also
threatened to stage a non-violent protest at the closing ceremony of the
Florence meeting, during which Max Essex was planning to speak.

ACT UP did not learn what the final word would be until shortly before the June
21 closing ceremony. At the event, the president of the International AIDS
Society, which cosponsors the conferences, announced that if Boston is
cancelled, the IAS would not endorse the meeting being held elsewhere. Then a
haggard-looking Essex gave an emotion-packed speech that he stayed up most of
the night writing.

Essex unambiguously vowed to cancel the Boston meeting unless both the travel
and immigration parts of the law were changed. "I am grieved that the crass,
domestic, American political agenda and the ultimatums I have received from
activists have conspired in a bizarre alliance to deny the free exchange of
information necessary to fight AIDS," Essex said. Adding that 1992 was an
election year, Essex lamented, "How ironic to provide U.S. right-wing bigots
with precisely the outcome they desire."

Maybe the firmer stance will make the Bush administration more likely to change
the immigration law. Who knows? Smart money says Essex, who had a tough call to
make, was wrong to change his mind: Because he feared further discord with the
activists, he probably tossed away what little hope there was for a 1992
conference.

Jon Cohen is writing a book on AIDS vaccine research for Delacorte Press and
covered the Florence conference for UPI and Science magazine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, DAVID MCLIMANS FOR TWP

TYPE: FEATURE, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              145 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 6, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Dominican Stowaways Describe Efforts to Survive Extreme Heat

From news services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A8; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Two Dominican men who survived a deadly journey to the United States in a sealed
freight container told reporters yesterday how they sucked air through a crack
in the box while six others screamed and died around them.

The men credited their survival to staying calm in excruciating heat. Contrary
to accounts by Immigration and Naturalization Service officials, they said their
countrymen did not fight among themselves for air.

"It was just screaming, hoping that [the crew] would hear us," said Raul Mena,
adding that he and Daniel Fernandez may have survived because they did not
become hysterical like the others. Officials said temperatures in the container
may have reached 130 degrees.

Mena, 25, and Fernandez, 19, said they made the desperate, three-day gamble
aboard the container ship Tropic Reign for their families, seeking jobs because
there is little work in their homeland. They said they and the others paid as
much as $ 400 to be sealed in the container and called some of the other men
"veterans," because they had been to the United States previously and been
deported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              146 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 10, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

AT&T Bids To Open Up The Lines To Vietnam;
Black-Market Calls Cost Emigres Dearly

Stephen Levine, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 1085 words


In order to speak to her family, Thanh Tran must break U.S. law. But if AT&T has
its way, soon it will be legal, and a lot easier, for Vietnamese immigrants such
as Tran to phone home.

The U.S. economic boycott of Vietnam, which has been in place since the end of
the war there, has made it impossible to call that country directly from the
United States. But because Vietnamese immigrants like Tran want to speak to
their families, a telecommunications black market has blossomed. American
Telephone & Telegraph Co., which wants to legalize direct links between the two
nations, is citing that black market in its lobbying of Congress and the Bush
administration.

One of the main purposes of the boycott is to prevent Vietnam from getting hard
currency. AT&T argues that it is having the opposite effect: People who want to
phone Vietnam go through unlicensed companies that route calls through other
countries. Money paid to those firms, in turn, is paid in hard currency to the
Vietnamese phone company that completes the call. AT&T proposes that it be
allowed to route calls directly and put the fees in a U.S.-controlled escrow
account, an arrangement similar to one allowing calls to Cuba.

More than a dozen small, black-market phone companies with names like FarEast
Express Co., Viba Telecom Network Inc. and Dynasty Co. regularly advertise in
Vietnamese-language newspapers. Business is conducted over the phone and through
post office boxes.

The companies operate illegally, but because they route all of their calls
through third countries, including Canada, Australia and Hong Kong, they have
eluded the U.S. government.

"We have no indication that U.S. companies are participating in these illegal
activities," said Barbara Clay, a Treasury Department spokesperson.

Tran, a waitress at Cafe Mimosa, a Vietnamese coffee shop in Falls Church, left
her homeland with one daughter as a boat refugee four years ago. Tran calls her
family in Vietnam about every two months using a company called Continental
Express, and talks for about 10 minutes.

At the $ 7 per minute the company charges, she says she spent nearly $ 420 over
the past year to talk to her family for a total of one hour. She said she is not
aware that the calls are illegal, but that as long as she has a way to call she
will.

Dwight Jasmann, president and managing director of AT&T Communications Pacific
Inc., presented his company's case in testimony recently before a joint meeting
of House Foreign Affairs subcommittees.

Direct communication would both "further U.S. policy goals and provide
economical and high-quality telephone service for the 700,000
Vietnamese-Americans living in this country who want to communicate with family
and friends," Jasmann said.

Placing a call is now an arduous process. Tran must first mail money to a phone
company postal box, indicating the time, with a minimum of two weeks' advance
notice, when she will be available to receive a call. Because there is only one
phone for every 540 people in Vietnam, the company then contacts a postal
exchange in Vietnam that tracks down the family.

When the day arrives, the family in Vietnam places a collect call to the phone
company contact in the third country, who then places a collect call to Tran and
hooks the family up. Hooking up calls is often as simple as using a phone's
conference call feature or just holding two phone receivers together.

Nahn Pham, who owns a restaurant and sandwich shop in Falls Church, pays $ 15
per minute and must talk a minimum of five minutes per call to Vietnman, for a
minimum cost of $ 75. A five-minute AT&T call to nearby Thailand costs $ 6.50 to
$ 12.

Pham, who spends more than $ 1,500 per year calling his family, said he would
welcome the reduced rate and direct service.

Jasmann said AT&T expects revenue of $ 5 million to $ 8 million per year for the
calls. Being careful not to disparage the amount, he said that it is small
compared with the more than $ 100 million a year AT&T collects from calls to the
Philippines.

Analysts agree that the amount is low and speculate that AT&T is pursuing a
connection with Vietnam in part because it wants to be able to say that it can
reach anywhere, and because it may be a way for the company to get a foothold in
efforts to obtain future contracts to rebuild Vietnam's telecommunications
infrastructure.

"Obviously they want to sell equipment, and they probably see that as the first
link to being able to do that," said Joel Gross, an analyst with Donaldson,
Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp. in New York. "They may be interested in
helping to resolve the legacy of the Vietnam War, but there is another war, a
long-distance war, and they are fighting it out for every minute of calls."

Jasmann said AT&T does not have any plans to sell equipment to Vietnam. He said
that any exemption from the trade embargo would work the way it does with Cuba
-- it would involve direct phone links and nothing else.

AT&T has discussed the arrangement, including putting any fees in a
U.S.-controlled escrow account, with the director general of Vietnam's post and
telecommunications office. Because the country is eager for trade with the
United States, according to AT&T, that office has agreed to AT&T's conditions.

AT&T has pushed the U.S. government since 1988 to allow direct calls. Other
companies, including Caterpillar Inc., Phillips Petroleum Co. and Windmere
Corp., also are interested in an easing of the embargo.

The State Department links the normalization of relations with Vietnam to the
signing of a Cambodian peace accord, an accounting for U.S. servicemen still
listed as missing in action during the Vietnam War and progress on humanitarian
issues.

Vietnam has rejected the U.S. resolution to the Cambodian conflict and so
normalization has been at a standstill.

After last month's hearings of the House panels, however, the House Committee on
Foreign Affairs sent letters to Secretary of State James A. Baker III and
Secretary of the Treasury Nicholas F. Brady in support of AT&T's request. The
letter said the arrangement proposed by AT&T "makes sense" and urged its quick
approval, declaring that "any further delay in granting this license will only
be to the advantage of the Vietnamese government and to our citizens'
disadvantage."

Vietnam is one of only three countries where direct telephone contact with the
United States is not officially allowed. Direct calls to North Korea and
Cambodia also are blocked.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, TWP

TYPE: FEATURE, NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              147 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 10, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Fairfax Eyes Shift in Teaching Immigrants

Peter Baker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B5

LENGTH: 665 words


Fairfax school officials, acknowledging that many non-English-speaking immigrant
students are being poorly educated, said yesterday they plan to overhaul the
county's English as a second language program this fall.

In a proposal to be presented to the School Board tomorrow night, officials
outlined a series of new classes designed to help those foreign students who
have had little formal education eventually obtain a high school diploma.

The new curriculum would establish special academic classes for the most
unschooled immigrant students, instead of forcing them immediately into history
and other classes alongside English-speaking students, where they are more
likely to fail.

"I'm really enthusiastic about the program because it gives hope to the kids who
had no hope," said Assistant Superintendent Nancy Sprague, who developed the
plan.

The proposal comes at a time when the Washington suburbs have become
increasingly diverse ethnically and educators throughout the area are struggling
to help foreign-born students adjust to the American education system. In recent
years especially, more of the recent arrivals have shown up at the schoolhouse
door barely literate in their own language, let alone English, school officials
say.

In Fairfax, a once-homogeneous, white, middle-class suburb, 28 percent of the
130,000 students today are minorities, and the number of students enrolled in
English as a second language classes has tripled in the last 15 years, to an
expected 6,664 this fall.

A private consultant hired by the Fairfax School Board to examine the system's
seven-year-old minority achievement program issued a report in May that harshly
criticized the English program for non-native speakers.

The study, authored by former D.C. school superintendent Floretta D. McKenzie,
reproached Fairfax officials for maintaining a program that too often relegates
older immigrant students to vocational classes or encourages them to drop out.
The program represents a "narrowly conceived, often stereotype-laden approach to
educating language-minority students," the report said, adding that it might be
"outright harmful to students."

Sprague's proposal, which was in the works before the McKenzie report,
specifically targets about 300 county students in secondary schools who arrived
in the United States late in their youth with little or no schooling in their
home country and little understanding of basic concepts.

Such students already spend three periods a day taking English as a second
language, but then must take other academic subjects in regular classes with
students who have been in school for a decade or so.

The proposal would create new classes in history, mathematics, science, health
and even driver education specifically tailored to the distinctive needs of
unschooled immigrants. For instance, a ninth-grader would take two years of
basic science and history concepts classes before moving on to regular Earth
science and American history courses.

The track would mean that most of those students would have to finish their high
school education in adult education classes, but officials said they hope it
would provide a better bridge and discourage dropping out.

"It's very difficult at the high school level to plug them into the classes we
have," said Nancy J. Weisgerber, principal at J.E.B. Stuart High School, the
county's most diverse high school. "You put them in the basic math class . . .
well, we're talking about kids who don't know how to add and subtract."

Weisgerber and others emphasized that such students are as smart as any others,
but simply never had the educational opportunities in homelands such as war-torn
El Salvador.

If approved by the School Board on July 25, the new classes will be tested in
five high schools this fall and expanded countywide in September 1992. In
addition, special afternoon and evening sessions will be offered at Falls Church
High School for students throughout the county.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              148 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 14, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Immigrants and AIDS Testing

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C6; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 356 words


I read with interest Rowland Evans and Robert Novak's column "Bush's AIDS
Balancing Act" [op-ed, June 28], which makes several references to the fact that
"the entire medical establishment backs [Health and Human Services Secretary
Louis] Sullivan and the public health service" on the question of whether
AIDS-infected immigrants should be allowed to settle permanently in the United
States.

That statement was inaccurate. In fact, almost the "entire medical
establishment" supports the 40,000 citizens and organizations who wrote to
Secretary Sullivan urging him to bar AIDS-infected immigrants from settling
here.

In its Feb. 20 letter to the Centers for Disease Control, the American Medical
Association wrote, "We believe that the best solution to any such threat is
legislative modification of the immigration laws so that exclusion would be
limited only to appropriate categories of aliens. ... We recommend that the
focus be on aliens seeking admission to the United States intending to remain
permanently and nonimmigrants who remain in the country for a fixed period of
time beyond which they are no longer considered temporary."

Numerous other state medical societies also expressed opposition to the Sullivan
proposal. The Medical Society of New York, for example, stated on behalf of its
28,000 physician members, "To allow those infected with the AIDS virus to enter
this country and settle permanently would be, in our judgment, unconscionable."

Other state medical societies, including those of Arkansas, West Virginia, North
Carolina, South Dakota, Louisiana, Nebraska and Alaska, have asked the secretary
to reverse his decision.

Immigrants, the AMA House of Delegates has noted, "have historically undergone a
health assessment before admission into the citizenship process." To exclude HIV
testing from this assessment would, the delegates concluded, "be a change in
long-standing U.S. policy and difficult to justify on medical, scientific, or
economic grounds."

WILLIAM E. DANNEMEYER U.S. Representative (R-Calif.) Senior Republican Member
Subcommittee on Health and the Environment Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              149 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 24, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Two Soviet Cadets Jump Tall Ship in Baltimore

Erin Marcus, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A13

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, July 23, 1991


Two Soviet cadets on a sailing ship left their ship Monday, apparently seeking
asylum in the United States.

The two sailors, whom the Soviet Embassy identified as Alexei Zolotarev and
Alexei Litovka, are both in their early twenties. They left the ship Monday
afternoon, running toward the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in
downtown Baltimore, according to the Baltimore Sun. The ship left on schedule at
9 a.m. today for Germany.

The INS said the sailors were safe but would not comment on whether they had
sought asylum.

A spokesman at the Soviet Embassy in Washington, who declined to give his name,
said the sailors were civilians, but otherwise declined to comment.

The sailors were cadets aboard the Kruzenshtern, a four-masted wooden ship
visiting Baltimore as part of an educational and goodwill mission sponsored by
Operation Sail, a private group that arranges trips of tall ships, older,
multimasted sailing vessels. The Soviet ship arrived in Baltimore July 11 after
a nine-day stay in Norfolk.

The ship had 233 people on board, including 160 cadets, according to Operation
Sail Executive Director Mary Sue McCarthy. The ship is based in Tallin, Estonia.

McCarthy said the sailors were enrolled in a program run by the Soviet Ministry
of Fisheries that trains young men to sail fishing boats. She said sailors on
the ship had been involved in seminars on oil pollution control and had gone on
agricultural tours during their stay here.

She said the ship's captain hopes to return to Baltimore next summer, despite
Monday's incident.

The incident "never came up in conversation this morning" with the captain,
McCarthy said. "They gave us every indication they will be trying to come back."

Duke Austin, an INS spokesman, said defections are becoming more common as more
Soviets travel abroad. In 1990, Austin said, 1,043 Soviets requested asylum in
the United States. In 1989, 243 Soviets sought asylum in the United States.

"As the doors of the Soviet Union open up and more people are allowed to travel,
more people can get to the United States," he said. "Therefore more people can
ask for asylum. This [incident] is not unusual."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, LARISSA MRYSZUK SAYS GOODBYE TO SOVIET SAILOR DENITRIOUS
KOLOMPIETZ. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              150 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 26, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

Fairfax Schools Boost Efforts To Graduate Immigrant Students

Peter Baker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C6

LENGTH: 315 words


The Fairfax County School Board, criticized recently for doing a poor job of
educating foreign-born students, last night approved an initiative aimed at
helping immigrant children with little formal education obtain a high school
diploma.

The overhaul of the county's English-as-second-language (ESL) program will allow
the most unschooled immigrant students to take special academic classes designed
for their needs, rather than lumping them immediately into regular history,
science and other classes with native English speakers who have been in school
for a decade or so.

The new program comes on the heels of a consultant's highly critical report on
the county's minority achievement efforts, which called the ESL program
"narrowly conceived" and possibly harmful to students.

The issue has taken on heightened importance in recent years as immigrant
families continue to flood into the Washington suburbs.

In the last 15 years, the number of Fairfax students enrolled in ESL classes has
tripled to an expected 6,664 this fall.

The new classes will be introduced in five high schools in September as a pilot
program and, if successful, expanded countywide in the fall of 1992.

In other action, the board:Decided to stash nearly all of a $ 5.4 million
surplus from the 1990-91 school year as a cushion against future budget
troubles. About $ 110,000 of the windfall will be used to restore the positions
of two administrators who were among 125 cut in the spring as a result of large
revenue shortfalls.

Voted to ask the Board of Supervisors for part of a $ 10.1 million pool
collected recently from delinquent taxpayers.

Approved new family life education lessons for kindergarten through eighth
grade, after voting 6 to 2 to remove a video on suicide that had been criticized
by some parents and board members for offering mixed messages to impressionable
youths.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              151 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 2, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. Won't Lift HIV Immigration Ban;
Cost of Treating Those Who Develop AIDS Called Unacceptable

Malcolm Gladwell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1063 words


Federal health officials have decided, after seven months of review, not to lift
the controversial, four-year ban on immigrants infected with the AIDS virus.

The decision, which sources said will be announced officially within a few days,
reflects the conviction of many inside and outside the Bush administration that
the cost of treating immigrants who eventually develop AIDS poses an
unacceptable burden to the U.S. health care system.

The organizers of next year's international AIDS conference, which had been
scheduled for Boston, have said that unless the U.S. restrictions were lifted,
they would cancel the event.

The move appears to end a bitter debate in the administration, in which the
Justice Department fought the Health and Human Services Department's
recommendation to drop the restriction. But the way the decision was reached has
left AIDS activists and public health groups angry and frustrated.

Chief among their complaints is that the Bush administration has declared the
costs of treating immigrants unacceptable, without providing any estimate of
what those costs really might be. Various interest groups have come up with
their own widely differing estimates, painting what many call a confusing
picture of the true implications of excluding immigrants infected with the
virus.

"We wish there could have been an open debate that could have dealt forthrightly
with the issues of access to health care and cost," said W. Shepherd Smith Jr.,
president of Americans for a Sound AIDS Policy.

"We are making policy in a vacuum," said Jeff Levi, director of government
relations for the AIDS Action Council.

HIV immigration restrictions were enacted by Congress four years ago. At the
request of Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), HIV was added to the list of infectious
diseases -- which includes tuberculosis, syphilis and hepatitis -- for which all
would-be immigrants must be tested and which are deemed sufficient, on public
health grounds, to deny the immigrant a visa. Congress subsequently passed a law
transferring to the president the power to alter the list.

Since then the health justification has been attacked by many public health
experts, from the World Health Organization to senior health officials in the
Bush administration, who said that because HIV could not be transmitted
casually, HIV-infected immigrants did not pose a health threat to others. At the
beginning of this year the administration proposed that the ban be dropped.

By May, however, proponents of the ban countered with a new argument, namely
that HIV-infected immigrants should be turned away because they might pose an
economic burden.

"I for one don't want to come out 100 percent against discriminating against HIV
and against gays," said Stanford University bioethicist Peter Carpenter. "But
the question is not the disease. The question is that when we know or could
easily know that someone is going to cost a great of deal of money and is not
going to be able to pay for their care, should that be a factor in the
admissions process? I'd say we'd be crazy not to use it."

But while the economic argument has gained popularity, it is not clear what that
economic burden would be.

For example, a Canadian study estimates that the percentage of infected
immigrants to Canada is between 0.2 and 0.4 percent of all newcomers. Two weeks
ago, Rep. William E. Dannemeyer (R-Calif.) extrapolated from these figures to
project that between 3,000 and 6,000 HIV-infected people would come into the
United States each year. Dannemeyer sent his estimate to the White House, where
it is said to have played a key role in convincing the administration to
continue backing the HIV restriction.

Dannemeyer's numbers are controversial. First of all, the Canadian percentages
were based not on immigrants but on the prevalence of HIV infection in countries
from which Canadian immigrants come. Some AIDS experts note that HIV infection
in these countries is concentrated among prostitutes and drug abusers, not the
groups seeking to emigrate.

Further, in making his estimate, Dannemeyer used the total number of immigrants
for 1990, nearly two-thirds of whom were illegal aliens granted citizenship
under a special amnesty law. That law allows them to apply for a waiver if they
test positive and get in anyway.

The people truly affected by the HIV ban, immigration experts say, are the
600,000 granted traditional visas every year. Even using the disputed 0.2 to 0.4
percent infection rate, that gives a lower estimate of from 1,200 to 2,400
HIV-infected immigrants yearly.

An entirely different set of figures comes from the State Department's HIV
testing data, which show that adult immigrants tested by the government from
1988 to 1990 had an average HIV infection rate of approximately 0.1 percent.
This amounts to just under 500 people a year.

AIDS experts say, however, that if the ban were lifted, many who now do not
bother to apply would probably do so. Factoring in these extra people, some
administration health officials have estimated there would be between 600 and
800 HIV-infected immigrants annually.

Depending on which estimate is used, the projected cost of caring for immigrants
with AIDS varies widely. Dannemeyer estimates that the cost of caring for
infected immigrants -- and for those whom the immigrants infect -- could come to
as much $ 720 million a year.

Using the State Department numbers as a base, however, and a more modest
estimate of how many additional infections would result, gives an estimated
annual cost of just over $ 60 million, assuming not one of them has private
health insurance.

AIDS groups also say that the cost of HIV in immigrants is less than the cost of
other diseases routinely allowed into the country. The same Canadian study
estimated that 1.6 percent of all immigrants would suffer from coronary heart
disease within 10 years of arrival, at an average cost of $ 17,618 each.
Extrapolated to the United States, these calculations mean that each year's
immigrants could be expected to run up $ 170 million in heart disease-related
expenses.

"If the policy is that the country should not admit those who are likely to
become public burdens, then that should be applied across the board to persons
regardless of illness or circumstance," said Tom Stoddart of the Lambda Legal
Defense Fund in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              152 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 11, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

In S. Dakota, a Community in Need -- of Immigrants

Edward Walsh, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 874 words

DATELINE: EUREKA, S.D.


Immigrants built this town at the place in the prairie where the tracks of the
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Co. stopped. "Special trains [of] 20 to 30
cars of immigrant movables were of a common occurrence," a history of the
community recounts in describing "the tide of immigration" more than 100 years
ago. "The great majority of these newcomers were a thrifty, hardworking people
in good financial standings, and their advent added much to the welfare and
prosperity of Eureka."

This was a place where immigrants gathered, but it was never a melting pot.
Almost all of the newcomers were white, Protestant German Russians and that is
who lives here and in surrounding McPherson County today. Of the county's 3,228
residents counted in the 1990 census, all but five -- one black, two Asians and
two Native American Indians -- were classified as non-Hispanic white.

With the exception of the northwest corner of Wyoming that includes Yellowstone
National Park, it is the most homogenous community in the country.

Demographically, McPherson County is frozen in time. The unchanging sameness of
the people makes it a comfortable home: a good place to raise children,
virtually free of crime, where you don't have to lock your doors or worry about
where your youngsters are at night. But that comfortable sameness, a reminder of
an earlier age when hundreds of towns like Eureka dotted the center of the
country, is also a danger signal.

The wave of immigrants who came here late in the 19th century brought
development and prosperity to the Great Plains. They came in search of land and
jobs and other economic opportunities -- and they stopped arriving decades ago.

With its population now in steady decline, McPherson County is in need of a new
wave of immigration, and Eureka has formed an economic development corporation
in the hope of attracting small industries. But after a century of demographic
isolation, even some local leaders here openly wonder how their neighbors would
react to an influx of newcomers who are different from themselves and all that
they have ever known.

"We are a kind of ghetto," said the Rev. Marvin Ketterling, pastor of Zion
American Lutheran Church.

It is a quiet and pleasant ghetto with seven churches and one movie theater, the
Lyric, which is open only occasionally and then only on weekends. The bowling
alley next to the theater is open "by appointment only," joked Koli Zahn, a rare
recent arrival here who with her husband, Fred, operates the town's only motel.
The two restaurants on the main business street both advertise "home cooked
meals." There is no bookstore here, and the small public library, located in the
basement of the municipal building that also houses the police and fire
departments, is open only a few hours a week.

Currently, Eureka's minority population consists of Antonio M. Alandy, a native
of the Philippines who moved here in June, and his 13-year-old daughter. His
wife has remained in New York with an older daughter who is about to begin
college there.

Alandy is an example of a kind of specialized immigration policy that has been
adopted by this and many other small towns in search of technical expertise. He
is a physician who was actively recruited by the local hospital board to help
care for the town's increasingly aged population.

Alandy said he worried about him and his daughter being the only Asians in town,
but has found the reception "very warm."

"Everybody waves at you," he said. "You don't see that in New York. If you wave
in New York, you may give the wrong impression. . . . I never thought places
like this still existed in the United States."

Such places still do exist, but with every census there are fewer of them and
the trends here are ominous. More than 60 percent of the town's population is of
retirement age, and there is a waiting list for admission to the local nursing
home. At one point there were five funerals in eight days at Ketterling's
church, the town's largest. Meanwhile, about 80 percent of Eureka's young people
leave town after graduating from high school. There were 12 members of the high
school class of 1991.

"Basically we have good kids," said Sherlock Hirning, superintendent of schools
in Eureka. He said the young people who leave take a strong sense of family and
appreciation for the "work ethic." But in some cases, he said, the demographic
isolation of their upbringing leaves them poorly prepared for the racial and
ethnic diversity of the outside world.

"They really don't have a feel for what it's like to be out there," Hirning
said.

Hirning is among local leaders who believe that Eureka's survival rests on the
hope of attracting industry and creating a second wave of immigration even at
the cost of disrupting the rigid closeness of the dominant German-Russian
culture.

"It would be difficult for people who lived their whole lives here to accept a
large minority population," he said. "There is that sense of wanting to remain
distant from somebody who is not part of their own culture, their own values and
beliefs. They want to protect that. . . . Unfortunately, I think it will be too
late before they realize that Eureka isn't going to be like the way it was."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE CHANGING FACE OF AMERICA, Part 1 of 2

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              153 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 11, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Cuban Exodus Expands;
Fleeing Thousands Pose Dilemma for U.S.

Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1603 words

DATELINE: SANTA FE, Cuba, Aug. 10, 1991


There's an abandoned house on the seashore here, a crumbling old place that
might give shelter to amorous summer trysts or school kids playing hooky. But in
this coastal suburb of Havana, the house is known as la Casa de la Libertad, the
Liberty House, and its use is neither love nor mischief, but escape.

As regular as the tides this spring, families would wait until the town was
asleep and sneak down to the house with their rickety rafts of inner tubes and
wood. They'd stay there until the searchlights dimmed or passed, then slip into
the lapping surf to realize a dream: crossing the Florida Straits to the United
States.

"Liberty. Hunger. Repression," explained Oswaldo Gomez, a 25-year-old fisherman,
when asked why he was willing to risk sharks, storms, dehydration, punishment
and death in the 90-mile voyage to Key West, Fla. Gomez, who already spent a
year in prison after being caught halfway across the straits, has vowed to try
again before the end of 1991.

In record numbers this year, Cubans like Gomez have been fleeing their island's
sinking economy and stagnant politics.

The exodus, which has alarmed officials in south Florida, has underscored a
contradiction of U.S. immigration law and served as the backdrop for a
diplomatic minuet between Washington and Havana.

While rafters are greeted as modern-day folk heroes by Miami's Cuban exiles and
granted immediate political asylum in the United States, the State Department is
choosier about granting travel visas to Cubans who want to visit.

Overwhelmed by some 28,000 pending visa requests and fearing that many young
Cubans bearing tourist visas actually plan to stay in the United States,
Washington two weeks ago stopped accepting visa applications from Cubans. The
State Department noted that about a third of the 36,000 Cubans admitted as
tourists since Oct. 1 have already overstayed their visas and may not plan to
return to Cuba.

Last week, President Fidel Castro's government quietly lowered the age of travel
for Cubans to 20. (It had been reduced gradually from last year, when it was 65
for men and 60 for women.) Having criticized Castro for years for denying his
citizens the right to travel, it is the United States, not Cuba, that now finds
itself in the awkward position of denying travel requests by Cubans.

The United States suspects that Cuba is lowering the travel age as a safety
valve to rid the island of malcontents and others regarded as trouble-makers by
the Communist regime. And U.S. officials say that Cuba will make $ 200 million
in desperately needed dollars this year from airplane tickets, fees and other
charges levied against Cubans who visit the United States -- a suggestion that
Cuba denies.

"We've always been accused of not allowing people to leave," said Vice Foreign
Minister Ramon Sanchez-Parodi. "Now we're accused of letting people leave. It's
very funny."

The likely effect, some diplomats say, is that today's rejected visa applicants
will be tomorrow's rafters.

The Casa de la Libertad is now closely watched by the police, so countless other
spots along the island's north coast have become staging points for the rafters.

They leave on inner tubes and windsurfers, in jury-rigged motorboats and
hijacked fishing trawlers. Several have been plucked from the waves by luxury
cruise liners and delivered agog and in regal style to the U.S. Coast Guard.

Since January, more than 1,400 have made it to American soil -- triple the total
for all of 1990. Hundreds of others are thought to have died or drowned along
the way. An unknown number, perhaps in the thousands, have been collared on the
beach or at sea and brought home to face a prison sentence or fine.

Not since 1980, when 125,000 Cubans flooded Florida in the Mariel boatlift, has
there been such a clamor to get out. In Florida, officials contend that Castro
is orchestrating a "slow-motion Mariel" that will overwhelm local services. The
State Department says that the United States is prepared physically to repel any
massive new boatlift like Mariel.

But here on Cuba's northern coast, the niceties of diplomacy and policy seem far
off. What is real to the people of Santa Fe and the surrounding towns is the
almost magnetic lure of America's proximity and a chance to make a crossing to
what they think is a better life.

The good life is not a far-off abstraction here. Barely a mile down the beach is
the Hemingway Marina, a sanctuary of luxury yachts, spacious villas and swanky
restaurants for dollar-paying tourists only.

"We live right next to the Hemingway Marina, but we're not allowed anywhere near
it, not even to hang out by the door and change money for dollars," said Gomez.
"If we do, we get arrested."

Across the street from the Casa de la Libertad the other day, a visitor asked a
group of men in their twenties, several of them engineers, how many people would
leave the town if there were no impediments to emigration. They burst out
laughing.

"Everyone," said one. "There wouldn't even be one snitch who stayed behind."

Francisco Chaviano, a former math teacher, has started what he calls the Council
of Cuban Rafters. Chaviano, 38, who spent a year in prison after he was caught
on a raft by the Cuban coastal patrol in 1989, says his group's mission is to
warn people of the perils of making the crossing. But he hardly blames anyone
who tries.

"What they see is that they have no future, that they are slaves of the
government," he said. "Slaves have no future."

Most, though not all, of those who try to leave are young men disillusioned or
marginalized by Cuban society, ineligible or unlikely to get a legal visa to
travel to the United States.

Many have never had a job, or have been unable to hold one for very long. In a
society that demands discipline, sacrifice and, at times, conformity, the
comparative prosperity and permissiveness of the United States is a powerful
magnet.

Most offer a host of complaints about life in Cuba, a vague amalgam of political
recriminations and material yearnings. Officially, they are scorned by the
government as counterrevolutionaries or escoria -- scum.

One of the escoria is Ricardo Perez, a wiry 20-year-old with dyed blond hair who
has never held a job. He spends most of his days in a bathing suit wandering
around Jaimanitas, the town just down the beach from Santa Fe.

Perez's father and grandfather both fled the country from Mariel in 1980, and
that might make him eligible to immigrate to the United States. Cuba, however,
bars young men eligible for military conscription from emigrating.

So last September, Perez and three friends planned their escape. They scrounged
four inner tubes from an abandoned tractor, found a couple of oars and some
bottled water. Not one of them had a penny.

They set off at 10 p.m., paddling like crazy. They were 18 miles offshore at
dawn, when they ran into a Soviet freighter.

"The sailors all said they should let us go, but the captain wouldn't go for
it," said Perez. The ship picked them up and turned them over to Cuban shore
patrol. He was held by state security for 18 days and released. Now he's back in
Jaimanitas, dreaming of another attempt.

"This country is bad, bad, bad," he said. "I don't know what there might be for
me [in Miami]. It might not be so great. But it's got to be better than here."

But it is not just Cuba's scruffy youth that wants out. So does a steady stream
of prominent defectors who have given up their status and privileges at home to
join Cuba's diaspora, mostly in the United States. In the last year the
defectors have included a famed jazz trumpeter, a star baseball pitcher, a top
trade official, a noted filmmaker, a prominent choreographer and a journalist.

"Some of the very same people who are celebrated by the revolution, and who
appear loyal to the revolution, would go to Miami tomorrow if they could," said
a European diplomat in Havana.

And then there are the less acclaimed cases, housewives and husbands who from
despair or frustration or ambition decide they have had enough. Amado Echevarria
was one of them.

A 43-year-old metalworker at Havana's port, he said goodbye to his family in
Santa Fe before dawn on June 11 and went down to the shore, where his brother
and two nephews were waiting with a raft made of five inner tubes.

"He was hoping we could join him one day," said his 17-year-old daughter, Janet.
"He was just looking for a better life in all respects."

But the trip seemed ill-fated from the start. A strong wind blew the raft east
rather than north, and they wasted half a day before heading in the right
direction, Janet said.

Sharks circled and bumped the raft, and her father was terrified and dehydrated
from drinking salt water. A helicopter spotted the raft near the Florida keys
and took the four men to the hospital.

But for Amado Echevarria, it was already too late. Suffering from convulsions,
he was pronounced dead of a heart attack at the hospital.

"For 18 years he left the house every day at 5 in the morning and got home at 7
at night," said Janet, her eyes brimming with tears. She tells the story staring
vacantly at the television, which is showing a Jane Fonda-Robert Redford film
with subtitles and the sound turned down.

"We never had enough money for a car. He ended up with nothing for all his
work," she said. "He just wanted to live better and eat better. It wasn't
political. He didn't spend much time thinking about Fidel.

"That's why all the kids want to go too -- just for the chance to improve their
lives, for a chance to put a better roof over their heads."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: MAP, RAFAEL TORRES, LEFT, RICARDO PEREZ, OSWALDO GOMEZ AND FRANCISCO
CHAVIANO BAVE ALL ATTEMPTED THE PERILOUS CROSSING ACROSS THE FLORIDA STRAITS AND
FAILED. TWP; PHOTO, LEE HOCKSTADER

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              154 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 12, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

A Temple, And Then Community;
Immigrants' Early Success Helped Lure Many Others

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A9

LENGTH: 746 words

DATELINE: LOWELL, Mass.


The Cambodians here are always looking homeward, and if a peaceful solution is
found to the civil war in their country, some will return. But most are settled,
their community well-established, with two Buddhist temples and more than 100
Cambodian-owned businesses.

"We are beginning a citizenship and voter registration drive this fall," said
Rithy Uong, a high school guidance counselor who heads the Cambodian Mutual
Assistance Association. "We are looking for candidates; we're hoping to have
someone run for the school committee," he said.

Many of the Cambodians arriving in the area in the early 1980s came as refugees
from camps in Thailand. They had fled the murderous policies of the radical
communist Khmer Rouge or from the fighting after Vietnam invaded Cambodia in
late 1979.

Coming at the beginning of the state's economic boom, they found jobs and
housing and a largely receptive community that offered educational programs and
social services. That situation drew Cambodians who had initially settled in
other parts of the country, state and local officials said.

An important factor in the community's rapid growth, local Cambodian leaders
said, was the establishment of the Buddhist temple in North Chelmsford and the
arrival in 1985 of Sao Khon, one of a small number of prominent Buddhist monks
trained in Cambodia who survived the Khmer Rouge.

"When I came to Lowell in 1983, there were only 150 Cambodian families,"
recalled Michael Ben Ho, a city social worker who first settled in California in
1980. "I came [to Lowell] because a great uncle asked me to help him to settle
in the area. He spoke no English when he was sent here" by refugee officials.

With social services, jobs and housing, refugees who settled in other towns also
were drawn to Lowell, Ben Ho said, and companies in nearby New Hampshire
recruited Cambodians and provided vans to take them to and from Lowell.

By 1985, the Cambodian population, fueled by word-of-mouth reports of
opportunity in Lowell, had more than tripled to about 3,000 people, he said, and
he and others began to raise money to obtain a temple for the community, which
is about 85 percent Buddhist, in nearby North Chelmsford.

"In early 1985, we invited a monk [from Thailand] but he went to California,"
Ben Ho said. "He said it was too cold in New England."

But a second monk stayed, and he provided an anchor for the community. "People
came. They knew there were services and people to help them find jobs. There
were plenty of jobs. They came from California, from other states. By 1987 there
were over 10,000 people. There were 15 grocery stores, 10 restaurants."

The Cambodian relocation to Lowell has not been without problems, and some
resentment. Lowell voters in 1989 overwhelmingly supported a nonbinding
referendum making English the city's official language.

And there has been a substantial increase in violent gang crimes. A 15-year-old
Cambodian student at Lowell High School was shot to death last March in what
that city officials described as a gang-related killing. Officials also
attributed a string of break-ins in Asian homes earlier this year to largely
Asian gangs.

But there is little doubt that the Cambodians have become a permanent part of
the community.

Sao Khon said the presence of the temple, for a time the only Buddhist temple on
the East Coast, was an important element in many Cambodians' decision to
relocate and remain in the Lowell area. "The temple keeps growing," he said.

He, for one, does not intend to return to Cambodia. "I want to stay here. I want
to make this a cultural center for Cambodians and make strong bonds for
Cambodians here," he said.

But if there is a spiritual reason for the Cambodians to stay, and leave their
imprint like the Greeks and Italians who came before them to Lowell, there is a
capitalistic lure too.

About two miles east of Sao Khon's temple is Pailin Plaza, a shopping center
named after a Cambodian town that had been a prosperous diamond center before
having been virtually destroyed in the years of fighting.

The plaza is filled with stores owned by Cambodians and catering to Asian needs.

"People have confidence in shopping in stores where there are people of their
own culture who sell things they like," said Vera Godley, executive director of
the Cambodian Mutual Assistance Association.

Even the video rentals are of Thai and Chinese movies. "Why would you want to go
anyplace else?" she asks.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE CHANGING FACE OF AMERICA, Part 2 of 3

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SAO KHON SHAVES THE HEAD OF FELLOW BUDDHIST MONK SENG SAVANN,
TOP, AND, ABOVE, MONK SIN CHREUNG TAKES PHOTOS IN NORTH CHELMSFORD. AT RIGHT,
LOWELL RESIDENT CINDINA CHEA POSES AT A RECEPTION WHILE YOEUN NGEN WAITS. CAROL
GUZY

TYPE: SERIES, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              155 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 12, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

A Rock Band to Seattle, a Guerrilla Band to Florida

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A9

LENGTH: 1046 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The Bulgarian rock band in Seattle and the CIA-trained Libyan guerrillas in
Jacksonville, Fla., have this in common: Their fate was determined in a small
conference room in an office building on Union Square.

Representatives of a dozen private agencies meet here each Wednesday to parcel
out as many as 2,000 refugees a week. The result is clusters of immigrants
living in what might appear to be the most unlikely places -- 300 Czechs and
Slovaks in Burlington, Vt., or 1,500 Soviet Evangelical Christians in
Springfield, Mass.

The Bulgarian rock band -- minus the drummer (he fell in love and stayed in
Germany) -- was settled out West a few months ago by Episcopal Migration
Ministries.

"They had a friend in Seattle," explained Lorraine Seymour, resettlement program
officer for the Episcopal organization, "and we have a good program there." In
addition, she said, "We felt the group might have a better chance of getting
jobs in music there than in a place like New York or Los Angeles," where the
competition might be much tougher.

Some groups, like the 300 or so guerrillas opposed to Libyan leader Moammar
Gadhafi, are sent wherever an agency can put them. The guerrillas, who had been
training in Chad, were made homeless last year when the pro-American government
there fell, forcing the State Department to try to find them another training
site in Africa. When that failed, it was up to the voluntary agencies or
"Volags" to do something.

"They wanted to stay together," said Bernice Adler, deputy director of the
Refugee Data Center, a private agency that processes information under contract
to the State Department. "They had bunked together" during their training. She
said a Lutheran organization took them, sending "35 in a batch" to Utica, N.Y.,
and another large group to Jacksonville. "These cities must have extraordinary
people" involved in resettlement work, Adler said.

The Wednesday meetings at times sound like a National Basketball Association
draft, with prized groups bargained over and others avoided as each organization
fills the allotment under the terms of its contract with the State Department.

"People will come to the meeting and say 'I want the next [Buddhist] monk,' "
said Adler, describing someone who might add stability to a Cambodian community.
Or others will say, "I want the next African females" because the African
refugees recently settled have been mostly men.

The policy goal, according to U.S. officials, is, whenever possible, not to have
all the refugees concentrate in one place and overburden a community, but to
settle them in large enough numbers that self-sustaining refugee communities can
be formed.

The agencies, most of them affiliated with religious groups and all under
contract to the State Department, are paid $ 588 per refugee for resettlement,
which helps defray administrative costs. People given official refugee status
because of persecution abroad are entitled to a range of welfare benefits and
other social services not available to other immigrants. Most of the refugees in
recent years have come from the Soviet Union and Southeast Asia, with some
increasing numbers from Africa and declining numbers from Eastern Europe.

Barbara Williams, who represents Church World Services and serves as chairman of
the Wednesday meeting group, sometimes sounds like a crew boss, other times like
an auctioneer as she guides the meeting, making sure each agency takes its
allotment and that all the refugees are accounted for.

Williams had trouble at a recent meeting placing a Vietnamese family of 10. No
one took them on the first round, so she tried again as the meeting progressed.
"Okay friends, now we have that marvelous family of 10," she said.

Betty Trentlyon of the American Council for Nationalities Service agreed to try
to find a local sponsor for that family, but that would put her over her
allotment. "I'll give you back a six and a four," she replied.

"Okay," Williams responded quickly, "that will be easier to sell."

This is a veteran group, and its members move quickly through the lists. There
is no break for lunch during the meetings, which generally last from four to six
hours. A box of bread sticks and another of chocolate chip cookies are lunch. A
pot of coffee is always brewing in one corner.

The vast majority of refugees these days tell U.S. officials overseas that they
have friends or family in one place or another. They are called "anchor" cases.
Which organization settles the refugees usually depends on which has a local
affiliate near where the refugee wants to go. The farther the distance, the more
costly the resettlement effort, so the representatives like to make sure their
picks are near local offices. Refugees without any preference for relocation are
called "free" cases.

"You take people based on what your network can handle," explained Susan Walters
of the World Relief Council, "based on what you've got in the region. The main
goal is to make the refugees self-sufficient as soon as possible."

For that reason, she said, she will probably send an Armenian family of five to
Washington state, where there is an established Armenian community and where
World Relief has active affiliates.

Next on the list is Southeast Asia, and people, mostly Vietnamese, who are being
admitted to the United States as immigrants, not as refugees. The Volags are not
being paid for these but take them as part of their charitable work.

The cases, under Williams's prodding, are allocated more slowly. And then comes
case No. 28, a Vietnamese family of six. The printout notes that a family member
needs a nurse escort and wheelchair.

Silence.

They ask for more data. Adler told them the family has a 20-year-old with heart
problems.

"There are plenty of employables" in the family, Williams said encouragingly,
noting that several members can work.

Silence.

"Okay," said Lenore Hosa of the Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service.  "I'll
take him for Utica." Her local affiliate has experience in dealing with medical
cases, she explained later.

All cases now allocated, the agency representatives have 30 days to find a local
sponsor for the refugees they have taken. If they cannot, they must relinquish
them to another agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE CHANGING FACE OF AMERICA, Part 2 of 3

TYPE: SERIES

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              156 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 18, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Homebound Hassels

James T. Yenckel, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SUNDAY TRAVEL; PAGE E1; FEARLESS TRAVELER

LENGTH: 1670 words


Home at last, you think, as you step off a nine-hour flight from Europe. Uh-uh,
not so fast. You must first be checked through immigration and next through
customs, and this process could easily keep you in the airport another hour or
more. Maybe much more.

And yet, as exasperating as they seem, the delays at international arrival gates
in the United States are substantially shorter this summer than during last
year's peak travel period. And chances are U.S. arrivals will be even easier by
next summer.

So far this season, the long, slow lines of the past reportedly have been at a
minimum at Washington-Dulles, which inaugurated a new and substantially enlarged
international arrivals building in March. Previously Dulles could handle only
600 passengers an hour, but it now has the capacity for 1,600.

Last year's favorite U.S. horror story was about the unlucky passengers on a
fully-loaded Swissair DC-10 from Zurich who faced a five-hour delay after
landing at the Los Angeles airport. This summer, delays of an hour or more
remain common at several of the busiest U.S. airports, says Rick Norton of the
Air Transport Association of America, which represents U.S. carriers.

Typically, the biggest bottlenecks have been at immigration rather than customs
booths. The U.S. Customs Service generally only spot-checks the luggage of
arriving U.S. passport-holders, waving most Americans through quickly. But the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) has been scrutinizing every
arriving passenger -- citizen and foreigner alike -- more carefully. And this
takes time.

Under pressure from complaining airlines, the traveling public and Congress,
however, the Immigration and Naturalization Service introduced in July what it
calls the Accelerated Citizen Examination (ACE) process. When waiting lines
build up in front of inspection booths, local INS officials now have the option
of trimming back time-consuming checks on U.S. passport-holders. At New York's
JFK, the nation's busiest international airport, the new process is in effect
continuously.

Typically, an agent implementing ACE provisions may decide to examine the
passport of only one member of a family, explains INS spokesman Verne Jervis. Or
the agent may simply match the passport photo to the person carrying it rather
than also taking the time -- normal under standard procedures -- to check by
computer whether the passport has been reported stolen or is a fake.

Meanwhile, INS has begun hiring additional agents to staff more gates at peak
flight arrival times. Last October, the agency employed only 1,289 agents; at
the end of July, it had boosted the staff to 1,605 agents, and another 195 were
in the process of being hired. By the end of next month, the total number of
agents is expected to reach 1,900.

The federal agency hopes eventually to be able to process every arriving
planeload of passengers from abroad in no more than 45 minutes, says Jervis. If
possible, all inspections, including immigration and customs, should be
completed in 45 minutes, according to international air travel guidelines
recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations
agency.

Funding for the additional 600 INS agents comes from a special $ 5 fee imposed
(beginning last Dec. 1) on every airline passenger arriving from Canada, Mexico
and the Caribbean. Authorized by Congress and backed by the Air Transport
Association, the fee is automatically included in the ticket price. A similar $
5 fee already was being collected on tickets from other international
destinations. The expanded application of the fee is expected to generate an
extra $ 75 million this year, or almost one-third of the anticipated $ 200
million to be collected from all international arrivals.

Despite these improvements, delays are expected to continue, and for at least
two major reasons outside INS control. Many older U.S. airports simply do not
have sufficient space in which to process the growing number of international
arrivals. Though additional agents now can be hired, there may be no convenient
place to put enough of them until airport terminals are enlarged. Chicago,
Honolulu and San Francisco are cited as among the busiest destinations where the
airports could use more inspection booths to cope with international flights but
where space is very tight.

In addition, bad weather can quickly scramble normal flight schedules. On one
particularly troublesome day last month, six international flights carrying
1,300 passengers happened to arrive at the TWA international terminal at New
York's JFK in less than a half-hour, says Jervis. Not surprisingly, the sudden
onslaught strained facilities and staff and resulted in longer-than-usual lines.

Entry delays "are something we are concerned about," says Jervis. "It's an
embarrassment when people experience long waits, especially U.S. citizens. We
get letters complaining to the INS."

The airlines get complaints too, and they are not exactly pleased with the
Accelerated Citizen Examination process. So far, says Norton, who once worked
for INS, "the results have been mixed. The Air Transport Association is still
getting consistent reports of inspections of one hour or more." According to the
reports, as many as 50 planeloads of passengers in a day are encountering delays
of at least 50 minutes.

More to the association's liking, according to Norton, is a now-discarded INS
inspection process called Citizen Bypass. When it was in effect, arriving U.S.
passport-holders skipped INS inspection entirely, and in its place customs was
expected to check both passports and luggage.

However, INS gradually began to abandon Citizen Bypass in 1988, says Jervis,
because the agency felt standard spot-checking by customs of only some
passengers and not everyone did not provide adequate security safeguards. By the
beginning of this year, Citizen Bypass remained in effect only in New York and
Miami, two major ports of entry, and it was eliminated at these two airports for
security reasons at the outbreak of the Persian Gulf War.

Norton contends Citizen Bypass worked very well and that strict airline check-in
procedures provide sufficient security surveillance of passengers. In contrast
to other busy airports, New York's JFK operated effectively under Citizen Bypass
last year, he says. "This year it's barely muddling along."

Responding to the criticism, Jervis says the Accelerated Citizen Examination
process was introduced as "a compromise," balancing national security needs with
an attempt to speed Americans through the process of re-entry. And he places
some of the blame for long lines on the airlines themselves for scheduling too
many flight arrivals at the same time.

The airlines and INS are squabbling on at least one other point. Norton says INS
was guilty of foot-dragging in hiring new agents, that more might have been in
place at the beginning of summer. Jervis contends that the abrupt plunge in
international travel at the outset of the Persian Gulf War caused temporary
concerns that there might not be enough money to pay additional agent salaries,
since fewer international arrivals meant less revenue from arrival fees.

Despite their differences, both Jervis and Norton agree that ACE has
substantially reduced last year's sometimes horrendous delays and that increased
INS staffing at international airports will further reduce homebound hassles.
Meanwhile, Norton reminds, "The verdict is still out for this summer. August is
always the worst month."

If you have complaints about INS delays, direct them to Commissioner Eugene
McNary, U.S. Department of Justice, Immigration and Naturalization Service, 425
I St. NW, Room 7106, Washington, D.C. 20536. Or contact your representative in
Congress.

Airline Audio

Do you strain to hear the movie dialogue on the audio headsets the airlines
distribute? Or your favorite tunes on the other audio channels?

Airline sound systems must compete with substantial engine noise, and often they
do a lousy job of it, according to an article, "Airborne Audio," in the August
issue of Audio magazine. But improvements are on the way.

The article, written by Rich Warren, gets technical in places, and maybe only
audio enthusiasts will fully understand it. But Warren does provide tips on
buying inexpensive add-on gadgets that can enhance your listening pleasure aloft
while the airlines gradually introduce more effective audio electronics. A copy
is $ 2.95 on newsstands.

First-Class Upgrades

Business travelers often pay the highest air fares because they can't take
advantage of the best advance-purchase discounts. Midway Airlines, which has six
daily departures from Washington-National to Chicago, is offering them a big
break.

As of this month, passengers paying the types of coach fares used almost
exclusively by business travelers now automatically receive a confirmed
first-class seat when they make their reservation. To accommodate them, the
airline has enlarged its first-class cabins from eight seats to 18, 20 or 22
(depending on the aircraft). Cabin configuration is two seats on each side of
the aisle.

Because some companies prohibit employees from paying for first-class travel,
the upgraded tickets will show the traveler booked in "Y" class, the symbol for
an unrestricted coach-class fare. This eliminates the hassle of explaining to a
sharp-eyed corporate accountant how you happened to fly first-class.

Most coach fares that do not require a Saturday overnight stay are eligible for
a first-class upgrade. This includes discounted three- and seven-day
advance-purchase fares, which Midway says are the lowest fares available to most
business travelers.

"Airlines have been insensitive to the needs of the very travelers who are their
lifeblood," says Midway Chairman David R. Hinson. Traditionally, business
travelers have rated no better seating than leisure travelers, although often
they pay two or three times as much for their tickets.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              157 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 19, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Hispanics Carve Niche in P.G.;
Immigrants Dominate, Change Neighborhood

Jim Naughton, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1641 words


In Langley Park, the grocer sells six kinds of tortillas. The liquor stores
specialize in tequilas and rums. This is the only place in Prince George's
County where you can buy Our Lady of Guadelupe belt buckles and rent the oeuvre
of Mexican cinema vigilante Jorge Reynoso.

The people and culture of Latin America have taken root in this neighborhood on
the western edge of Hyattsville. During the 1980s, a steady stream of Salvadoran
and Guatemalan immigrants transformed this once-Jewish, then black neighborhood.
Today, with Mount Pleasant in the District and Arlandria in Northern Virginia,
it is one of the largest Hispanic enclaves in the area.

According to recent census figures, roughly 40 percent of Langley Park's 17,500
residents are Hispanic -- more than seven times the percentage for the
metropolitan area. The southwestern half of the neighborhood, dominated by the
low-rise apartment complexes east of New Hampshire Avenue and north of
University Boulevard, constitutes the only majority Hispanic census tract in
greater Washington.

There, against a background of eight-lane roads and shopping plaza parking lots,
these immigrants are beginning their lives again. They face the same economic,
linguistic and cultural obstacles that confronted most of their immigrant
predecessors. But there are fresh obstacles as well.

Primary among those is that many Hispanics entered this country illegally. Most
Salvadorans, by far the largest Hispanic group in Langley Park, are protected
from deportation by a temporary amnesty that expires next July. But they remain
unsure whether they will be granted legal residence in this country, and for
that reason, the full names of some of the Salvadorans in this story are not
being used. Many are reluctant to trust law enforcement or social service
agencies.

"There is a lot of distrust," said Hernan Padilla, assistant director and the
only Spanish-speaking employee at the Langley Park Community Center. "They won't
even come through the door because they think, 'If I don't have the papers,
he'll call the cops and I will have to go back to'. . . wherever."

In the course of a decade, several local institutions -- the Hispanic Catholic
Center, Langley Park-McCormick Elementary School, the Spanish Speaking Community
of Maryland Inc., the Community Center, the Boys and Girls Club and St. Camillus
Church -- have established a rapport with the Hispanic community, and helped
introduce newcomers to a confusing new world.

Many begin by learning English. Prince George's County schools offer year-round
instruction in English for people who speak other languages. Last semester, more
than 550 Spanish-speakers were enrolled in the course taught at Langley
Park-McCormick Elementary School, officials said. The overwhelming majority were
teenage boys whose families had spirited them out of El Salvador for fear they
would be forced to fight in the country's civil war.

Many come from rural areas where they received little education. Some are
illiterate in their own language and ill-equipped for life on the edge of a huge
city or for work in an industrially advanced economy.

Each morning, more than 100 Hispanic men from Langley Park congregate with other
Hispanics in the parking lot of the 7-Eleven store at Piney Branch Road and
University Boulevard in Silver Spring. The lucky minority will find jobs with
the painters, carpenters and building contractors who stop by to hire day
laborers. The others will straggle back to the apartments or sit through the
long afternoon on the knoll at the edge of the lot.

"Construction was a lifesaver for these people," said Alba Robinson, project
manager for the Spanish Speaking Community of Maryland Inc., a Hispanic support
group with an office in the neighborhood. "Now, sadly, the construction is
gone."

On one recent morning, Carlos is not among the lucky ones. By 10:30 he has
returned to the Willowbrook Apartments, where he sublets a room. Withdrawing a
quarter from his pocket, he strikes it repeatedly against the iron knocker that
hangs from the door. It is a signal to his roommates that it is he, not the
apartment manager.

Many Hispanic immigrants in Langley Park live in apartments so crowded that
their discovery would mean eviction. John Coleman, project manager of the
Willowbrook Apartments, said he recently evicted tenants from a similar unit in
which he found three queen-size beds, four single beds and 15 toothbrushes.

Carlos is one of five adults living in a two-bedroom apartment. In his modest
but well-kept living room he explains through an interpreter that he entered the
country illegally in late March. That was six months after the temporary amnesty
deadline set for Salvadorans in the 1990 immigration bill. But, Carlos said, he
had friends who were willing to lie about the date of his arrival, and this
allowed him to obtain temporary amnesty as well as a work permit.

He has not made much economic headway, finding work just two out of every five
days. Still, Carlos lives frugally and is able to send money each week to his
wife and four children in El Salvador.

Others are not so fortunate. Perhaps a dozen of the men who frequent the
7-Eleven parking lot speak, through an interpreter, of living six and seven to
an apartment and eating only one meal a day.

During the recession, Alba Robinson said, the community has come to depend on
the women who are employed providing child care and cleaning houses. The women's
incomes support families here and at home.

But employment alone does not guarantee security. Lawyers who represent
Hispanics in Langley Park say their clients frequently are taken advantage of by
their employers and victimized either by their dangerous surroundings or their
inability to understand U.S. laws.

Vinicio said he was shortchanged on his wages as a dishwasher in a Bethesda
restaurant, and again at a Rockville automobile dealership. "When I came here I
suffered," the 33-year-old Salvadoran said. "People discriminate too much."

He since has found work as a carpenter's apprentice. His wife, Nora, provides
child care for a local family. She soon may be granted a green card and could
then bring the couple's four children to the United States. Vinicio and Nora
have not seen their children in nearly five years.

At first, the separation drove Vinicio to tears almost daily. Now he pampers his
children from a distance. "If they say they need anything, we try to send it,"
he said. " 'We need a Nintendo, Reeboks.' Okay. I wouldn't buy Reebok shoes for
me, but if they need it, I sacrifice for them."

The steady influx of Spanish-speaking residents has dramatically altered the
racial makeup of Langley Park. According to the census, the neighborhood's
Hispanic population soared from 1,327 in 1980 to 6,956 last year. But the Census
Bureau says it missed a sizable number of minorities, and neighborhood clergy
and support service agencies say the true figure is between 9,500 and 12,000.

The rapid turnover of Langley Park's population led to a crime problem in the
low-rise apartments. Because so many of the neighborhood's new residents were
illegal immigrants, they would not call the police when they witnessed a crime.

That was one reason, police say, that Kanawha Street became one of the county's
busiest drug markets. During the 1988-89 school year, the neighborhood's
kindergarten children, most of whom lived within walking distance, were bused to
school to avoid contact with dealers.

Stepped up police patrols have reduced the drug trade, but Prince George's
Police Chief David B. Mitchell said his department's relationship with the
Hispanic community remains a subject of concern.

"Oftentimes these people are coming from backgrounds where uniformed police pose
a threat to them rather than an offer of help," Mitchell said.

The police department has attempted to allay those fears by stationing
Spanish-speaking officers in the area, taking a conspicuous part in community
service events such as food drives and health fairs, and instructing officers on
customs such as gathering in groups on the stoops and greens of apartment
complexes.

Although some local clergy and community workers still perceive tension between
Hispanics and the police force, Mitchell said he does not foresee his department
experiencing the same problems as police in the District.

The neighborhood's Hispanic Festival, which drew 25,000 revelers to Adelphi Mill
Park, was held just days after the Mount Pleasant disturbances and it passed
without incident, the chief points out.

For Langley Park's Hispanics, the festival is perhaps their most energetic
assertion of cultural identity. But there are other signs that they are becoming
increasingly comfortable here: Spanish is the language most often heard on
neighborhood streets; the rousing 12:30 Mass is offered in Spanish each Sunday
at St. Camillus; soccer games are played on local fields; and the quieter
rituals of shopping for traditional food.

Joe Rodriguez, a Cuban immigrant who became a U.S. citizen, owns the Americana
Grocery on University Boulevard near Riggs Road. He sells "tropical food" from
Central American, West African and Caribbean cultures. Not surprisingly, he sees
food as a metaphor for assimilation. "Italian food, pasta, has been assimilated
into the general culture," he said. "The same thing is happening to Mexican and
Salvadoran food."

At the same time, immigrants are trying American food. "Africans eat goat," he
said. "After they are here for a while they start to eat beef. Central
Americans, Mexicans eat tortillas, but slowly but surely people are eating
bread."

And soon, he predicted, though they won't give up on their traditional cuisine,
they will be as comfortable here as he is.

"I am an American," Rodriguez said. "I eat tuna fish."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAURICIO CRUZ WAITS FOR PICKUP WORK NEAR THE PARKING LOT OF A
7-ELEVEN STORE. DAYNA SMITH

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              158 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 22, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Cuban Refugees Seize Federal Prison Unit;
Inmates, Many Facing Deportation, Hold at Least 11 Hostages in Alabama

Don Phillips, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 1191 words

DATELINE: TALLADEGA, Ala., Aug. 21, 1991


A group of 121 Cuban refugees, some scheduled to be deported to their homeland
Thursday, took over a wing of the federal penitentiary here and held 11
hostages, demanding to remain in the United States.

Prison officials said as many as 25 inmates being moved from showers to a
recreation area slipped out of handcuffs and overpowered guards around 10 a.m.
CDT today in what Talladega Federal Correctional Institution spokesman Ed
Crosley called a "spur-of-the-moment" action.

Crosley said late tonight that although the Cubans were armed with makeshift
weapons and had threatened to kill hostages, the situation was calm. He said
negotiators were talking with the inmates in an effort to determine their
demands and secure release of the hostages -- eight prison employees and three
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) officials. Three of the hostages
are women, he said.

Crosley said that the only clear demand made by the inmates was "freedom in
America." They also asked for food, which he said had been prepared but had not
been taken to the inmates. "We're negotiating that," Crosley said.

"Right now, our information is they don't want to harm anybody, and they want to
settle this peacefully," said Crosley, adding that prison officials had spoken
with the hostages, who he said were unharmed.

The situation remained confused, however, as the Cubans phoned various news
organizations and announced various demands, apparently before coordinating with
one another. Asked why prison officials had not cut off the phones, Crosley
said, "The inmates have threatened the hostages' lives if the phone lines are
not left open."

He said the hostages were unharmed but one guard was slightly injured during the
takeover. Crosley also said that despite claims the inmates made to Cable News
Network during one phone call, "There's no major damage to the institution at
this time."

The special area in which the Cuban detainees are held is designed to prevent
fire and other major damage such as that caused when Cuban detainees took over
facilities in Atlanta and Oakdale, La., in 1987. It has steel floors, walls and
ceilings, and all facilities, including mattresses, are fireproof, officials
said.

Crosley said some of the inmates holding hostages had been invloved in the
uprisings at Atlanta and Oakdale, but he said prison officials do not know
precisely how many.

Crosley said the hostages had no keys or weapons and that there is no chance the
inmates could get out of the area where they were being held. Left unclear,
however, was the status of 18 American inmates who were being held in the same
cellblock. In one call, an inmate said the Americans also were hostages, but
officials said they had no information about whether that was true. "As far as
we know, they may still be locked in their cells," Crosley said of the
Americans.

Teams of riot-equipped officers were brought in from other prisons in Florida
and Georgia, including the Atlanta facility, and they appeared to be setting up
camp on a grassy area near the prison, located on a hill in the eastern Alabama
foothills of the Appalachian Mountains.

Prison officials appeared to be prepared for a long siege, keeping up a steady
dialogue with the prisoners via special phone lines. Unusually cool mid-August
temperatures also may have contributed to an easing of tensions.

The move by the inmates apparently was prompted at least in part by the planned
flight to Cuba Thursday for 32 of the 121 inmates. They were part of an ongoing
repatriation of more than 2,000 refugees from the 1980 Mariel boatlift who had
committed crimes while in the United States or were determined by the INS to be
undesirable and rejected for legal residence in the United States. A total of
125,000 Cubans fled their communist-ruled island nation during the boatlift.

"The predominant concern expressed by the detainees is their return to Cuba,"
Crosley said. "There is no risk to the public, nor is the public in any danger
of these inmates leaving the facility."

One of the first words of the takeover came late this morning in a call from a
prisoner to Cynthia Corzo, a reporter for El Nuevo Herald, the Spanish-language
edition of the Miami Herald.

Corzo identified the prisoner as Jorge Marquez Medina, who she said she had
interviewed a year ago at a federal prison in Terre Haute, Ind. She said he
began the conversation today, "Hello, this is Jorge. How are you? How's Miami?"

After apparent prompting by others in the background, he told Corzo, "We've
taken over one of the buildings. We're rioting."

In one of the many conflicting reports of inmate demands, Corzo said Marquez
told her he wanted to talk to Coretta Scott King, representatives of the U.N.
High Commission on Refugees and members of the news media.

The Miami Herald said a Cuban inmate identified as Jesus de Armas, who said he
was leading the uprising, told El Nuevo Herald, "We're willing to kill everyone
to not go to Cuba. The thing here is limited to two words: freedom or death."

Asked about that claim, Joe Cannon, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of
Prisons, replied, "Our information cannot substantiate that."

This afternoon, inmates were seen standing atop their captured building, waving
banners and displaying signs protesting their threatened return to Cuba. "We are
not Communists," one banner said.

Duke Austin, an INS spokesman in Washington, said the Cubans had been convicted
of crimes since arrival in this country and that all faced deportation because
they could not qualify for legal residence in the United States. Through
appeals, many of the detainees had managed to delay deportation for months, if
not years, the officials said.

Austin said all the Cubans at the prison, 50 miles east of Birmingham, were the
most likely among 2,500 Mariel boatlift detainees held in federal prisons to
face return to Cuba.

He said the INS has been regularly assembling groups of two to 30 detainees to
be returned in government aircraft. More than 600 Cubans have been returned to
the island since the United States and Cuba reached agreement in 1984 for return
of more than 2,600 Cubans, authorities said.

Critics of Cuban leader Fidel Castro's government have charged that he allowed
many individuals with criminal records and mental illnesses to leave the island
with the boatlift refugees.

How to handle the Cuban detainees, caught between U.S. immigration laws that bar
their admission into the country and a Cuban government that did not seek their
return, has been one of the most vexing issues facing the U.S. prison system.

Sieges at the Oakdale and Atlanta prisons lasted for days, and Atlanta Federal
Penitentiary was severely damaged, particularly in fires set by inmates. The
trouble ended after the U.S. government agreed to a moratorium on Cuban
deportations and a case-by-case INS review, a step that led to parole for many
of the 3,800 inmates.

The Talladega prison, which opened in 1979, was designed to house 510 prisoners,
but has 970, Associated Press reported.

Staff writer Bill McAllister in Washington contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: MAP, CLARICE BORIO

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              159 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 4, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Talladega Rescue

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 374 words


CORRECTIONS professionals have learned a great deal about how to handle prison
riots since the bloody storming of the Attica Penitentiary in New York 20 years
ago this month. That was made clear during the dramatic rescue of hostages at a
federal prison in Alabama on Friday. Cuban detainees who had been convicted of
crimes in this country, served their sentences and were awaiting deportation at
the Talladega Correctional Institution had taken over a section of the facility
10 days earlier. They originally held 11 hostages, employees of the Bureau of
Prisons and of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Two decades ago, New York officials talked to the rioters for only three days
before moving in with heavy deadly force. The assault killed 29 inmates and 10
hostages. This time, the U.S. Justice Department, of which the immigration and
prison services as well as the FBI are a part, demonstrated that preparedness
and patience pay off. Over the course of the siege, government officials firmly
and consistently rejected the inmates' demand that deportations be ended. At the
same time, they talked, securing the release of two hostages -- a man who was
wounded during the takeover and a woman in deteriorating health who was set free
in exchange for giving the inmates access to a newspaper reporter of their
choice.

Early Friday morning, the time for action came, and the special training of the
rescuers paid off. Instead of a frontal assault with guns blazing, the FBI sent
in specially trained hostage-rescue teams aided by a Bureau of Prisons unit.
Deadly weapons were not needed. Instead explosives were set off to confuse and
frighten the inmates, and stun grenades creating shock waves, smoke and flashes
of light were used. All the hostages were rescued unharmed, and only one inmate
suffered minor injury. The entire event took three minutes.

This ordeal was acting Attorney General William Barr's initiation in office. He
made the right calls. Concessions to inmates under conditions of terrorism and
hostage-taking would have jeopardized prison employees everywhere. An immediate
and perhaps poorly planned assault might have caused many casualties. In
Alabama, a frightening situation was handled well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              160 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 4, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

New School, Foreign Land;
Immigrant Children Brave First Day

Stephanie Griffith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 879 words


On their first day of school in America, Selamawit Sereke, 6, and her sister,
Helen, 8, yesterday entered a dizzying and unfamiliar world of classroom
computers, math workbooks -- and simple words whose meanings they did not know.

In Selamawit's first-grade class in Arlington, the teacher asked the students to
sing the alphabet song. Selamawit didn't understand; she speaks Tigrinya, the
language of her native Eritrea in Africa.

In Helen's classroom at Barcroft Elementary, the third-grader walked to the
front of the class after she heard the teacher say her name. As Helen stood
waiting for direction, the teacher tried to communicate that she had not been
called.

For the Sereke sisters, yesterday was a tough introduction into a school system
where none of the teachers understand their language, and the prospects of
getting one who does are slim.

English is a foreign language for thousands of students who started school
yesterday in the Washington area. Students speak as many as 100 different
languages, according to school records, with most fluent in Spanish. In many
cases, few, if any, school staff speak the languages of the smaller student
populations.

During the last decade, school officials said, the number of
non-English-speaking students has steadily increased.

"The situation is very tough," said Emma Violand, director of the English for
Speakers of Other Languages program in Arlington, where students speak more than
40 languages. "It's a sad reality."

The initial process of learning, said Barcroft principal Ellen Kahan, "is
terribly frustrating" for immigrant children. "They don't have any idea about
being part of a class, raising your hand, responding to a teacher. It takes a
while for them to master all of that stuff."

In Arlington, for example, some staff members speak Vietnamese, Khmer, Laotian,
Spanish and Chinese, according to school spokesman David Rorick. When
translations, testing or interviews are needed in other languages, such as Urdu,
Farsi or Hindi, he said, the school system often arranges to use a language
consultant.

A relative who has lived in Arlington for several years translated for the
Serekes during the few weeks before school started as the girls got their
immunizations and visited the Intake Center, which acts as the school system's
Ellis Island.

Before yesterday, Selamawit's and Helen's only exposure to school was in a
makeshift classroom in a Sudanese refugee camp where they lived four years
before moving to their one-bedroom South Arlington apartment in June. Their only
classes were in Tigrinya, so they would not lose their native language, and in
Arabic, the language of Sudan.

Gebrehiwot Sereke, 33, and his wife, Ketem, 27, fled Eritrea to Sudan with the
two girls during the area's 30-year war for independence from Ethiopia, which
ended recently. Three more children were born in the refugee camp, which the
family reached after a 12-day, 300-mile trip from Eritrea.

A brother helped the family, which receives aid from Catholic Charities, come to
the United States.

Ethiopian community leaders estimate there are 20,000 to 30,000 Ethiopians in
the Washington area, most of them in Silver Spring, the Adams-Morgan
neighborhood in the District and along south Columbia Pike in Arlington.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said a few hundred Ethiopians
and Eritreans immigrated to the Washington area in 1989, the last year for which
figures are available. However, both school and immigration officials said
yesterday that those figures have risen during the last two years because of
recent political upheavals in Eritrea and Ethiopia, and a new surge of refugees
is expected.

Like other students who don't speak English, Helen and Selamawit will spend half
of the school day in a class called English for Speakers of Other Languages, or
ESOL, until they have mastered the language sufficiently to join their
English-speaking classmates in all their subjects.

Kelly Miller, director of the ESOL program at Barcroft, said the girls have an
advantage because they are trying to learn English at a relatively young age.
Still, she said, it likely will be two to four years before they are fluent in
English.

Because of the growth in the number of Ethiopians and Eritreans and the
desperate condition of many of the refugees, Violand said, an attempt is being
made to hire an Amharic or Tigrinya speaker for the Arlington schools.

"The Ethiopians are moving to the front burner" on the school system's list of
priorities, she said. "They need a hand if they miss the bus or if they have
forms to fill, and right now they're not getting it."

Yesterday, as he watched his daughters start their American school experience,
Gebrehiwot Sereke worried about the language barrier.

For about half an hour, he scanned the faces of children entering the building.
He recognized a few as Ethiopians, and asked a teacher if Helen could be put in
a class with a student who speaks Tigrinya. There were no other Eritrean
students at her grade level. By chance, however, a Tigrinya-speaking student is
in the class with Selamawit.

"We'll get her through," Kahan told the father through an interpreter after
Helen went to her class. "We do this all the time."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SELAMAWIT SEREKE, 6, LEFT, ON HER FIRST DAY AT BARCROFT
ELEMENTARY IN ARLINGTON. CAROL GUZY

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              161 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 7, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

State Dept.'s Lottery Prize: 40,000 'Green Cards'

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6

LENGTH: 376 words


Many would-be Americans might not remember Oct. 14 as Columbus Day but rather as
the start of an unusual three-year lottery that will give away 40,000 "green
cards" each year to foreigners who want to live here permanently.

State Department and Postal Service officials said they expect 5 million
applications from citizens of 35 mostly European countries and territories from
12:01 a.m. that day until 11:59 p.m. Oct. 20. No entries received before or
after those days will be accepted, officials said.

Many of the applicants are expected to be Irish, either living illegally in this
country or in Ireland, because 40 percent of the permanent residence visas must
go to the Irish. Influential Irish members of Congress succeeded in putting that
provision in the law.

Winners will be selected "strictly in the chronological order" in which their
applications are received by the State Department, said James Ward, deputy
assistant secretary of state for consular affairs. "Applicants for the program
may apply as often as they wish," he said, "but only the first letter received
during the mail-in period will be counted."

The Postal Service processing center in Merrifield, Va., has been designated as
the reception center. State and postal officials have said repeatedly that
mailing applications at the center will not guarantee a winning entry, because
applications mailed there will be mingled with those received from abroad and
domestically.

Applicants must type or print plainly in English their name, date and place of
birth, the same information for spouses and children and their address, either
here or abroad, and the U.S. Embassy or consulate where they want their visa
processed.

Entries should be mailed to: AA-1 Program, PO Box 60000, Arlington, Va.,
22218-0001. The State Department's visa lottery hot line is (202) 663-1600.

Those eligible are natives of Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium,
Bermuda, Britain, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany,
Gibraltar, Guadeloupe, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, New
Caledonia, Northern Ireland, Norway, Poland, San Marino, Sweden, Switzerland and
Tunisia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              162 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 7, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

32 Cubans Returned

From news services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 124 words

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala.


Thirty-two Cubans were deported in the second group of Mariel boatlift
immigrants sent home since a prison uprising was put down in Talladega, Ala.

The 32 were shackled and under heavy guard as they were escorted aboard a
government plane at Birmingham for the flight to Havana. Their departure left 56
Cuban detainees at the Talladega Federal Correctional Institution.

Last Saturday, 31 Cubans were sent home.

At one time, 2,746 of the 125,000 Cubans who came to the United States in the
1980 boatlift were held in federal prisons under deportation orders after being
convicted of crimes in this country. That number was down to 145 after
yesterday's departures, although others are imprisoned whom Cuba has not agreed
to accept.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              163 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 8, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Immigrant Influx Tests Israel's Economic Approach

Jackson Diehl, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A37

LENGTH: 1793 words

DATELINE: ARAD, Israel


At the northern edge of this remote Negev Desert town, where a magnificent
panorama of desolate, sandy ridges stretches to the horizon, a spectacular new
sight has appeared: a huge arc of prefabricated houses and half-completed
apartment buildings, so deserted and ghostly in the blinding white sun that it
seems almost like a mirage.

Although the construction is real enough, people in Arad are beginning to worry
that the boom it implies may yet prove illusory. For the massive construction
project, centrally planned and paid for by the government, represents not a
response to growth in their long-struggling town but the opposite: an attempt to
reverse years of decline by building thousands of public housing units for the
Soviet immigrants now coming to Israel.

So far, the effort is failing, both here and in other "development towns" in
Israel's more remote areas. Although Soviet immigrants in the center of the
country face a desperate shortage of housing, not enough of them have moved to
Arad to fill even the 1,700 units nearing completion -- much less the 2,500 more
soon to be started.

And even if the Soviets were here, Mayor Bezalel Tabib said, there would be no
place for them to work, because Israeli and foreign companies have little
interest in investing in a town of 15,000 people that lies in the desert
mountains, a hundred miles or more by two-lane road from major ports or markets.

"If we don't have massive government investment to create jobs here, we are
going to have a real crisis," said Tabib, who moved to this town with his own
immigrant parents when it was founded 30 years ago. "If the government is going
to build 20,000 units of housing in a town like Arad, then it also has to create
20,000 jobs."

The prospect of a ghost town here provides an illustration of why Israel's
effort to absorb its huge wave of immigration is threatened with economic
catastrophe -- and why the government of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir has grown
desperate to win the support of the U.S. Congress and the Bush administration
for a U.S.-backed $ 10 billion bailout.

When the immigration movement began two years ago, Israeli government economists
as well as American and European financial experts warned Shamir that Israel
could successfully absorb the sudden flood of new population only if it opened
its markets to private and foreign investment and dismantled the quasi-socialist
system that gives it one of the world's most state-controlled economies outside
of the dwindling Communist world.

Nevertheless, these experts now say, Shamir's government has responded to the
influx in classic socialist fashion, launching massive, state-run housing and
job programs in which political and nationalist priorities -- such as settling
the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip -- have taken precedence over economic
criteria, or the preferences of the immigrants themselves.

Now, the economic costs of the government's approach are beginning to come home.
Even as the state spends billions of dollars to build tens of thousands of
public housing units in the Negev, Galilee and occupied territories, housing
prices in central Israel are soaring -- driven up by Soviet immigrants who
refuse to cooperate with the state's planning by moving to remote towns.

Inflation in Israel is now threatening to slip out of control. Prices rose 3
percent in July alone, the largest increase since the country emerged from a
period of three-digit hyperinflation in the mid-1980s. In addition, the
government's budget deficit has soared, nearing a likely $ 4 billion for next
year.

Meanwhile, national unemployment is more than 10 percent and rapidly rising, and
immigration authorities say Soviet Jews are postponing emigration here because
of concern about jobs. Only about 8,000 arrived in August, compared with more
than 20,000 a month at the peak of the influx last year.

To remedy the crisis, Shamir's government is proposing even more state economic
intervention. Israeli officials say there is no choice: In part because the
state has built so much of the housing for immigrants in places where private
entrepreneurs are reluctant to invest, the government, rather than private
business, also will have to create the thousands of needed jobs, largely through
make-work programs.

According to Finance Minister Yitzhak Modai, the $ 10 billion in financing
Israel hopes to get through U.S. loan guarantees would be used largely for that
purpose. Already, Modai has proposed a $ 3.6 billion jobs plan for next year
under which the state would subsidize the salaries of thousands of extra workers
in the construction industry, state-owned factories, scientific institutes and
even archaeological digs. State firms are to be induced to hire up to 20,000 new
employees as "trainees," whether they need them or not.

Israeli economists, including some senior officials of the central bank, say the
massive state-directed employment policy will merely propel the country deeper
into the morass of central planning and socialism that most of the rest of the
world is abandoning. "The Israeli vision of the future is to continue down the
same failed, dismal path of more and bigger government," economist Alvin
Rabushka charged in a recent study.

"In the Israeli mindset, the current immigration crisis is an even more
compelling reason not to risk free-market economic reforms," argued Rabushka, a
fellow of the Hoover Institution at Stanford University and Jerusalem's
Institute for Advanced Strategic and Political Studies. "The path of least
resistance . . . is to carry on the failed interventionist policies of the past
on an even larger scale."

Some Israeli economists argue that even if the government pursued free-market
policies, it would need foreign financial support to handle such a large wave of
population. Nearly 350,000 immigrants have arrived since 1989 in a country whose
population before was only 4.5 million. Most have no financial resources and
have had to be supported by the state.

Still, economists and even some American Jewish leaders contend that massive,
unconditional financing for Israeli immigration now might simply help the
government avoid needed economic reforms.

"The United States has the prerogative of setting standards as a lender," Robert
K. Lifton, president of the American Jewish Congress, said in an interview here
in June. "A loan-guarantee program could be tied to economic reform. There has
to be an environment created here in which capital is willing to come into the
country."

In theory, Israel's political elite almost uniformly agrees that the country
must remake its economy, which is dominated by state-owned industries,
collectivized agriculture, a labor union monopoly and a massive regulatory
bureaucracy set up by Israel's socialist founders four decades ago. Yet the
government's handling of the immigration offers an example of how the country
has become politically gridlocked, seemingly unable to carry out critically
needed reforms.

When the Soviet influx began, senior government officials said housing and jobs
for immigrants would be provided predominantly by the private sector through
free-market methods. But when a first, modest package of reforms in labor laws,
capital markets and trade ran into opposition from labor unions and left-wing
legislators, Shamir made no concerted effort to force the measures through.

Instead, responding to political imperatives created by his formation of a
narrow, right-wing government, Shamir last year effectively handed control of
immigration policy to Ariel Sharon, the hawkish former general who masterminded
Israel's 1982 invasion of Lebanon. Made housing minister and immigration "czar"
in June 1990, Sharon abandoned free-market methods in favor of a $ 2.5 billion,
centrally planned campaign for housing construction.

With the priorities of an ardent nationalist rather than an economist or social
planner, his goal has been to use the immigrant influx to strengthen Israel's
control over strategic territories, including those captured from Arab states in
the 1967 war. That has meant sending as many immigrants as possible to frontier
areas in the south and far north and the occupied territories.

Experts pointed out that the Soviets, most of them highly educated urban
professionals, have scant interest in moving to outlying areas. But Sharon
pressed ahead with plans to build more than half of 90,000 government-financed
housing units there, reasoning that the sheer shortage of apartments in central
Israel would force immigrants to move.

Foreign and Israeli private contractors balked at building outside central
Israel, arguing they would never be able to sell the homes. So Sharon won
government approval for a vast state construction program, with 50,000 units
started in less than two years, and a program by which private contractors
building in unprofitable areas get a guarantee that the government will buy
whatever they fail to sell.

The result, so far, has been a classic losing battle between politically
inspired central planning and natural social and economic forces. According to
the government, 29 percent of housing construction for immigrants has been in
the Negev region, but only 7 percent of the immigrants have moved there; 49
percent of new immigrants are living in greater Tel Aviv, but only 22 percent of
the new housing is there.

Meanwhile, housing officials say that at least 21,000 housing units have been
built or are under construction in the occupied territories and at least 14,000
in East Jerusalem. According to the government, more state-sponsored housing is
being built in the West Bank, Gaza and Golan Heights -- where the government
says less than 1 percent of the immigrants are moving -- than in greater Tel
Aviv.

Last month, Deputy Budget Director Amnon Safran predicted to a parliamentary
committee that the state would have to spend $ 860 million next year buying
empty apartments in frontier areas from contractors unable to sell them.

A draft budget approved by the cabinet Wednesday would reduce public housing
construction in 1992 to 15,000 units, but Sharon has said he will press ahead
with his plans to direct construction to the frontier areas and occupied
territories.

Sharon and his followers argue that even if their policies run counter to
economic considerations, they will pay off for Israel in the long run. "It's
impossible to build so many apartments in the Tel Aviv area, even though the
chances are better that builders will be able to sell apartments to immigrants
there," said Arye Barr, director general of the Housing Ministry, in an
interview. "We have to look at the long term and not just at what's good right
now economically."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              164 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 10, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Great Wait at INS Is Nightly Routine;
For Miami Clients, 'The Line' Forms Yesterday

Mary Jordan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 1088 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


As lightning streaked through the midnight sky and rain cascaded, Victoria Diaz
sat sullenly on a milk crate outside the district office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and waited. And waited. And waited.

The mother of three was among 200 sodden people who patiently counted the hours
until the office opened. They were waiting in what tens of thousands of people
call "The Line." It has been this way for years. It is the most infamous line in
Florida.

"Some people wait all night just to ask a question," said Diaz, 33, a Cuban who
said she has worked in doughnut shops, grocery stores and factories here since
age 14. "This is rude and wrong and ridiculous."

Last year, more than 50,000 people trudged through The Line, often arriving in
the afternoon and waiting more than 12 hours to reach the door. Recently, the
wait has spanned two days. Like Diaz, some of these people need a work permit.
Others are applying for residency. A few simply need information. In the Dade
County area, where half of the population is Hispanic, it seems that even those
who have not stood here know someone who has.

"You mean the sleepover line, the line from hell," said Robyn Blumner, executive
director of the American Civil Liberties Union in Florida. "It's reminiscent of
what you see in Russia, where people get in one line for the one sock and then
in another line for the other sock." Lately, she said, "it's gotten a lot
worse."

The line often begins to form in late afternoon -- of the day before the office
opens. When business begins at 7 a.m., an INS worker determines how many people
are likely to be served before closing at 3:15. Usually, that is about 150,
sometimes more, and the rest of the line begins to evaporate. After the office
closes, the cycle begins anew.

About midway through The Line on this night, shifting his weight from foot to
foot, stands Orlando Reyes, who operates a sprinkler truck for the city's parks
and recreation department. "I'm holding the place for my mother," he explained,
motioning toward a van where his 82-year-old Cuban mother rested.

Reyes said that his mother mailed her residency papers to the INS but that they
were lost and she was told to appear in person.

Madhu Singh, 28, an attorney from India, stood nearby. She hopes to be granted
asylum. Rosario and Orlando Quiroz, a couple from Cochabamba, Bolivia, who paid
a man $ 40 for a place near the head of the line, said that cost and the wait
would be worthwhile if they receive work permits.

"I guess it's all right that people are selling spots in line," said Orlando
Quiroz, a restaurant worker. "Instead of robbing, they are making a living."

Duke Austin, an INS spokesman in Washington, said the agency is "aware of the
problem" here and trying to fix it. Not until this month was INS Commissioner
Gene McNary made aware of The Line. "He knew we had lines," Austin said. "I
think he was somewhat surprised it had reached that level."

There are shorter versions of The Line at other INS district offices, including
the one in Arlington, Va., but Austin said Miami's is the worst. Some of the
long wait here, he said, is due to a tight budget and to "peaks and valleys" in
demands for service.

The huge influx this year of Haitians and Cubans to Florida's shores, on all
manner of makeshift watercraft, has added to the logjam. But according to a
report last January by the General Accounting Office, the problem existed long
ago.

In 1989, the New York INS office processed naturalization, political asylum and
other claims three times faster than the office here. Miami is second only to
New York as a port of entry for foreign-born visitors, with almost 3 million
annually, and a significant number try to remain here illegally, according to
INS. In 1989 alone, 38,000 legal immigrants settled here.

But the increased workload has not meant increased staff.

"Florida has always been treated as a second-class citizen" in allocation of INS
resources, said Ira J. Kurzban, a Miami immigration attorney. "The phone access
is bad, and the mail access is bad, so you wait in line. You can be waiting
there 24 to 48 hours and still not get in."

On the corner of Biscayne Boulevard and 79th Street, alongside the garage-like
INS office, the first 150 in The Line this night figure that they will get
inside. The rest may have to return.

As the single-file queue stretches past him, Juan Cantar, 61, a Cuban, rents
plastic armchairs for $ 1. "How do you think I got the idea?" he asked. "I
waited in line and got sore legs."

Nearby, Neyda Garcia, a Nicaraguan vendor, is busy selling coffee, soft drinks
and hot dogs. She said she realized last month that, even if these overnight
hours were not ideal, the business was. "For me, this reminds me of the
Sandinistas, lots of lines," she said.

One by one, people seem to realize that there is no restroom. Several of those
seeking a toilet are turned away at a nearby service station and the X-rated
Pussycat Theater. Some men urinate in nearby bushes.

"We've talked about putting port-a-johns on the street, but the city doesn't
want them," Austin said. A new system of distributing numbered appointment cards
a day in advance was discussed last week, he said. And there was mention that
perhaps telephone appointments are the solution.

Well, just perhaps. Repeated calls to INS numbers listed in the telephone book
produced busy signals and recorded messages that begin, "Push '1' if you speak
English." Perhaps presuming that callers understand such a command, the phone
tape continues, holding out the promise of, but never actually delivering, a
human voice.

T. Alexander Aleinikoff, a University of Michigan law professor and author of a
widely used text about immigration law, said that because INS clients feel that
they cannot complain and because the public tends to believe that "these people
are lucky to be here at all," there is little pressure on INS to correct the
problem.

Diaz, contacted later, said that when she finally entered the INS office about 7
a.m., only one employee was serving The Line. At 8 a.m., she said, two more
employees appeared. By 9 a.m., 14 hours after joining The Line, she had a work
permit valid until February. Then she must return to The Line.

"I have worked in this country for 19 years," she said. "I have three children
who are American citizens, and whenever I come to immigration they make me feel
like a lowlife."

Special correspondent Ricardo Castillo contributed to this report.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, AT 3 A.M. THERE ARE MORE THAN 300 PEOPLE WAITING IN "THE, ANDREW
ITKOFF FOR TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              165 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 18, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Settling the Settlements Issue

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 388 words


PRESIDENT Bush is being faulted for his diplomacy with the Israelis. He's said
to have provoked an unnecessary and bruising quarrel by suggesting that Israel
postpone its request for immigrant-absorption aid in order to allow the proposed
Arab-Israeli peace conference to get fairly underway. As a result, in some
quarters it is not Israel that is in the dock for its settlements policy, which
is the real issue here since West Bank settlements menace not just the launching
but the conduct and conclusion of a peace conference. Mr. Bush is in the dock
for his manner of dealing with a friend and ally.

But this is backward. The problem of the West Bank settlements cannot be put
aside any longer. For years successive American administrations have rightly
been urging Israel to curtail those settlements, pronouncing them illegal,
subversive of peace or both. But particularly since 1977, when the right-wing
Likud came to power, Israel has been expanding them, contemptuous of the pleas
of Americans and others to save the issue for an Arab-Israeli negotiation.

Now such a negotiation is in prospect. As it happens, it is also a moment when
Israel is seeking $ 10 billion in loan guarantees to resettle Soviet immigrants,
in addition to the usual $ 3 billion or more a year in direct aid. Even if not a
penny of those loans goes to work in the West Bank, they release Israel's own
funds for that purpose. This is what led the Bush administration to ask Israel
to hold up its request for the loan guarantees. It wants the settlements issue
resolved once and for all.

For his pains in trying to get Israel to take American interests seriously,
President Bush is now patronized and accused of being obsessed with the
settlements. But it is Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and his colleagues who are
obsessed with the settlements -- who put land above peace and trifle with the
foreign resources that Israel needs for the historic mission of rescuing a
million Soviet Jews.

The relief of these immigrants is a large and worthy humanitarian cause in which
the United States has proudly joined. But the direct use of these refugees, or
the indirect use of funds made available to help them, to nail down possession
of an occupied foreign territory is a political ambition in which the United
States should have no part.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              166 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 22, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Expected Flood of E. European Migrants Is Trickle So Far

Marc Fisher, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A29

LENGTH: 1410 words

DATELINE: FRANKFURT AN DER ODER, Germany


Bold headlines and fretful politicians warn West Europeans of a wave of East
European and Soviet immigration that they say threatens the West's affluent
lifestyle.

In Germany, nearly every political party is calling for constitutional changes
and laws to tighten borders against a storm of foreigners. In France, the
interior minister has announced plans for a European conference on the
immigration crisis.

Surveys and studies across the continent predict mass movements unleashed by new
travel freedom, worsening economic hardship and political uncertainty in
countries such as Romania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Albania and the Soviet Union.

But here on the German-Polish border -- the new frontier dividing Europe's rich
and poor -- border guards Burkhardt Dudkowiak and Ingolf Guetsche keep a lonely
vigil. Waving at fishermen, focusing binoculars on children at play, the guards
rumble along the banks of the Oder River in a Soviet-made East German jeep
repainted in the forest green of the united German border police.

The two officers, who used to guard the Communist eastern side of the
now-dismantled border between the two Germanys, now patrol a corridor East
Germany never bothered to secure against its socialist brethren in Poland.
Today, this 270-mile frontier, still largely unmarked by fences or other
protection against illegal entry, has become a symbol for a host of new worries
about Germany's ability to claim that, in the words of Chancellor Helmut Kohl,
"this is not an immigration country."

Despite Germany's decision to dramatically beef up its border guard, there is
not a lot of action along the Oder. The number of would-be immigrants caught
trying to enter Germany here jumped sharply this summer, from 408 in July to
1,826 in August, but the numbers remain relatively small. Ortwin Popp, the
guard's local director, said the increase was largely a result of having more
men to patrol the riverside.

The mass exodus from East to West feared by so many West Europeans and their
political leaders thus far has been limited largely to Romanian Gypsies able
since the fall of communism to resume their traditional wanderings, Bulgarian
Turks heading toward their ethnic homeland, former East Germans moving to their
country's richer west, and Soviet Jews fulfilling their dream of flight to
Israel -- or the United States.

Estimates compiled by the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees show
that despite civil turmoil, economic hardship and relaxed travel restrictions,
there has been no mass movement from countries such as Yugoslavia, Poland,
Czechoslovakia or the Soviet Union.

"There is no reason to talk of a storm of asylum-seekers or immigrants," said
Stefan Teloeken, spokesman for the U.N. office. "Despite all the prognoses and
studies, we're talking about thousands, not millions."

The collapse of the East-West divide has prompted some migration and doubtless
will lead to more. A few thousand Yugoslavs have fled their country's civil
strife, and Italy's experience this summer with boatloads of several thousand
Albanian refugees, most of whom were shipped back home, made immigration
officials in several European countries shudder. But international refugee
officials thus far are grateful and somewhat surprised that the numbers have not
been larger.

Still, many Europeans continue to predict calamity and cry that "the boat is
full." A Munich think tank, for example, reported that 1 in 4 Soviet citizens
would rather live in Germany.

A German television poll indicated that more than half of Germans believe their
country has a "foreigner problem." Even the leader of Germany's leftist
opposition Social Democrats, Bjorn Engholm, said he can envision "a not-far-off
day" when Germany uses its military to protect its eastern border.

Because of its generous welfare benefits and central location, Germany is the
goal of about half of all European refugees. So far this year, about 140,000
refugees have asked Germany for asylum, up 18 percent over 1990. About 8 percent
of applicants get asylum; the rest are sent home, according to Bonn's Interior
Ministry.

By comparison, the United States admits about 700,000 legal immigrants yearly
and Canada 250,000.

"OK, sure, compared to what you see people saying in the press, there's really
not that many people coming in," Popp said. "But when these newly freed states
open to travel, I'm sure we'll get the storm from the Ukraine and other places
where they see no prospects for themselves."

Germany, Austria and Switzerland are particularly frightened at the possibility
of large-scale migration because they, like many West European nations, have
never assumed a responsibility to accept immigrants other than political
refugees. Unlike the United States, Canada and Australia, they have neither a
quota system nor a popular consensus that adding foreigners enriches the
country.

"It's really a psychological problem for the Germans," U.N. spokesman Teloeken
said. "The situation has changed so rapidly that people in Western Europe find
it difficult to accept the new reality."

Some Germans, such as Daniel Cohn-Bendit, director of Frankfurt's office of
foreigners' affairs, say the time has come for Germany to admit that, because of
its wealth, supportive social welfare system and democratic reputation, it is a
primary refugee destination. Cohn-Bendit called on the Bonn government to adopt
a quota system in place of the cumbersome system in which asylum-seekers wait
years to find out whether they may stay.

The business magazine Wirtschafts Woche recently suggested that Germany needs
more foreigners as both workers and consumers.

But these are lonely voices in a country where Interior Minister Wolfgang
Schaeuble has proposed shutting the border to East European asylum-seekers
entirely. He wants to change the guaranteed right to asylum that was placed in
Germany's postwar constitution as a reaction against anti-foreigner policies of
the country's Nazi government.

"Freedom to travel cannot mean freedom to settle" in a richer country, Schaeuble
said. Kohl has called a meeting of all political parties later this month to
push for a drastic acceleration of deportations of refugees who lose their bids
for asylum.

Bonn is reacting in good part to a wave of anti-foreigner and anti-immigrant
sentiment, especially in former East Germany, where mass unemployment has left
many people irked at foreigners who they complain are living on government
welfare checks.

There are now more than 200 refugee camps in eastern Germany and they have
become the target of attacks by skinheads and neo-Nazis who have beaten and
knifed foreigners, vandalized barracks and chased refugees through streets.

In fact, the vast majority of new arrivals in Germany are ethnic Germans
returning after their families spent generations in the Soviet Union, Romania or
Poland. Many speak no German and know few details of their families' German
roots, but Germany's constitution guarantees these people instant citizenship.

Here on the Oder River, Germany's Rio Grande, the border patrol is busy trying
out new equipment: night-vision glasses, helicopters, unmarked cars and
walkie-talkies.

The patrols on what Teloeken calls the "border between the worlds of rich and
poor" face increasingly well-organized forays across the river by would-be
immigrants -- mostly Gypsies from Romania and Bulgaria -- who have paid their
life's savings to Polish people-smugglers. The going rate is about $ 280 per
family to cross the river, Popp said.

Buses loaded with refugees follow a standard route from Romania through the
Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia to Poland and the Oder border. There the
refugees contact smugglers at markets in border towns and arrange to be hidden
in the backs of trucks, in car trunks or in railroad freight cars.

"We catch them, we send them back and they come right back," Popp said. "It is
frustrating."

Guetsche, the eastern German border guard, said he will be able to do his job
properly only if the government uses the kind of barriers that East Germany had
on its old border with the West: guard towers, mines, high fences and even
automatic shooting devices.

But given Germany's historical legacy, that is unlikely. "We can't do what we
always criticized the Communists for doing," Popp said. "We can't even do what
the U.S. does on its Mexican border. That's just not the kind of thing Germany
can do."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              167 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 28, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

AROUND THE NHL

From News Services

SECTION: SPORTS; PAGE G2

LENGTH: 100 words


IMMIGRATION LAW: A new law limiting the number of foreign athletes admitted to
the United States likely will be delayed for six months, to the relief of NHL
officials.

The law, which will set a ceiling of 25,000 visas each year for foreign athletes
and entertainers, was to have gone into effect on Tuesday, three days before the
start of the NHL season.

The law will throw most foreign athletes playing for U.S. teams into a pool
along with actors, musicians and other entertainers.

DEAL: Jeremy Roenick, the Blackhawks' second-leading scorer last year, signed a
multiyear contract.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              168 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 30, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

'Europe Won't Work'

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A10; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 651 words


Joel Kotkin, in his article "Europe Won't Work" [Outlook, Sept. 15], makes the
misleading statement, "Already roughly one-quarter of all new immigrants possess
professional or technical backgrounds, compared to only 15 percent of our
overall population." He does this to perpetuate the naive myth that "immigration
provides [a] convenient means for easing" the skills shortage in American labor.

It is true that in 1987, approximately 25 percent of immigrants arriving in the
United States reported occupations in managerial and professional occupations.
But what of the other 75 percent? Mr. Kotkin conveniently neglects to mention
those.

Of the other 75 percent, a large fraction are in lower-skilled occupations.
Almost 50 percent of the mid-1980s immigrants were operators and laborers,
service workers or farm workers in their country of origin. Only a third of U.S.
workers had those occupations in 1987. If we include the immigrants who received
amnesty in 1986, then nearly 50 percent of all immigrants are working in the
low-skilled category, a much higher percentage than is found in the U.S. labor
force as a whole. If illegal immigrants are included, the difference is even
more dramatic.

As demographer Leon Bouvier recently noted, "The scientists and other
professional immigrants at the top of the job ladder generate little controversy
because they are relatively few in number, sometimes screened to insure that
they are truly needed, and integrate quite easily into American workplaces and
communities. What about the immigrants at the bottom of the job ladder? Here
controversy reigns supreme."

Joel Kotkin has conveniently manipulated statistics to show a supposedly
cost-free boon from immigration in the 25 percent, while virtually ignoring the
impact and implications of the other 75 percent. That's not fair. DAN STEIN
Executive Director Federation for American Immigration Reform Washington

The European social problems Joel Kotkin describes are not fundamentally
different from those facing all industrial democracies. Japan, for example,
faces a much more drastic demographic winter than Germany. Xenophobic traditions
are the reason its growing population of illegal aliens and cheap foreign labor
suffer crude discrimination. Japanese youth increasingly reject the dirty work
required of their parents' generation, not unlike the British or Italians.

Gloomy Mr. Kotkin appears to believe that world power in the 21st century lies
in outbreeding our competitors and mobilizing more young people into economic
armies of skilled workers. Actually, the "lost" European youth could be on the
right track: They understand that the exploding population of the developing
world is what threatens them the most. It makes little sense to train for a
career in a manufacturing industry that is destined in a free market to follow
low-cost labor abroad.

In an information economy, an older active population is a net asset. With a
stable population, Europeans (or Americans or Japanese) could expect to look
forward to the leisure-oriented economy that our parents anticipated in the
optimistic 1950s. Western Europeans are now reluctantly realizing that
uncontrolled immigration reduces their current prospects and future options; the
Japanese have always known this.

Mr. Kotkin is massaging statistics when he implies that U.S. immigrants today
are better qualified technically than U.S. citizens. That was the case until the
Kennedy "reforms" of 1965: It is certainly not true any more.

All the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries are
threatened by the failures of the developing world. But only the United States
has decided to abandon cultural and social continuity to compete on the risky
basis of lower-cost labor. I think we're a lot more shortsighted than Mr.
Kotkin's "ignorant and lazy" Europeans.

MICHAEL HETHMON College Park

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              169 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 3, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

VISUAL ARTS;
Works Depict Immigrants' Psychological Journey

Snigdha Prakash, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: VIRGINIA WEEKLY; PAGE V2

LENGTH: 696 words


Eight area artists, many of them first-generation immigrants and others who are
children and grandchildren of immigrants from Asia, Latin America and Europe,
reflect on their passage through American society in their works currently on
view at Arlington's Ellipse Arts Center through Oct. 26.

Sponsored by Arlington County's Cultural Affairs Division, "Eight Paths to a
Journey: Cultural Identity and the Immigration Experience," is the first such
show organized by the county to reflect the area's changing demographics.
According to the 1990 Census, Northern Virginia's Hispanic and Asian populations
have almost doubled in the last 10 years.

The paintings, sculptures, videos and installation art on exhibit were
commissioned for the show. Some works celebrate the journey, but many resonate
with a sense of loss.

Artist M.E. Fuentes confronts the issue of loss head-on through a survey in
which area immigrants were asked to assign monetary values to their body parts.
The immigrants surveyed valued their limbs at a pittance, which the
Philippines-born artist attributed to the often low value placed on their labor
in their native societies. American society takes advantage of the history,
hardiness and low expectations of those immigrants, he said.

John Lee, who is Chinese American, challenges the American tendency to
stereotype Asians by drawing large, detailed portraits of his family members,
which forces the viewer to see them as individuals.

Arlington resident Rossella Matamoros depicts the psychological journey that
American society has enabled her to make in five oil and acrylic paintings.
Matamoros came to the United States from Costa Rica three years ago to study for
a master's degree in fine arts at George Washington University on a Fulbright
scholarship.

Her colorful paintings are filled with images from her Catholic faith and Costa
Rica's geography. The first painting, "Carrying . . . " shows her arriving in
this country burdened by family memories and cultural tradition and prejudice.
In succeeding paintings, she is freed of childhood burdens and social
expectations, reborn from a volcanic mountain, and liberated as an angel.

Though Matamoros has found exhilarating opportunity in the United States, she
also has struggled to understand the culture and to be understood. "Because I
was from another culture, people [had] a tendency to put a label" on her, she
said, and expected her to be pliant. Her classmates at George Washington
misunderstood her tendency to hug and touch people as a sexual invitation.

"In Latin America, it means you care for someone. We hug all the time,
everyone," Matamoros said. "We hug people. We cry. We talk loud. We laugh a
lot."

Matamoros and her classmates changed together. "They learned that I was
different, my culture was different, and that was not a bad thing," Matamoros
said.

Her time here has made her more American in at least some ways. She is more
punctual to her appointments and direct in her speech. Her friends in Costa Rica
don't like this when she visits, she said, and tell her to "chill out."

Matamoros, who received her degree from George Washington in May and is painting
prolifically, is determined to help other area residents from Latin America.
This month, she will exhibit her work at the Education Center of the Arlington
Public Schools and will begin art workshops for high school students. She will
teach painting and drawing, and talk about how her Latin American roots are
reflected in her art.

"I want to encourage all these Latin American children," Matamoros said. "I
think if they were more in contact with their own culture, they would feel
better. They would integrate better into this society, feel more confident."

Speaking at the show's opening, guest curator Mel Watkin, formerly curator of
the District's Washington Project for the Arts, said she sees this show "as a
microcosm of America," which is a land of immigrants. Watkin's New England roots
date to 1620.

"What makes us the same? What makes us different?" she asked. "I think this kind
of understanding is the key to survival in a world that is growing smaller every
day."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, COSTA RICAN NATIVE ROSSELLA MATAMOROS LOOKS OVER SOME OF HER
PAINTINGS AT HER HOME IN ARLINGTON. BILL SNEAD

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              170 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     October 4, 1991, Friday, Final Edition

Mexico Protests Alleged Border Aggression by U.S. Agents

Edward Cody, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 3, 1991


For the second time in two weeks, the Mexican government has delivered a strong
protest to the United States, charging Border Patrol agents with aggression
against Mexicans on their own side of the frontier.

In a measure of growing irritation over what has been depicted here as repeated
and unnecessary anti-Mexican violence, the Foreign Ministry also demanded an
immediate investigation of the latest clash "by an authority independent of the
Border Patrol." A spokesman for the patrol said drug trafficking was involved.

The ministry's tone stood in sharp contrast to the studied efforts by both
governments in recent months to display maximum harmony during negotiations over
a proposed Free Trade Agreement among Washington, Mexico City and Ottawa.
Officials on both sides of the border repeatedly have said disagreements on one
issue should not be allowed to cloud discussions on others in the extensive web
of U.S.-Mexican relations.

But this time, "the Mexican government underlined to the United States that the
only possible basis for collaboration between the two . . . countries is
unrestricted respect of respective jurisdictions, within which preservation of
border integrity is a fundamental prerequisite," a communique said.

The Mexican Foreign Ministry has lodged more than 75 complaints since 1985 over
allegations that Border Patrol agents or other U.S. police near the frontier
killed, wounded or mistreated illegal immigrants without justification.

New anti-Border Patrol irritation sprang up two weeks ago after the Foreign
Ministry protested an incident Sept. 14 in which it said U.S. agents near San
Ysidro, Calif., crossed into Mexican territory during a scuffle with an illegal
immigrant fleeing into Tijuana. According to the Mexican Interior Ministry, the
U.S. agents also "insulted" Mexican border police.

That diplomatic protest, handed to officials in Washington on Sept. 20, has yet
to receive a response, said the Foreign Ministry. A U.S. Embassy spokesman
declined to comment on the protest, which concerned a shooting last Saturday
several miles east of the San Ysidro gate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              171 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     October 6, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

A Nasty Time at the INS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C8; CLOSE TO HOME

LENGTH: 572 words


Pity the poor immigrant, if he or she has to deal with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Arlington.

I recently accompanied a longtime friend and employee to that office to help her
obtain a replacement for her green card, which had disappeared along with a
purse she had accidentally left on a bus. After months of hoping the purse might
be returned and a fruitless trip to Metro's lost and found, she decided to pay
the $ 70 fee for a replacement.

We arrived at the Arlington office of the INS at 7:45 a.m. Several people were
in front of us, but the line moved rapidly, as did the fingerprinting and the
photo-taking procedures. Then we sat nearly two hours, waiting for No. 123 to be
called.

Waiting was the easy part, it turned out.

My friend couldn't produce her green card number, and the number wasn't on any
of her tax papers or on her passport. The woman at the window checked in the
computer for my friend's name but couldn't find it. I wasn't surprised. My
friend's last name has a short prefix -- often left off when entered in
computers in the United States, but the woman at the window refused to check for
the name without the prefix.

"What name did she use when she entered the United States?" she asked. "The same
name she uses now," I said. "The same name she's used for the 20 years I've
known her."

"These people change their names all the time," the INS employee sneered.

Told that we had to have the number to get another green card, we went out in
the hall and spent almost an hour and lots of quarters calling people for whom
my friend has worked on the chance someone might have the number. No luck, but
rather than face a second trip to the INS office, I tried the woman at the
window again.

We didn't find the number, I told her, even though we called all over including
the office of a member of Congress for whom my friend works. Check the name
without the prefix, I asked again. Finally, she did -- finding it instantly.

"It was under a totally different name," she said.

The difference? The prefix was left off and included as part of her middle name.

"These Brazilians," said the INS officer. "They have so many names, it makes it
hard to find them."

We took the application and the check to an abrupt cashier and embarked on
another wait, this time for a receipt. About 40 minutes later, we were able to
leave Arlington's little Ugly America, my friend with relief, myself with
dismay.

While we were waiting to be called to the window the first time, I had helped a
Korean man fill out an application. Like many other aspects of the process, the
forms seemed designed without any consideration about how it might be made
easier to understand. For instance, one question the Korean man didn't
understand, although he spoke English reasonably well, used the phrase "port of
entry." Why not just "city where you first entered the United States"?

Not all the INS employees were nasty and hostile, but we met enough nastiness
and hostility to leave a lasting ugly image. We left, with my friend's receipt
that said she could expect a 90-day wait for her replacement card and to call if
she had received nothing in nine months.

Before we left, though, we filled out the cards on the counter, asking the
largely non-English-speaking clientele to rate the INS's service. The cards were
in English, of course.

-- Martha M. Hamilton is Washington Post staff reporter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              172 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     October 7, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Discord for Opera, Musicians

Judith Weinraub, Todd Allan Yasui, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE D7; ARTS BEAT

LENGTH: 866 words


Will the first production of the Washington Opera's 1991-92 season be canceled
next month because of a musicians strike?

Martin Feinstein, the general director of the opera, fears it might. Last week
he put out a press release saying that the union had broken off negotiations for
a new contract (the old one expired Aug. 31) and that the opera faced a
potential strike by the Kennedy Center Opera House orchestra that could force
the cancellation of part or all of the 96 percent sold-out season.

The orchestra maintains that, so far, it isn't talking strike. And its
spokeswoman, bassoonist Melanie Mattson, and attorney, Leonard Leibowitz, deny
the union broke off negotiations.

The opera and musicians agree, however, that the orchestra is asking for a
substantial increase over its old contract and that the musicians are asking for
guaranteed work for 61 musicians by the second year of the contract (the number
of players in their contract with the rest of the Kennedy Center) for each opera
performance regardless of the number and kind of instruments the music is
written for; an immediate 50 percent pay increase for performances; and an
approximately 10 percent increase in benefits.

The musicians' demands would mean a 78 percent increase in costs to the opera,
says Feinstein. A little less, say the musicians.

The issue that appears to be the main sticking point is the number of musicians
who will be paid. The musicians say that they are a full ensemble, like a
symphony orchestra, and should be paid accordingly.

"This is not a factory where you get paid for the number of widgets you
produce," Leibowitz said last week. "You get paid all year long, whether or not
you're needed to play. You don't hire pieces of a group. The Kennedy Center has
recognized that fact. The only person refusing to is Martin Feinstein."

The opera, which this season projects a deficit of $ 375,000, calls it
"feather-bedding." "The 61-member orchestration is logical for ballet -- not for
us," said Feinstein. "Over a three-year contract, we would be paying $ 302,106
for walkers [musicians not working]. And with their current demands totaling $
677,974 the first year, we would have a deficit of over a million dollars.

"The musicians have always wanted to be a year-round orchestra," Feinstein
continued. "I can't blame them for that. Since they got a substantial increase
from the Kennedy Center, they want the same increase here. ... But there's no
way my board would consent to pay walkers full salary and benefits. They would
feel it's totally fiscally irresponsible."

What happens next is anybody's guess, although Feinstein has targeted Oct. 17 as
the date by which he will have to make a final decision regarding the first
production, "Don Carlo," scheduled to open Nov. 9. The musicians are waiting for
Feinstein to contact them. And Feinstein is informing artists and others
involved that they may have to cancel.

"I'm hoping that Martin comes around to thinking he's got to deal with this
seriously before any other damage is done," said Leibowitz. "We're ready to keep
talking."

"I'm not optimistic, but I'm always hopeful," countered Feinstein. "I'm hopeful
that when musicians see the reality, we will make a settlement that will keep
both parties unhappy. That's the nature of negotiation -- compromise."

Artist Visas Bill The short but intense debate between organized labor and the
arts community over provisions in immigration law is one step closer to a
conclusion. Last week both parties applauded a bill -- introduced in the Senate
by Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.), Alan Simpson (R-Wyo.) and Paul Simon (D-Ill.) --
that would eliminate or amend several of the controversial rules in the
Immigration Act of 1990 that affect the visa status of foreign performing
artists, athletes and entertainers.

The bill, which is expected to be passed during this session, would eliminate
the 25,000 cap on the number of visas issued each year. Other key amendments in
the bill: the length of time an applicant must have been affiliated with a
performing group has been changed from a one-year requirement to a "sustained
and substantial period of time" and allows for a variety of exemptions; the rule
that an artist must be "internationally recognized" has been amended to a
requirement of "national recognition" and provides for "special circumstances";
and a requirement that the Immigration and Naturalization Service must consult
with union or collective bargaining representatives before issuing a visa has
been relaxed to allow for a written notification of pending visas and an
opportunity to comment.

Also significant is a requirement that the General Accounting Office conduct a
two-year study to determine the number of visas issued to foreign artists and
the effect of these on the U.S. labor force.

"We're very happy," said Hilary Rosen, executive vice president of the Recording
Industry Association of America, one arts group that has been lobbying for
changes in the act. "We hope Congress will enact it soon. ... We're anxious for
this to be resolved and for the U.S. to regain its status as a country that
welcomes foreign culture with open arms."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              173 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 8, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

SUPREME COURT CALENDAR

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A5

LENGTH: 143 words


The Supreme Court will hear oral argument today from 10 a.m. to 3 in the
following cases:

No. 90-1038. Cipollone v. Liggett Group. Preemption. Does federal law requiring
warning labels on cigarette packages and advertisements preempt claims under
state tort law? (One hour.)

No. 90-1056. Burson v. Freeman. Elections. Constitutionality of Tennessee ban on
electioneering within 100 feet of a polling place. (One hour.)

No. 90-1141. Ardestani v. Immigration and Naturalization Service. Attorneys
fees. Does federal law permitting successful litigants against government to
collect legal fees apply to immigration deportation proceedings? (One hour.)

No. 90-848. Hilton v. South Carolina Public Railways Commission. Railroads. Do
protections of Federal Employers' Liability Act apply to employees working for
state-owned railroads? (One hour.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: SCHEDULE

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              174 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 9, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A9

LENGTH: 285 words


SENATE

Not in session.

Committee:

Joint Economic -- 1 p.m. Redefine measures of economic activity to take into
account environmental costs of such activity. 562 Dirksen Office Bldg.


HOUSE

Meets at noon.

Committees:

Banking, Finance & Urban Affairs -- 10 a.m. Consumer affairs & coinage subc.
Credit & Charge Card Disclosure Amendments of 91. 2128 Rayburn House Office
Bldg.

Energy & Commerce -- 9:30 a.m. Telecommunications & finance subc. Emerging
Telecommunications Technologies Act of 91. Commerce Sec. Robert Mosbacher. 2322
RHOB.

Energy & Commerce -- 10 a.m. Energy & power subc. Amend the Public Utilities
Holding Company Act. 2123 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Administrative law & governmental relations subc. Amend
U.S. Code to auth. executive & legislative agencies to sell certain debts owed
to U.S. 2226 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 10:30 a.m. International law, immigration & refugees subc. Amend
Immigration & Nationality Act with respect to admission of certain
nonimmigrants. 2237 RHOB.

Public Works & Transportation -- 10 a.m. Public buildings & grounds subc. Plans
for public buildings in Washington. 2167 RHOB.

Science, Space & Technology -- 10 a.m. Future of Energy Dept. laboratories. 2318
RHOB.

Standards of Official Conduct -- 2 p.m., closed. Pending business. HT-2M
Capitol.

Ways & Means -- 10 a.m. Legislation to improve health insurance coverage &
contain health care costs, including Health Insurance Coverage & Cost
Containment Act of 91. 1100 Longworth House Office Bldg.

Select on Hunger -- 9 a.m. Asset limits in current welfare programs & proposals
to help poor achieve economic security through home ownership, higher education
& self employment. 2359A RHOB.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: SCHEDULE

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              175 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 13, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Crowd Stampedes In Green-Card Lottery;
No Serious Injuries Cited at Va. Post Office

Jane Seaberry, Marylou Tousignant, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 1013 words


Scores of immigrants suddenly surged forward in a pushing, shoving frenzy at the
Merrifield Post Office last night, flinging blizzards of envelopes toward
collection bins in the hope of submitting a winning entry in the State
Department's green card lottery.

"I come from Northern Ireland and I've been shot at and bombed, and I've never
been as scared as that," said Tom Mellon, 25, one of nearly 3,000 immigrants who
were in line at the post office last night.

The first-come, first-served lottery, with no limit on the number of
applications an immigrant may submit, is being used to give away 40,000 green
cards, which permit legal residence in this country.

Based on the post office's collection schedule at Merrifield, which the federal
government designated to sort the applications, many immigrants concluded that 7
p.m. was the best time to mail applications, and that the facility in the 8400
block of Lee Highway in Fairfax County was the best place.

Although Postal Service officials said they tried to counter that theory, they
couldn't prevent a sudden stampede toward the collection bins last night that
left many shaken participants recalling European soccer riots. Applications
tossed from the rear of the line -- some in bags and even suitcases -- filled
the air and littered the ground.

No serious injuries were reported in what witnesses and participants described
as 15 minutes of flailing arms and legs. At least one man was pushed into a bin
rapidly filling with letters, amid shouts and screams of "get back, get back."

"I got crushed," said Ed Kleefield, 25, of New York, who was there to mail the
applications of a friend living in France. "I was terrified."

"At one point," said Chris Purcell, 40, of Louisville, "I thought, this is it."

Postal officials said that about 16 Postal Service police and five or six postal
inspectors were on duty, but "we could have had 500 officers and it wouldn't
have made any difference," said Robert Thomas, security officer in charge for
the Postal Inspection Service.

Postal officials also said that the majority of those waiting for 7 p.m. were
orderly and that only a small group was involved in the stampede.

Earlier, immigrants, wearing jeans and T-shirts as well as Burberry scarves and
carrying Louis Vuitton handbags, roamed the post office's grassy entrance,
carrying shopping bags, boxes and suitcases full of applications for the
lottery, which offers a rare shot at becoming legal U.S. residents.

"There are many, many people of different cultures milling about," said Henry
Cleffi, a Merrifield spokesman, looking across the post office parking lot that
had become an ethnic festival. "They're all getting along as far as I can see."

The lottery is the first of three similar handouts of green cards held each
year.

Only people from 35 mostly European countries and territories that have had
little immigration to the United States in the past 25 years are eligible for
the lottery. Under a provision of the 1990 Immigration Act, 40 percent of the
prized cards must go to Irish applicants.

The State Department is accepting the first 40,000 applications that arrive at
its special post office box after 12:01 a.m. tomorrow.

Officials had said they expected a total of as many as 75,000 people to come to
the Merrifield station during the weekend.

Officials said applications would be discarded if they arrive at the special
post office box before 12:01 a.m. tomorrow.

Postal officials said that by depositing letters in the Merrifield hampers after
7 p.m. last night, immigrants could be sure their applications would not arrive
too early. However, they said they had tried to advise applicants that mailing
at a variety of other times and places would offer an equal chance of success in
the lottery, and that 7 p.m. was not a "magic hour."

Already, 1 million letters have been delivered to the State Department's box,
Cleffi said, and he expects about 2 million more before the official starting
time. Those 3 million applications will not be counted because they arrived too
early, he said.

By midafternoon yesterday, the large hampers placed in front of the Merrifield
facility were quickly filled with envelopes.

People who had brought hundreds and thousands of applications would mail only a
few every hour, in a strategy they hoped would improve their chances of having
an application arrive at the proper time.

Marta Kiss, who arrived from Hungary two years ago to study English in high
school near Syracuse, N.Y., expects to graduate from a business school in New
York state in December. She said she hopes to stay in this country after that
because she will have a better life here.

"I have all my friends here, everyone I know," Kiss said.

She said she heard rumors that the best time to mail applications at Merrifield
was after 7 p.m., so she decided to wait in the post office parking lot five or
six hours until then. "I met so many people from Hungary here," Kiss said. "We
just swap our stories and have a good time."

Susan Farkas also is from Hungary, where she and her husband were physicians,
she said. She said that her husband arrived here nearly four years ago to do
medical research, and that since then their income has plummeted; neither can
practice medicine because they don't have green cards, and they are living
frugally in a rented apartment in Detroit.

Karim Ait Abdellah sat with friends under a tree on a grassy knoll, where he had
spread out application envelopes to form the words "New York Algeria."

"We are from Algeria originally, but we live in New York," Abdellah said. "It's
better we stay here. We not go back" to Algeria. "There is no democracy.

"So, I come here, maybe we'll have a chance," Abdellah said of Merrifield. Two
of Abdellah's brothers are in law school in this country. He hopes that when
they graduate, they can open a business devoted somehow to Algerians. If he
doesn't win a green card this year, he said he will try again, for what he said
is a simple reason: "America, I swear to God, it's the best."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, AN IMMIGRANT NOW LIVING IN NEW YORK BROUGHT 500 APPLICATIONS FOR
THE LOTTERY.  (PHOTO RAN IN EARLIER EDITION.), NANCY ANDREWS

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              176 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 14, 1991, Monday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Living The Dream In America;
Immigrants Find Success In Business -- at a Price

Mohammed Hanif, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE F1

LENGTH: 2702 words


This is the stuff American dreams are made of.

Shahbaz Hussain came from Pakistan 12 years ago. He drove a cab on the streets
of Washington. Today, he owns five cab companies operating more than 800 cabs
and bringing in annual revenue of more than $ 5 million. It's a dream that has
been realized over and over, a story told generation after generation.

Such rags-to-riches sagas have an element of predictability. The immigrants come
with a dream. They work 18 hours a day, seven days a week. They brave miserable
living conditions. Then, one day, they find out that they have made it.

But the plot of the standard success story has gone through enormous changes
over the years. Although no one formally counts or classifies the number of
immigrant businesses in the nation or the area, a few things seem evident from
conversations with local business owners. More and more, immigrants are relying
on educational qualifications for success rather than just raw ambition. An
increasing number prefer to be entrepreneurs rather than holding on to good
jobs.

And success doesn't mean that they live happily ever after. Not all of them, at
least.

The following tales -- all success stories -- try to capture the changing
landscape of the American dream as seen by five immigrants from various
backgrounds involved in different enterprises.

The only tangible asset that Hussain, 40, brought with him from Pakistan was a
graduate degree, which he said was not worth the paper on which it was printed.

"When I came here, I had a master's degree in economics. If I had started
looking for an executive job, I'd still be looking for it," Hussain said.

But he also said if he didn't have the education, he might still be a cab
driver.

"There are so many immigrants who are driving cabs for my company," he said.
"They are hard-working and intelligent people, but most of them will keep
driving cabs just because they don't have the education."

When Hussain arrived in the United States, he accepted whatever jobs came his
way. During his first two years he was a bank teller, a salesman at a People's
drugstore and front-desk clerk at a hotel -- juggling all three jobs within 24
hours and snatching a nap when he could.

He switched to driving a cab because it meant more money and he could be his own
boss. His two brothers joined him in Washington the next year and also started
driving cabs. "We shared our meals and saved together," Hussain said.

He started his own cab company after three years with an initial investment of $
35,000 -- his own and his family's total savings. The company began with five
cabs, two of which were driven by his brothers.  "That meant two people less on
the payroll," he said.

Hussain now owns five Washington-based cab companies -- Five Star, D.C. Express,
Highland, Presidential and Champion. Together, they have 800 cabs, 150 of which
he owns.

One brother still is in the business with him, but the other one has returned to
school to finish his education.

"Family support perhaps played the most crucial part in my success," Hussain
said. "There was a time when myself, my two brothers, mother and sister were
living in a single bedroom apartment and no one ever complained."

Hussain doesn't believe in complaining. "We came here because of the
opportunities. If there is any discrimination, that's a part of the deal," he
said. "I have learned to live with it. Individuals may treat you badly, but
basically the system is fair."

But he agreed there were limitations on what an immigrant might achieve. "An
immigrant cannot become a president of the United States," he said, "and I think
that is quite meaningful."

For immigrants, making it in America means losing at least a part of their
identity. "You have to make a lot of cultural compromises, a lot of sacrifices,"
Hussain said.

"I wasn't exactly a mullah before coming here, but I believed in certain
religious and cultural values," he said. "They are all going, one by one.

"What will I pass on to my kids? By our third generation they will be Muslims
only in name. I thank God for all this success, but at times I really feel that
it's a curse."

But this doesn't slow him down. Hussain, who said he hasn't had a vacation in 10
years, works six days a week, 12 hours a day. He is planning to expand his
business into other transportation areas and real estate.

"I feel as if I have just started," he said. "I have just found this place to
stand on, I want to go far."

Armando Chapelli was 13 when he came home and told his mother that he had bombed
a hotel in Havana. His parents packed up immediately and left for the United
States.

He told a lie that day 30 years ago. He just wanted to get out of Cuba.

Now, Chapelli, 44, runs Washington Consulting Group, a District-based consulting
company that employs 220 people in 12 states and has annual revenue of more than
$ 18 million.

Parallel to his success story is a story of failure and frustration: Chapelli
thinks that although he has made money, he hasn't been able to cross the
barriers that keep immigrants apart from mainstream society.

Chapelli went to a school in Miami, where his parents settled after migrating.
He went to a high school in Miami, then to New York's Hunter College, and won a
graduate fellowship to Georgetown University. He wanted to become a professor
but there were no jobs available in academia.

He went to work for a merger and acquisitions firm as a research assistant, then
in 1978 launched his first independent venture, a small consulting firm in
partnership with a friend. The company closed after one year because there
wasn't enough capital.

Chapelli decided to go it alone in 1979. "It was just me and my briefcase," he
said.

Washington Consulting, which aimed to train government employees, operated out
of the back seat of a borrowed car. Chapelli started the company with zero
capital, he remembers.

"In fact, I still had to pay my student loans," he said. "I would do the job
first, then send the bill and wait for the payments."

It took six years for his company to get its first big break. He got a contract
to train air traffic controllers, which he still has.

"If you measure success in terms of dollars, yes, I'm successful," he said. But,
increasingly, Chapelli said he feels confronted with the limits of being an
immigrant business executive.

"I've been contemplating a bigger and rather philosophical question," he said.
"There is a perception out there which is very difficult to change. I have been
thinking how difficult it is to be accepted as just another business. You always
have to do a little more than the next guy to get the equal reward. You are
always viewed with a little bit more doubt. You are always asked a few more
questions.

"When I started, I was out to conquer the world, but now that I look at my past
I feel I have not been able to break a single perceptual barrier," Chapelli
said. "But I keep thinking, What is it? How can I beat it?"

This frustration, he said, stems from his day-to-day business dealings. "It is
the investment community which is the hardest to crack," he said. "It's very
difficult to get your foot in the door... . You always go to make your pitch
with a handicap."

Hussain Beshar had a business niche he wanted to fill when he started his
company, Computer Systems and Automation, in 1987. "The idea was to provide
local area networking services and turnkey solutions to computer users in
government as well as private sector. We wanted to provide one-stop shopping for
the users," he said.

Beshar, 42, also had an education. He came to the United States from Iran in
1972 and studied for a master's degree in computer science at the University of
California at Los Angeles. He earned his doctorate at George Washington
University, specializing in network modeling and operation research.

Beshar went into business with an initial investment of $ 10,000 from his
savings. When his company was six months old, he bought a personal computer
products store in Tysons Corner. After one year he set up another office in
Rockville.

"We went for a niche that was there waiting to be filled," Beshar said. "And my
being an immigrant has nothing to do with it. I know it sets you apart, but what
really helped me was my educational background. Your clients trust you if you
have those kind of credentials."

Even with his education, he still had to work hard. "Americans believe in a
9-to-5 work routine," Beshar said, "but it's routine for me to work 16 or even
18 hours a day. My work is a part of my personal life."

His 10-employee company has annual revenue of $ 2.5 million. His clients include
MCI Communications Corp. "We work with very low overhead to remain competitive,"
Beshar said.

"There are times, though, when I know that my name and background are a
disadvantage. America is a nation of immigrants but there are still people who
think they are more American than us," Beshar said.

"But I have to live with it, I have to accept it. This is the kind of thing that
could happen in my own country, Iran, or for that matter anywhere. This is the
price you have to pay."

But success in a foreign country comes at a cost, Beshar said. "It might be easy
to start a new business for someone with the right education and entrepreneurial
skills, but this society doesn't allow you to make mistakes. There is too much
pressure to succeed. At times I feel the personal price of success is too high."

For Silvia S. Rodriguez, who runs a real estate agency in Montgomery County, the
burden was more than most male immigrants carry. As an immigrant, a woman and a
divorced mother of two daughters, Rodriguez, 45, has had a life of struggle.

Rodriguez's family sent her to Spain from Cuba in 1961 when she was 15. She
studied philosophy at the University of Madrid. She came to United States in
1975, graduated from Connecticut State University and took up teaching after she
was divorced.

She came to Washington on a fellowship with the Institution of Educational
Leadership and became the coordinator of a project to study the integration of
education with professional skills.

"That's where I found out that I wanted to have a business of my own," she said.

Rodriguez launched her first venture in 1982 to do translations, surveys and
studies for corporations that wanted to reach the growing Hispanic market.

In 1984 she attended a course on minorities in real estate organized by the
Montgomery County Board of Realtors. She got her agent's license in 1985 and
worked for five years with a local real estate company, planning all the time to
launch her own business.

She didn't have any savings to fall back on.

"My two daughters were going to college and it was very difficult for me to
save," Rodriguez said. She had a lot of offers from friends who wanted to invest
in the business or become partners, she said, "but I remembered my father's
advice -- if you can't do it on your own, don't do it."

She took out a $ 50,000 home-equity loan and launched Silvia International
Realty. She started by subletting a part of an office. "I had one table, one
telephone and four chairs," she said. Now she has leased the whole Rockville
office and employs eight real estate agents, plus her daughters, who work part
time.

Rodriguez decided to concentrate on first-time minority buyers, who she said are
usually ignored by real estate agents.

"I was fascinated by the fact there was this huge pool of people who were doing
three jobs a day, had a lot of money, but their whole approach was very
nontraditional," she said. "Some of them didn't even have bank accounts -- they
put their money under the mattress.

"And no one was ready to sit down with them and explain to them how a house is
bought in this country. Although it takes a lot of time, energy and patience,
they are very good clients ... they stay with you," she said.

Rodriguez also does a lot of business with international corporations and
embassies. "At some point in time I'd like to have linkages in other countries
to help relocate my international clients," she said.

Although 1991 has not been a good year for real estate, Rodriguez said she has
managed to survive because of the kind of clients she has.

"I try to concentrate on first-time buyers who are looking for houses under $
200,000, and there are some very good deals out there for such buyers," she
said.

Rodriguez's transition to entrepreneur from educator has taught her a few things
about U.S. society.

"You have to go way beyond the call of duty to prove yourself," she said. "There
is lack of trust, discrimination. People try to stereotype you. There is a
constant undercurrent that reminds you that you are not one of them."

Rodriguez said she has learned to overcome this problem by working extra hard.
"Yesterday I was here at 7:30 and left at 11:30," she said. "I think I'm going
to kill myself in the process."

Cameroon-born Roger Jantio, the managing director of Washington-based Sterling
International Group Inc., has combined his background, his education and his
professional experience to launch an American company that does business with
Africa, the continent of his origin.

Jantio, 32, got his graduate degrees in finance and economics in France and his
MBA from Harvard Business School. He worked as an international management
consultant with New York-based J.E. Austin Associates Inc. and later as
assistant vice president at Meridien International Bank in New York.

His year-old company, which has five employees, aims to provide financial
advisory services to African governments, international organizations and
corporations working in Africa.

Sterling already has won some lucrative contracts from the U.S. Agency for
International Development and a United Nations program to restructure financial
systems in some African countries. Sterling is also involved in financing some
existing as well as new ventures in Africa, including gold mining in Ghana.

"I'd worked as an international management consultant as well as an investment
banker ... and of course I come from Africa," Jantio said. "Our company draws on
all these experiences."

Jantio found an unusual way to raise the $ 1.5 million that he needed to start
the company.

"There are lots of Africans who don't keep their money in African banks because
of political instability," he said. "In my previous jobs, I'd traveled
extensively in Africa and I knew some of these people. I convinced them to
invest in the company." He also persuaded some Americans and Europeans who had
business interests in Africa to invest.

The way Jantio raised his capital means he gives up some control. "If I want to
go for an acquisition I need the approval of 60 percent of the partners, but I'm
free to run the day-to-day operations," he said.

When Jantio started his company, he had already decided that he was not going to
apply for the U.S. Small Business Administration's 8(a) minority business
program, which gives small minority-owned firms advantages in competing for
federal contracts.

"It doesn't help in the long run. Maybe it does help in the short run, but what
if you are not ready to fight when your minority status finishes? I don't want
that kind of protection," Jantio said.

"And nobody is going to come with a spoon and feed you a contract just because
you are a minority business. American business is all about competition. You
learn, you grow ... I'm not the person I was six months ago."

And is this competition fair? Does it have to be fair?

Jantio was reluctant to discuss the relationship between his being an immigrant
and his business. But finally he spoke.

"Yes, there are some stupid people who don't accept you when you have a
different accent. But I was raised on the values of hard work and fairness. The
only way of dealing with these stupid people is to prove them wrong by
succeeding.

"I don't want to sound like Clarence Thomas, but if your accent is a hurdle in
your way ... do something about it, maybe change it," Jantio said.

"But when all is said and done, there is no better place for the immigrants. And
I'm saying it after I have seen a lot of the world."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: October 21, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: Hussain Beshar, one of the business owners featured in an Oct. 14
article on immigrants, is not the sole proprietor of Computer Systems and
Automation; he is a partner. Also, he came to the United States in 1974.?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SHAHBAZ HUSSAIN, WHO CAME TO AMERICA FROM PAKISTAN 12 YEARS AGO,
TODAY OWNS FIVE CAB COMPANIES OPERATING MORE THAN 800 CABS. JOEL RICHARDSON;
PHOTO, HARRY NALTCHAYAN; PHOTO, FRED SWEETS

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              177 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 16, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

SUPREME COURT CALENDAR

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A5

LENGTH: 153 words


The Supreme Court will hear oral argument today from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the
following cases:

No. 90-985. Bray v. Alexandria Women's Health Clinic. Civil Rights. Are women
seeking abortions a class protected by federal law barring conspiracies to
deprive class of persons equal protection of the law? (one hour.)

No. 90-889. King v. St. Vincent's Hospital. Armed forces. Is employee's right
under federal law to a leave of absence to serve in military conditioned on
"reasonableness" as request for leave? (one hour.)

No. 90-967. Wooddell v. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Labor
law. Is a union member who sues a union for violating free speech rights and
seeks damages entitled to a jury trial? (one hour.)

No. 90-925. Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Doherty. Immigration. Did
attorney general act lawfully in refusing asylum to Irish Republican Army
member? (one hour.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: SCHEDULE

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              178 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 17, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Teen Indicted in Immigrant's Slaying

From news services and staff reports

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D7; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 85 words


A Loudoun County high school student has been indicted on capital murder,
robbery and weapons charges in the slaying and robbery of a Korean immigrant in
July, according to court records released yesterday.

James Robert Starkey, 18, a former debate team member who finished his junior
year at Park View High School in Sterling, is accused of shooting Jung Hyun Lee,
21, twice in the back of the head and once in the chest on July 14.

Lee was slain during a holdup at the dry cleaners where he worked.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              179 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 17, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Korean Credit Union Closes;
Demise of Institution That Provided Vital Loans Worries Immigrants

Liz Spayd, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D1

LENGTH: 900 words


A credit union that was a primary source of loans and financial service to the
District's large Korean community has been forced to close, removing a lifeline
that has helped hundreds of Korean groceries, dry cleaners and carry-outs to
flourish.

More than half of all small businesses in the District are Korean-owned,
according to community leaders, who said that Korean Federal Credit Union played
no small part in that phenomenon.

The credit union was the victim of a sluggish economy and what regulators say
was weak management.

Virtually all of Korean Federal's 1,500 customers will be reimbursed, because
the institution was federally insured. But its demise has aroused concern among
residents and business owners, many of them immigrants who speak no English,
that they will not find an institution that understands their customs and ways
of doing business.

"It is very difficult for people in our community to get loans from regular
banks," said Sun Chang, a prominent businessman in the Korean community whose
Annandale accounting firm serves about 200 area merchants. "Many Koreans are
immigrants who do not have credit history here. They relied on the credit union
for school loans, money for their businesses. It was very important to our
community."

The credit union operated from a small, red-brick building wedged between dozens
of Korean wholesalers whose food and merchandise warehouses line Fourth and
Fifth streets NE, just north of Florida Avenue. Korean business owners often
would stop at the credit union while in the area buying goods to stock their
stores, several merchants said.

"They had a bank that could talk their language," said Nam Song, a jewelry
wholesaler up the street from the credit union building. "Most Koreans, if they
go to Riggs or Sovran, get confronted with language barrier."

The closing of Korean Federal marks the second collapse in a year of a financial
institution so central to an immigrant group in the Washington area. Last
December, the bankruptcy of Latin Investment Corp. cost about 3,000 Hispanic
immigrants more than $ 6 million because, unlike Korean Federal, that
institution did not have deposit insurance.

Like all credit unions, Korean Federal essentially operated like a cooperative,
making loans and offering an array of financial services to its members. Monthly
statements to customers were in English, but the credit union's Korean employees
were available to provide language help.

In part, the credit union's demise was brought on by weakness in the overall
economy. Lloyd Lee, president of the Korean-American Chamber of Commerce in the
Washington area, said business has slowed dramatically for the mom and pop
stores owned by many Koreans. That made it difficult for some to keep up loan
payments.

But Korean Federal's difficulties were exacerbated by poor record-keeping, a
lack of adequate management and an unusually high percentage of business loans,
according to the National Credit Union Administration, the agency that insures
federally chartered credit unions.

Federal regulators traditionally discourage credit unions from making many
business loans because they are considered more risky than other loans and
typically require more intense scrutiny than credit unions, with limited staffs,
are able to provide.

Young Sik Choi, who served as president of the credit union, still operates a
real estate firm in Virginia called Top Realty. A woman who answered the phone
at Top Realty said he was out of town.

Paula Han, a vice president at Korean Federal who was reached at her home,
declined to comment.

A senior official of the credit union administration said the problems at Korean
Federal date back several years. Auditors from the federal agency had been
closely monitoring the credit union since the late 1980s, and on one previous
occasion had stepped in with special help in the form of loan guarantees,
according to the official, who asked not to be identified.

Word that the credit union was experiencing financial difficulty began to spread
through the Korean community in the last two months, prompting many people who
had entrusted money with the institution to withdraw their funds.

For the time being anyway, most are turning to American banks. But many are
worried they will not get credit.

Song, who was applying for a loan from Korean Federal, said he has since moved
his money to Riggs Bank. But he said he believes his chances of getting money to
expand his business are much less.

Myung Kim, who owns a liquor store on 13th Street NE, said he too has shifted
his money to an American bank for lack of another choice.

D.C. Council member Charlene Drew Jarvis, who heads the council committee that
oversees banking in the District, said she was unaware of the credit union's
closing, but said she planned to study the matter. "Given the already-tight
credit market, I'm certainly interested to see how serious the impact might be
on Korean businesses," Jarvis said.

Some informal discussions have begun about whether someone else might start a
new credit union, but there is concern that the problems at Korean Federal could
hurt the chances of another Korean group gaining a federal charter.

"This credit union was what we dreamed about," Chang said. "With it gone, the
Korean reputation may be damaged."

Staff writer Joel Garreau contributed to this report.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, THE CREDIT UNION'S BUILDING ON FOURTH STREET NE WAS FREQUENTED
BY KOREAN BUSINESS OWNERS AND WAS A COMMUNITY FIXTURE. JOHN MCDONNELL

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              180 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 21, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Rules to Ease Immigrants' Bids For Maryland Driver's Licenses

Retha Hill

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D4; UPDATE ON THE NEWS

LENGTH: 300 words


Starting today, it should be easier for foreign-born residents of Maryland to
get driver's licenses there.

Regulations that go into effect today are the result of a year of meetings
between officials of the state Motor Vehicle Administration and members of the
Hispanic community over complaints of bias and discrimination.

Foreign-born residents have complained they were told they could not get
licenses without a green card, or proof of permanent U.S. residence.

In other cases, they said, officials denied them Maryland licenses even though
they had out-of-state licenses or passports, which are acceptable forms of
identification. Hispanic activists said some Motor Vehicle Administration
officials retained passports if an applicant could not supply additional
identification, and other foreign-born applicants said clerks treated them
rudely and refused to help people who did not speak English well.

Under the new rules, a foreign-born applicant can present a Social Security card
or other primary form of identification. Those include an out-of-country birth
certificate translated into English by an embassy or another translator
acceptable to the Motor Vehicle Administration, a baptismal certificate,
certified school records or out-of-country passports, officials said.

A second piece of identification, such as a utility bill, credit card, library
card or canceled check, also is required.

The identification requirements are the same for U.S. citizens.

Motor Vehicle Administrator W. Marshall Rickert said the regulations will
"eliminate the inadvertent discrimination that at times our agency practiced
against foreign-born applicants."

Rickert said the agency also is providing application forms, the written test
and other documents in Spanish, Korean and Polish.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              181 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 31, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Deciding Ballot Rights;
Takoma Park to Rule On Non-Citizen Vote

Beth Kaiman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: MARYLAND WEEKLY (MONTGOMERY); PAGE M1

LENGTH: 747 words


Next week, Takoma Park voters will be asked whether they want their neighbors
who are not U.S. citizens to share the right to vote in future city elections.

The question will come in the form of a non-binding referendum on the Nov. 5
ballot, but those passing out leaflets and making phone calls for and against
the measure know that what is essentially an opinion poll could guide the future
of city politics for years to come. Many candidates have pledged that, if
elected, they will follow the will of the community as voiced in the referendum.

The communities of Somerset and Barnesville and the villages of Chevy Chase,
Sections 3 and 5, and Martin's Additions do not require their voters to be U.S.
citizens. To vote in school board elections in New York City and Chicago,
citizenship is not required. In the District, Ward 1 council member Frank Smith
Jr. is watching the referendum closely and plans to introduce legislation
extending voting rights to the city's immigrant population.

The mayor and council can change the Takoma Park charter to extend voting powers
to foreign citizens living here -- a move that also would allow non-citizens to
hold elective office.

It is unclear how many green card holders and even illegal immigrants could
potentially cast ballots, along with the city's current 6,900 registered voters.

Colin Norman, a citizen of the United Kingdom who came to Takoma Park in 1976 as
a Washington correspondent for a British magazine, says he may be more a part of
the city than U.S citizens who are newcomers to the area. "I have as much
interest in the community as anyone," he said.

He now holds a green card and said plans to apply for citizenship. Norman's
wife, Anne, treasurer of the Takoma Park Elementary School PTA, is not a U.S.
citizen either.

"We're not asking for a voice in at the national level or in foreign policy,"
Norman said. "But in local matters, we're no different than somebody who has
moved to Takoma Park from California."

The mayor and council decided to put the question on the ballot after the city's
redistricting panel found wide disparities in some city wards between the number
of residents and the number of registered voters. The reason for the gap, they
concluded, was a large population of non-citizens.

In a city that prides itself on racial and ethnic diversity, the tensions are
running high between residents who believe that paying taxes is sufficient
qualification for voting in local elections and others who believe the privilege
is reserved for Americans. Perhaps most difficult for some in the community are
the charges that a vote against the referendum may be racially motivated -- that
supporting the status quo would be a slap to Takoma Park's substantial Hispanic
population.

For Margie Garey, who was angered when some city council members spoke against
the Persian Gulf War, the issue is not racism but patriotism. Garey says that
voting is part of being a citizen, and "until you make that stand, I don't feel
you really have a right." She says allowing non-citizens the vote "cheapens" the
efforts of other immigrants who work toward citizenship.

"A non-citizen is just as affected by the decisions of the City Council as
anyone else," said George Leventhal, co-chairman of a group advocating the
charter change. "They're our neighbors, our husbands, our wives." Leventhal's
wife is a citizen of Brazil.

Members of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors
permitting fewer immigrants to enter the country, are taking part in the
campaign. Member Michael Hethmon, a College Park resident, said that like many
people opposing the ballot question, he fears illegal aliens could not be
excluded from voting. He said Takoma Park's status as a "sanctuary" for illegal
aliens "provides protection."

But, Leventhal contends that illegal aliens would be unlikely to want to draw
attention to themselves by voting.

Montgomery County teacher Ligia Becker came to Takoma Park 12 years ago after
her husband, an American citizen, returned to the area to attend graduate
school. Becker said she did not apply for American citizenship because she
understood she would have to relinquish her Colombian citizenship. Now, she has
found out she can apply for dual citizenship and plans to do so. But, before
that comes through, she believes her years of paying taxes, using the library
and partaking of other services more than qualify her to vote in city elections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              182 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 31, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Soviet Party Made Bogus Documents;
Official Said to Find Counterfeit Cache

Margaret Shapiro, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A31

LENGTH: 628 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 30, 1991


The top leadership of the Soviet Communist Party maintained a huge stash of
counterfeit foreign passports, official government seals, immigration stamps and
documents, according to a report today in the newspaper Nezavisimaya Gazeta.

The stocks, filling 14 rooms at the international department of the party's
policy-making Central Committee, also included counterfeiting inks and pads and
a closet full of phony mustaches, beards, sideburns and bald spots, the
independent newspaper said.

The newspaper account provided no explanation for the forgeries and disguises
but suggested that, as many people here have assumed, the top levels in the
Communist Party had strong connections to the KGB security police and probably
functioned at least in part as an arm of the spy agency. The Central Committee
was recently revealed to have provided huge sums to support the activities of
foreign communist parties, including the Communist Party U.S.A.

The hoard was discovered only after Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, who was
also the party's general secretary, disbanded the party following the failed
Kremlin coup in August. The Central Committee offices were sealed at the time,
then reopened some days later for use by top officials of the Russian republic
and Moscow city governments.

One of these officials told the newspaper he came upon the storerooms -- which
cover about 2,000 square feet -- after he moved into his new office in what had
been Central Committee headquarters. There he found a door, fitted with a coded
lock, that had been left open. Passing through the door, the unnamed official
said he found 14 rooms with "hardly any space vacant" and that one showed signs
of a hasty departure: piles of freshly shredded documents.

In one area, the official found shelves of blank foreign passports from "mainly
the United States and Western Europe" with names typed in but no photographs, he
told the newspaper. He said the storeroom also contained a huge file of passport
photos and that next to these were presses for affixing various countries'
official seals.

Another area was full of specimens of phony foreign documents and a print shop
for making more; hundreds of special inks in a variety of colors were on hand to
duplicate those found in foreign official documents, the official said. There
was also a huge array of official stamps, including ones for immigration valid
for Zurich, Paris's Orly airport and Rome's Fiumicino airport. Others included
the seal of a Department of Cooperation and Development in South Africa, with
which the Soviet Union did not have diplomatic ties.

"How many passport bearers hang around the world today whose border-crossing and
legal stay in a foreign state are confirmed by a stamp that they got without
leaving" the Central Committee, the newspaper article asked.

According to the official, everything in the storerooms vanished in early
October, about a month after the Russian government took over the offices. One
day, a team of about 20 men came into the office without notice, he said, and
loaded all the documents from the secret rooms into a large truck, fixed the
coded lock and sealed the main door.

The group purported to have a warrant from the chief Russian prosecutor's
office, but "nobody knows where the documents, equipment, files went," the
article said. Previously, a few items had vanished from the rooms during what
the official said were nighttime forays by unknown people into the building.

The Russian official, however, had stashed away some items, including phony
seals and a guide to the different inks, after his first visit to the
storerooms. "I simply scooped up what was lying there on top," he said. The
whole thing, he said, was like "a cheap spy movie."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              183 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 4, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

SUPREME COURT CALENDAR

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A8

LENGTH: 172 words


The Supreme Court will hear oral argument today from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the
following cases:

No. 90-1342. Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Zacarias. Immigration. Is
person who fled his country after resisting guerrilla group's attempt to coerce
him into military service eligible for political asylum? (One hour.)

No. 90-838. Molzof v. U.S. Veterans. May veteran obtain damages from government
for medical expenses arising from negligent care? (One hour.)

No. 90-5844. Foucha v. Louisiana. Criminal law. May criminal defendant acquitted
by reason of insanity and who is no longer mentally ill continue to be
indefinitely confined to mental institution on ground he poses danger to himself
or others? (One hour.)

No. 112 Original. Wyoming v. Oklahoma. Commerce clause. Challenging the
constitutionality of an Oklahoma law requiring the state's coal-fired
electricity-generating plants producing power for sale in Oklahoma to burn
mixture of coal containing at least 10 percent Oklahoma-mined coal. (One hour.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: SCHEDULE

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              184 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 6, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Workers File Suit Against Va. Landscaper;
15 Salvadoran Immigrants Allege Company Failed to Pay Them

Carlos Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D4

LENGTH: 434 words


Fifteen Salvadoran immigrants filed suit Monday alleging that a landscaping firm
that is contracted by Arlington County failed to pay them for work they
performed.

The suit alleges that TLC Services and its director, Elizabeth Aviles Rogers,
hired the men to cut grass on county land last spring. The men claimed that when
they complained about not getting paid, they were fired and were taken off the
property of TLC by Arlington County police officers.

Rogers declined to comment on the 25-page suit, as did her attorney, David
Taweel.

"This may be the first of what will be many cases raising this issue," said Rod
Boggs, director of the Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights, which
helped bring about the lawsuit.

He said the case represents both a long-standing problem with exploitation of
foreign workers, and a new propensity by immigrant laborers to fight back.

The lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Alexandria by lawyers with
Covington & Burling, seeks $ 48,000 in back wages, plus unspecified punitive
damages. It alleges that Rogers and her company violated the U.S. Fair Labor
Act, as well as the 1866 Civil Rights Act, which provides for right to contract
free of discrimination.

George Barak, a procurement officer for Arlington County, confirmed that TLC has
three contracts for grass cutting on county property. One, worth $ 480,000, is
to cut the grass of county parks. The second is for $ 8,000 to maintain the
grass along bike paths near Interstate 66. And the third is for $ 30,000 for
beautification of traffic islands on county streets. If the allegations proved
true, Barak said, "The county has no provision to terminate the contracts for
any other reason than nonperformance of services."

However, Sally Michael, a spokeswoman for Arlington County, said all county
contracts have an anti-discrimination clause. "If they're violating state, local
or federal law then we'll get into it."

Rogers's attorney made one offer to settle the dispute, said a statement issued
by the Washington Lawyers' Committee yesterday, but the offer was rejected by
each worker as "unreasonably low."

The lawsuit is a milestone in immigrant workers' rights, said several people
associated with the suit. "I'm convinced this is an endemic problem in the
region," Boggs said. "It's happening many, many times daily all over the
region." However, he said, immigrants are becoming more willing to prosecute.
One reason is a recent law that gives Salvadorans temporary legal status in this
country. Ten of the plaintiffs have temporary protective status under the law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              185 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 11, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Bonn Leader Seeks Limited Immigration

Marc Fisher, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A23

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: BONN, Nov. 10, 1991


President Richard von Weizsaecker tonight became the first major German
political leader to call for this country to drop its traditional ban on
immigration and adopt a quota system similar to that used in the United States.

In a television interview, Weizsaecker, who has used his largely ceremonial post
to address important moral issues, said Germany's policy of admitting foreigners
only if they are victims of political oppression must now bow to reality.

Instead of amending the constitution to make it harder to win asylum, as
Chancellor Helmut Kohl has proposed, Weizsaecker said the country should admit
that it has become a magnet for foreigners and set up entry regulations.

Germany's political parties have failed to stop a wave of attacks on foreigners,
the president said, and with neo-Nazism on the rise, the country's leaders
should stop using the increasing numbers of asylum-seekers as a partisan issue.

In Berlin today, Jewish leaders commemorating the 53rd anniversary of the Nazi
pogrom against Jews accused Kohl of not doing enough to stop anti-foreigner
attacks and compared the silence of many Germans with the country's acquiescence
in the Nazi terror.

Israel Singer, general secretary of the World Jewish Congress, said, "The German
population is not yet concerned enough" about xenophobic violence. "We are not
dwelling on the past," said Heinz Galinski, leader of Germany's state-sponsored
Central Council of Jews. "But we know history is an important, even the best,
teacher for the present."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              186 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 12, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Soccer's Draw Is a Taste of Home

Carlos Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 1141 words


The faces of 10 men waiting for the start of a soccer match were rock serious,
their eyes as cold as the fall chill. Their clothing -- from the snakeskin
cowboy boots to the gold chains and the open jackets -- exuded a strong-man
image.

Then a soccer ball rolled by.

With the zeal of children, they began kicking the ball, laughing as they showed
off their style of foot control.

Such is the effect of soccer among growing legions of people throughout the
Washington area.

But for the 10 Central American immigrants and thousands like them, the game
takes on a significance far greater than the action on the playing field. It's
steeped in a little-known Washington immigrant tradition that has been alive for
more than 70 years.

This game they call futbol was embraced by Italian immigrants on the Washington
polo grounds near the Lincoln Memorial as early as 1926, and by Germans and
other Europeans after them.

The Central Americans today, as well as immigrants from Africa, the Caribbean,
Asia, the Middle East and Europe, treat the game much the way their predecessors
did, said Luis del Aguila, who has traced the history of soccer locally.

"In this city, we use it as a gathering place. We know we're going to see
relatives and friends, and spend time with each other," said del Aguila, a
member of the executive committee of the Metropolitan D.C.-Virginia Soccer
Association.

Particularly for the Hispanic community, the world's most popular team sport is
also a special family pastime that comes complete with a significant underground
economy.

Each Sunday in the spring and fall, thousands of immigrants gather on fields at
public parks and area schools from Manassas to Montgomery County. And like the
10 stoical men who found themselves caught up in an impromptu dribbling
tournament, they make a day of it, said Janis Wood, sports division chief for
Arlington's Department of Parks, Recreation and Community Resources.

"It's an incredible phenomenon," she said, adding that each game "can draw over
a thousand people."

At least 2,000 Hispanic men and hundreds from other nations play in adult
leagues.

The antics of the 10 men at Anacostia Park in Southeast Washington were barely
noticed; indeed, several groups of men, young and old, were doing the same
thing.

Near the pair of soccer fields that would soon play host to the games, groups of
women huddled around picnic tables, putting the finishing touches on feasts of
Central American delicacies.

It was like a company picnic; everybody knew everyone else.

This is no accident, said Maria Campos, who labored over one of the picnic
tables, chopping head after head of lettuce.

"A lot of people here knew each other in their villages in El Salvador," she
said.

Del Aguila described it as a therapy. New immigrants quickly find their way to
the games and bring news from their home villages. Jobs can be found, as can
apartments and many of life's other necessities in what has developed as a
strong support system.

But Campos's partner at the picnic table, Ana Diaz, said it's mostly a chance to
escape the madness of life in the new land.

"We just want to be with our own people and forget about our troubles for a
day," she said.

Nearby, still more nourishment and libation was being loaded off quarter-ton
pickup trucks.

For people such as Campos and Diaz, neighbors who begin cooking food by 5 a.m.
every Sunday during the soccer season, this is more than fellowship. This is
sustenance.

"We don't have any other job," Campos said. "And we don't use welfare, so we
live off what we make here."

She said she could expect to clear more than $ 100 on a good day. Others said
more lucrative profits abound at the games, particularly for vendors who risk
selling beer.

The popularity of immigrant soccer is perhaps best measured by the number of
leagues, said Jose Sueiro, publisher of the local El Diario de la Nacion.

"There are now 12 different Hispanic soccer leagues," he said. "In 1977, there
were three."

In the District, there also is a league made up of teams fielded by various
embassies. A more serious league in Northern Virginia, whose players sometimes
graduate to professional play, has teams from Britain, Iran, Greece and Italy,
among others.

Each of the 12 Hispanic leagues has 15 to 20 teams. Although some of those
leagues are organized according to local geography, others are organized by
country of origin, including Guatemala, Bolivia, Peru and El Salvador.

Arthur Dockery, city coordinator for youth soccer in the District, said in the
last three years the number of youths participating in city programs has more
than tripled. Much of the growth has been fed by immigrants, he said.

Most of the area's soccer leagues will wrap up their seasons during the next few
weeks. Although some players may quit for the winter, a core of fanatics will
continue despite the weather.

They will go to one of three indoor arenas in the area that offer indoor soccer,
or they will play in pick-up games in area parks.

The pick-up matches concern the U.S. Park Service, said Levy Kelly, who oversees
several federal parks locally. "We've seen a steady increase [in games] over the
past four years," he said, causing turf damage and grass compaction.


"It's been a difficult phenomenon to deal with," said Wood, of the Arlington
parks department. "We've met with neighborhood and civic associations on the
impact of this amount of people in parks. We've even established a hot line for
complaints."

But nothing creates problems in the sport like money, said one man. The level of
competition and the passion that winners evoke have created an underground
professional circuit among some immigrant soccer players, several observers
said.

"We know there are some players who get paid for each goal they score," said
Dick Miller, who has officiated soccer games for almost 20 years.

Some leagues have offered prize money during championships.

Recently, just a few days before officials with the World Cup visited Washington
on a site selection mission for the 1994 games, a local league president was
beaten by an angry crowd after he failed to pay promised prize money, said Bob
Downy, manager of Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium.

Officials have tried to take control of the growing crowds by requiring security
in some cases and forbidding unlicensed vending in others.

But Campos spoke of a backlash last season when the U.S. Park Service began
cracking down on unlicensed vendors and brought in licensed concessionaires to
serve the crowds.

The hamburgers and hot dogs the vendors offered didn't appeal to foreign
palates, and concessionaires soon left because no one bought anything.

"They came here to be with their people," Campos said. "And when they're here,
they want to eat their food."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, TEAMS BATTLE AT ANACOSTIA PARK, AREA SOCCER MATCHES ARE
GATHERING PLACES FOR IMMIGRANTS FROM MANY COUNTRIES. DUDLEY M. BROOKS

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              187 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 14, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Two Kirov Dancers In a Tangled Tale of Abduction & Asylum

Gary Lee, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 896 words


Two Russian ballerinas disappear after a Washington debut, telling friends they
want political asylum in the United States. Two weeks later, they are taken from
a New York apartment and returned to their troupe in Washington. As they are
being driven to the Soviet Embassy, a friend throws himself in front of the car
until American officials arrive on the scene.

This is no Cold War novel or the rerun of some Hollywood thriller.

This is a sequence of real-life events, unfolding here, and they climaxed
yesterday when Aleksandra Koltun and Zhanna Sinitsyna, dancers for the Kirov
Ballet, held a marathon meeting with Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials and apparently requested asylum. The two, who are among the Kirov's
outstanding younger ballerinas, are now staying in the Washington area with
friends. "They came here and we're discussing their options," INS spokeswoman
Nancy Bruns said. "Otherwise, we don't comment on asylum cases."

The saga started late last month, when Kirov dancers ended a two-week run at the
Kennedy Center and prepared to leave for their next stop, only to discover
Koltun and Sinitsyna missing. Kirov Artistic Director Oleg Vinogradov, who is
also the director of the Universal Ballet Academy in Washington, filed a missing
persons report with D.C. police "and then I forgot about the whole thing," he
said yesterday.

After finishing their final D.C.  performance, the ballerinas were picked up at
their hotel by Alexei Arvine, a Russian emigre, who took them to his Alexandria
home. "We had met here through a mutual friend," Arvine, 31, said in an
interview yesterday. "They said they were interested in staying here. They
obviously had made plans to stay even before they left home; they came with all
of their clothes and belongings. Anyway, they seemed nice so I offered to help
them out."

Arvine later drove the two to New York, where they applied for work at the
several dance companies, including the New York City Ballet. The New Jersey
Ballet offered both women parts in its holiday season run of "The Nutcracker," a
spokesman there said. "They settled down here and seemed to be in good shape,"
said a New York Soviet emigre dancer.  "When last I saw them on November 2nd,
they seemed to be happy with their prospects."

What happened to the dancers after that is a matter of dispute.

Arvine alleges that last Friday Kirov Artistic Director Vinogradov had the two
women abducted from the New York apartment where they were staying by a Russian
driver and driven to his condominium in Northeast Washington. "I called one
evening and they were fine," Arvine said. "But the next morning I was told that
Vinogradov had taken them away and I should stay out of the case."

Wendy Forster, spokeswoman for the Universal Ballet Academy, made an unsolicited
call to The Washington Post to say that the two dancers were fine.  Later that
day, Vinogradov's wife, Yelena, said in a telephone interview that the two
dancers had left Washington and were en route to New York where they would get a
plane directly back to St. Petersburg.

In an interview yesterday, Vinogradov denied that he had the dancers abducted
from New York. "They called me in New Haven on November 8 and told me they were
in trouble and wanted to be picked up and returned to the company. I had a
driver pick them up in New York and take them to my house in Washington.

"They were fine and told me that some man had forced them to leave the company
and sign a contract saying they wanted to stay. When I saw them they made no
mention of wanting to stay in the U.S."

Vinogradov acknowledges telling callers that the two were already on their way
to the Soviet Union Tuesday afternoon. However, "that was just a story we made
up because the two women said they didn't want to talk to anyone," he said.

Tuesday afternoon, Vinogradov and his wife placed the two dancers in a van and
headed toward the Soviet Embassy, he said.  Just as they were pulling out of the
driveway of his Northeast Washington condominium complex, Arvine pulled up in
his car, jumped out and threw himself in front of the van, according to an
eyewitness security guard account. "You can run over me if you want, but you'll
go to prison," Arvine yelled to Vinogradov. "So don't be a fool."

A security guard called the police, Arvine said. D.C. police questioned Koltun
and Sinitsyna Tuesday night and turned them over to INS officials.

INS spokesman Duke Austin said the two were interviewed by officials yesterday
afternoon and asked for assistance from the agency. He would not comment on
whether they had requested asylum, saying that any identification of their
request might jeopardize their case. The two were released on their own
recognizance and are reportedly staying with friends in the Washington area.

In the past year, the number of Soviets requesting political asylum in the
United States has risen dramatically.  In order to receive asylum here,
applicants must prove that they would face persecution in their own country.

In a press conference yesterday in the Soviet Embassy, Alexander Yakovlev, an
adviser to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, said he did not understand why
Soviets took such steps to leave the country in today's circumstances. "Now we
allow emigration," he said. "We have nothing against people leaving if that's
what they want."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              188 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 16, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Palestinians From Kuwait Allowed to Stay in U.S.;
4-Year Permit Eases Fears of Deportation

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A23

LENGTH: 477 words


President Bush has ended rising fears of imminent deportation for hundreds of
Palestinian families airlifted to the United States from Kuwait during the
Persian Gulf War. He issued an order that allows them to remain and work in the
United States for four years.

The order, issued late Thursday to the Justice Department, resolved an unusual
immigration problem facing many of the 2,000 former Kuwait residents brought
here after Iraq invaded Kuwait.

The State Department, anxious to get all U.S. citizens out of Kuwait, bent the
rules and allowed entire families to come here if one person, most often a
child, was a U.S. citizen.

But the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) told the new arrivals that
it did not have the authority to allow them to stay. Under the law, Americans
under age 21, although citizens because they were born here, cannot ask that
their foreign-born parents be admitted.

The INS allowed the emigres to stay here and gave them temporary work
authorization until the end of this year. The INS said they would then face
deportation.

But the vast majority of the non-citizens coming on the "freedom flights" from
Kuwait were Palestinians whose U.S.-citizen children were born here when the
parents were attending universities. They had no home country to return to, and
Kuwaiti officials said they would not be allowed to return to Kuwait.

The emigres, many of them business people, engineers and other professionals,
scattered after arriving here, with a large number going to California and about
60 families settling in North Carolina. In interviews last month, several of
those in Raleigh, N.C., expressed growing anxiety as the Dec. 31 deadline
approached.

Many of them said their tenuous immigration status here, with work permits
issued on a six-month basis, made it difficult to get decent jobs. A
representative of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, which
coordinated the lobbying effort to allow the Palestinians to stay, said the
four-year residency period would be enough for the Palestinians to resolve their
immigration status.

The committee's president, Albert Mokhiber, yesterday hailed Bush's decision and
said he was "confident the evacuated families, which consist in large part of
skilled professionals, will make contributions to the United States at least as
significant as the contributions they made to Kuwait."

Sen. Terry Sanford (D-N.C.) and 20 other senators had written Bush Thursday
urging him to grant a four-year extension to the Palestinians. Sanford, in a
prepared statement, said yesterday he was "very pleased" with Bush's response.
"There was no good reason to force families we invited here in the first place
to return to uncertain or even dangerous conditions -- quite possibly making
them choose to leave their American-born children behind," Sanford said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              189 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 21, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

CU Tribute Honors 5 For Years of Caring

Shaun Sutner

SECTION: DISTRICT WEEKLY; PAGE J3; NEIGHBORS

LENGTH: 728 words


Another class of paragons of community service will be honored next week at
Catholic University's 18th annual "Thanksgiving Tuesday" celebration.

This year's tribute, designed to thank people who have made a real difference in
the city, goes to a group including a nun who has helped the city's growing
community of Hispanic immigrants; a former lawyer for Congress who rebounded
from alcoholism to found groups homes to help other alcoholics; a former
corporate accountant now building affordable housing; and a leader in an
organization of black men that helps black city youth.

The awards ceremony, at 6 p.m. Tuesday at Hartke Theatre on Harewood Road NE at
the university, is open to the public.

The honorees:

Sister Manuela Vencela, 69, has spent her life devoted to others. Vencela, a
native of Spain, came to Washington as a young woman with the Carmelite Sisters
of Charity and today lives and works in Mount Pleasant, tending to the poor and
the infirm in Our Lady Queen of the Americas parish.

In 1977, in cooperation with the Spanish Catholic Center in upper Northwest, she
founded an organization that offers training and support for domestic workers
from foreign countries working in the District.

But her mission in recent years has been working with undocumented and
documented immigrants from El Salvador, Guatemala, Argentina, Chile and Peru --
a service fueled by a deep spiritual commitment to helping others.

"I love it," Vencela said. "When you are giving yourself for the Lord to others,
it's a joy. You're not working for money. You find more joy in giving than
receiving."

J. Paul Molloy is chief executive officer and co-founder of Oxford House Inc., a
chain of about 300 group homes in 30 states that are run and supported by
recovering alcoholics and drug addicts.

The 53-year-old Molloy hit rock bottom in 1973, when his life spun out of
control after years of drinking. At the time, he was the Republican counsel to
the Senate Commerce Committee.

His wife filed for divorce and committed him to a psychiatric ward of a local
hospital. Checking out after seven months, Molloy lived in a seedy downtown
hotel and wandered the streets.

Finally, after a Montgomery County halfway house he was living in was closed, he
helped found the first Oxford House private group home, and his life changed
forever.

First, he resumed practicing law, then in 1989 he shifted full-time to expanding
Oxford House, which has become a successful program with an 8 percent relapse
rate among residents.

He has since remarried his wife.

For D.C. resident Brandon Johnson, 36, community service is a driving force in
life.

An Antioch law school graduate and former aide to U.S. Rep. Augustus Hawkins,
Johnson works as a tutor at the PLAN adult literacy center on Capitol Hill and
in Anacostia.

He also is an officer of Concerned Black Men, which works to build self-esteem
among black youth.

"Volunteers are a very important part of our community," Johnson said. "When
people say there's not enough money to do things, volunteers help to fill in
some of the spaces."

After years in the business world as an accountant, 66-year-old John William
Branner began getting involved in social service work through his role as
business manager of the Church of the Saviour, an ecumenical church near Dupont
Circle.

Since 1973, Branner has served as president of Jubilee Housing in Adams-Morgan,
a prominent builder and advocacy group for low- and moderate-income housing.

Branner, who lives in Alexandria, also is a board member of Columbia Road Health
Services, Christ House medical shelter for the homeless and the Free The
Children college scholarship program.

The Rev. Monsignor John G. Kuhn, began his service more than three decades ago.
As a newly ordained clergyman in 1958, Kuhn was so moved by the bleakness of
city life for the mentally and emotionally ill that he organized a small group
of volunteers who opened their homes to provide social and recreational
activities for these people.

In 1964, the volunteers opened a full-fledged social club for the mentally ill
called the Anchor Club near Catholic University. Today, Kuhn heads Anchor Mental
Health Associates, which operates a network of group homes, work training
centers and social clubs for the mentally ill.

Kuhn grew up in the Brookland neighborhood of Washington.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SISTER MANUELA VENCELA

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              190 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 21, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Bush Defends Policy on Return of Haitians

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A36

LENGTH: 483 words


President Bush yesterday said he saw no reason to change his policy of sending
Haitian boat people back to their chaos-ridden country, despite mounting
congressional criticism of the decision.

Bush, addressing the increasingly volatile issue for the first time, said those
who could substantiate their claims for political asylum were being admitted to
the United States. But, he said, accepting more refugees would encourage
thousands of others to make the dangerous journey.

"I'm saying that I don't want to have a policy that acts as a magnet to risk
these people's lives," Bush said in a series of satellite interviews with NBC-TV
affiliates.

Bush rejected criticism by refugee rights groups and members of Congress that
the decision was immoral and racist. "It is a fair policy," Bush said. "It does
make a distinction between economic refugees and political refugees. But let me
assure you, it is not based on some race or double standard."

No boat people were returned to Haiti yesterday, officials said, because a
federal judge in Miami on Tuesday ordered a temporary halt to the policy. He set
a hearing on the issue for Monday.

Coast Guard officials said that as of yesterday afternoon, 2,819 Haitians had
been intercepted at sea. Of that number, nearly 1,800 remained on Coast Guard
ships. Another 538 were returned to Haiti before the judge issued his order.

Coast Guard officials told a House subcommittee hearing the numbers of Haitians
leaving their country continued to increase, with 645 picked up at sea on
Tuesday. There are now 15 Coast Guard ships in the region, said Rear Adm.
William P. Leahy Jr. He estimated that the ships will be "loaded to capacity" in
the next two days.

State Department officials reported that about 350 of the 447 Haitians held at
the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, were being airlifted to
U.N.-administered camps set up in Honduras and Venezuela under a Bush
administration plan to disperse the refugees throughout the region.

The administration, reacting to a Sept. 30 military coup that ousted President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide, has backed an international economic embargo of the
island and proposed a regional solution to the refugee situation. The refugee
plan failed after only four countries signed up, so the administration on Monday
began returning the Haitians to Port-au-Prince, Haiti's capital.

Congressional critics yesterday said Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker
III had not applied sufficient pressure to other countries in the region to do
their share. A State Department official said Baker and Bush "have sent letters
to a number of their counterparts in the region," asking them to provide
temporary safe haven.

At the hearing, Rep. Charles B. Rangel (D-N.Y.) called on Bush to "do the right
thing" and find an alternative to a policy that would "turn them [the refugees]
over to killers."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              191 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 26, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Israeli Proposes 8-Year Plan For U.S. Economic Aid Cutoff;
Finance Minister Links Initiative to Provision of Loan Guarantees

Jackson Diehl, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A14

LENGTH: 1061 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 25, 1991


Finance Minister Yitzhak Modai proposed today that the United States adopt a
three-year timetable for eliminating economic assistance to Israel at the end of
the decade as part of a program to grant the Jewish state $ 10 billion in loan
guarantees to finance the absorption of immigrants from the Soviet Union.

The new offer, raised by Modai in an interview, appeared designed to overcome
resistance in the Bush administration and Congress to the loan guarantees, which
Israel says it desperately needs to finance housing, jobs, and other costs of
mass immigration over the next five years.

Ehud Gol, a spokesman for Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, said Shamir was not
aware of Modai's proposal and had no position on it.

Modai's plan would provide for the end to 30 years of U.S. economic aid to the
Jewish state, including at least $ 1.2 billion in each of the last seven years,
but it would not affect U.S. military aid, which has been about $ 1.8 billion
annually in recent years.

Modai said Israel would be able to give up U.S. economic aid because the 1
million Soviet immigrants, if successfully absorbed, would touch off an
explosion of economic growth. "The gross national product, according to our
plan, is going to grow 8 percent every year from now on," he said. "Exports
should grow 12 percent every year. With this growth, I want to give up the
American aid."

"If I were to strike a deal with President Bush, I would offer the following
formula," Modai said. "Give me the guarantees, and we will draw on them only as
we need them to finance the immigration. If you give us the guarantees over five
years, after those five years we will be willing to accept that you reduce
economic grants by one-third [of the original total] each year for three years."

"After three years," Modai concluded, "Israel will have economic independence
[from the United States], aside from defense aid."

The request for the loan guarantees, originally formulated by Modai during the
Persian Gulf War, is expected to be the subject of a contentious debate in
Congress early next year. Bush delayed the package for 120 days in September,
arguing that discussion of the five-year financing program might disrupt
preparations for Arab-Israeli negotiations.

Modai said Israel would also accept the linking of the financing to its
implementation of free-market economic reforms, such as privatization of
state-owned industry. However, he insisted that Shamir's government would reject
any further attempt by the Bush administration to connect the aid package to the
Middle East peace process or a halt to construction of Jewish settlements in the
occupied territories.

Modai's proposal would have the effect of guaranteeing U.S. economic aid to
Israel for another eight years, at a time when foreign aid is unpopular with
Congress and the public. But it would also mandate its elimination by the end of
the decade, a watershed transition for a country that is the biggest U.S. aid
client and has received economic funding every year since 1951.

Israel has gotten at least $ 1.2 billion yearly in U.S. economic aid since 1985,
in addition to the military assistance. Overall, it has received nearly $ 50
billion in U.S. loans and grants over the last 40 years.

Shamir met with Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker III in Washington
last week, but the talks did not cover the loan guarantees.

Modai said his ministry calculated early this year that the country would need
to invest $ 50 billion to absorb the 1 million Soviet immigrants the government
predicts will arrive here over five years. Israel proposes to use the U.S.
credit guarantees to borrow one-fifth of that amount, from private banks.

The U.S. government backing for the loans would allow Israel to obtain the
credit more easily and at a lower interest rate. It would not require direct
U.S. spending unless Israel defaulted, but U.S. funds would have to be set aside
to cover possible risks and, since Israel has requested broader guarantees than
those usually granted by the U.S. government, the cost formula has not yet been
determined.

Modai conceded that Soviet immigration has dropped considerably since he first
presented his request for U.S. aid last January. At the time Israel was
predicting 300,000 to 400,000 Soviets would arrive this year, but it now appears
the number will be about 180,000.

However, Modai said, "we have already close to 400,000 immigrants" since 1989.
Since Israel is assuming it will borrow $ 2 billion with U.S. help each year for
an annual average of 200,000 immigrants, "the first two installments of the
immigrants are already here, so $ 4 billion is already owed to us," Modai said.
"If the others come, we'll draw the rest of the $ 10 billion, and if they don't,
we won't."

"I can't understand the fuss," he said of the U.S. resistance. "It only calls
for a little generosity and humanity. It's not a business consideration."

Responding to criticism in the United States about Israel's economic policies,
Modai argued that his government is determined to pursue free-market reforms.
Asked if Israel would object if Congress conditioned the loan guarantees on the
implementation of the reforms, he said, "I'd love it. It would be an insult to
me, but I'd love it. We will do it anyhow. How can we waive [American] grants if
we don't do the right things in our economy?"

At the same time, Modai said he would recommend that the government reject U.S.
assistance if it were conditioned to progress in the peace talks, or a
curtailment of Jewish settlement construction in the occupied West Bank and Gaza
Strip. "I'll vote in the cabinet against accepting any linkage," he said.

In recent weeks, Modai has been in a dispute with Housing Minister Ariel Sharon
over Finance Ministry attempts to limit construction of housing in outlying
areas of Israel and the occupied territories. Sharon charged last week that
Modai was attempting to freeze construction in settlements because of U.S.
pressure but Modai denied that was his intention, saying construction overall
will be scaled down next year, but will continue "all over the country."

Ministry officials said the 1992 state budget calls for 15,000 state-financed
housing starts next year. They said the Housing Ministry had submitted plans to
build at least 5,000 in the occupied lands.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, YITZHAK MODAI.

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              192 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 27, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

GOING FOR THE "GREEN"

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 223 words


Natives of Ireland lead the list of winners selected from 19 million
applications in the resident visa or "green card" lottery held last month, the
State Department announced yesterday. That comes as no surprise, because by law
the Irish are to receive 40 percent of the visas awarded. One surprise to some
department officials however, was the substantial number of Japanese winners,
6,413, representing third place. In second place, as expected, were Polish
entrants, with 12,060 prospective winners.

The department picked 50,000 names from 34 countries, mostly in Europe, whose
natives were eligible for the visas. Only 40,000 visas will be issued, but extra
names were drown to allow for dropouts and eneligibles.

Altough the lottery ostensibly was to provide visas for people to come to this
country, indications are that most of the winners are here already. Department
officials estimate that 75 percent of the applicants have U.S. mailing
addresses.

Here are the top countries in terms of applicants selected:



COUNTRY... APPLICANTS

Ireland...... 20,000

Poland....... 12,060

Japan......... 6,413

Britain....... 3,054

Indonesia..... 2,947

Argentina..... 1,453

Germany......... 657

France.......... 636

Italy........... 469

Norway.......... 287


SOURCE: U.S. State Department

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              193 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 27, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Refugees Taken to Guantanamo;
Thousands of Haitians Remain Aboard Ships at U.S. Base in Cuba

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A14

LENGTH: 593 words


The Bush administration, reluctantly changing policy, yesterday began taking
thousands of Haitian refugees onto U.S.-controlled territory at Guantanamo Bay
Naval Base in Cuba.

Administration officials had said last week that such action was impossible, but
the mounting numbers of boat people -- 5,054 intercepted at sea as of yesterday
-- and a federal judge's order not to return them left no alternative but to
bring many off Coast Guard cutters onto the Guantanamo base, 124 miles from
Haiti across the Windward Passage.

Of the total intercepted at sea, about 1,000 Haitians are aboard two Navy ships
at the base and 3,100 are aboard 15 overcrowded cutters, straining the capacity
of the Coast Guard ships. Eight of those 15 ships are at the naval base.

About 350 boat people have been sent to temporary camps in Honduras and
Venezuela and 538 were repatriated to Haiti before the judge's order last week.
About 120 were admitted to the United States as probable political refugees.

Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams, describing the situation aboard the Coast
Guard cutters as "intolerable," said that a military task force has begun
preparations to put up 135 tents to shelter about 2,500 boat people at the base
and that plans are being developed to handle the possibility of greater numbers.

One official familiar with the planning said that water and sanitation problems
at the base would limit the size of the camp, and that Navy or merchant marine
ships might still be needed to house thousands of the refugees.

The tent city decision might help resolve the lawsuit that brought the judge's
ruling, according to lawyers working with the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami.
"The essence of the lawsuit is whether the [Immigration and Naturalization
Service] screening procedures are reliable and fair" in determining refugee
eligibility, said Arthur Helton, an attorney with the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights. "We applaud [yesterday's action] as a first step to a reasonable
approach to resolve the crisis," he said.

"Our suit does not require and does not seek as relief [the Haitians'] being
brought to the United States," he said. At a minimum, he said, "We asked that
the screening be done on land, not on overcrowded cutters -- anywhere but
Haiti." An INS spokesman said agency interviewers would be moving off the
cutters to begin screening potential refugees at the base.

But other administration officials have expressed concern that bringing the boat
people under U.S. control on the base would induce greater numbers to flee their
country.

Defense Secretary Richard B. Cheney is known to have worried for some time about
the possibility that, even though the situation is not a national security
problem, the military would be called in to provide assistance, including
allowing use of the naval base.

Defense Department officials have argued that using Guantanamo for the refugees
would violate the U.S. treaty with Cuba granting rights to the base.

In a deposition last Wednesday for the Miami case, Robert K. Wolthuis, acting
assistant defense secretary for international security affairs, said the base is
"unsuited for housing or detaining Haitians for other than brief periods in
exigent circumstances due to the treaty with the government of Cuba which
prohibits the use of Guantanamo for anything other than a coaling or naval
station."

Yesterday, however, Williams said, "We don't think there's a treaty problem."
The State Department would notify the Cuban government of the new program, he
added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              194 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 28, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

For Haitians, a U.S. Way Station in Cuba;
Guantanamo Camp Provides Refuge From Violence for Boat People

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1024 words

DATELINE: GUANTANAMO, Cuba, Nov. 27, 1991


They were not leaving to find jobs or fleeing persecution. They were simply
scared to death.

The Haitian boat people who have ended up here, about 900 of them on Coast Guard
cutters in a sparkling bay and another thousand or so sitting solemnly on a
windswept coral promontory, have similar stories to tell.

"I left the country because of stray bullets," said Henri Milot, a 36-year-old
fisherman from Osaye. "They were knocking down houses, burning down houses," he
said, "and some of my relatives were killed in the gunfire." Milot said that if
he is returned to Haiti "I will just try again" to get to Florida.

As reporters visiting the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay got their first
chance to talk with some of the more than 5,000 refugees who have fled Haiti
since the coup on Sept. 30, U.S. troops erected tents in a camp that may
eventually house as many as 10,000 boat people.

Administration officials say the stream of Haitians leaving since the coup
toppled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide -- now at a rate of a few hundred a day
-- is likely to continue. Brig. Gen. George H. Walls Jr., head of a joint task
force caring for the boat people, told reporters today that he has been told to
expect the "maximum" possible number of refugees on Guantanamo. Walls did not
estimate how many that would be.

A federal judge in Miami has blocked the government from returning the refugees
to Haiti, and the Organization of American States yesterday decided not to
repeal the economic embargo that is strangling the island. Both actions may
increase the exodus.

Today, hundreds of Haitians slowly departed the overloaded cutters and were
processed by officials to begin their stay on this base on the coast of eastern
Cuba, a 45-square-mile symbol of opposition to the last remaining communist
regime in the hemisphere.

The boat people's stories are variants on the same theme -- the flight from
violence and the desire to go to the United States, but if not there, anywhere
but Haiti.

"I wake up in the mornings and I see people dying," of gunshot wounds in the
street, explained Louiner Dorce, 35, who said in passable English that he had
been a translator for tourists in Port-au-Prince.

Asked who committed the killings, Dorce twice said he did not know. Asked a
third time, he said: "The people with guns, the police." If he is sent back to
Haiti, he said, "They are going to kill me."

A group of women stood in front of cinder block barracks and behind concertina
and barbed wire that separates the men from women in the camp.

The women said the military in Haiti was not limiting its attack to
neighborhoods known to be Aristide strongholds.

"You don't need to carry an identification card that says you are for Aristide,"
said Marie Jose Louis, a 22-year-old who left her 1-year-old daughter behind in
Cap-Haitien when she sailed off in a rickety boat about three weeks ago. "It is
just random shooting," she said.

Carole Pascal, a 25-year-old mother of two small children, and all of the 10 or
so women gathered in front of the barracks, said they had been sleeping for
several weeks in woods near their homes in Haiti to escape the violence. "I was
hiding in the woods," Pascal said, before she decided to risk the perilous
500-mile journey to Miami. "I fled to save the lives of my children," she said.

All of those interviewed said they were grateful to the Coast Guard for plucking
them out of their leaky, often homemade, and always overcrowded boats. Several
boat people mentioned, with no apparent concern or anger, that the Coast Guard
had destroyed the intercepted boats.

"We were happy," Louis said, because her boat was taking on water and "the sea
was very rough. We knew we were in trouble." She said she spent eight days on a
Coast Guard cutter and has been here on the base for about 15 days.

While conditions on the base are not nearly so bad as on the cutter, "we feel
like we're in prison here," she said pointing to the concertina wire. Gen. Walls
acknowledged the razor sharp concertina wire could give the appearance of a
prisoner-of-war camp. "If I had a white picket fence, I'd put up a white picket
fence," he told reporters. "But concertina is what I had."

Despite the boredom, crowded conditions and intense heat on the moored cutters,
several hundred Haitians on the cutter Steadfast broke into song as they saw
reporters approach the dock area and as fellow boat people began disembarking a
neighboring cutter, the Dallas.

The song, a Haitian Protestant spiritual, was punctuated by loud "hallelujahs."
"Glory to God, the time has come," the boat people sang as they clapped. But
Coast Guard Vice Adm. Paul A. Welling told reporters that the happy singing
"does not typify the spirit of the Haitians on the boat."

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials interview each new arrival from
the cutters for 15 or 20 minutes to make the critical decision of whether they
are economic migrants who may be forced back to Haiti, or whether they are
eligible for asylum in the United States because of a "well-founded" fear of
persecution for their religous, political or other beliefs.

All boat people are given physical examinations, officials said and about 7 to
10 percent of the first 500 screened tested positive for HIV, the AIDS virus, a
percentage officials said they had anticipated because it parallels the
percentage found in other screenings in Haiti.

The arriving boat people each are given a towel, a sheet, toothpaste, a
toothbrush and soap as well as shorts, a T-shirt and thongs. They have watched
movies -- "Bambi," "The Little Mermaid" and "The Rocketeer," officials said --
to relieve the general tedium.

The tranquil situation here might change however, if the order blocking return
of the refugees to Haiti is lifted on Monday. Were that to happen, Walls said,
"that's not going to be an easy process."

The fear and anxiety of the Haitians here is most evident when they are asked
what they would do if ordered back to Haiti. "We would rather die than go back,"
Louis said. Many others said that is exactly what will happen if they were
returned.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HAITIAN REFUGEES GREET ONE ANOTHER THROUGH SECURITY FENCE IN
CAMP FOR BOAT PEOPLE ON GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE IN CUBA. CAROL GUZY

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              195 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 30, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Still Dying in Africa

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 417 words


NOT SURPRISINGLY, some groups working with the poor and suffering in Africa
worry that food shortages in the Soviet republics and the need to help finance
Israel's absorption of Soviet immigrants have cornered the public's attention
and monopolized much of the debate over the flow of U.S. foreign economic aid.
These are not groundless concerns. The problems of the hard-hit republics and 1
million Soviet immigrants have commanded a wide audience in this country, as
expected. But as the African relief organizations warn, the desperate needs of
sub-Saharan Africa should not be relegated to a back seat. By reliable accounts,
tens of thousands of people are now dying from starvation in southern Somalia,
and some 4 million more in the Sudan, Ethiopia and Mozambique are at risk of
starving to death in the next several months.

The African calamity, to be sure, is not the sole result of drought, poor
harvests and natural disasters. Man-made civil strife must share in the blame
for the destruction of grazing land, livestock and the physical infrastructure
on which African life depends. The current civil war in Somalia, for example, is
producing the most horrendous disaster anywhere in the world, according to U.S.
relief officials. And where natural misfortunes and political instability have
not caused human suffering, a good portion of Africa's misery and deprivation
can be traced to economic mismanagement and corruption.

None of this, however, justifies a slackened response in Western relief efforts.
Officials of the U.S. Agency for International Development's Disaster Assistance
Office concede that the public's attention may be turned away from the African
continent. But they insist that the government's relief effort has kept the
miseries of Africa in sharp focus. As an example, they cite the role of massive
U.S. and other Western food aid in averting the great tragedy that was forecast
for the Horn of Africa earlier in the year. Their major undertaking now is to
pressure a reluctant United Nations to allow UNICEF to return to Somalia with
critically needed U.S.-supplied food and medicine to stave off more deaths.

The official response is reassuring even if the public's short attention span
isn't. As legitimate demands on international relief efforts pour in from
scattered regions of the world, the response ought to be matched by a resolve on
the part of governments and relief organizations to deliver humanitarian
assistance to those who need it most.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              196 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 7, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

Hard Times Hamper Immigrants' Christmas

Carlos Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C3

LENGTH: 820 words


Concepcion Hernandez prefers not to think about Christmas.

For her, it will be a reminder of goals not achieved, of possessions not
acquired, but mostly it will be a reminder of family not seen.

Hernandez, a Rockville resident who came from El Salvador, said the season
reminds her only that in her homeland, two of her children are now being told
that she's dead because she stopped sending them money when her husband lost his
job.

The grim reality of recent economic conditions in this country -- meager by
local standards, but exalted in developing countries -- has come crashing home
on local immigrants expected to share their presumed wealth with family back
home. This year especially, Central American immigrants are complaining that a
two-year-old recession has had a devastating impact on their ability to send
money home.

The support checks are hard enough: Extras for Christmas are out of the question
for many. Courier services that annually wire millions of dollars for local
immigrants are reporting that the usual Christmas lines have not materialized.

Hernandez, a mother of five, said the cash crunch has estranged her from her
in-laws in San Salvador who are caring for her two eldest sons. "They think we
don't send them money because we don't want to," she said. Her family cannot
comprehend that in this land of riches Hernandez could be so poor.

With a husband a nephew and a niece, seven people are living in her one-bedroom
apartment. So crowded is sleeping space that her infant uses a stroller in place
of a crib.

"They told my children that they don't have a mother anymore," Hernandez said of
her in-laws, adding that they have completely cut off her contact with her
8-year-old and her 14-year-old, whom she has not seen since she came to the
United States six years ago.

The Hernandezes' story is not uncommon, said Elizabeth Ortega, a social worker
for the City of Rockville.

Carlos Marroquin, manager of Gigante International, a courier service in
Adams-Morgan, said he expects this Christmas to be one of the worst ever for his
business.

Telltale signs began in May, he said, traditionally the busiest month of the
year because immigrants send money home for Mother's Day. "This May, business
was down 25 percent compared to last May," Marroquin said of the number of
letters that customers sent to Central America.

He also said the amount of money being sent is significantly diminishing. "In
past years, people would send $ 500 a month. Now, it's rare to see someone send
$ 500."

And at no time does that inability to provide for loved ones assume such
symbolism as at Christmastime.

Irma Ortiz, assistant director of Comite Hispano, a northern Virginia social
service agency, said the season is bringing out a desperation among Hispanic
immigrants that the agency has never seen before.

"We had one lady who called to say that she doesn't want to take care of her
children anymore. She is so overwhelmed by not having a husband, not having a
job, not having food and having to take care of her children that she wants us
to take them away. She asked us, 'What am I going to do for Christmas?' "

Ortiz said a major problem is that relatives from Central American countries
have no concept of recession. "They only know rich and poor. And they know that
they're poor and we're rich," Ortiz said.

Marta Wyatt, the executive director of Comite Hispano said that gift-giving is
not a big part of the Central American Christmas tradition. But family
celebrations are a mainstay that will be affected by the constricted flow of
dollars from immigrants in this region.

"There's happiness in being with the family for Christmas, but there's more
happiness in being able to support your family," said Jose Cristobal Amaya, who
was recently sending money home. Amaya was at an Adams-Morgan international
courier service that has been busy, but not like Christmases past.

Ortega said one of the most telling signs of immigrants' desperation is seen in
an annual drive spearheaded by the City of Rockville to pair immigrants with
sponsors wanting to donate gifts. While immigrants' Christmas lists are
traditionally practical -- clothes and shoes instead of toys -- this year's
immigrant wish list is geared more toward survival.

Hernandez, for example, was paired with a group of employees at Travel
Resources, a Rockville travel agency. "Some of the stuff she wanted was really
telling. Some things shocked me," said Denise Breznau, an employee helping to
organize the gift drive. "She wanted stuff like toothbrushes, Flintstone
vitamins, deodorant, soaps, scarves, gloves and hand lotion."

Whatever Hernandez may get, she said she'll be spending Christmas thinking about
the things that, for now, seem impossible to have: her two children in El
Salvador. "I'll be wondering what they're doing," she said. "But mostly, I'll be
wondering what they look like."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CONCEPCION HERNANDEZ HAD TO STOP SENDING MONEY TO EL SALVADOR
WHEN HER HUSBAND LOST HIS JOB. AT LEFT, HERNANDEZ WITH SONS, WALTER, RIGHT, AND
NATHANIEL, LEFT, AND DAUGHTER, SARAY. ANNALISA KRAFT FOR TWP

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              197 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 8, 1991, Sunday, Final Edition

Undermining Democracy in Takoma Park

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C8; CLOSE TO HOME

LENGTH: 500 words


In an Oct. 13 Close to Home article, law professor Jasmin B. Raskin defended a
Takoma Park referendum that recommended that municipal voting powers be extended
to residents who were not American citizens. The referendum was non-binding and
narrowly passed (51-49), but such action still could spark similar measures in
other communities.

For reasons of public policy and common sense, letting noncitizens vote is a bad
idea.

First, it undermines the value of U.S. citizenship. Our country is a nation of
immigrants. In many countries of the world, an alien is always an alien. In our
country, we are proud that our laws and social policies encourage aliens of all
races and cultures to become citizens. In recent years, however, an increasing
number of aliens have not pursued citizenship. This is particularly the case
among certain Hispanic groups. This trend is disturbing, because it could
seriously affect the assimilation process immigrants have pursued in this nation
for 200 years.

Naturalization ceremonies before our courts are one of the best manifestations
of our democracy -- the new citizens are thrilled as they hold American flags
and copies of the Declaration of Independence and Constitution while they take
the oath of allegiance to their new country. Often, in recognition of the
importance and value of a citizen's right and privilege to vote, voter
registration is available at the ceremonies. This important value of becoming a
citizen is lost if an alien can vote without becoming a citizen.

Second, any legal resident alien can become a U.S. citizen in five years. That
is not an unreasonable time to wait to be able to participate in our democracy.
No resident alien is excluded from political membership in the community, as
Raskin asserted. Rather the five-year wait emphasizes the value of citizenship
as a requirement to vote and to becoming a full member of the community.

Third, the Takoma Park referendum did not distinguish between legal resident
aliens and illegal ones. By definition, illegal immigrants have entered the
United States in violation of our laws; they are subject to arrest, prosecution
and deportation. In addition, federal law prevents them from working in the
United States or obtaining welfare, unemployment or other benefits. How
ludicrous to allow illegal aliens to vote. Such action undercuts our laws and
improperly gives credence to the illegal aliens remaining in the community.

Finally, if local voting by noncitizens is allowed, state and federal voting
could be next. Either there is a policy basis for noncitizens to vote, or there
is not. If we open the door, it cannot be closed halfway.

Voting by noncitizens does not promote democracy; it impedes it. In Takoma Park
and elsewhere, we should encourage legal aliens to become citizens so that they
may exercise the voting franchise extended to all citizens -- new and old.  --
Alan C. Nelson is a former commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              198 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 10, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Va. Man Gets 12 Years in Larceny

From news services and staff reports

SECTION: METRO; PAGE E5; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 118 words


Delia Rocio Rivera, president of a firm that procured counterfeit residency
papers for at least 100 illegal aliens, was sentenced to 12 years in prison
yesterday after pleading guilty in Arlington Circuit Court to eight counts of
grand larceny and one count of practicing law without a license.

Prosecutors have said immigrants paid Multi-Services Corp., in the 900 block of
South Walter Reed Drive in Arlington, as much as $ 3,500 each to get temporary
work passes, which turned out to be forgeries.

The company's vice president, Fernando Alfredo Guillen, of Springfield, who has
been charged with four counts of grand larceny and one count of practicing law
without a license, is to be tried Jan. 29.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              199 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 10, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Documents for Refugees Criticized as Passports to Heartbreak

Karlyn Barker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE E1

LENGTH: 1150 words


Since its founding by globalist crusader Garry Davis in 1954, the World Service
Authority says it has sold hundreds of thousands of its official-looking
passports, birth certificates and other identification to refugees in urgent
need of travel papers. There's just one problem, acknowledged by the
organization itself: The documents may not work.

The State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service say the
Washington-based organization doesn't have the legal standing to issue such
documents. And the Air Transport Association, whose members are subject to $
3,000 fines if they fly passengers without proper travel papers, uses them in a
training film to warn carriers what not to accept.

"They're bogus," said Linda Pell, director of the German office for the
International Rescue Committee, a worldwide refugee assistance charity. "They
look real, and maybe they'll get you past a border guard who doesn't know
anything. But most of the time, it's a waste of a refugee's hard-earned money."

Such comments infuriate Davis, 70, a World War II bomber pilot who renounced his
U.S. citizenship in 1948 and has been "stateless" ever since. Davis said he
created and issued himself the first World Passport in 1954 "out of necessity"
and as a protest against "a war-mongering" nation-state system that dares to
restrict travel in a global society.

"A lot of times it works, and a lot of times it doesn't, and we make no bones
about that," Davis said. "But if you're dealing with bureaucrats who recognize
documents rather than human beings, then we will issue the documents. And if the
bureaucrat doesn't recognize it, whose fault is that?"

Citing the sovereignty of the individual -- and the 1948 U.N. Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, part of which asserted the right to freedom of
travel, the Service Authority has simply printed up its own passports and
regularly issues them for fees of $ 35 to $ 300.

For refugees, Davis said, the passports often mean the difference between
freedom and imprisonment. And valid or not, they clearly are in demand. More
than 13,000 were sold in the last year, including nearly 900 issued by the
group's Tokyo office. That's almost double the number from a year ago.

The group's income is up too, from $ 146,000 in 1980 to more than $ 422,000 last
year, nearly all of it from document sales. Most of the money has gone to
computerize the office and expand the staff from just a few to 15 employees.

But getting WSA documents is not the same as using them.

Paul Caramida, a Romanian refugee living in Germany, says he scraped together $
200 for a "World" passport, "World" birth certificate and "World" identity card
after another refugee told him the documents would let him travel anywhere.

"I gave my last penny to get something so I could reach American land and send
for my wife and two boys," said Caramida, 38, who was saving the money to send
to his wife and two sons in Romania. But when he took the documents to the
American consulate, he wasn't allowed in the building. And when he tried to
travel to Canada and Australia, neither country would issue him a visa.

Aided by the International Rescue Committee, Caramida eventually got a refugee
visa from INS and moved last year to Los Angeles, where his family recently
joined him.

Pell and other refugee assistance officials say language barriers, misleading
information and refugees' anxious expectations obscure the limitations of the
group's documents. They accuse the organization of funding its world campaign by
selling "false hope" to desperate people, in effect victimizing them twice.

"The use of this 'passport' has in certain cases led to serious difficulties and
disappointments for the holder," Fernando Chang-Muy, legal counsel for the
United Nations High Commission for Refugees, warned last summer in a letter to a
prospective applicant. "The documents, which it sells to unsuspecting refugees
for considerable sums of money, are not valid for travel, nor indeed for any
other purpose."

Says Pell: "If these these documents really worked, I'd be out of business. And
I'd love to be out of business."

The Service Authority has no figures on how many people actually have traveled
using its documents. The office points to photocopies of visa stamps mailed in
by passport holders, but could not put a reporter in touch with any refugees who
have used them. Similarly, except for Caramida, refugee assistance groups and
immigration lawyers could not find any former clients who they say bought
passports that they were unable to use.

The group's application forms include a disclaimer that absolves the group of
any responsibility should a government refuse to recognize the documents. But
the forms come with additional promotional material listing 184 countries,
including the United States, where the group claims its passport holders have
obtained visas or been permitted entry "on a case-by-case basis."

The passport literature says officials may "arbitrarily" refuse entry. There is
no mention that the documents, as the group said in interviews, are more apt to
work in Third World nations than in developed countries, where most refugees
want to go.

The group's blue-and-gold World Passport, printed in seven languages, including
Esperanto, is its most requested item. It costs $ 60 and is "valid" for eight
years. For $ 35, applicants get the same document, but with a three-year
expiration date. There is also a $ 300 leather-covered, gold-embossed World
Donor Passport that expires in 15 years.

"It has a hard cover and is a little more impressive," Davis said, adding that
the $ 300 is considered a contribution that pays the cost of giving 10 free
passports to refugees in camps.

The group used to issue all its passports to refugees for free, but says it can
no longer afford to because of overhead costs. Other papers, including exit
visas printed by the group, residency permits, identity cards, birth
certificates, political asylum cards and World Government of World Citizens
registration cards are available for fees of $ 5 to $ 34.

Davis said he and his organization, which moved to Washington from Switzerland
in 1976, have faced allegations of fraud, counterfeiting and "usurping an
official function." He said he has been jailed 34 times in nine countries for
not having valid papers.

"But it's the nation-state itself that is illegitimate," he said. "People are
already in trouble when they come to us, and they have no hope until they get
our document."

But even some Davis admirers -- and there are many -- say they are troubled by
his apparent lack of sympathy for those who buy his documents and find they
can't use them.

"I think it's a noble cause," said Norman Kurland, a former associate. "But
people dissatisfied with the product should be reimbursed. One way or another
Garry has to take care of that."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GLOBALIST CRUSADER GARRY DAVIS, 70, CREATED AND ISSUED HIMSELF
THE FIRST WORLD PASSPORT IN 1954. STEPHEN JAFFEE FOR TWP; ILLUSTRATION, TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              200 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 11, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Visa Lottery In Arlington Snares Checks

Charles W. Hall, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D4

LENGTH: 522 words


The first sign of trouble came before Thanksgiving, days after Arlington County
had sent out its regular late notices for unpaid water bills.

Within days, the calls began coming in from irate customers, saying they had
mailed their payments on time. For three weeks, Arlington officials scurried
about, trying to solve an unhappy mystery: What had happened to up to 1,500
missing checks?

Yesterday, after commissioning a quiet police investigation of possible theft,
conducting searches of various county offices and sending out letters to
customers asking them to send new payments, officials learned what happened to
the missing checks: They really were in the mail.

The first 45 of the wayward checks trickled into the county mailbox, with
mid-October postmarks and a cryptic rubber-stamped note from the post office:
"This letter was delayed due to the Immigration Visa Lottery Program. We regret
any inconvenience."

"We are all genuinely relieved that the checks have been found," said county
spokesman Sally Michael, who said the missing checks probably totaled from $
75,000 to $ 100,000. "It was a very unsettling feeling to have them missing."

An official of the U.S. Postal Service said yesterday that the checks apparently
got lost amid letters sent to the State Department in October by immigrants
seeking permanent residence in this country.

Under a State Department lottery program, about 19 million letters flooded the
Merrifield post office in Fairfax County.

"This is probably the most unique set of circumstances I've seen in my 21 years
in the post office," said Henry C. Cleffi, a spokesman for the Merrifield
facility.

Cleffi said postal officials believe 40,000 to 180,000 letters may have gotten
lost among the immigrants' letters, and have commissioned a piece-by-piece
search.

Cleffi said the confusion in Arlington probably was caused by a similarity in
Zip codes.

The immigration program had a Zip code of 22218, while Arlington utility bills
are sent to 22216. Cleffi speculated that postal sorters may have misrouted some
of the mail.

Normally, customers return misrouted mail to the post office, Cleffi said, but
the millions of immigrant letters that failed to win the lottery have been
stored in three Arlington warehouses.

Cleffi said a piece-by-piece search was begun after random samples showed that
anywhere from 0.25 percent to 1 percent of the letters in the warehouse were
misrouted. He said the post office has put a second postmark on the letters and
a stamped notice citing the immigration program in case letter-writers need to
make explanations to their creditors.

Meanwhile, Arlington County had its own clarifications to make.

Last week, after the checks seemed hopelessly lost, a letter was sent out to
more than 1,000 bill payers asking them to make a second payment on their
October bills. Even though the original checks finally have been found, Michael
said the county still wants customers to send in new payments. "We want everyone
who got a second letter to send in a new check," Michael said. "If and when we
get the original check, we will send it back."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              201 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 18, 1991, Wednesday, Final Edition

Courts Split On Haitian Deportation;
Appeals Panel Backs Return of Refugees;
Judge Reissues Ban

Al Kamen, James L. Rowe Jr., Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 881 words


A U.S. District Court judge in Miami late last night issued a new order
preventing deportation of thousands of Haitian refugees to their strife-torn
nation, only hours after a three-judge federal appeals court panel overruled a
previous deportation ban by the same judge.

Judge C. Clyde Atkins issued a temporary restraining order until he could hear
arguments Friday from attorneys representing the Haitians and the government on
whether the deportation of most of the more than 6,000 Haitians being housed at
the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, would violate the federal
Administrative Procedures Act, according to Ira Kurzban, a Miami attorney
representing the Haitians.

The Haitians who faced deportation after the 2 to 1 ruling by the 11th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals panel yesterday have been determined unqualified for
political asylum by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS). About
1,000 Haitians have been determined likely to be eligible for political asylum.

All told about 7,500 Haitians have been intercepted at sea by Coast Guard ships
since Oct. 29. Most of them are either on the ground at Guantanamo Bay or in
ships nearby. About 500, however, have returned to their homeland and hundreds
of others have gone to Venezuela. Several hundred of those determined to be
eligible for political asylum are already in the United States.

The Haitians were fleeing their island after a September military coup that
toppled the nation's first elected president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Kurzban said in a telephone interview that the Bush administration had been
asked to agree to a stay of the Atlanta appeals court ruling.

Robert Juceam, a New York attorney representing the Haitians, said that when
Atkins determined from a government attorney that he believed deportation could
begin before the Friday hearing, the judge then issued the temporary restraining
order last night.

The attorneys for the Haitians based their request on the Administrative
Procedures Act, which Atkins had not cited in his original ban last month and
which the appellate court panel's majority also did not address in its ruling
yesterday, Juceam said in a telephone interview.

The statute requires federal agencies to act in a way that is not arbitrary,
Kurzban said.

The effect of the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruling last night was to
dismiss the preliminary injunction Atkins issued last month that blocked
deportation of the Haitians now being held at Guantanamo Bay.

Whether the government will seek to overturn the fresh ruling by Atkins is
unclear. Although a temporary restraining order is not subject to appeal, one
attorney representing the Haitians said he believed government attorneys might
return to the appeals court in Atlanta and seek to have it declared a
preliminary injunction. A preliminary injunction is subject to appeal.

Atkins asked for briefs from the attorney by Thursday and set Friday for a
hearing, Kurzban said. He issued a temporary restraining order in the interim.

Administration officials have said in recent weeks that they will resume
forcibly returning boat people as soon as the courts allow them to do so.
Atkins's order last night does not prohibit repatriation of Haitians who say
they want to go back.

"It's devastating news," Cheryl Little, an attorney for the Haitian Refugee
Center of Miami, told Associated Press after the appellate panel's decision but
before Atkins issued his new order. "There's no question in our minds that many
of the Haitians, if returned, will face life-threatening situations." The
Haitian Refugee Center brought the suit.

As a result of Atkins's ruling last month, the government stopped basing the
decision whether to send a refugee back on a brief shipboard interview. Instead,
the INS is conducting interviews at Guantanamo Bay.

About 1,000 refugees so far have been judged likely to qualify for asylum, about
18 percent of those interviewed. Some of them are already in the United States.
Only 6 percent of the boat people interviewed on Coast Guard cutters were found
qualified for asylum.

Officials said the increase appears to be caused both by changes in the
interviewing procedures by the INS and by improved knowledge of the Haitian
political situation on the part of the interviewers.

There are more than 6,000 boat people on the naval base at Guantanamo Bay either
in tent camps or on Navy or Coast Guard ships, and all but about 800 of them
likely would be returned if the government ultimately prevails in court.

Attorneys for the Haitians had argued that the refugees were protected by a U.N.
protocol that the United States has signed.

But the appeals court majority said the Haitians had no protection because the
refugees had not reached the United States.

Judge Joseph W. Hatchett, in a 15-page dissent, said that, "Having promised [by
ratifying the U.N. refugee agreement] the international community of nations
that it would not turn back refugees at the border, the government yet contends
that it may go out into international waters and actively prevent Haitian
refugees from reaching the border." Hatchett said, "Such a contention makes a
shame of our international treaty obligations and domestic laws for the
protection of refugees."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              202 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 23, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Helping West Africa's Refugees

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 417 words


As someone who served this past summer in the U.S. Embassy in Freetown, Sierra
Leone, I read Tami Hultman's article on the Liberian refugee crisis [news story,
Dec. 6] with some interest. While I found the article to be basically correct,
several elements of the crisis that deserve attention were not mentioned.

First, one of the reasons this country will not accept the already low ceiling
set for African refugees is that there is only one Immigration and
Naturalization Service officer stationed in Africa, and he is based in Nairobi,
across the continent from Liberia. The refugee processing center in Sierra Leone
is operated by the International Rescue Committee, a nongovernmental
organization with a State Department contract. Until the U.S. government and the
INS decide to devote more attention to Africa's growing refugee problem, crises
like the one in Liberia will persist.

Second, as Tami Hultman correctly pointed out, our embassies are constrained by
the Immigration and Naturalization Act, specifically section 214 (b), which
forbids the issuance of tourist visas to individuals who cannot prove they will
return to their country. Most Liberians cannot pass this test and are referred
to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees for processing. It tears your heart
out to split families and force human beings to live in refugee camps, but until
this gap between tourist visas and refugee processing is filled by Congress,
embassy personnel and refugees will continue to be frustrated.

Finally, the U.S. record on the "supply-side" of this problem has been abysmal.
In these days of a "new world order" driven by humanitarian concerns, our
government has done little to alleviate the suffering in West Africa. Despite
repeated requests to the Agency for International Development for disaster
assistance, little money has been spent on improving the condition of the
refugee camps. Sierra Leone is in desperate need of food, transportation,
medicine and shelter for both Liberian refugees and Sierra Leoneans who have
been displaced by the rebel incursions from Liberia.

Contrary to what many Americans think, the people of Liberia love their country
and would rather be there than here. If we give the refugees assistance in West
Africa, they will be willing to wait for the results of the Economic Community
of West African States' peace-making efforts in Liberia. However, at present, a
full-scale crisis is underway in West Africa.

BLAIR McGREGOR GRAY Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              203 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 24, 1991, Tuesday, Final Edition

Haitians' Fate May Rest With U.S. Appeals Court;
Deportation Banned Pending Visit by Lawyers

From News Service and Staff Reports

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A7

LENGTH: 727 words


Thousands of Haitian boat people at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
are likely to stay put until next week.

U.S. District Judge C. Clyde Atkins issued an order yesterday in Miami
continuing his ban on government repatriation of Haitians until refugee
advocates visit the base and speak with them.

Lawyer Ira Kurzban, representing the Miami-based Haitian Refugee Center in a
lawsuit against the government, said he had requested a visit and was waiting to
hear back from the government.

But the visit probably won't occur until after a federal court in Atlanta acts
on two government appeals.

After weeks of legal jousting between Atkins and two appeals judges, the fate of
the Haitian refugees now seems to rest with the court. The government is trying
to get the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta to overturn two of
Atkins's most recent orders banning repatriation. The hearing is scheduled for
Monday.

Twice last week, Atkins clashed with the Atlanta court when he issued new orders
banning the repatriation of Haitians. In his order last Friday, Atkins said
refugee advocates had a First Amendment right to meet with and counsel their
clients -- the Haitians at Guantanamo.

Now Atkins's latest rulings are before the Atlanta judges once again. If the
government succeeds in reversing the lower-court judge, the politically
sensitive Haitian case could wind up before the Supreme Court.

The Haitian Refugee Center sued the government in November, charging that the
method of identifying political refugees was flawed.

All of the refugees involved in the lawsuit took to the sea on rickety boats
after a Sept. 30 military coup in Haiti. But the exodus of refugees -- 7,733
since the coup -- has abated. No Haitians have been picked up at sea in the last
week. Coast Guard officials are reluctant to speculate on what has caused the
sudden drop in the number of boat people.

The Bush administration argues that most Haitians at Guantanamo are fleeing
their island nation in search of a better life, not out of fear of political
persecution. People fleeing a country for fear of political persecution are
entitled to refuge in the United States, while people fleeing for economic
reasons are not.

President Bush and other government officials were reluctant to allow boat
people into the United States, fearing that the move would unleash a flood of
Haitians.

So far, 1,423 refugees have been determined to have plausible claims for asylum;
they will be flown to the United States to pursue their claims. More than 6,000
boat people are living in a tent city at the base.

U.S. military officials are anxious to begin sending the Haitians home, fearing
that further delays will only encourage more refugees. Before they were blocked
last Friday by the Miami court, they had planned to begin loading the Haitians
onto Coast Guard cutters and military aircraft on Sunday for the trip home.

But even had the courts permitted deportations yesterday, public relations
considerations would have made it unlikely that any of them would have been sent
home until after Christmas.

"We probably wouldn't want our guys working on that day any more than we would
like to disrupt anyone else's festivities," one Pentagon official said.

The plight of the Haitians has stirred considerable interest and sympathy from
human rights groups and some lawmakers, among them Rep. Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.),
whose office yesterday accused the Pentagon of stalling on Rangel's request to
provide a government aircraft to supply the Haitians with privately donated toys
and holiday fare.

An aide to Rangel said New York Gov. Mario M. Cuomo had authorized the use of a
New York Air National Guard plane to deliver the goods and that Cardinal John J.
O'Connor, New York's archbishop, had agreed to send a priest to serve mass on
Christmas Day. But the Defense Department, which has final say on the use of the
aircraft, has thus far refused to sign off on its use.

A Pentagon official said the request is still under consideration and "I don't
think a decision has been made." But he added, "We're not just somebody's
airline. We get scores of requests like that a year. It is going to cost the
taxpayers money."

Knight-Ridder Newspapers in Miami and Washington Post staff writer John
Lancaster in Washington contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


                              204 of 204 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 28, 1991, Saturday, Final Edition

132 Haitians Sent Home

From news services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A9; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 145 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A Coast Guard cutter carrying 132 Haitians who asked to be returned home sailed
today from the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a Coast Guard spokesman
said.

The departure left more than 6,000 other Haitians refugees in tent cities
enclosed by concertina wire at the base. Military officers there told the Fort
Lauderdale News and Sun-Sentinel that most of the voluntary returnees were among
the first taken to the base when it was assembled in early November.

"We left Haiti to go to the United States," said John Kelly Saint Louis, 21, who
has been in Guantanamo since Nov. 17. "We did not leave to come to this naval
base."

A group of 100 Haitians was being flown to the United States from the camp after
being issued 90-day work permits by immigration officials. Today, they are to
complete applications for political asylum, authorities said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post
