
                               1 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 30, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Divisive Prop. 187 Is Voided; Ruling Stands Against Calif. Anti-Alien Law

Rene Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 29



California's Proposition 187, the divisive ballot measure that sought to deny
government services to illegal immigrants and that roiled state politics like
few issues ever had, is dead.

Gov. Gray Davis (D) announced today that he has agreed not to appeal a federal
court ruling last year that declared much of the measure unconstitutional. The
decision ends five years of epic legal and political struggle over the issue,
which became a symbol of national apprehension over illegal immigration.

California voters approved Proposition 187 in 1994, but it has never taken
effect because civil rights groups have succeeded in blocking it in courts since
its passage. The measure would have prevented illegal immigrants or their
children from attending public schools or receiving public health care in the
state.

Even mired in lawsuits, Proposition 187 has remained at the forefront of
California's politics. It has galvanized the state's growing Hispanic electorate
into an influential and largely Democratic voting force and it has frustrated
many Republican candidates who once championed the measure in their campaigns.

Davis called today's announcement, which was made after several months of
negotiations with civil rights groups opposed to the measure, a reasonable end
to a battle that has been too expensive and too controversial--and also
unnecessary because key parts of Proposition 187 are written in federal law.

"We have dissolved a divisive wedge issue in a way that is fair to the voters,
the Constitution and the law," he said. "We have avoided years of divisiveness
and costly litigation."

Since he took office in January as the first Democratic governor in California
in 16 years, Davis has tread cautiously on resolving the fate of Proposition
187. In polls, a majority of Californians say that they still support the spirit
of the measure, but it continues to outrage many of the Hispanic voters who
helped sweep Davis and other Democrats into state office last fall.

Faced with a deadline this spring for deciding whether to appeal the most recent
court ruling against Proposition 187, Davis angered both sides in the debate by
taking the unusual step of asking a federal court to help mediate a compromise.
That process has been underway for months, and today many of the same Hispanic
leaders and civil rights groups that had been dismayed with the governor said
they were pleased with the result. The decision makes it highly unlikely that
the case will ever reach the U.S. Supreme Court.

"Today's action signals that the era of hate politics is truly over," said
California Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante (D), who denounced the stance that Davis
took on the measure this spring. "It's time to stand together and say in one
loud voice that Californians are tired of wedge issues and culture wars."

Supporters of Proposition 187, meanwhile, accused Davis of using the mediation
process with civil rights groups as a political shield and angrily said that he
is ignoring the will of California's voters. Before the mediation began, Davis
had said repeatedly that he did not favor implementing the measure--especially a
provision to deny schooling to undocumented children--but that he might be
required to by state law.

Lawyers for sponsors of the measure fought to be included in the mediation, but
a federal judge denied them the right, saying the state would represent their
interest at the bargaining table.

"Certainly we are not surprised that the governor has abandoned the appeal,"
said John Findley of the Pacific Legal Foundation, which represents the authors
of Proposition 187. "All of the people in mediation were opposed to 187 and all
of the supporters were excluded. The results are what you would expect when all
sides agree."

As part of the agreement with civil rights groups to drop the Proposition 187
court case, Davis has pledged to enact only a few minor provisions of the ballot
measure, such as creating criminal penalties in the state for manufacturing,
selling or using phony citizenship documents. Davis also stressed that
California would enforce the new rules in federal law on what benefits illegal
immigrants can receive.


Special correspondent Cassandra Stern contributed to this report.



LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                               2 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 11, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14; NATION IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 546 words


35 Charged With Smuggling Chinese

Thirty-five people have been charged in an immigrant-smuggling operation that
investigators said yesterday made $ 170 million in two years by bringing 3,600
Chinese citizens across the Canadian border into the United States.

Immigration officials called it the biggest immigrant-smuggling ring ever
dismantled on the northern U.S. border.

The Chinese paid up to $ 47,000 each to reach their ultimate destination -- New
York City's Chinatown, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

Ten of the 35 alleged smugglers were arrested in Canada, where they face up to
10 years in jail if convicted of conspiracy to evade U.S. laws. The rest are in
custody in New York and could face 10-year sentences. Authorities searched for
12 more alleged ring members.

The smugglers used altered passports to get the immigrants, who were from the
Fujian Province in China, onto flights to Canada. Once in Canada, they were
taken to Cornwall, Ontario, and crossed the St. Lawrence River to the St. Regis
Mohawk Indian reservation in upstate New York before heading to New York City.

Cuban Exile Boat Seized in Fla. Straits

KEY WEST, Fla. -- The Coast Guard seized a Cuban exile boat in the Florida
Straits to stop the vessel from entering Cuban waters in a human rights protest.

The boat M/V Human Rights, with five members of the Miami-based Democracy
Movement aboard, was being escorted back to Key West by a Coast Guard cutter,
Petty Officer Jeff Hall said. Two other Cuban exiles were being brought to
Marathon in the Keys.

Democracy Movement leader Ramon Saul Sanchez and his six colleagues had set out
on the 39-foot vessel from Marathon before dawn, planning a protest against
Cuban President Fidel Castro to mark the 50th anniversary of the U.N.
Declaration of Human Rights. The vessel was seized about 25 miles south of Key
West for leaving the Florida Security Zone, the Coast Guard said.

N.Y. Runway Near-Collision Probed

NEW YORK -- Federal aviation officials are investigating how a US Airways
jetliner may have come within 50 feet of landing on a private plane at LaGuardia
Airport.

The Federal Aviation Administration said "an operational error" by an air
traffic controller led to the Dec. 2 incident involving a Boeing 737 and a
16-seat twin-engine turbo prop. No one was injured, and the number of people
aboard the planes was not available.

FAA spokeswoman Arlene Salac said the private King Air BE-90 plane was sitting
near the end of Runway 31 at 10:43 p.m. awaiting instructions from the tower
when incoming US Airways Flight 1290 was given permission to land on the runway.

"The passenger plane went directly over the other plane and landed in front of
it," Salac said. "A mistake was made. They're clearly not supposed to be on the
same runway."

Daniel Fraschilla, president of LaGuardia's National Air Traffic Controllers
Association local, said all planes had been diverted to Runway 31 because the
airport's other runway had been shut down. A manager attempting to reopen the
other runway had gone home without being able to get permission from an FAA
command center, leaving that responsibility with the most senior of the two air
traffic controllers on duty at the time, he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                               3 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 11, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

Squeeze on Illegals

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 186 words


The Jan. 5 front-page article "Modern-Day Slavery?" highlighted an important but
primarily neglected problem. I would like to add one thing to the picture: The
harsh reality of the U.S. immigration law contributes to workers' vulnerability.

Abused workers are even more reluctant to report abuses by their employers
because the immigration law does not provide any relief or assistance when they
do so. A worker who complains probably will be dismissed from employment. Upon
cessation of the employment, the worker loses lawful immigration status. She
becomes, in effect, an illegal immigrant without authorization to work or other
means of remaining in the United States. If she were to return to her home
country, she loses out in two ways: First, her lawsuit against the employer may
be in danger of dismissal or lack of prosecution, and second, she faces
unemployment there as well.

In sum, U.S. immigration law helps abusive employers continue to import domestic
workers into the country and go on abusing and exploiting the workers with
impunity.

PANRAVEE VONGJAROENRAT

Washington



LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                               4 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 12, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Field Offices FaceSevere Funding Cuts

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 726 words


In the last five years, as Congress has pushed to crack down on illegal
immigration, the budget of the Immigration and Naturalization Service has more
than doubled and its staff has grown by 80 percent. Flush with a record $ 3.95
billion this year, the agency has become the envy of the federal bureaucracy.

Thus it came as a shock when INS field offices were told recently they face
severe funding cuts that could undermine their ability to investigate and detain
illegal immigrants.

The budget allocations are the latest in a series of disputes between INS field
offices and its Washington headquarters. INS managers here view complaints about
funding as premature because, they say, final figures have yet to be decided.

Nationwide, the current fiscal 1999 budget covering investigations of such
matters as alien-smuggling and immigration fraud has been cut nearly 90 percent
from last year's level, agents said. Spending for travel, interpreters,
informants, cellular phone use, "buys" of phony documents in sting operations
and other expenses is affected. Overtime and employee awards also are being cut,
although salaries and other fixed costs are not.

While the budget for detentions remains about the same as last year's, the
agency cannot afford to pay for as many "detention beds" because of rising
costs, officials said. This means the INS will have to release at least 2,000
illegal immigrants. Headquarters officials say they will be "noncriminals" such
as workers arrested during job site raids.

The funding crunch was described in a memo from headquarters last month that
asked field offices to identify "every possible area in which we can realize
savings." It blamed unexpectedly high expenses in several categories, including
a 31 percent rise in rent and telecommunications costs.

The INS's eastern region, which covers states east of the Mississippi, was told
that its enforcement budget for fiscal 1999 has been cut to $ 1 million from
more than $ 10 million last year, agents said. By the time the region received
word of the cutback, it had already spent $ 2 million.

"We are broke. Period," wrote William F. Glinka, assistant regional director for
investigations, in a Jan. 6 memo. The memo informed INS district offices of an
"impact statement" that the eastern region was required to submit in response to
the budget cuts. It said the region has asked for an additional $ 6 million.
"Without that money, we will not be able to do very much. In fact, the fiscally
prudent thing would be to close down the program. . . . But we all know that we
just can't do that."

Agents should pursue existing cases "as creatively as possible," the memo said.
"If you need money to do a case, do not send it up." "It's pretty much
paralyzing investigations," said a field agent. "There's zero travel. If you've
got to get on a plane to go someplace and arrest somebody, you can't go."

Jeffrey Weber, the assistant commissioner for budget matters, said there is less
money for investigations because the INS, prodded by Congress, filled about 200
jobs and has to spend more money on salaries. Moreover, he said, the settlement
of a discrimination case with the investigators' union is costing $ 10 million
this year. The INS plans to allocate additional money after it sees the impact
statements from the field offices, Weber said. "They're going to have less than
last year, but a lot more than they have today."

The INS also faces a serious crimp in its ability to detain illegal aliens.
Without more detention space, there is little point in arresting people, a
senior investigations official said, adding, "They get home before you do."

Weber said mandatory detentions--required for "aggravated felons" and certain
other categories of illegal immigrants under a 1996 law--have reduced the
agency's flexibility in managing its detention space. About 93 percent of INS
inmates are "mandatory detainees," he said.

Because of increased costs for such items as juvenile detention, health care and
salaries of detention officers, he said, the agency has enough money to detain
only about 14,000 people. About 16,000 were in custody at the beginning of the
calendar year.

Weber described some of the complaints from investigators as "scare tactics."
Another official said, "They're being big babies about this."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                               5 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 22, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Trouble With Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A34; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 290 words


The Post's editorial "Reprieve for Illegals" [Jan. 3] does a great disservice to
readers by presenting a skewed view of the American public's sentiments about
the presence of illegal immigrants.

On what basis does The Post make the claim that "many Americans" would prefer to
keep illegals in this country? Certainly that was not my impression when I
accompanied a group of foreign journalists who visited San Diego and El Paso
several years ago. Quite the opposite: The current representative from El Paso,
Sylvester Reyes, built his reputation and was elected on the basis that he would
deal sternly with illegals who transported drugs and terrorized neighborhoods.

INS officials in California told us that the illegal immigration was "out of
control." The Department of State estimates that 70 percent of South American
cocaine, 30 percent of the heroin and 80 percent of the marijuana coming into
this country come from Mexico. Rather than turn a blind eye to the enforcement
of immigration laws, The Post's editorial should be calling for a greater
vigilance of America's open and porous borders. As a former Foreign Service
officer, I can unequivocally state that we are only seeing the tip of that
proverbial iceberg regarding illegal aliens.

With this Justice Department wedded to the idea that no INS raids will be
carried out without warning intended targets, and politicians of both parties
unwilling to fashion a realistic and enforceable immigration policy, the
problems created by illegal immigration must inevitably worsen. Sadly, by our
inaction we send a message to the rest of the world that the United States has
no immigration laws; sadder, that breaking the law does pay.

VINCENT CHIARELLO

Reston

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                               6 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 14, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Immigration Crackdown

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 553 words


FIRST, CONGRESS toughens up the immigration law to crack down harder on illegal
immigrants being held on criminal charges, or for other considerations; that was
in 1996. Then it fails to catch up to the plain-as-day need for new facilities
and extra money to detain the extra prisoners now being brought into the system,
and to deport them by procedures required in the law. The pressure then leads
harassed administrators to consider whether some of the criminal detainees, on
the less alarming side, can be put back into the communities whence they came.
At which point some of the legislators most responsible for toughening up the
law in the first place start hollering about "releasing criminals into their
neighborhoods" and call for the INS commissioner's head.

Citizens and their representatives in Congress are entitled to the assurance,
which the Immigration and Naturalization Service unconditionally offers, that
the service is not pushing dangerous criminals into the street. Removing the
alien criminal population -- deporting people -- is regarded as a top priority.
It is not simply that the public safety must be served. Serving it by showing
that breaking the immigration law has consequences is understood as essential to
maintaining an immigration system that is credible to would-be lawbreakers and
law-abiding citizens alike.

With new funding, beds for detainees have gone up from 6,000 in 1994 to 15,000
last year; this year's number is 14,000. Removals of criminal aliens have risen
four or five times in that span.

But people should understand the intense pressures that are currently causing
concern. Immigration law changes in 1996 expanded the list of crimes punishable
by deportation and made punishment mandatory. This is who most of the criminal
aliens are. But leaving them aside, some of those with the green card of legal
residence are also detained, even though they may have families and a long
history in the community and are not considered dangerous or unlikely to show up
for their next hearing. A more flexible system would allow these sympathetic
cases, whose brushes with the law may be slight and distant, to be treated
differently from the truly criminal aliens.

The key players here are Lamar Smith, chairman of the House immigration
subcommittee, and INS Commissioner Doris Meissner. Between them lies a
philosophical divide. Mr. Smith's focus is on the part of the INS that enforces
the law to keep out illegals and punishes by deportation even legal immigrants
who may have a small illegal act in their past. Ms. Meissner speaks for an
administration committed not just to policing the law but also to applying it in
a humanitarian fashion in individual cases. The difference goes to the heart of
the argument Americans in general are having over whether the United States is
essentially a completed society ethnically and demographically, or whether it is
still open to shaping by some of the same currents of immigration that made it a
great nation in the past.

In the matter of detentions and deportations, a way out does not look so hard to
find. Extra resources for detention and expedited procedures for deportation
would seem to fill the bill. That and a more welcoming attitude to the good
people who aspire to become Americans.




LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                               7 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 12, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

Rate of Deported Criminals Falls as Total Rises; Lowest Figure in Decade
Rekindles Controversy Over INS Law Targeting Felons

William Branigin; Gabriel Escobar, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1845 words


The rate at which illegal immigrants are being deported has more than doubled
since a far-reaching immigration law took effect two years ago. But despite a
key mandate to target convicted drug dealers, burglars, murderers and others who
are considered particularly dangerous, the share of criminals among those
deported has actually dropped to its lowest level this decade.

Less than a third of the 171,816 people deported last year had been convicted of
a crime, according to new Immigration and Naturalization Service statistics.
Most of the others were caught living in or trying to enter the country
illegally. By contrast, two-thirds of those deported in 1994 were convicted
felons.

Nearly three years after Congress launched what it called the toughest crackdown
on illegal immigration in a generation, the INS's handling of criminal aliens
has emerged as one of the most controversial aspects of the new mandate. The law
was aimed at reducing the number of illegal immigrants generally, but it ran
into resistance from Democrats wary of potential abuses and from business
leaders concerned that tougher immigration enforcement could reduce the labor
pool. The law's GOP backers overcame those concerns in part by placing a high
priority on criminals.

Republicans argued that they could cut the crime rate -- and save hundreds of
millions of dollars in detention costs -- by deporting more foreign criminals,
notably illegal immigrants who frequently evaded detection by the INS after
serving their jail sentences.

Since then, the INS has scooped up many more criminals than before, but it has
snagged an even larger number of foreigners who had never been convicted of a
crime. Of the convicts who were deported last year, moreover, about 5,500 had
legal status, and many had to leave behind American spouses or children. The
majority had been convicted of some type of drug charge.

The INS attributes the falling share of criminals among total deportees to
intensified and better-funded efforts to enforce immigration laws in recent
years, and notably to a new provision that authorizes the "expedited removal" of
noncriminals who arrive at ports of entry without proper documents.

In analyzing detailed deportation data released by the INS for the first time,
The Washington Post found that:

The INS deported a record 55,869 criminal aliens in 1998, up 85 percent from
1994. But of total annual removals, the proportion of criminals dropped from 66
percent in 1994 to 32.5 percent last year.

Of the criminals deported in the past five years, nearly two-thirds had been
convicted of drug offenses. More than 2,000 were convicted murderers who had
finished their sentences, but many were deported for offenses that carried minor
sentences, suspended sentences or probation. The largest percentage increase
involved offenses not usually considered felonies, including "breach of the
peace."

Mexicans, who make up 54 percent of the resident undocumented population,
accounted for 75 percent of the 451,712 aliens deported from 1994 to 1998,
topping the list of nationalities by far.

In carrying out the deportations, the INS has come under growing criticism from
both sides of the immigration debate.

Immigration rights advocates complain that the INS is detaining and deporting
people who have lived in the United States for years or decades, often targeting
them retroactively for relatively minor offenses committed long before the law
was passed.

The Rev. Nicholas DiMarzio, auxiliary bishop of Newark and a leading defender of
immigrants' rights, recently told Congress that INS policies such as the
accelerated deportations "reinforce the misconception that many immigrants . . .
are to be considered suspect and feared."

Supporters of tighter immigration controls, on the other hand, argue that
although deportations have risen sharply, they still are not keeping pace with
the influx of illegal immigrants and that too many criminals continue to slip
through the system.

"This agency has the resources and legal tools it needs to protect the public
from deportable criminals," charged Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of
the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee. "But instead of wielding those
tools, it's waving a white flag."

A General Accounting Office report in February concluded that the INS "still
does not know whether it has identified all potentially deportable aliens" in
the federal and state prison systems. The GAO found that too many foreign
inmates are escaping detection or are not being processed for deportation in a
timely manner, resulting in about $ 40 million a year in avoidable detention
costs.

Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman, said the agency now identifies all criminal
aliens entering the federal or state prison systems. He said the problem lies
with criminal aliens who have been incarcerated for years, predating the
screening process set up after 1996. The INS is working through this group, but
nobody claims the system is perfect, said Bergeron. "But we're committed to
working with the states and the Bureau of Prisons and the immigration courts" to
improve, he said.

A review of the deportation data and interviews with supporters and opponents of
tough immigration controls indicate that poverty may be a key factor in
determining who is deported. While some studies have concluded that immigrants
are less likely to commit crimes than the native-born, the INS figures show that
members of some immigrant groups are more prone to commit crimes or more likely
to be caught, or both.

Latinos, unlike the better educated and comparatively more prosperous Asians,
are at the bottom of the economic ladder. That may help explain why Asians are
underrepresented in deportations. Filipinos, the second-largest immigrant
population after Mexicans, hardly register.

By contrast, eight of every 10 Colombians deported were criminals, the highest
ratio of any country in the top 10 for overall deportations. Jamaicans and
Dominicans also were high on the list, with criminals accounting for 77 percent
and 71 percent of each group's deportations, respectively.

Some countries stand out because they do not register in important ways. Canada,
which has the fourth highest number of illegal immigrants in the United States,
showed a net drop in deportations between 1994 and 1998, the only significant
country to do so.

China also stands out because only 9 percent of Chinese deportees were removed
for criminal activity -- by far the lowest rate of the top 10 deported
nationalities. The finding surprised some analysts because U.S. government
agencies for years have said Chinese here run sophisticated alien-smuggling
rings and distribute heroin on a large scale.

The INS's mandate to step up deportations was not supposed to be controversial.
But what was conceived as a clear-cut imperative in the national interest
instead became steeped in the ambiguities that surround immigration generally.

In large part, the controversy stems from the wide variety of offenses that now
subject people to deportation -- crimes ranging from murders and rapes to
misdemeanor drug use and drunk driving.

At one end of the scale, there is little dispute that offenders such as Aaron
Joseph, a 59-year-old native of Antigua, deserve expulsion. After a history of
spouse abuse, he was convicted in New York of first-degree assault for attacking
his former wife with a hammer and pouring acid on her face, permanently
disfiguring her. He was recently picked up by the INS in Maryland as a
deportable criminal alien.

Nor is there much doubt that deportation may be too harsh a sentence for people
like Ray, a 22-year-old Iranian who has lived in the United States with his
family of asylum-seekers since he was a year old. He was arrested three years
ago on drug charges in San Diego but has since overcome his addiction and has
started to straighten out his life, according to his sister. Yet he has been
held without bond by the INS since October pending deportation to Iran. That,
his sister says, would mean torture or death. The sister did not want the
family's name used for fear of retribution.

Much harder to sort out are the murky cases that fall in between, especially
when those involved have put down deep roots in this country.

Take the example of Clifford K. Olatunji. The 46-year-old Nigerian was indicted
in 1993 on charges that he was involved in a money-laundering conspiracy after
police posing as drug dealers conducted a sting operation at Washington-area car
dealerships. He was accused of falsifying car insurance policies by allowing
buyers to use phony names as part of a plan to conceal the source of
cocaine-trafficking profits.

Olatunji pleaded guilty to a lesser charge and was sentenced to two months in a
halfway house, two years of probation, a $ 250 fine and restitution of $ 2,296.
But after he traveled abroad last year, his criminal record caught the attention
of the INS, which detained him in February. Last month, an immigration judge
ordered him deported despite his pleas to remain.

"I was bedeviled and did not exercise good moral judgment," the Beltsville
resident wrote. He described himself as "a hard-working husband" and father of
four U.S.-born daughters, a foster parent of two other girls, a "devout
Christian" and an assistant treasurer in his church.

"My children are worried, crying aloud not to be homeless," his Nigerian-born
wife, Omotayo Ajani-Olatunji, 41, pleaded in a letter to President Clinton.

"I'm going crazy," added Ajani-Olatunji, a D.C. government employee and U.S.
citizen since 1994, in an interview. "I cannot make it. I've got medical
problems and financial problems."

Government documents relating to Olatunji's case paint a more complex picture,
however. He originally came to the United States as a student in 1976, was twice
caught working illegally and was eventually ordered deported, but jumped bond
and disappeared. He was finally arrested and deported in 1982, but quickly
returned to the United States using a fake Nigerian passport. Later, after his
application for amnesty was rejected, he obtained legal immigrant status through
his marriage. Then came the 1993 arrest that led to his current predicament.

Olatunji's lawyer, Myrtle Robinson, said she has filed an appeal to challenge
the retroactive application of the 1996 law in his case. However, she is barred
from arguing the merits of her client's plea to remain in the United States.

"That's what's wrong with the new law," she said.

Fewer Criminals

Between 1994 and 1998, the yearly number of deportations from the U.S. more than
tripled, but the percentage who were known criminals dropped, from about 66
percent to 32.5 percent of the total.

Immigrants deported, in thousands

Total deported (1998): 171,816

Criminals deported (1998): 55,869

SOURCE: Immigration and Naturalization Service Omotayo Ajani-Olatunji, with her
daughters, is fighting deportation of her Nigerian husband, indicted in 1993.


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post; Photo, CRAIG HERNDON

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                               8 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 16, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Calif. Worker Fired for Turning in Illegal Immigrant Is Reinstated

Patrick J. McDonnell, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 472 words


An independent arbitrator on Friday ordered county officials in central
California to reinstate a clerical worker who was fired for turning in an
illegal immigrant -- a deadbeat dad -- to immigration authorities.

The case is the nation's first known instance of a government employee seeking
protection for informing on an illegal immigrant under a 1996 federal law that
overrides the "no-tell" rules. The rules were adopted by many cities with large
immigrant populations and restrict police and other workers from informing the
Immigration and Naturalization Service about suspected illegal immigrants.

Anti-immigration activists hailed the decision as having "far-reaching"
significance in protecting government workers who share information with the
INS.

But independent experts planed down any overarching significance. Unlike certain
court decisions, arbitration rulings are not precedent-setting or binding in
other cases, though other arbitrators may refer back to them for guidance, noted
David Feller, former president of the National Academy of Arbitrators and
professor emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley's Boalt Hall School
of Law.

In the decision, an arbitrator directed the San Joaquin County district
attorney's office to reinstate Tamara L. Lowe to her position as a $
27,000-a-year office assistant in the family support division. Lowe, 38, was
fired a year ago for violating privacy rules by alerting the Border Patrol when
a illegal immigrant, who was also a convicted heroin smuggler, was due in her
office for an appointment about support payments to his children.

"It is difficult for the average person to comprehend that the chief law
enforcement officer in the county instructs its employees to ignore criminal
behavior they observe," wrote veteran arbitrator Norman Brand, who ordered Lowe
reinstated with full back pay and benefits.

But activists who want to curb immigration embraced Lowe's case and cast her as
a kind of martyr, though Lowe herself was not active in immigration issues
before being fired. Her newfound allies voice the hope that her case will one
day result in a broad national shift in which police officers, social workers
and other government employees routinely turn in illegal immigrants for
deportation.

"For too long, state agencies have served to obstruct and neglect their proper
roles in assisting federal agencies that carry out immigration law enforcement,"
said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which paid Lowe's legal bills.

Immigrant advocates, meanwhile, lambasted the arbitrator's decision as a step
backward. Validating Lowe's actions, critics said, will cause many frightened
immigrants to spurn contacts with police departments, hospitals, schools and and
other institutions.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                               9 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 25, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Making Room for More Foreign Workers; GOP Agrees to Raise Ceiling on Visa
Category Allowing 'Temporary' Immigration

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 682 words


With employers claiming a wide range of labor shortages, Congress is moving to
sharply increase the availability of foreign workers, from farmhands to computer
programmers.

Prodded by their leadership, House and Senate Republicans yesterday announced a
compromise plan that would raise the cap on an employment visa category called
H-1B, which is used to bring high-tech workers for "temporary" stays of up to
six years.

The agreement was reached after the Senate voted Thursday to create a massive
farm guest worker program that would allow agricultural employers to import
large numbers of foreign farm workers. The program was introduced just Tuesday
as a separate bill and approved as an amendment to an appropriations bill two
days later with scant debate.

The visa compromise is expected to come up for votes in the House and Senate
next week.

Labor advocates and other critics of both programs charge that both low-tech and
high-tech employers are seeking to use immigration, especially temporary work
visa programs, to increase the labor supply, thereby holding down wages and
avoiding competition for workers.

The Clinton administration opposes the guest worker proposal, saying it
significantly weakens worker protections in current law. Officials said they are
studying the H-1B compromise to determine whether it meets administration
requirements for a major "training component" and for assurances that foreign
high-tech workers do not displace Americans.

The H-1B compromise would raise the annual cap of 65,000 visas to 85,000 this
year, 95,000 in 1999, 105,000 in 2000 and 115,000 in 2001 and 2002. Then it
would revert to 65,000. The proposal would require companies that hire 15
percent or more of their work force using the H-1B program to attest that they
had tried to hire U.S. workers before seeking visas for foreigners and that they
had not laid off any Americans in order to replace them with H-1B workers.

U.S. computer programmers and engineers say the program already is being abused
by employers who claim they need it to bring in some of world's highest-skilled
workers, but who actually use it to import ordinary programmers willing to work
for lower wages. These critics assert that older U.S. programmers have
difficulty finding jobs because of age discrimination.

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), who announced the compromise between his bill and
a more pro-business proposal by Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.), said he shared
skepticism about the purported shortage but was "willing to give business the
benefit of the doubt." He said the compromise would "make sure that no business
could abuse the privilege of hiring overseas workers."

The farm guest worker program, sponsored by Oregon Sens. Gordon Smith (R) and
Ron Wyden (D), would set up computerized registries of legal workers for
employers to hire. The plan would allow the employers to bring in unlimited
numbers of foreign workers if the government did not provide enough labor from
the registries.

Wyden said his aim is to abolish a farm labor system that relies heavily on
exploited illegal aliens and replace it with a "more humane, legal system that
is above ground." He said the current system "leaves too many workers in shoddy
working conditions."

However, the proposal came under sharp criticism from farm worker advocates, the
Labor Department and leading congressional Democrats. They noted that bipartisan
commissions and the General Accounting Office have found no need for such a
program and that most of the 20 largest agricultural counties have double-digit
unemployment.

"This program will end up massively increasing the oversupply of farm workers
and further depress wages for the most exploited work force in America," said
Rep. Howard L. Berman (D-Calif.).

The proposal would eliminate a number of worker protections, said Bruce
Goldstein of the Farmworker Justice Fund.

"It is designed to give employers an excuse for not hiring U.S. farm workers and
hiring vulnerable guest workers at low wages and poor working conditions," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              10 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 26, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

U.S. Workers Have Nothing to Fear

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A16; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 504 words


John Hilton's Oct. 7 letter, "Plenty of U.S. Talent," represented anti-foreign
labor sentiments often prevalent among union protectionists.

As former general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service under
the Bush administration and as a practicing attorney for almost 20 years, I
cannot recall a single U.S. policy that was intended to depress the wages or the
working conditions of American workers in favor of "cheap foreign labor," much
less to benefit political contributors, as Mr. Hilton alleged.

Congress passed the current bill, which temporarily increases the available
number of so-called H-1B nonimmigrant visas for temporary foreign specialty
occupation workers, only after ensuring that adequate safeguards protected
unemployed U.S. workers capable of performing such services.

The visas are available only to those foreign workers in occupations that
require a body of highly specialized knowledge. To safeguard American workers,
U.S. immigration law always has required employers of H-1B workers to obtain a
prevailing wage determination from their state labor agency or other credible
survey and to file a labor condition application with the U.S. Department of
Labor.

The purposes of this dual requirement are: (1) to force employers to demonstrate
that they are paying the worker at least the prevailing wage, and (2) to show
that the working conditions of similarly employed U.S. workers will not be
adversely affected by the employment of the H-1B worker (adverse effects include
layoffs, lowered standards of employment, lower wages or cheap labor).

Further, the legislation, while increasing for three years the number of visas
available for H-1B nonimmigrants, also provides concessions to organized labor
in the form of increased worker protections (the bill forces employers to prove
to the Immigration and Naturalization Service that they have attempted to
recruit American workers for positions and that they have not and do not intend
to displace any U.S. workers to hire a foreign worker).

Finally, the bill imposes a fee on all H-1B petitioners to help fund
job-training programs for U.S. workers and college scholarships for low-income
students in engineering, computer science, math and science.

Without independent determinations by the Labor Department's Employment and
Training Administration that a need exists for temporary skilled workers and
that the U.S. labor market will not be adversely affected by the employment of
such workers, the INS will deny any H-1B visa petition.

Contrary to Mr. Hilton's worn-out anti-immigration mantra, Congress would have
never approved, nor the president agreed to sign, the bill unless it contained
adequate safeguards for U.S. workers. In reference to Mr. Hilton's claim that no
such labor shortage exists in high-tech, I refer him to the 10 to 15 pages of
unfilled high technology jobs The Post routinely runs in its Sunday High
Technology Classifieds section.

WILLIAM P. COOK

Washington




LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              11 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 18, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

Exploitation at Home and Abroad

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 700 words


Praise is due for The Post's article reporting that thousands of immigrant
domestic workers are subject to severe exploitation by their employers in the
United States ["Modern Day Slavery?" front page, Jan. 5]. The women's stories
reveal the paralyzing fear that deters workers in such situations from leaving
their employers.

Unions, churches and community organizations long have documented that many
immigrant workers are afraid to make complaints for fear of deportation by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS).

Several steps should be taken to protect the rights of immigrant workers:

Congress should focus resources on the Department of Labor's implementation and
monitoring of labor law and on worker education.

The Department of Justice should restrict the INS to immigration enforcement and
not involve the agency in labor enforcement.

Immigrant workers who are subject to violations of labor law and who raise
complaints should receive protective status.

Ironically, information-sharing between the Labor Department and the INS and
cooperation through the federal "worker exploitation task force" dissuade
immigrant workers from complaining for fear of INS intervention. The recently
issued memorandum of understanding between the Labor Department and the INS must
be strengthened to guarantee protections for workers who speak out against
abuse. If clear measures for worker protections aren't incorporated, the
interagency task force's efforts may contradict its original mission to end
sweatshop and other abusive labor conditions.

MARNIE BRADY

Coordinator

D.C. Immigrant Coalition

Washington

In a Jan. 11 letter, writer Panravee Vongjaroenrat incorrectly blames U.S.
immigration laws for the plight of abused alien workers.

She overlooks the fact that most of these domestic workers entered the country
on A-3 or G-5 temporary visas in the category of "attendants, servants or
personal employees" of diplomatic officials, other employees of foreign
governments or international organizations or their immediate families. This
category clearly is designed as a convenience for employees of foreign
governments or international organizations. It is not a backdoor entrance for
the U.S. labor market.

If these workers end up abused or exploited, the remedy is not in U.S.
immigration law. The original sponsors, either the employees or the
organizations, should correct the abusive situation or sponsor the worker's
return home, ideally with the firm encouragement of the INS and the State
Department.

In other words, don't let our society's charitable inclinations be misused as
yet another avenue for aliens to evade the requirements -- lax as they may be --
for legal immigration to this country.

J. W. KIMBALL

Potomac

The article on foreigners who abuse household staff while in the United States
was revealing. It might be interesting to jostle our pedestals a bit with a
similar report on Americans living abroad -- many of them official
representatives of the republic -- who similarly exploit personal employees.

I have seen U.S. officials in Central America and the Caribbean (some of whom,
ironically, were abroad to advance U.S.-style labor standards) quickly adopt the
norms of the host-country elites and require their household staff to work 13-
to 16-hour days with two days off every 15 days. The guard force contractor for
U.S. embassy residences in one Caribbean country requires workers to be on duty
six days a week for 12-hour shifts.

While there was never a question of physical abuse, and such practices are
technically legal (the legislatures of most Third World countries carefully have
exempted personal staff from the labor legislation that has led to marginally
higher pay and better conditions for workers), the result is not that far from
what The Post condemned foreigners in this country for in its article.

Those who represent our country and its values abroad should be required to
subscribe to the labor standards that most of us take for granted. While salary
will legitimately vary with local conditions, a 40-hour workweek would be a good
place to start.

KEITH MINES

McLean


LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILL,,TIM BRINTON

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              12 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 02, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

'Criminal Aliens' Jam INS Detention Centers; Law Now Allows No Leeway on Release

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 644 words


A new law that requires the Immigration and Naturalization Service to detain
without bond virtually all "criminal aliens" who are subject to deportation is
putting a squeeze on the agency, which says it lacks the necessary detention
space.

The requirement was imposed by a 1996 change in immigration law, but Congress
gave the INS a "transition period," allowing the agency to use its discretion in
deciding which criminal aliens to hold while it expanded its detention capacity.

The transition rules expired Oct. 9, eliminating the INS's ability to release
deportable immigrants who have committed crimes, even if they are legal
residents who pose no danger to the community or risk of flight.

Now the agency faces the prospect of having to detain thousands more foreigners
-- even though its existing holding facilities are already jammed. The dilemma
is forcing some INS field managers to consider curtailing other enforcement
operations, such as arrests of illegal immigrants at roadblocks or job sites, so
that manpower and detention space can be reserved for criminal aliens.

The issue has exposed the INS to criticism from lawmakers who accuse it of being
too lenient toward immigrants who commit crimes, as well as from civil rights
advocates who say it has been too harsh in implementing the law. In several
well-publicized cases, the INS has detained legal immigrants because crimes they
committed years before the 1996 law took effect, including relatively minor
offenses, are now considered "aggravated felonies" requiring deportation.

The INS has also come under criticism lately over a program to deport imprisoned
foreigners. A new General Accounting Office report said too many convicts are
falling through the cracks of a system that is supposed to identify deportable
criminals while they are still in prison, so that they can be expelled
immediately upon their release.

Of nearly 20,000 foreign-born inmates who were released from federal prisons and
four state prisons during the first half of 1997, the study identified more than
1,900 of them as "potentially deportable criminal aliens." If the program had
operated properly, the INS could have avoided about $ 77 million in detention
costs in the two periods reviewed in 1995 and 1997, the report said.

At the core of the controversy are conflicting views on the place of immigrants
in U.S. society. Backers of the crackdown say immigration to the United States
is a privilege, not a right. The country should not tolerate those who come here
and break the law, they say, when immigration waiting lists are filled with
millions of people who want a chance to become law-abiding U.S. residents.

But immigrants' rights groups say it is unfair to deport legal residents who
have served their sentences for long-ago crimes -- and to detain them while
their cases are pending -- especially when the offense was not grounds for
deportation at the time.

"There's no reason to detain somebody who can demonstrate that he's not a flight
risk or a danger to society," said Judy Rabinovitz, a senior counsel for the
Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union.

With the expiration of the transition rules, the INS estimates that between
162,000 and 300,000 aliens will be subject to mandatory detention in fiscal
1999. Based on an average stay of 38 days, the service figures it will need at
least 17,000 detention beds, and perhaps as many as 31,000.

The INS currently has about 16,000 detainees, about two-thirds of whom are held
in county and local jails that the agency pays for housing them. About 60
percent are criminal aliens, the INS says.

"Even though we have doubled our detention space in the last three years, we
still don't have sufficient space for the criminal aliens we must detain," said
Peter Zirnite, an INS spokesman.


LOAD-DATE: November 02, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              13 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 15, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

INS to FreeFive Felons,Study Others

William Branigin

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 157 words


Bowing to a 47-day hunger strike outside a detention center in Florida, U.S.
immigration officials have ordered the release of five Cuban felons and pledged
to review the cases of 3,500 others of various nationalities who are being held
indefinitely because they cannot be deported to their home countries.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service took the action late Wednesday after
the hunger strike, begun by six Cuban Americans outside the Krome detention
center near Miami, called attention to the plight of INS "lifers"--convicted
felons from such countries as Cuba, Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos.

Foreign criminals are subject to deportation after serving sentences for crimes
considered "aggravated felonies." A 1996 immigration law also requires their
detention in the meantime. But the refusal of their homelands to take them back,
or the risk of persecution there, has meant that thousands have been stuck in
jails.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              14 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 23, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Poultry Firm to Help INS Monitor Workers

Lena H. Sun; Peter S. Goodman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 757 words



An Eastern Shore poultry producer fined in the past for knowingly using illegal
workers has signed a first-of-its-kind agreement with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to cooperatively control undocumented workers in its
plants.

Under an arrangement to be announced today, Allen Family Foods Inc., a Seaford,
Del.-based company that operates three plants on the Eastern Shore, no longer
will be subject to disruptive INS raids. In return, the company has promised to
allow the INS to make unannounced spot checks, have access to complete payroll
lists and conduct random interviews of employees.

The agreement is the first between the INS and a company in an industry where
"illegal employment of unauthorized workers . . . has been one of our greatest
enforcement challenges," said Baltimore district INS Director Benedict J. Ferro.

The $ 1.6 billion poultry industry on the Delmarva peninsula makes it the sixth
largest broiler production area in the country, processing about 12 million
chickens each week, according to the Delmarva Poultry Industry, a trade group.
About a dozen Delmarva processing plants employ 14,000 to 21,000 workers,
according to industry estimates.

In recent years, companies have found that many local workers balk at taking
jobs they see as difficult labor for relatively low pay. Two years ago, Bill
Satterfield, executive director of the poultry trade group, was quoted as saying
Latino workers are now "essential to the industry's sustained growth."

At the same time, use of undocumented workers, most of them Latino, has grown
into a major problem, according to the INS.

Since 1992, Allen's two plants in Maryland have lost 190 workers in INS raids.
The plants employ approximately 1,300 workers, roughly 40 percent of whom are
Latino, according to the company. The Allen company also has been fined $ 42,000
for knowingly employing undocumented workers.

Although some industry experts welcomed the inspection agreement as a good first
step, they questioned whether it would stop the flow of undocumented workers to
an industry with severe labor shortages and increased demand for production.

"There's such an abundance of false documents . . . that aliens will continue to
circumvent the law," said Mark J. Miller, a University of Delaware political
science professor who has studied the issue.

Greg Denier, a spokesman for the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which
represents a fraction of the poultry workers, welcomed the move but said the
only way to resolve the problem of "undocumented and exploited workers" was for
major producers such as Tyson and Perdue to "pay adequate wages, provide safe
working conditions and attempt to create stable work forces." Tyson and Perdue
are among the five companies that operate most of the Delmarva plants.

In the past, raids by the INS have severely disrupted production at various
plants. Most plants have several production lines operating, and if one is shut
down, productivity -- and profits -- fall dramatically, according to Roger
Horowitz, a poultry industry expert.

"When we go into the plant, you just can't say 'excuse me' to the guy taking
heads off chickens -- the whole place closes down, which is extremely costly for
the chicken industry," Ferro, of the INS, said.

Ferro negotiated the agreement with Charles "Chick" Allen III, Allen's
president. As part of the agreement, the INS will provide extensive training to
Allen personnel to help them spot fraudulent documents.

Ferro said he hoped the agreement with Allen will encourage other companies to
engage in the "same kind of agreement so we can leave them alone and they can
process chickens, and we can do other things."

Allen said the deal amounts to textbook cooperation between government and
industry. "We feel we've always done a good job with them, but who better to
show you how to do it than those people who enforce," he said.

Allen said he approached the INS office in Baltimore about a cooperative venture
after a pair of raids on the company's Maryland processing plants in August
1996.

"I was tired of the animosity," Allen said. "This was the best effort we could
find to bring that animosity to a close and convince them we're serious about
doing it right."

INS spokesman John Shallman said in response to the agreement: "Perdue doesn't
allow us to come into their shop without notice and do a document inspection.
Perdue does not allow us to talk to employees on a random basis. Allen is giving
us that."


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              15 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  June 25, 1999, Friday, Sunday, Final Edition

A Push for More Special Work Visas; Tech Employers Say Higher Limit on
Foreigners Isn't High Enough

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 751 words


A year after winning a bruising battle in Congress to expand a controversial
visa category, the high-tech industry is again clamoring for more foreign
computer programmers.

Last week, the H-1B visa program reached its annual allotment of 115,000 foreign
workers in "specialty occupations," the Immigration and Naturalization Service
announced. It was the third year in a row that the available visas ran out
before the end of the fiscal year.

As a result, the INS will not accept petitions received after June 15 for
first-time H-1B employment, and thousands of other workers whose petitions have
been pending since April will have to wait until Oct. 1 -- the start of fiscal
2000 -- before they can start their jobs. The visas are used mostly to bring in
computer programmers, the majority from India and China, but they also are
issued to physical therapists, engineers, doctors and fashion models.

Congress raised the annual cap for H-1B visas from 65,000 last year, after an
intensive lobbying campaign by high-tech employers. The industry argued that
computer workers were in critically short supply and that it needed to bring in
foreigners to sustain growth. Information technology employees and labor groups
countered that companies sought foreign programmers mainly to hold down wages in
a tight labor market. They said many employers have abused the visas, which tie
workers to petitioning companies in a form of high-tech indentured servitude.

In a compromise, Congress limited the increase in H-1B visas to a three-year
period. Under the deal, the cap stays at 115,000 in 2000, then drops to 107,500
in 2001 and reverts to 65,000 thereafter.

But already, high-tech employers and their advocates say the expansion of the
program was insufficient and warn that the industry faces serious roadblocks
unless it gets more foreign workers. Under the H-1B program, workers are
admitted for "temporary" employment lasting up to six years. Many end up staying
when employers sponsor them for permanent immigrant status.

In a recent speech at the Dallas headquarters of Texas Instruments Inc., Sen.
Phil Gramm (R-Tex.) called for increasing the H-1B cap permanently to 200,000 a
year. He said he plans to introduce a bill to ensure that high-tech companies
"can find and hire the rare people whose specialized skills are critical to
America's success."

Randy Johnson, a vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said the bill
would be welcome news for companies such as Texas Instruments that have
"hundreds of skilled job openings and not enough qualified applicants."

But congressional sources said there is little enthusiasm on Capitol Hill for
another pitched battle this year over the H-1B program, which has sharply
divided Republicans. Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House
Judiciary immigration subcommittee and a leading proponent of more restrictive
immigration policies, argued last week that the H-1B program was plagued by
growing fraud and that America should concentrate on producing "more
well-educated workers."

In a letter to INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner, Smith said testimony before
his subcommittee showed "pervasive fraud in the H-1B program has had a major
impact on the availability of the numerically limited visas." He cited an
inquiry into H-1B visa applications at the U.S. consulate in Chennai, India.
According to the INS and the State Department, in 3,247 cases examined by an
anti-fraud unit, investigators were unable to verify the authenticity of nearly
45 percent of the petitioners' claims of education and work experience and found
an additional 21 percent to be fraudulent.

In addition to workers with needed skills, "thousands of marginally qualified
applicants are also entering the United States" under the H-1B program and
another temporary employment category, said Jill M. Esposito of the State
Department's Directorate of Visa Services.

The H-1B cap issue also poses a dilemma for Democrats, who have looked to
Silicon Valley as a source of political contributions, notably for Vice
President Gore. While Gore maintains close ties to the high-tech industry, he
has tried to avoid alienating organized labor, which has sharply criticized the
H-1B program.

Asked whether Gore supports raising the H-1B cap, spokesman Alejandro Cabrera
said only that the vice president "thinks our focus should be on training
American workers for American jobs." MIGRANT CYBERWORKERS (This graphic was not
available)


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IG,,TWP

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              16 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 12, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10; NATION IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 486 words


Second Haitian's Body Found

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -- A second body of a Haitian was found near the Florida
coast yesterday just hours after a ship captain accused of smuggling illegal
immigrants made his court appearance.

Three other Haitians who were believed to be on the ship were missing,
authorities said.

At least 28 men and six women, who paid $ 350 each to get to the United States
via the Bahamas, were abandoned on a sandbar 100 yards offshore near Jupiter
Inlet early Monday, authorities said.

Addison Hepburn, 44, of Freeport, Bahamas, could face up to life in prison or
the death penalty for the smuggling because passenger Anne Benette Dorsonne, 25,
of Port-au-Prince, drowned as she tried to reach shore.

Hepburn has admitted to the smuggling operation, said Paul Miller of the Palm
Beach County Sheriff's Office.

Another body, believed to be that of a Haitian immigrant in his thirties who was
aboard the boat, was found yesterday by a fisherman about a mile north of
Jupiter Inlet, Miller said.

Interviews with people in the local Haitian community Tuesday revealed there may
have been as many as 38 refugees on two vessels, Miller said.

On Monday, U.S. Border Patrol agents found 19 Haitians struggling in the rough
surf, trying to reach the beach. The others were rescued. The sheriff's office
planned to recommend to prosecutors that state murder charges also be filed
against Hepburn, Miller said.

Cosby Killer Gets Life Term

SANTA MONICA, Calif. -- Mikail Markhasev, the 19-year-old convicted of killing
the son of comedian Bill Cosby, was sentenced to life in prison without parole
after the judge rejected claims of misconduct by prosecutors and the jury.

Cosby wasn't present, but his three daughters and other relatives attended the
sentencing.

Markhasev was convicted July 7 of murdering 27-year-old Ennis Cosby during a
holdup along a dark highway as Cosby changed a flat tire last year. The verdict
carried an automatic life sentence with no possibility of parole.

Ennis Cosby's uncle, Eric Hanks, gave a slide presentation that showed the
victim as a child, high school student and graduating college student. Hanks
also displayed photographs of Markhasev grinning during the trial and another of
him in his jail cell.

"He's been smiling throughout the trial," Hanks said. "When he's not smiling
he's wearing a proud and defiant smirk on his face. All of this shows he's
boasting of what he's done."

In court papers, the defense claimed prosecutors repeatedly referred to
Markhasev's alleged gang connections despite a court order against it. The
defense also argued that a juror indicated she had reached her decision before
final arguments ended.

"Another expressed the opinion that they should 'hang' Mr. Markhasev before the
exhibits were even submitted to the jury," defense attorney Henry Hall wrote.

The judge rejected the claims.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              17 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 21, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Breaks Global Smuggling Ring; 31 Charged in Scheme That Brought as Many as
12,000 to U.S., Mostly From India

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1025 words


In the largest such case in U.S. history, federal agents have dismantled a
global immigrant smuggling operation that brought as many as 12,000 people, most
of them Indians, into the United States over a three-year period at the behest
of employers who placed orders with the ring for cheap, compliant workers, U.S.
officials announced yesterday.

Most of the illegal immigrants were smuggled in through Moscow and Cuba by a
ring that operated on four continents and amassed more than $ 200 million in
smuggling fees.

Although the Immigration and Naturalization Service described the ring as the
largest, most complex and sophisticated that investigators have ever
encountered, officials said its vast operations accounted for only a fraction of
the hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants smuggled into the United States
each year. An estimated 275,000 illegal aliens settle here annually, and
smuggling organizations play an increasingly important role in sneaking them
into the country.

Since Saturday, INS agents have arrested 21 suspects in five states, Puerto Rico
and the Bahamas, culminating a year-long investigation in which the agency for
the first time used new federal wiretapping authority granted under the 1996
immigration law. Among those picked up were two of the operation's three alleged
ringleaders -- all Indians who led high-rolling lifestyles with residences in
London, the Bahamas or Quito, Ecuador. The third suspected ringleader is
believed to be in India, officials said.

The three are among 31 defendants who were charged with various counts of
alien-smuggling, conspiracy and money-laundering in three indictments that were
unsealed yesterday in Dallas, where the case will be prosecuted. Ten suspects
are still at large.

The ring, consisting of three overlapping organizations, smuggled mostly
Indians, but also collected people from such countries as Pakistan, Syria and
Afghanistan.

INS agents in Dallas initiated the investigation after finding a group of
Indians who were being transported to job sites in other parts of the country.

In announcing the indictment, Attorney General Janet Reno said the beneficiaries
were "employers who wanted cheap labor and fearful workers who could be easily
manipulated."

INS officials said the case marked the first time that a major alien-smuggling
operation has been completely taken down -- from the kingpins who run the
operations from overseas havens to the smugglers who move the immigrants into
the United States to the money-launderers who transfer the proceeds.

"Our goal was to dismantle these flesh cartels from top to bottom . . . and
attack them as vigorously as we attack drug cartels," said Paul E. Coggins, the
U.S. attorney in Dallas who is prosecuting the case. He said the illegal
immigrants were smuggled to more than 1,000 job sites in at least 38 states. He
declined to elaborate on what specific businesses received them, saying that a
second phase of the investigation would target employers, who could face
"criminal, civil and administrative penalties if they knowingly hired illegal
aliens." He said no employers have yet been charged.

Officials familiar with the case said the employers who ordered workers from the
ring are located mainly on the East Coast, although none has yet been found in
the Washington area. The jobs were principally in the "service industry," such
as fast-food outlets, officials said.

Among the employers are Indian franchise-holders of Dunkin' Donuts shops who
allegedly brought in the illegal aliens without the knowledge of the chain's
corporate owners, an informed source said. Several of the defendants named in
the indictments are surnamed "Patel," signifying that they belong to a large
collection of Indian families whose members own hundreds of Dunkin' Donuts shops
across the United States.

Patel is a common name in the western Indian state of Gujarat, the home state of
most of the Indians who were smuggled in by the ring, officials said.

The ring charged the illegal immigrants $ 20,000 to $ 28,000 each to be smuggled
into the United States through circuitous routes that often took months to
complete. Some came through Cuba and were smuggled on boats to the Bahamas,
while others were flown to Ecuador. They were subsequently spirited into the
United States by land, sea and air. Many were flown into U.S. airports with
false passports in Latino names. Some were brought across the U.S.-Mexican
border with no documents at all.

INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said the agency has no information on any
complicity in the smuggling operation by the Cuban government of Fidel Castro.
The United States is seeking the cooperation of Cuban authorities in locating 37
Indians who were stranded in Cuba when the ring was busted, the INS said.

According to Coggins, many of the illegal immigrants were stashed in safe houses
in New Jersey and Miami and held there until the smuggling fees were paid. If
the families could not afford the fee, the employers who sought the workers
would put up the money and garnishee the employees' wages until the debts were
paid off, he said.

So far, at least 50 illegal immigrants smuggled by the network have been
detained as material witnesses. There have been no indications yet of any severe
mistreatment, although officials said it was likely that they were required to
work long hours and were underpaid in their jobs.

Among those identified as ringleaders by the INS is Nitin Shettie, a 30-year-old
Indian who carried a British passport and used the alias Nick Diaz. He was
arrested Saturday in the Bahamas and flown to the United States.

Another alleged ringleader is Navtej Pall Singh Sandhu, 40, a resident of London
who was arrested Wednesday while passing through Puerto Rico.

Among those still at large is Niranjan Maan Singh, 58, alias Edgar Salinas
Guerrero, who maintained homes in Ecuador and India, investigators said.

Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris M. Meissner, left, and
Attorney General Janet Reno announce breakup of ring that smuggled aliens for $
20,000 or more each.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/joe marquette

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              18 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 21, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

2 Charged in Smuggling Accident

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 238 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 20



Two men have been arrested in connection with the capsizing that left 14 Cubans
feared drowned in the deadliest immigrant smuggling disaster in Florida waters,
officials said today.

Keith Roberts, assistant chief of the U.S. Border Patrol's Miami Sector, said
that Francisco Gomez, 34, the boat's owner, and Pedro Julio Guevara, 32, both
Florida residents, were arrested on charges of trying to smuggle the Cubans into
the United States after the speedboat was found capsized south of Miami Friday.

The two men were among nine survivors of an accident in which a 30-foot
speedboat, jammed with 23 people, capsized 22 miles southeast of Key Biscayne,
an island off Miami, late Thursday.

The bodies of eight Cubans were pulled from the sea after the accident, and the
Coast Guard suspended its search for six others at nightfall Saturday.

Officials said a death toll of 14 would make the capsizing one of the worst
known catastrophes in the decades of Cuban migration to the United States and
the deadliest alleged immigrant smuggling case in Florida waters.

Border Patrol agents said Guevara had been trailed for eight months on suspicion
of smuggling refugees.

If convicted of alien smuggling, Gomez and Guevara could face the death penalty
or life in prison. The federal offense's maximum penalty is normally three
years' imprisonment, but it becomes felony murder if anyone dies during the
attempt.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              19 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 12, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Smuggling Death Toll May Drop

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 222 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 11


The death toll in last weekend's Haitian immigrant smuggling disaster may be far
lower than the 40 originally feared to have drowned, U.S. authorities said
today.

Dan Geoghegan, assistant chief in the U.S. Border Patrol's Miami Sector
headquarters, said survivors of the disaster had changed their stories and
reported that one boat, not two, had sunk during a smuggling run on Saturday.

Originally, survivors had told the Border Patrol that two boats traveled
together from the western Bahamas to Florida, carrying a total of more than 40
people. A death toll of 40 would have made this smuggling disaster the worst
known to have occurred off Florida, U.S. Coast Guard and Customs officials said.

"The good news would be that actually there was only one boat and fewer people
died," said Geoghegan.

The Coast Guard rescued three Haitians from the Atlantic Ocean between the
Bahamas and Florida on Saturday, and found the bodies of two others.

But officials said it was too early to know for sure whether fewer people had
died. Smugglers usually order the immigrants they carry to tell conflicting
stories if they are caught, authorities cautioned.

Geoghegan said another interview was scheduled with a survivor who has been
hospitalized since the accident. Authorities hope to know more after that
discussion.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              20 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 04, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Weighs Plan to Free Criminals; Space Lacking

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 864 words


Desperate to free up detention space, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
is making plans to release illegal immigrants who are being held on assault,
drug trafficking and other charges, including some whom the agency is required
by law to detain.

None of the nearly 13,000 foreign criminals being held by the INS pending
deportation has yet been freed, agency officials said. But proposals to do so
are stirring outrage among INS field managers and members of Congress.

Among those who may be released if the plans go ahead are foreigners who have
been convicted in U.S. courts not only of assault and drug crimes, but also of
burglary, counterfeiting, alien smuggling, possession of explosives, extortion,
manslaughter and sexual molestation, according to internal INS documents.

The INS says it still hopes to avoid freeing the prisoners, but that some
releases now appear inevitable because of obligations to detain a growing number
of serious offenders and a shortfall in funding for jail space.

Yet, some senior INS field managers say they would rather break the rules
against overspending their detention budgets than release criminals into
communities and endanger public safety. Agency district directors also have
expressed concern that they could be held personally liable if a criminal they
released committed another crime.

A draft plan to release criminal aliens is outlined in an internal memo sent
this week to INS district directors and Border Patrol chiefs in the agency's
eastern region, which covers states east of the Mississippi. The memo, written
by INS acting Regional Director Michael G. Devine, stems from a Jan. 8 directive
from INS headquarters that advised field managers of the budget crunch and told
them to consider releasing people based on the seriousness of their offenses.

That directive said "known or suspected terrorists" should not be freed under
any circumstances, but it left open the prospect of releasing "criminals" who
are in deportation proceedings or have final orders of deportation against them.
The vast majority of these foreign convicts must be detained under a 1996
immigration law.

The latest memo indicated that in the eastern region alone, more than 1,550
criminals whose detention costs exceed the current funding level would have to
be freed. The eastern region is the hardest hit of the INS's three regions
because its detention costs tend to be higher.

Attached to the memo were a "criminal custody worksheet" and other materials to
help in "quantifying the alien's criminal history in terms of severity of
criminal background and evidence of violent behavior." The attachments outlined
a proposed point system for five categories of offenses. Detainees with seven
points or more would have to remain in custody, while those with zero to six
would be considered for release. Crimes worth six points or less under the
system include arson, armed robbery, manslaughter, the trafficking of drugs
worth more than $ 1 million, bribery, firearms violations and alien smuggling.

Devine said the memo was sent out to elicit "comment," rather than as a
directive to be implemented now.

"We're making plans in case we get to a position where we have no alternative,
where we have more aliens subject to mandatory detention than we have beds," he
said. "To date, we haven't released anybody, but there may come a point where
that's an option we can't avoid anymore." Most of the detainees have already
served time for their crimes, "and if they were U.S. citizens, they'd be out on
the street," Devine said.

"It's likely at some point that some districts will have to release mandatory
detainees," a headquarters official said. "If it reaches that point, the service
is going to have to comply with the law as best it can within the resources it
has, placing public safety as its priority." While the INS has a record budget
of nearly $ 4 billion this year, most of the increased funding has gone to a
buildup along the U.S.-Mexican border, as directed by Congress, the official
said.

The INS has received increased funding for detention, but it hasn't been enough
to keep pace with the growing need to detain criminal aliens.

However, according to Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House
subcommittee that oversees the INS, the agency "has only itself to blame." He
said the INS has wasted money by not properly implementing a program to deport
foreign criminals immediately after the completion of their jail terms and has
failed to explore the possibility of using detention space on military bases.
"The American people would not be happy with their own government releasing
criminals into their neighborhoods," Smith said. "That's a real horror story
written by the U.S. government."

An INS spokesman, Russ Bergeron, said the agency has worked hard to deport
criminals from state and federal jails and "can do better" with greater
cooperation from the prison systems and immigration courts. But he said this
"will not solve the problem" by itself. Moreover, he said, converting military
facilities into INS detention centers "takes resources . . . that don't exist."



LOAD-DATE: February 04, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              21 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 21, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

Adelaide Abankwah fled Ghana to avoida tribal ritual.  After 29 monthsin jail
and along legal fight, she is finally . . .; Getting ReadyTo Savor Freedom

Liz Leyden, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 869 words

DATELINE: QUEENS, N.Y.


For years, Adelaide Abankwah's picture of the American landscape consisted of
gray highways, boarded-up buildings and the weed-filled vacant lots that lay
between Wackenhut Detention Center and Jamaica Hospital. The distance was seven
miles, her only travel since she arrived in the United States in 1997 seeking
asylum.

Before that, Abankwah's journey was thousands of miles long. She traveled across
Africa and Europe, winding her way toward Kennedy International Airport and away
from the small rural village in Ghana where she feared she would be a victim of
female genital mutilation. Her trip stopped short when Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials confiscated her fake passport and sent her to
the nearby detention center.

After two years and five months and repeated rejections of her asylum petition,
Abankwah finally has glimpsed freedom.

A week after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit ruled that
immigration judges had been wrong to decide that there wasn't enough evidence to
grant Abankwah asylum, she was temporarily paroled by the INS while her case is
reconsidered.

Other women have claimed asylum on grounds that they would be subjected to
female genital-cutting. In a ground-breaking case in 1996, the Board of
Immigration Appeals granted asylum to Fauziya Kassindja, a young woman from Togo
who said she had fled to avoid ritual female genital mutilation. In its decision
in that case, binding on all U.S. immigration judges, the board ruled for the
first time that female genital cutting could be grounds for granting asylum.

Abankwah's story drew much public sympathy in New York. Sen. Charles E. Schumer
(D-N.Y.), Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (D-N.Y.), Gloria Steinem, Julia Roberts and
the human rights group Equality Now are among those who championed her cause.

The INS had refused to grant Abankwah temporary parole while the case was being
resolved because authorities questioned her identity and wondered whether she
might flee. Until her release late Monday night, Abankwah's hospital visits--to
treat ulcers and ovarian cysts--were the only times she had left the building
since March 1997.

"When I am in the car to hospital, I say to myself, 'When am I going to walk
free in this place?' " Abankwah said in an interview.

As the asylum petition was argued, much of Abankwah's faith in a happy ending
slipped away. Her scenery remained the same: blue cinder block walls and one
hour a day in a barred courtyard. Abankwah herself became the scenery, as
Wackenhut's longest-serving detainee.

Before news of the release reached her, Abankwah's week began like all the
others: waiting. But Monday morning she felt torn between despair and the
glimmer of hope brought by the federal ruling.

"I know the U.S. is good," she said. "Back home, people know America is good.
They help you if you have a problem. They will help."

Abankwah's problems began when her mother, who was the "Queen Mother" of
Abankwah's Nkumssa tribe, died in 1996. After her death, Abankwah was told by
village elders that she would inherit the ceremonial position--and to be ready.
To be ready meant to be a virgin at initiation. Abankwah was not.

Abankwah remembers her panic.

"My grandmother told me I have to watch myself because if I don't, they will not
forgive me. They will cut me," she recalled. "So I have to leave, so I am safe."

Abankwah fled to the capital city of Accra. Friends she made there helped her
buy a ticket and a fake passport to travel from Rome to New York, she said.

Over the two years that she has been detained, immigration judges rejected
Abankwah's petition repeatedly on grounds that she didn't have the evidence to
prove the cutting would happen and that her fear was unreasonable in a country
that outlawed genital cutting in 1994.

Last week a federal court rejected these conclusions.

"Abankwah's position is particularly compelling in light of the general
conditions present in Ghana," U.S. District Judge Robert W. Sweet wrote. "In
1997, the United States Department of State estimated that between 15 and 30
percent of all women and girls in Ghana had been subjected to female genital
mutilation."

The government has only made seven arrests for the crime since 1994, according
to the State Department report.

According to Abankwah's attorney, Jonathan W. Rauchway, it was the first time a
federal court has recognized fear of genital mutilation as a legitimate reason
for asylum.

As a result of Abankwah's case, Maloney has introduced legislation that would
change guidelines for handling gender-based persecution, such as female genital
mutilation, into regulations that immigration judges must obey when granting
asylum.

Though the immigration judges are bound by the federal court ruling, Rauchway is
bracing himself and his client for the possibility that Abankwah's asylum may be
again denied on different grounds. But they celebrate her parole as a turning
point.

"I have to believe--I wait," she says over and over. "I read the Bible and feel
it will end and I will be free."

Staff writer William Branigan contributed to this report. GENITAL MUTILATION IN
AFRICA (This graphic was not available)


NAME: ADELAIDE ABANKWAH

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHM,,NEW YORK POST/MICHAEL ALEXANDER; IG,,TWP

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              22 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 28, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Immigration: Families First

Paul Donnelly

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 805 words


Reading Robert Suro's otherwise thoughtful article about the effect of
immigration ["The Next Wave," Outlook, July 19] on our national distraction over
race, I was struck by his distortion of the late Barbara Jordan's views of
immigration.

Suro explains the Jordan Commission recommendations on prioritizing legal
admissions: "[Jordan] proposed drastic cuts in the number of low-skilled legal
immigrants allowed into the country in order to remedy the plight of poor
Americans who might otherwise find work in urban labor markets. Implicit in the
proposal put forth by the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, which Jordan
then headed, was the notion that employers, overwhelmingly white, preferred to
hire low-skilled immigrants, overwhelmingly Latino, over the native poor,
especially blacks."

In fact, most legal immigration is based on family ties, not on skills; and the
core issues of immigration reform concern priorities, not numbers. With legal
admissions approaching 1 million a year, the commission did propose to eliminate
10,000 unskilled employment-based visas. Continuing to import workers because of
their lack of skill is certainly not Congress's smartest move going into
welfare-to-work; but American families ask for four to five times as many
immigrants as employers do. And so they should.

In characterizing an "implicit notion" about immigrants' skills and employers'
racism, Suro skipped over what the commission explicitly recommended: uniting
husbands and wives, moms, dads, and little kids -- adding 150,000 nuclear
family-based visas a year until nearly a million legal immigrants now waiting in
line are here legally. These folks are overwhelming Mexican American (and a
substantial number are also unskilled), and now face being exiled for four to 10
years or even permanently outlawed under current law.

What Jordan actually said: "We believe there are three priorities: reunification
of nuclear families, admission of highly skilled workers needed to increase the
competitiveness of U.S. business, and refugee admissions . . . The number of
immigrants should flow from these priorities."

"For family-based immigration, the priority has to be the nuclear family. First,
the spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens. Second, the parents of U.S.
citizens. Third, the spouses and minor children of legal permanent residents."

What was so unclear about these priorities that Suro and others consistently
misconstrue them? Immigrants are people, not simply economic units.

Ultimately, the immigration debate boils down to just three unavoidable
questions: Why do we want immigrants, anyway? How many do we want? And -- most
important -- are we willing to treat them like Americans when they get here?

Ask a congressman why we want immigrants, and you are likely to get a soaring
but equivocal speech about Ellis Island, his grandparents and the melting pot.
Yet the law provides a practical, not an ideal answer. Americans primarily want
immigrants to unite families and fill jobs.

Ask how many we want, though, and you discover the dirty little secret of
immigration policy: Congress promises far more immigration than it delivers.
Nearly 1 million husbands, wives and minor children of legal permanent residents
wait as much as a decade for legal admission -- while the siblings of U.S.
citizens face a wait measured literally in generations, (which means they enter
toward the end of their most productive years).

This isn't rocket science. There are only two ways to resolve the inexcusable,
un-American separation of immigrant families: add visas or prioritize
admissions. That is what the bipartisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform
dealt with. Why? Because the answer is a lot more important than mere economics.

Are there American families, other than immigrants, where U.S. law forces
husbands and wives apart and makes parents choose between jobs and their kids?
Between obeying their marriage vows and U.S. law?

The Jordan Commission warned Congress and the nation that we are replacing our
historical approach toward immigrants -- that they become us -- with a policy
that is pro-immigration but anti-immigrant; that flirts with a guest worker
model and blurs the difference between illegal aliens and legal immigrants while
drawing a dangerously bright line between legal resident and U.S. citizen.

Suro is right on, of course, in pointing out that we need a new way to talk
about race and ethnicity, to reflect what will unite us in the 21st century. But
ignoring the centrality of immigrants' nuclear families -- moms, dads and little
kids -- and focusing instead on economic skills and prejudice in the workplace
is not the way to build it.

The writer was communications director of the bipartisan U.S. Commission on
Immigration Reform.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              23 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 01, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Lawyer Sentenced for Visa Fraud; Bribery Scheme Involved Over 100 South Korean
Immigrants

Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 643 words


An Annandale lawyer was sentenced to 37 months in federal prison yesterday for
his role in a scheme in which he paid $ 82,100 in bribes to immigration
authorities to approve employment-based visas for dozens of South Korean
workers.

The bribes, paid to top officials of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service, were videotaped by INS in cooperation with the Justice Department's
Office of Inspector General.

The undercover sting resulted in the arrests and indictments of immigration
lawyer Suk Bin Brian Im and three other people: Lorton factory owner David Key
Lim, a former agent of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and a New
York City immigration broker. All four have pleaded guilty in U.S. District
Court in Alexandria to various charges of bribery, conspiracy and immigration
fraud.

Im and Lim were sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Court Judge James C.
Cacheris. Former ATF agent Jimee Y. Choi and immigration broker Chul Choi, who
are not related, will be sentenced next month.

Yesterday, Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert A. Spencer described Im, 37, as a
leader in a conspiracy in which Im filed false worker visa applications on
behalf of immigrants who said they were going to work as skilled tailors in
Lim's sportswear factory. However, the workers had no intention of working
there, according to court documents.

In fact, documents indicate, Chul Choi, the immigration broker, paid Lim $
10,000 for each person who claimed Lim's factory as a workplace. In turn, Im
paid INS officials, who posed as corrupt bureaucrats, the $ 82,100 in bribes to
approve the work-based visas. The visas were given to South Koreans who wanted
the permits to work elsewhere. Visas for 35 families, covering 101 immigrants in
all, were processed during the undercover operation.

Court documents also show that Jimee Choi, the former ATF agent, made the
original contact with the INS officials. He helped Im pay the bribes and
provided security for the "visa approval sessions" set up by INS officials
during the undercover operation, according to prosecutors.

Im's attorney, James C. Clark, argued in court that Im should not be considered
a leader in the immigration fraud case because he neither solicited the
immigrants' visa applications nor had control over the factory slots attached to
the visas. "He provided a role; it was simply a role," Clark said. "He was not a
leader in this conspiracy."

But Spencer likened Im's role in the scheme to that of a drug lord.

"All the bribes flowed through him, and all the documents came back to him,"
Spencer said. "A drug lord doesn't know who the street-level users are. Of
course not. He's got middlemen who sell the drugs."

Im, a 1991 graduate of Georgetown University Law School, received $ 260,000 from
the visa applicants during the nine-month sting, according to court records.

Besides the 37 months in federal prison, Im was sentenced to three years of
supervised release.

Im, who has surrendered his license to practice law in Virginia, called the
sentence "fair" and said he took full responsibility for "my greed taking over
and [leading] other people astray also."

Lim, 58, who cooperated with the U.S. attorney's office during the
investigation, was sentenced by Cacheris to six months in a community care
center in the District and three years of supervised release, including six
months of home detention. He also was fined $ 5,000.

INS Washington District Director Warren A. Lewis, whose investigations division
chief, James D. Goldman, led the sting operation that resulted in the fraud
case, said he is pleased with the sentences.

"We vigorously pursue all aspects of immigration fraud and we will use all
available resources to identify those who make a business of circumventing the
legal immigration process by deception," Lewis said.

LOAD-DATE: August 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              24 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 07, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. Eases Immigration Rules to Boost 'Wrestling Diplomacy' With Iran

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 813 words


After having warmly welcomed a U.S. wrestling team to Tehran, Iranians were
incensed when a dozen of their own wrestlers landed in Chicago last April only
to be promptly fingerprinted and photographed at the airport by immigration
officers.

The outrage swelled in June when seven visiting Iranian scholars, including a
79-year-old poetry professor, were detained for two hours on arrival in New York
and given the same treatment.

Since then, the United States has quietly modified a 1991 policy that required
immigration officers to fingerprint first-time visitors from Iran, Iraq, Libya
and Sudan -- countries that the U.S. government accuses of supporting terrorism.
In a little-noticed regulation published July 17 in the Federal Register,
Attorney General Janet Reno, who oversees immigration officials, allowed
exemptions for "certain nonimmigrants" from the four countries "when such action
is deemed to be in the interest of foreign policy or national security."

In practice, officials said, the move is aimed at promoting the "wrestling
diplomacy" that has developed between the United States and Iran since the two
governments began making overtures toward each other earlier this year. So far,
the exemption has been invoked twice. The first time was last month when another
Iranian wrestling squad arrived in New York a few days after the rule took
effect to participate in the Goodwill Games. The second was on Tuesday when an
Iranian youth wrestling team flew in for a tournament in Nevada.

"We wanted to facilitate these people-to-people contacts in a way that wouldn't
damage our own national security interests," a State Department official said.
The new policy "stems from a desire to be courteous to people we said we would
welcome." It was formulated after Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright
intervened personally with Reno, officials said.

The wrestling diplomacy is part of a fitful rapprochement between nations that
have had no diplomatic relations since November 1979, when Iranian militants
took 52 Americans hostage at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and held most of them
for 444 days. But the latest gestures are stirring the same sort of tensions
within Iran -- between hard-line followers of the country's Islamic spiritual
leader on one side and a more moderate government on the other -- that led to
the embassy seizure.

The United States still lists Iran as the world's top "state sponsor of
terrorism." The alleged mastermind of a 1996 bombing that killed 19 U.S. airmen
in Saudi Arabia has been reported living in Iran under government protection.
And U.S. officials last month accused Iran of concealing a ballistic missile
program.

Yet, the Clinton administration still wants to explore the Iranian overtures and
give substance to its own calls for reconciliation.

The conciliatory moves started in January when President Mohammed Khatemi, a
moderate elected last year, expressed regret for the hostage-taking and called
for breaking down "the walls of mistrust" between the two countries through
exchanges of cultural and sports delegations.

But his chief adversary, "supreme leader" Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, rejected any
rapprochement with the "Great Satan," as radical Iranian clerics have dubbed the
United States. In April, he ordered a "disavowal of infidels" demonstration
against America and Israel and asked publicly, "How can the Iranian nation and
government reach out its hand toward an enemy who seeks to strike it with a
heart full of bitterness?"

In a sermon last week, Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, a senior hard-line cleric,
warned the West not to support Khatemi and expressed rancor toward the United
States in religious terms. "As long as America is our enemy, the Koran does not
let us be friends with that country," he said.

In this climate, the U.S. fingerprinting had the unintended effect of playing
into the hands of the hard-liners, who were using the incidents to attack
rapprochement.

Even the Khatemi government complained that the first group of wrestlers and the
scholars had been "treated like criminals" and threatened to halt the exchanges,
said John Marks, president of Search for Common Ground, a private group in
Washington that has been promoting ties between the two countries.

Now that the new regulation has defused those tensions, the next test of
wrestling diplomacy is set for September, when a U.S. team is scheduled to
compete in a world freestyle tournament in Tehran. U.S. officials remain wary of
the possibility that, as in the embassy takeover nearly two decades ago,
hard-liners could take some action to derail U.S.-Iranian relations.

"It seems pretty clear to us," said one State Department official, "that there
are people in Iran who, for their own mostly domestic political reasons, don't
particularly want better relations with the United States."

LOAD-DATE: August 07, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              25 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 29, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration Company Raided; Federal Agents Are Investigating Alleged Fraud in
Herndon

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 606 words


Federal agents have raided a Herndon-based immigration services company, hauling
away truckloads of documents as part of an investigation into alleged fraud in a
government program that offers immigrant visas to wealthy foreign investors.

The search and seizure, based on federal grand jury subpoenas obtained by the
U.S. attorney's office in Alexandria, was carried out Wednesday at the offices
of InterBank Immigration Services Inc. by agents of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, FBI, Internal Revenue Service and State Department.

InterBank said yesterday that its activities were legal under a 1990 law
designed to create U.S. jobs through foreign investment. It called the raid a
"hostile attack on the foreign investor program," and said it plans to file suit
in federal court next week to try to force the INS to approve about 700 pending
applications for visas under the program.

But U.S. officials and a former InterBank executive say the company is suspected
of fraudulently misusing the program. Specific allegations have not yet been
revealed; the subpoenas were issued on the basis of an affidavit that remains
sealed.

The raid is the latest blow to a program that has stirred controversy during the
last year because of perceptions that it effectively involves selling "green
cards," the much-coveted documents that denote legal immigrant status, a
prerequisite for U.S. citizenship. Critics have dubbed it a "greenbacks for
green cards" scheme.

Designed to help the United States compete for foreign capital and create jobs,
the program reserves up to 10,000 green cards a year for investors and their
immediate families. Principals must create at least 10 full-time jobs each by
investing $ 1 million -- $ 500,000 if the jobs are in certain high-unemployment
areas -- in a new business or the expansion of an existing one.

During the program's first several years, there typically were only a few
hundred applications annually. But they began to mushroom last year in response
to aggressive marketing by companies offering complex deals in which they pooled
foreign investors, linked them with U.S. businesses seeking capital and helped
the prospective immigrants obtain loans for most of the required funds. Last
year, more than 1,100 petitions for visas under the program were approved, a
fourfold increase from 1996. Most of the investors have come from Asia,
primarily Taiwan.

The INS then reviewed the program and concluded that some of the financial
packages allowed investors to acquire immigrant visas without actually investing
their own funds in the required amounts or creating the minimum number of jobs,
officials said. In March, the INS froze the program, refusing to approve visas
under the financial plans in question.

"It became obvious to us that we needed to step back and take a look at what was
happening here," said Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman.

Companies using the program have argued that joining investors is the only way
to bankroll large projects and that funding the investments with loans is a
standard business practice.

InterBank said yesterday that despite congressional support for the program,
"the INS has refused to act on over 700 investor applications, effectively
blocking $ 350 million in new foreign investment capital and the creation of
7,000 new American jobs."

An attorney for the company, Don Santarelli, said the raid was unnecessary
because InterBank was willing to produce the records voluntarily and had been
seeking guidance from the INS on how to comply with the new regulations, which
have not yet been issued in writing.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              26 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 02, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Court Makes It Harder To Deport Criminals; Lack of Judicial Review Found
Unconstitutional

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 650 words


A federal appeals court yesterday declared unconstitutional a key provision of
the 1996 immigration law, raising a major obstacle to the government's ability
to deport thousands of immigrants who have been convicted of crimes.

The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals struck down a section of the law that
prohibited immigrants from using federal courts to fight government efforts to
detain or deport them.

"The elimination of all judicial review of executive detention violates the
Constitution," the three-judge panel wrote.

The decision marked the first time that a federal appeals court has ruled on the
constitutionality of what is known as "court-stripping" in the immigration law.
An earlier decision by the First Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston also went
against the government in a similar case, but the opinion was framed more
narrowly and did not deal with the constitutional issue.

The section in question, as well as other "court-stripping" provisions like it
elsewhere in the immigration law and in a 1996 antiterrorism law, have been
under intense attack by civil rights groups for the last two years. The groups
saw the case as a test of the basic checks and balances that allow one branch of
government, in this case the judiciary, to review the work of another.

Supporters of the immigration law charged that immigrants' rights advocates were
trying to win back in court what they had lost in Congress, with the aim of
reclaiming their ability in many cases to block the government from deporting
people.

A senior official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said the agency
needed to study the ruling before commenting, but he indicated that the INS
would likely recommend an appeal to the entire Ninth Circuit or to the U.S.
Supreme Court.

"This is a ringing endorsement of judicial review and the constitutional
requirement that any individual subject to government abuse can challenge the
government's actions in a court," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the national
immigrants' rights project of the American Civil Liberties Union and one of the
lawyers who argued the case.

Specifically, he said, the opinion effectively means "that there is a
fundamental constitutional right to judicial review of deportation orders." He
said the opinion could affect thousands of immigrants in the Ninth Circuit
alone. Covering 10 western states including California, the circuit encompasses
the largest number of immigrants of any such jurisdiction in the country.

The appellant in the case, Daniel Magana-Pizano, 25, is a Mexican citizen who
entered the United States when he was 5 years old as the child of a legal
permanent resident. He lived in Southern California and Arizona, attended high
school and most recently worked as a fork-lift operator.

But he got into several scrapes with the law and was convicted in California
three years ago of a misdemeanor drug offense: being under the influence of
cocaine and methamphetamine. In 1996, the INS in Arizona moved to deport him for
that conviction. Magana-Pizano conceded that he was deportable, but said he
wanted to apply for a waiver under the immigration law. The INS blocked his
application based on a retroactive provision of the new immigration law and
argued that the courts now lacked authority to review the case.

If the circuit's decision stands, Magana-Pizano will be allowed to pursue his
bid to avoid deportation in federal district court in Arizona, where the INS is
holding him, Guttentag said.

Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies and an advocate
of reducing the influx of immigrants, said the underlying effect of those
pushing these kinds of cases is to deprive the United States of the ability to
control its borders. Congress put the measures in place, he said, to stop
immigration lawyers from using legal loopholes to block deportations.

LOAD-DATE: September 02, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              27 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 05, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Former Federal Agent Sentenced for Fraud; Man Tried to Bribe Immigration
Official

Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 435 words


A former agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms was sentenced
yesterday to more than three years in prison for his role in an immigration
fraud and bribery scheme that was caught on tape in a federal sting operation.

U.S. District Senior Judge James C. Cacheris sentenced Jimee Y. Choi, 33, to 41
months in prison, longer than any of his co-conspirators, because he abused his
position as an ATF special agent and was a major player.

Choi, who pleaded guilty in June, helped get the scheme rolling by making the
first bribery approach to an Immigration and Naturalization Service official,
who reported Choi to federal investigators, according to documents filed in
Alexandria federal court.

During the sting, Choi and lawyer Suk Bin Brian Im paid $ 82,100 in bribes to
Assistant Washington District Director James Goldman to obtain employment-based
visas for 35 South Korean families. Choi provided security at the fraudulent
visa sessions, used his ATF identification to help get the South Koreans into
the INS office after hours, and ran criminal checks on his co-conspirators.

During the hearing, defense attorney William Moffitt described his client as a
former commended Secret Service officer whose life went horribly wrong after he
switched over to the ATF.

Choi believed he faced discrimination because of his Korean origins, and he was
investigated for making false statements on a loan application, according to
court testimony.

Choi met Im when the latter volunteered to help him with a discrimination
complaint, and Im eventually promised Choi a job working with a company that was
doing construction in Malaysia, Moffitt said.

Since his arrest in March, Choi has been diagnosed with clinical depression and
has volunteered more than 180 hours at area hospitals, Moffitt said.

"Working with others has helped me realize that I have a whole life ahead of
me," Choi told the judge, as his wife, Kina, sobbed. "I want to assure my family
I will never let them down again. If you see my name again, it will be under
different circumstances. . . . I will make this court proud."

Moffitt asked Cacheris to reduce Choi's sentence because of his volunteer work,
mental health problems and his wife's serious asthma and hepatitis, which
prevent her from working.

"I do not say this excuses the conduct . . . but it mitigates the conduct,"
Moffitt said. "This is not just about greed."

But Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Spencer argued, "He's made commendable
efforts [at rehabilitation], but that doesn't excuse the need for punishment and
deterrence."

LOAD-DATE: September 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              28 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 18, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

When Jobs Go Begging

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 344 words


THE STRUGGLE in Congress over immigration quotas for information-technology
workers is in a tight place. A Republican bill with strong Democratic support
was passed in the Senate in May. But a House-Senate compromise, revised under
administration pressure, is due for a House vote this week. On one side,
employers seek to hire qualified foreigners for thousands of good jobs that now
go begging. On the other side, labor unions and the organizations representing
professional groups ask that many of these jobs be held for Americans, and that
Americans be trained for them as required.

At the threshold, the battle over "H1-B" specialty-occupation visas for workers
from abroad is a contest of two rights. No one denies either that the country
needs a talented labor force to meet international competition or that it has a
special obligation to nurture a domestic labor force capable of filling the
good, skilled information-technology jobs. But in the absence of sufficient
trained American workers now, there is no real substitute for bringing in
available foreign workers temporarily (six years). The argument comes down to
terms.

The administration, mainly, it seems, to please some in labor, seeks to toughen
the bill by, for instance, letting the Labor Department investigate high-tech
companies when there is a layoff to see if someone with an H1-B visa was hired
in the vicinity. The bill's leading sponsor, Sen. Spencer Abraham, warns that if
those visas are loaded up with too many new rules and obstacles, companies won't
use them -- but may shift the jobs overseas.

An ironic feature of the debate is the reversal of some basic positions on
immigration. Some of the strongest current supporters of bringing in foreigners
are not well known for their favor of immigration in the past. Some who
traditionally extolled immigration as a key aspect of the American experience
find themselves here striving to cut the numbers back. This is just one of the
considerations Americans must review as they make their way in the global
economy.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              29 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 18, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

When Jobs Go Begging

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 344 words


THE STRUGGLE in Congress over immigration quotas for information-technology
workers is in a tight place. A Republican bill with strong Democratic support
was passed in the Senate in May. But a House-Senate compromise, revised under
administration pressure, is due for a House vote this week. On one side,
employers seek to hire qualified foreigners for thousands of good jobs that now
go begging. On the other side, labor unions and the organizations representing
professional groups ask that many of these jobs be held for Americans, and that
Americans be trained for them as required.

At the threshold, the battle over "H1-B" specialty-occupation visas for workers
from abroad is a contest of two rights. No one denies either that the country
needs a talented labor force to meet international competition or that it has a
special obligation to nurture a domestic labor force capable of filling the
good, skilled information-technology jobs. But in the absence of sufficient
trained American workers now, there is no real substitute for bringing in
available foreign workers temporarily (six years). The argument comes down to
terms.

The administration, mainly, it seems, to please some in labor, seeks to toughen
the bill by, for instance, letting the Labor Department investigate high-tech
companies when there is a layoff to see if someone with an H1-B visa was hired
in the vicinity. The bill's leading sponsor, Sen. Spencer Abraham, warns that if
those visas are loaded up with too many new rules and obstacles, companies won't
use them -- but may shift the jobs overseas.

An ironic feature of the debate is the reversal of some basic positions on
immigration. Some of the strongest current supporters of bringing in foreigners
are not well known for their favor of immigration in the past. Some who
traditionally extolled immigration as a key aspect of the American experience
find themselves here striving to cut the numbers back. This is just one of the
considerations Americans must review as they make their way in the global
economy.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              30 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 19, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Refugee Victims or 'Criminal Aliens'?; Human Rights Group, INS Clash on Asylum
Seekers' Character and Prison Treatment

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1606 words


As he, his lawyer and a leading human rights group tell it, Yahia Meddah is a
victim of a U.S. immigration policy that often detains asylum seekers and
stashes them with common criminals in county jails that are ill-equipped to deal
with them and that sometimes mistreat them.

Since his arrest two years ago, the 27-year-old Algerian has been held in four
local jails, one federal detention center and three mental hospitals. He has
attempted suicide at least twice and, according to Human Rights Watch, has
suffered "psychological trauma" because of "abusive treatment" in jail and
"indifference" to his plight. He claims to have fled Algeria in 1993 after
anti-government forces kidnapped his father and sister and killed many of his
relatives.

To the Immigration and Naturalization Service, however, Meddah is an unlikely
poster boy for a human rights campaign. He traveled to 15 countries in Africa
and Latin America, including Cuba, after leaving his homeland and eventually
entered the United States in October 1995 with a false French passport that he
bought in Colombia, according to his testimony in immigration court. He did not
claim political asylum until INS agents arrested him in West Virginia 10 months
later.

Noting that Meddah had assaulted a prison guard and accusing him of fabricating
his claim, an immigration judge in Philadelphia denied him asylum and ordered
him deported last September. The judge said he based his decision in part on
classified FBI evidence that showed Meddah is affiliated with "international
terrorism." Meddah is in custody, pending an appeal. He is under guard in a
Miami mental hospital.

The case, featured in a new Human Rights Watch report on immigration detainees,
illustrates the gulf that often separates rights advocates and the government
over their views of people caught up in the immigration detention system,
particularly those seeking political asylum.

The report, "Locked Away: Immigration Detainees in Jails in the United States,"
complains that thousands of INS detainees, including asylum seekers, are being
held in local jails because of a lack of INS detention space. They often are
mixed with convicted criminals, suffer abuse by local guards and are denied
their rights under international refugee law, says the report, issued earlier
this month.

"The INS is shipping immigrants off to local jails where they don't belong,"
said Kenneth Roth, director of Human Rights Watch. "This practice violates
international standards, and it must stop."

The report says that the INS should not house detainees in a facility for
criminals and that in general, "asylum seekers should not be detained." County
and city jails often fail to provide adequate food, medical care or translation
services, and a number of detainees have staged hunger strikes at local jails to
protest conditions, the report says.

The INS says that it would prefer not to mingle its detainees, especially asylum
seekers, with criminals and that it moves them when allegations of "inhumane
treatment" in local jails prove true. But the agency says it has no choice but
to use local lockups because Congress mandated increased detention of people
subject to deportation, including legal immigrants who have committed crimes,
without providing money to build separate prisons. Instead, the INS was
authorized to rent vacant bed space in jails.

Nearly two-thirds of the agency's 16,000 detainees are held in local jails
rather than federal facilities, the INS says. Their numbers have risen by 70
percent in the last two years, making INS inmates the fastest-growing element of
the U.S. jail population.

But only about 5 percent of the detainees are asylum seekers, the agency says.
Many more are "criminal aliens," often with convictions for worse offenses than
the common criminals they are housed with, officials say.

Of 51 detainees the INS was able to identify from the Human Rights Watch report,
for example, at least 25 are "serious criminal offenders," an INS investigator
said.

Of particular concern to human rights advocates are about 2,800 INS detainees
who cannot be deported because their home countries will not take them. These
"lifers," as the advocates call them, are often stuck indefinitely in local
jails, locked up for years after having already served time for various
offenses. Most come from Cuba, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Iran or Iraq.

Among those named as victims of INS detention policies in the Human Rights Watch
report are Soeung Chhunn and Min Phin, two Cambodians who say they were beaten
by jail guards in the Orleans Parish Prison in Louisiana.

The INS said Chhunn is a convicted felon with 37 disciplinary violations in
custody, including possession of dangerous weapons and assault on another
inmate. It said Phin was convicted of felonies including armed assault and
attempted murder. The agency said neither has complained of mistreatment to the
INS, which has a representative at the prison.

A similar divergence of views marks the case of Meddah, who says he grew up in
Algeria, the son of a prosperous farmer, and studied engineering in Italy.

In a telephone interview from the Miami mental hospital, he said he is a
"political prisoner" who has never committed any crime but is suffering
"discrimination" because he is "an Arabic Muslim."

In an affidavit, Meddah said that after he returned to Algeria from his studies,
"many of my relatives were murdered, tortured, kidnapped and raped" by Muslim
fundamentalists of the Armed Islamic Group. He said these "terrorists . . .
sentenced me to death" because they "believe I am a homosexual and resent my
friendship with Westerners."

Meddah said the terrorists burned down a "dress factory" he owned and killed at
least 17 of his relatives, including a grandmother who was "beheaded" for
allegedly "practicing witchcraft" and several cousins who were "tortured to
death for money."

He fled Algeria and traveled Africa, living in various countries until he flew
to Cuba in April 1995, according to his affidavit. He later paid $ 980 in
Colombia for a falsified French passport bearing the name Pierre Wuilmart, used
it to get through immigration at the Houston airport and took a bus to
Washington.

He subsequently moved to West Virginia and married an American woman. Meddah
said he came to the attention of INS two years ago when he called 911 after his
wife, her daughter and the daughter's boyfriend came home drunk one night and
beat him up. He said police found him "bleeding" and took him to the hospital.

However, according to Mark Roby, a Charles Town, W. Va., sheriff's deputy who
responded to the call, Meddah showed no evidence of injury but was sent to the
hospital because he complained of chest pains after what Roby called a "verbal
domestic" dispute between Meddah and his wife.

INS agents arrested Meddah at the hospital. Since then, Human Rights Watch says,
he has twice attempted suicide, once last year by cutting his chest with a razor
and again this March by swallowing bleach.

"It's a really traumatic and upsetting case," said Jennifer Bailey, author of
the Human Rights Watch report. "It's an example of the human cost of the INS
detention policy. . . . When he is given at least minimum treatment and care in
mental health hospitals, he markedly improves. But every time INS returns him to
detention, he becomes extremely upset and suicidal. He is someone who should be
paroled, whose continued detention in jail is really traumatizing him."

The INS says Meddah maintained his false identity long after entering the United
States, fraudulently obtaining a driver's license and Social Security card and
using them to open a car dealership.

Based in part on the FBI evidence, which apparently originated from the CIA,
immigration Judge Donald V. Ferlise denied Meddah's request for asylum, citing
without elaboration "his affiliation with terrorist organizations." Ferlise also
said he found Meddah's testimony on his qualifications for asylum vague,
inconsistent and generally "not credible."

According to a source familiar with the case, the secret evidence against Meddah
charges that far from being a victim of terrorism, he was an assassin for a
radical Islamic group in Algeria.

"The evidence clearly established that he operated as a hit man for a
fundamentalist Muslim organization and that the purpose of his entry into the
United States was to intimidate, and if necessary eliminate, opponents to that
particular faction," the source said on condition of anonymity.

In the telephone interview, Meddah strongly denied any link with terrorism and
insisted that he has "no problem with the Algerian government." He challenged
the U.S. government to charge him if it has any evidence.

Meddah's lawyer, Joseph Hohenstein of Philadelphia, said that he has been denied
access to the secret evidence and that no formal terrorism charges have been
filed against his client. In any case, he said, the judge's brief mention of the
evidence "only indicated that it proved affiliation, not actual terrorist
activity."

Hohenstein and government officials said psychiatrists have produced varying
reports on Meddah's mental condition. According to at least one, a U.S. official
said, Meddah "is not suffering from any psychosis, and his suicide attempts are
designed to try to manipulate his circumstances," for example by obtaining
transfers from detention facilities.

Algerian Yahia Meddah says terrorists tormented him. The INS has held him for
two years, denying him asylum on suspicion that he has terrorist ties.




LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, family photo

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              31 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 25, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

A Hand to the Haitians

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 308 words


THE HOUSE still has a chance to erase an instance of special unfairness in the
immigration law by accepting, in a Treasury/Postal appropriations conference,
the Senate language offering legal permanent residence to certain deserving
Haitians otherwise mired in limbo.

The 40,000 or so Haitians whose status is at issue arrived in this country
illegally but have for the most part worked hard and pursued the American dream
for years. Other former residents of the Caribbean and Central American region
in similar circumstances have commonly gained one or another form of immigration
privilege. Just last year, for instance, 150,000 Nicaraguans (and some Cubans)
who had fled repression or violence years ago were made eligible for permanent
residence. Haitians, most of them former boat people who took high risks to get
here and hard jobs to stay, were offered nothing at all.

This year the Senate moved to plug the gap, and agreed on a narrow form of
immigration relief for perhaps a quarter of the Haitians craving it. The House
went its own even narrower way with a requirement that immigrants demonstrate
one by one that their return to their poor, torn homeland would inflict "extreme
hardship." The expense and delay built into this procedure make it likely that
few Haitians would make it through.

The poverty of Central America, the Caribbean and Mexico, their proximity and
the porousness of their border with the United States ensure a continuing flow
of immigrants, legal and illegal. We are right to try to manage and control the
flow. But the irreducible overflow must be treated with fairness and a measure
of humanity consistent with the traditional American respect for people who seek
out a better life -- and who contribute to a better life for earlier immigrants,
whose number include almost all of us.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              32 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 06, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Study Says Immigration Skews Congressional Apportionment

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 800 words


The biggest sustained wave of immigration in U.S. history is skewing Americans'
representation in Congress, increasing the political clout of states with the
largest influxes at the expense of other states, according to a new study.

In a report released today, the Center for Immigration Studies pinpoints recent
immigration as a major factor in the reapportionment of seats in the House, a
trend it says is effectively reducing the voting power of citizens in certain
states and "redistributing political influence in Washington." An analysis of
census data indicates that 13 seats changed hands in 1990 or will do so in the
next census because of immigration, the center says.

The D.C.-based think tank, which advocates lower levels of immigration, makes no
specific recommendations in its study but criticizes what it calls the "mass
immigration" of recent years and suggests that "a more moderate level" would
mitigate the reapportionment.

With an influx of more than 15 million legal immigrants alone since 1980 and the
tendency of newcomers to cluster together -- 75 percent of all immigrants live
in just six states -- immigration is fueling much more rapid population
increases in some places than in others. And because the 435 House seats are
reapportioned every 10 years based, according to the Constitution, on each
state's population -- including citizens, legal immigrants and illegal aliens --
this trend is shifting political representation to the states with the most
immigrants, creating districts with relatively few voters.

"High immigration produces a situation in which American citizens lose
representation in Congress so that noncitizen immigrants, none of whom can vote
and many of whom are illegal, can be 'represented' in the House," the study
said.

Immigration advocates dismissed that view as "nativist" and argued that, in any
case, immigrants are becoming U.S. citizens and voting at record rates.

"For over 200 years, our democracy has sought to represent all Americans whether
born here or not, and we seem to be doing pretty well," said Frank Sharry,
director of the National Immigration Forum. "I don't think the fact our system
is flexible and seeks to represent people who weren't born here is a sign of
weakness. In fact, it's a sign of strength."

According to the study, the redistribution is caused primarily by legal
immigration. Of the 13 seats redistributed by immigration, it says, four may be
attributable to the presence of illegal immigrants. By comparison, the study
says, a total of 31 House seats were reallocated in 1990 or will be in 2000 for
all reasons, including demographic shifts due to economics.

The study projects that because of immigration since 1990, Michigan,
Mississippi, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin will each lose one seat, and
Colorado and Kentucky will both fail to gain a seat they otherwise would have
gained in the 2000 census. Immigration in the 1980s cost Louisiana, Michigan,
Montana and Ohio a seat each in 1990, while Georgia and Kentucky failed to gain
a seat, the study says.

California is the biggest winner, gaining nine seats that other states have lost
in 1990 or are projected to lose in 2000 because of immigration, the study says.

Although congressional districts across the country are supposed to be roughly
equal in population, with an average of 570,000 people each in 1990, heavily
concentrated immigration means it now takes far fewer votes to elect a
representative in certain jurisdictions because so many of the residents are
noncitizens, said Steven A. Camarota, a co-author of the study.

In the 1996 elections, for example, the number of votes sufficient to elect a
representative in some districts of California and Texas was only about a
quarter of those needed in the average Michigan district, he said.

The study has a bearing on people's voting rights, because it shows that some
citizens' votes are worth less than others, said James Gimpel, an associate
professor of government at the University of Maryland. He listed three possible
solutions: Stop counting noncitizens for purposes of apportionment, reduce
immigration or encourage more immigrants to naturalize and vote.

On the other hand, said Peter Skerry, a senior fellow at the Brookings
Institution, continuing to count immigrants in congressional constituencies has
the somewhat "ironic" consequence of ensuring that "the effects of immigration
aren't so isolated," but are felt in states that draw relatively few immigrants.

Michael Fix, director of immigration studies at the Urban Institute, said the
current system contains a "trade-off" between a "modest dissipation of voting
power" for some citizens and a greater voice for places that "bear the costs of
immigration and settlement."


LOAD-DATE: October 06, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              33 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 11, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

D.C. Protesters Call for End to INS Raids

John W. Fountain, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 533 words



The bass that pounded from the huge speakers made the sidewalk thump. Salsa
music blended with the cool breeze as the men, women and children in Northwest
Washington's Unity Park shook their shoulders and bopped in the open air.

It was a festive gathering in the Adams-Morgan neighborhood yesterday, with
fluttering helium balloons, painted faces and a pink and white pin ata for the
children. But there was a serious message behind what organizers called the
March and Festival for Immigrant Rights and Dignity. That message was emblazoned
on balloons: "No Human Being Is Illegal."

The event kicked off the local component of the National Week of Action Against
Immigration Raids. Organizers are calling for an end to the raids locally and
nationally by Immigration and Naturalization Service agents. Advocates say
Latinos are unfairly targeted by the INS.

Jessica Alvarez, a spokeswoman for the D.C. Immigrant Coalition, which organized
the rally, said the District was one of 28 cities where events were staged to
spotlight the immigration rights campaign.

"We're organizing the community to really take a stand on what's happening,"
Alvarez said. "Families are being torn apart. INS is targeting people of color.
Latinos are being targeted. We want accountability for the INS."

Alvarez and other organizers said that the INS abuses its authority and that
armed agents interrogate and detain many legal immigrants, raiding their homes
and corraling them at work in their search for illegal immigrants. The raids,
they said, worry many Latinos who are U.S. citizens and who fear they will be
humiliated or detained.

Concern over INS raids was highlighted in April, when advocates from Maryland,
Virginia and the District protested at the Justice Department, speaking out
against a recent series of workplace raids in Maryland. They said the INS was
unfairly targeting Latino employees and small-business owners, and that group of
protesters called on U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno to investigate.

"It's just really, really frightening," said Alvarez, who cited cases in which
she said businesses have been raided and workers held for questioning. "It's a
terror tactic."

INS officials have denied singling out any ethnic group in its search for
illegal immigrants. But they also said a large percentage of illegal workers in
the Washington area are Latino.

The National INS Raids Task Force of the National Network for Immigrant and
Refugee Rights will release a report Wednesday on INS raids. The report was
compiled with information from 70 community-based organizations, said Sash
Khokha, a task force spokeswoman.

The American people, she said, "have no idea that there are armed federal agents
who storm into people's homes in the early morning or middle of the night."

Before the festival, about 100 people marched through Adams-Morgan to protest
the raids.

"It's very important that the raids end because [they interfere with] work that
allows people to maintain their families," said Francisca Alvarez, 42, holding
her 2-year-old grandson, Anthony, whose face was painted with cat whiskers. "We
all have rights because we're all human beings."


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              34 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 22, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Nazi Camp Guard's Deportation Upheld

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 300 words


The U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals has upheld an order to deport a
77-year-old retired foundry supervisor for covering up his past as a guard at
Nazi concentration camps during World War II, the Justice Department said
yesterday.

Originally entered in 1997, the order directed that Ferdinand Hammer of Sterling
Heights, Mich., be deported to Croatia, his native land. Hammer was stripped of
his naturalized U.S. citizenship for concealing his Nazi past when he applied
for citizenship in 1963.

Hammer's attorney, William Bufalino II, said he would appeal the board's ruling
to the U.S. 6th Circuit Court of Appeals. The deportation will depend on the
appeal.

Hammer has admitted he was a member of the German army's Waffen SS but denied
being part of an SS battalion that served at concentration camps. Bufalino has
challenged the constitutionality of the deportation law and argued that too much
time has passed for the government to bring the case.

In June 1996, U.S. District Judge Horace W. Gilmore stripped Hammer of
citizenship after a four-day trial. Gilmore found that Hammer had served as a
guard at the Auschwitz death camp in Nazi-occupied Poland and at the
Sachsenhausen concentration camp in Germany.

"Horrible mistreatment was meted out to inmates of these camps," Gilmore wrote.
Hammer did not appeal his loss of citizenship.

On April 24, 1997, Chief Immigration Judge Michael J. Creppy ordered Hammer
deported to Croatia after finding that Hammer had assisted in Nazi-sponsored
acts of persecution.

Upholding Creppy in all respects, the appeal board said prisoners were subjected
to "extermination through work" at the camps where Hammer served, and that they
endured "inhuman living conditions, corporal punishment, torture and medical
experiments."


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              35 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 24, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Employee Appeal Agency Is Focus Of Criticism in Wake of INS Cases

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 802 words


Two House Republicans and the Justice Department inspector general are taking
aim at an independent federal agency, little known outside the government, over
its decisions exonerating senior immigration officials for allegedly deceiving a
congressional delegation and obstructing an investigation.

The focus of their ire is the Merit Systems Protection Board, a body to which
civil servants can appeal disciplinary action. Its rulings in favor of three
senior Immigration and Naturalization Service officials, whom the Justice
Department had decided to punish, outraged the two lawmakers and left Inspector
General Michael R. Bromwich fuming about what he called "a travesty."

Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.) yesterday called for congressional hearings aimed
at "reforming" the board when Congress reconvenes in January and said he would
try to block the proposed promotion of one of the INS officials. In a press
release last week, he and Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.) described the board's
rulings as "imbecilic" and said they wanted to ensure that government officials
"who endanger the public are adequately punished." Gallegly and Smith are
members of the immigration subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee.

Board spokesman Michael Hoxie said the panel would not comment on the lawmakers'
or Bromwich's criticism.

The long-running case stems from a June 1995 visit to Miami by a congressional
delegation led by Gallegly. As part of a mission to assess how the INS was
handling an influx of illegal immigrants, the delegation visited the agency's
Krome detention center and INS facilities at the Miami International Airport.

After the visit, disgruntled INS employees charged that senior managers had
deliberately misled the visitors about conditions at the two sites. A lengthy
federal investigation ensued. In a June 1996 report, Bromwich said that before
the delegation arrived, INS managers had released or transferred a quarter of
the 407 illegal aliens detained at Krome, apparently to convey an impression of
order in a facility that was normally understaffed and overcrowded.

Of 58 aliens who were released into the community -- most of them Cubans and
Haitians -- at least nine were criminals and 35 had not been medically cleared
for discharge, the report said. The managers also ordered the temporary transfer
of 45 detainees to other jails at a cost to taxpayers of more than $ 10,000. At
the airport, officials sought to create a false impression of efficiency by
emptying detention cells and doubling staff to eliminate the usual long lines of
travelers awaiting inspection.

The report further concluded that INS managers had tried to obstruct Bromwich's
investigation, among other means by deleting "incriminating" e-mail from their
computer files. One such message, which technicians managed to recover, noted
that inmates at Krome had been "stashed out of sight for cosmetic purposes."

The Justice Department subsequently ordered punishment for five managers found
to be most culpable for the deception. Two accepted disciplinary action and
settled their cases with the department. The three others appealed to the Merit
Systems Protection Board: Valerie Blake, the INS deputy district director in
Miami; Constance Weiss, the Krome administrator; and Michael Devine, the deputy
director of the INS Eastern Region.

The department had decided to fire Blake and demote Weiss and Devine. But the
board's administrative law judges vacated the punishments, giving Blake a 60-day
suspension and grade demotion and imposing no penalty on Weiss and Devine. In
Blake's case, a judge called her actions merely "an over-zealous effort to
present a 'sharp-looking, heads-up group of employees doing their jobs.' " Weiss
was found to be simply "following orders," and Devine was deemed to be out of
the loop.

In an Oct. 1 letter to Smith and Gallegly, Bromwich, citing the end of a
protracted appeals process this summer, took the unusual step of openly
castigating the board and the administrative law judges.

"The absence of accountability and common sense permeates these decisions,"
Bromwich wrote. "The administrative judges and the MSPB excused managers because
they were merely subordinates who could not be held responsible for following
orders of supervisors, while at the same time excusing other managers on the
theory that they could not be expected to know what their subordinates are
doing."

Gallegly said he was especially incensed that Devine, who was restored to his
position as Eastern Region deputy director, is now acting director and under
consideration for the job permanently. He said he would try to block such an
appointment.

Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.) wants hearings aimed at "reforming" the Merit
Systems Protection Board.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHM,,AP

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              36 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 30, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

This Bill's Not Forgotten

David Segal, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F09; WASHINGTON HEARSAY

LENGTH: 1419 words



Life for Washington's go-to lawyers isn't all about lunch at the Palm.
Sometimes, the clients just don't cough up the money.

Last week, super-litigator Robert Bennett sued Marlene Ramallo Cooke, the widow
of Jack Kent Cooke, in D.C. Superior Court. The late Redskins owner had hired
Bennett to represent his Bolivian ex-wife in her immigration case. Fans of the
nonstop Cooke family soap opera will recall that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service tried to deport Marlene after her felony drug conviction.

Marlene didn't bother to repay Bennett's kindness with cash, the suit alleges,
and it demands $ 300,000 in unpaid legal bills. Bennett has retained well-known
Washington brawler Tom Green of Sidley & Austin to handle the job.

Cooke isn't the only client having a hard time scraping enough nickels together
to cover Bennett's billable hours, typically $ 475 apiece. President Clinton,
who hired Bennett to handle the Paula Jones sexual harassment suit, is
struggling to pay Bennett, too.


SHE SAID, THEY SAID


Neither side will discuss the particulars, but lawyer Kristen Galles settled
last week with her former employer, Powell, Goldstein, Frazer & Murphy, ending
her gender discrimination suit against the firm. The firm has denied
discriminating against her, though terms of the deal are a secret because of a
confidentiality clause.

Still, some spicy details are part of the public record in D.C. Superior Court.
Depositions and affidavits filed in the case crowbarred a window into Powell,
Goldstein's culture, offering an unusual glimpse into the politics of getting
ahead at a large corporate firm. The first and most important lesson: Fit in.

Galles apparently didn't, though how much of the friction between Powell
partners and her was a result of her lack of interpersonal skills (their
version) or their fuddy-duddy sexism (her version) is imponderable. She alleged
in the suit that she was denied the full raises given to her male colleagues and
was unfairly dismissed.

What's not in dispute: She was fired in January 1996 shortly after feuding with
a partner about a case.

Top partners, according to Galles, hauled her into an office and announced that
she was history. Her primary sins, they allegedly informed Galles, were
describing replacement workers in a labor dispute as "scabs" and demonstrating
poor judgment in her requests for vacation time. In depositions, firm partners
largely confirmed Galles's account of her exit, while denying that Galles's
gender had anything to do with their unhappiness with her performance.

According to job evaluations, Galles had the intellectual wattage and energy to
be a first-rate lawyer. What she apparently lacked was the ability to get along
with colleagues. In a 1992 appraisal, lawyer Geri Freeman stated that Galles
"does have problems getting along with people in the office.  She is too
confrontative [sic]."

There were style issues, too. One lawyer took her aside once and strongly
suggested that she "soften things up" image-wise. Try the "steel magnolia"
approach of seeming genteel on the outside, she was told, while remaining tough
on the inside. Flatter partners by letting them take credit for your ideas, the
lawyer recommended.

Galles, however, wasn't in a go-along-to-get-along mood. At a 1995 diversity
training session, she stated in the suit, firm partner and former U.S. senator
Wyche Fowler got her dander up by surmising that she was a "hot-blooded Italian"
and hypothesizing that she was one of those women who doesn't want to get
married. Galles also stated that a firm lawyer, Susan Strommer, told her in
September of that year, "Sorry, Kristen. You weren't born with a penis and
you're just going to have to realize that life is going to be different for you
around this firm because of it."


IN HEAVEN'S NAME


Is there a Washington lawyer with a more colorful client list than solo
practitioner Lewis Rivlin? Unlikely, especially now that Rivlin is working for
Greater Ministries International.

According to Rivlin, the Tampa organization exists to "spread the word of God
and do good things in God's name." Authorities in Pennsylvania and Ohio have
another opinion. They've slapped cease-and-desist orders on the group, and
Pennsylvania officials have described it as a Ponzi scheme targeting
fundamentalist Christians.

Rivlin's work for Greater Ministries is a part-time gig. He's also being kept
busy by a Securities and Exchange Commission probe into DNA Medical
Technologies, an Iowa company that will freeze and store clients' DNA for $ 515.
Additionally, the SEC is investigating a deal brokered by Rivlin that left an
Ecuadorean charity $ 1 million poorer.

According to Michael Byrne, an attorney who heads the litigation and enforcement
wing of Pennsylvania's state securities agency, the Greater Ministries pitch
works like this: Greater Ministries officials invite donors to contribute a sum
of cash, suggesting that their faith will be rewarded in 17 months when the
money is doubled and "gifted" back to them. Greater Ministries' appeals are made
in person to small and large groups, typically to members of Christian churches,
often in family restaurants and hotels.

The organization is believed to have collected tens and possible hundreds of
millions of dollars. Some "donors" clearly have forked over huge sums. Recently,
a 66-year-old Lancaster woman, June Smith, sued the group, alleging that Greater
Ministries owes her $ 400,000. She "gave" a total of $ 261,500 to the group
after she was promised her money back and a 100 percent gain in 16 months, she
says in her suit.

But when she found errors in her monthly account balances, she hopped in her car
and, with a friend, drove south to Tampa. After trying to retrieve her money, a
Greater Ministries official there told her she had been "prayed out" of the
program and that her accounts had been closed.

A man answering the phone at the number listed for Greater Ministries said he
was a security guard and did not know how to contact any of the group's
officials. Then he promptly hung up. After another attempt, a different man
answered the phone and said, "You call back later. No hablo espanol." Espanol?

Rivlin, who maintains that Greater Ministries is upstanding, said he isn't
representing the organization in any of the litigation against it. Instead, his
job is to be helpful in "suggesting some structural improvements in how they're
organized."


UNORTHODOX BEHAVIOR?


Speaking of Rivlin's colorful clients, one of them -- Bishop Chrysanthos of
Cyprus -- recently had a rough week. The bishop, one of the most powerful
religious figures on the island, resigned from the Greek Orthodox Church last
Monday as corruption investigations into his business dealings heated up. Three
weeks ago a panel of bishops accused Chrysanthos of transgressions that include
using his position to associate with suspect people for his own profit on the
pretext of philanthropic motives.

Chrysanthos and Rivlin have worked together on a number of supposedly
philanthropic deals, including the one involving the Ecuadorean charity.

Rivlin, the ex-husband of Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Alice Rivlin, last
week described Chrysanthos as "the sweetest, most honest man you're going to
find" and suggested that the bishop had been duped in all the allegedly
fraudulent deals by an associate named Nina.


SHAMELESS SELF-PROMOTION CORNER


Levick Strategic Communications, a Washington-based public relations shop
catering to law firms, released the results of a poll last week. The point of
the survey: to determine whether firms recognize the value of good public
relations, the sort provided, oh happy coincidence, by Levick Strategic
Communications.

Just try to guess what the poll found. Take a wild shot. Go nuts.

Stumped? The survey found -- get this -- yes, most firms do recognize the value
of good public relations. In fact, the poll discovered "an improved
understanding of how public relations can work synergistically, combining the
unique skills of in-house professionals and outside public relations counsel."
The lesson is that if your firm isn't spending big bucks for a public relations
specialist, you're probably losing market share to firms that are.

Subtle, huh?


Send anecdotes and gossip -- but not flackery -- about Washington lawyers to
segaldwashpost.com

Robert Bennett: Suing Marlene Cooke over a $ 300,000 bill.




LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, AP/KHUE BUI

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              37 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 22, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Reviews DWI Deportations; Texas Offices' Program Angers Immigrants' Rights
Groups

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 1055 words


Under pressure from immigrants' rights advocates and a Democratic lawmaker, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is trying to soften the impact of a
controversial operation to deport drunk drivers in Texas. But the agency is
running into strong opposition from field offices there.

At issue is "Operation Last Call," an effort launched by five INS district
offices in Texas to round up and deport immigrants with three or more
drunken-driving convictions. In a sweep before Labor Day, agents in Dallas,
Houston, San Antonio, El Paso and Harlingen arrested more than 500 people, most
of them legal permanent residents from Mexico.

The roundup stirred outrage and charges of discrimination from immigrants'
rights groups, immigration lawyers and Mexican officials. But it drew support
from local chapters of such organizations as Mothers Against Drunk Driving.

The issue evokes powerful emotions on both sides and reflects conflicting views
of deportation as a punishment for immigrants who have run afoul of the law.

Advocates for the immigrants complain that Last Call swept up some people who
were convicted of drunken driving years before a 1996 immigration law made them
deportable. They said the operation split up families, uprooting immigrants who
have lived in the United States legally for long periods and sending them away
from their children who are U.S. citizens.

Supporters of the operation said drunken driving is a serious offense that also
breaks up families, killing more than 16,000 people a year nationwide. They said
Last Call was initiated in Texas because the state leads the nation in
alcohol-related traffic fatalities, with more than 3,700 in the last two years.

Last week, INS headquarters instructed district offices in Texas to reexamine
the cases of those arrested under Last Call to check whether any could be freed
from jail, if they were still being held, or granted relief from deportation.
The district offices were told to look for those who might qualify for "deferred
action," a rarely used provision under which immigrants facing deportation can
be allowed to stay in the United States indefinitely. They were also to seek
those who might be eligible for "motions to terminate proceedings" if they had
not yet appeared before an immigration judge, INS officials said.

But the INS acting district director in Dallas, William G. Harrington, replied
in a memo that "another review" showed "none of the cases merit consideration
for deferred action." His assistant in charge of deportations, Roy Hernandez,
had reported to him that "no exceptional factors" justified special treatment
for those arrested, who were classified as "aggravated felons" in accordance
with a ruling by the Board of Immigration Appeals earlier this year.

"I believe that we would be opening up a public relations nightmare if we were
to confer deferred action on any of these individuals," Hernandez wrote in a
memo to Harrington.

Deferred action is sometimes applied when authorities want to use someone facing
deportation as an informant, or when the person's home country will not accept
repatriation, officials said.

In rounding up the convicted drunk drivers, INS agents relied mainly on
probation records. Of those arrested, most are now out on bond while they go
through deportation proceedings. More than 60 have already been deported, and
about 40 remained in custody.

The review of Last Call was requested by Rep. Martin Frost (D-Tex.), who has
sharply criticized the operation as an unfairly retroactive application of the
1996 immigration law.

Among the effort's strongest defenders is the official who conceived it, Neil
Jacobs, the assistant district director for investigations in the agency's
Dallas office. Jacobs had already come under fire from headquarters for
criticizing the INS in 1996 congressional testimony about a flawed citizenship
program, but independent federal agencies said he was entitled to protection as
a whistleblower and rebuffed INS attempts to remove him from his post.

Jacobs said critics of Operation Last Call had portrayed him as a "vigilante"
and he complained that INS headquarters had not defended him even though it had
approved the operation before it was implemented. He charged the INS was
acquiescing to pressure as "a way to circumvent what Congress meant when it
enacted the [1996] law."

"I've never seen a situation like this where an agency that's supposed to be
enforcing the law tries to dismantle the law," Jacobs said.

Michael Pearson, the INS field operations chief who ordered the review,
described deferred action as "a normal process" that INS district directors have
authority to recommend. He held out the possibility of ordering deferred action
himself, if necessary.

"Everything we do is lobbied on both sides. What we're trying to do is make sure
we're doing the right thing and following the law," Pearson said. "Not everyone
agrees on what the right thing is . . . and in this case there's not even
agreement on what the law is." He said the ruling that three drunken-driving
convictions makes someone an aggravated felon is being challenged in court.

An INS agent in Texas said field offices felt pressured to recommend deferred
action in Last Call cases, which "would in effect put hundreds of drunk drivers
back on the streets in time for the holidays." He said field agents were
"completely disgusted" by what they see as an attempt in Washington "to satisfy
some political need." Those who have been rounded up, he said, "are just time
bombs waiting to go off."

He cited as an example the case of a 26-year-old Mexican immigrant who had
escaped the Last Call dragnet and killed a Dallas man in a hit-and-run
drunken-driving incident on the night before Thanksgiving. The immigrant had
been targeted for deportation after serving probation or jail terms for
drunken-driving convictions in 1993, 1995 and last year. Now he faces
manslaughter charges.

Neil Jacobs of the Dallas INS office defends the program to deport aliens for
drunken driving. Michael Pearson, INS field operations chief, has ordered a
review of the planned deportations. Rep. Martin Frost (D-Texas) and immigrant
advocates say ousting aliens for drunk driving is not justified under the 1996
immigration law.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, JAMES M. THRESHER; Photo ; Photo, LUCIAN PERKINS

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              38 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 23, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Torture In the County Jail

Philip S. Anderson

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 687 words


In my home state of Arkansas in the '60s, inmates of Tucker Prison Farm
routinely were beaten and tortured by despotic jailers. Among the tools used to
control inmates was the diabolical "Tucker Telephone," an old crank telephone
adapted with electrodes that were attached to prisoners' genitalia and then
hooked up to a car battery. When the telephone was cranked, inmates received a
short, intense and paralyzing shock. In Arkansas and throughout the country,
people were outraged when the practice was revealed.

Unbelievably, almost 30 years later, Florida jailers have invented another
instrument to torture prisoners with electricity. In Jackson County, Fla.,
sadistic jailers wired a plastic, body-sized police shield, used in riot
protection, to punish immigrant prisoners. The device was placed over a naked
immigrant, who was subjected to an intense electrical shock.

After complaints surfaced, the Immigration and Naturalization Service removed 34
detainees from the Jackson County Jail and vowed to conduct an internal
investigation. That is an inadequate response. Abuses will occur in other
locations, because the INS does not adequately regulate or monitor treatment of
detainees in local jails, where thousands of detained immigrants are sent
because of overcrowding in federal detention facilities. In fact, human rights
organizations report numerous incidents of inhumane conditions in local
facilities.

The tough 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act has
mandated that the INS detain more immigrants than ever before. With more than
16,000 people in custody, the INS has the fastest growing detainee population of
any federal agency -- up 30 percent since 1997. With INS-operated facilities
filled, INS officials insist that their reliance on local facilities must
continue and will probably increase.

In addition to instances of physical abuse, immigrant advocates raise the legal
issues of denying detainees access to a lawyer. A number of the contract local
jails are in remote locations, isolating detainees from lawyers, friends and
family. Frequent transfers from facility to facility without notifying lawyers,
restrictive visitation policies, limited telephone access and inadequate or no
access to legal research materials create significant obstacles to adequate
legal representation for detainees.

Until this year, the INS had no standards for access to legal representation for
detainees in its own facilities. After lengthy meetings with the INS, the
Department of Justice and the White House, the American Bar Association (ABA)
and advocates for immigrants convinced Washington officials that immigrants must
be guaranteed basic fundamental rights concerning conditions of detention,
including access to a lawyer.

In January, the Justice Department and INS issued standards ensuring that
immigrants held in INS facilities would have access to a lawyer. This step
should be applauded, but it does not go far enough. The same rights should be
extended to immigrants being held in local and county jails, where 60 percent of
all INS detainees are warehoused. The INS pays handsomely for housing prisoners.
But it is not enough for the INS simply to hand over thousands of detainees to
local officials and then shrug its shoulders when abuses occur. Experience has
shown that abuses occur where supervision is lacking.

The federal government should accept responsibility for the treatment of the
immigrants it detains -- even in local facilities. The fact that the Florida
immigrant detainees were not in federal jails does not mean that the federal
government is not culpable. It is. The ABA is urging the Department of Justice
to ensure that the new standards for INS-operated facilities are promptly
extended to every state and local facility that houses immigrants.

It is hard to fathom the kind of mind that devised an instrument to torture a
naked immigrant, but it could occur again without oversight. The federal
government must make certain that it never happens again.

The writer is president of the American Bar Association.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              39 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 25, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Judge Frees 3 Cubans Acquitted of Hijacking

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 205 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 24


Federal officials on Christmas Eve released three Cuban refugees acquitted of
hijacking a plane to the United States and later granted political asylum by a
judge.

The release came a day after two members of Congress accused immigration
officials of illegally detaining the men and threatened to call for a
congressional hearing if they were not set free.

"This is certainly great news and a great Christmas present," Rep. Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) said tonight. Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.) also
lobbied for the release of Adel Regalado Ulloa, Jose Roberto Bello-Puente and
Leonardo Reyes Ramirez.

An immigration judge ruled last week that the Cubans should be granted political
asylum because they likely would face retaliation if forced to return home, but
federal officials said the men would be detained while they decide whether to
appeal the order.

The men were on conditional release, said their lawyer, Ralph Fernandez, meaning
that the case against them remained active and that they would have to report to
the INS every three months. The attorney called the arrangement "fairly
standard."

The INS also filed a notice that it would appeal the judge's ruling to grant
asylum, Fernandez said.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              40 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 05, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

'Modern-Day Slavery'?; Imported Servants Allege Abuse By Foreign Host Families
in U.S.

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2422 words


Thousands of domestic servants are being brought into the United States from
impoverished countries and then severely exploited by foreign employers, many of
whom work for embassies and international organizations in the Washington area,
according to human rights groups, immigration attorneys and former domestics.

Despite occasional publicity about such cases in the past, the abuses have
persisted with relative impunity and appear to be on the rise, the domestics'
advocates and others interviewed by The Washington Post say.

A federal "worker exploitation task force" formed by Attorney General Janet Reno
is investigating some of the worst alleged offenders as part of a broader
crackdown on labor abuse. The task force, which includes members of the Justice
Department's Civil Rights Division, the FBI, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and the Labor Department, is aimed at rooting out what Reno has called
"the serious problem of modern-day slavery" in the United States.

But in concentrating their efforts on the most egregious cases involving the
suspected illegal confinement of servants, federal agencies have skipped over
others that fall short of that standard, even when they include apparent
violations of federal labor, immigration and tax laws.

The domestic servants, most of them women from poor backgrounds in Africa, Asia
and Latin America, are typically imported under a provision of immigration law
that allows foreign diplomats, embassy employees and officials of organizations
such as the World Bank, International Monetary Fund and United Nations to bring
in personal household workers with the understanding that the employers will
abide by U.S. labor laws. There is, however, virtually no oversight into whether
they comply.

The World Bank, IMF and United Nations say they cannot be expected to monitor
their staff members' private lives. In any case, they say, few complaints have
come to their attention.

Yet, over the years, hundreds of servants have run away from their employers to
escape abusive treatment, excessive hours, low pay or no pay at all. Some have
filed lawsuits in U.S. courts for back wages and damages. Their cases illustrate
the exploitation being alleged in Washington area homes:

An Ethiopian woman who was brought to the United States in 1990 by an IMF
official says she toiled for more than eight years in a Silver Spring apartment
until she escaped in May. She says her employers forced her to work seven days a
week, isolated her from other people and hit her if she complained.

Another Ethiopian says she received no pay for more than six years of work in
the Rockville home of an Ethiopian-born couple who arranged for her to come to
the United States on a tourist visa. She says her duties included caring for the
couple's sick child on 24-hour call.

A nanny from the Philippines says three other Filipinos -- her employers and a
friend of theirs -- arranged to bring her in fraudulently under a visa for
servants of embassy employees, then put her to work in Fairfax for 41 cents an
hour. For more than a year before she escaped, she says, she had to work 16
hours a day and received only one day off during the entire period.

So far this decade, more than 30,000 domestics have been brought to the United
States under special work visas. Many are treated equitably. But among the
others are some of the most exploited workers in the United States today,
according to social workers, church groups and lawyers who have dealt with their
cases.

Behind the closed doors of homes ranging from modest apartments in Silver Spring
to mansions in McLean, many foreign servants live in silent despair, toiling
long hours for low wages but too fearful, isolated or insecure about what will
happen to them to complain or break free, human rights advocates and
investigators say. In part, the servants are hostage to intimidation by their
employers, lack of knowledge about where to turn for help and the restrictions
of their visas, which bar them from working for anyone else.

Bill Lann Lee, the acting assistant attorney general for civil rights and
co-chairman of Reno's task force, said federal investigators are looking for
abuses "that are so severe they rise to a level of involuntary servitude."
Investigators do not yet know how widespread such abuses are, Lee said, but
"there is anecdotal evidence that the problem may be larger than people have
thought."

One FBI-led team is investigating a well-off Brazilian businessman and his wife
who allegedly held an illiterate servant from their homeland in slave-like
conditions for 19 years while she worked in their suburban Maryland home.

The servant, who is about 60, came to authorities' attention recently when she
had to be hospitalized for treatment of a long-neglected stomach tumor. She told
local social workers that she sometimes had to beg neighbors for food and
clothing and was regularly beaten by the wife. She said the couple told her that
if she fled their home, she would be arrested immediately because she is black.

"They essentially preyed on her ignorance," a source familiar with the case
said. U.S. officials declined to discuss the matter because it is still under
investigation.

According to the State Department, about 3,800 domestic servants come to the
United States each year under two types of temporary employment visas to work
for foreign diplomats or non-U.S. staff members of international organizations.
The servants may be brought in from any country. About a quarter come from the
Philippines.

In addition, immigrants sometimes illegally bring in domestics from their
homelands on tourist visas, claiming they are relatives or friends who are
visiting temporarily.

The work visas of legal domestics are generally valid for two to three years and
may be renewed periodically as long as the employer remains a diplomat or
international civil servant. The visas require the domestics to work only for
the employers who sponsored them. If they quit and seek another job, they lose
legal status and become subject to deportation.

Employers and their domestics typically sign contracts that meet U.S. wage
requirements. The contracts are then presented at U.S. consulates to help obtain
the visas.

Guidelines published by the World Bank and IMF say their staff members who wish
to employ domestics -- defined as ranging from butlers, valets and maids to
gardeners, grooms and chauffeurs -- must pay at least the minimum wage, allow
two days off a week, pay Social Security and Medicare taxes, buy workers'
compensation insurance and pay federal and state unemployment taxes. At the
current minimum wage rates of $ 6.15 an hour in Washington, D.C., and $ 5.15 in
Maryland and Virginia, domestics should receive $ 1,066 a month for the standard
40-hour work week in the District and $ 892 a month in the suburbs.

"This all looks lovely on paper, but there's absolutely no monitoring" by the
World Bank or IMF to ensure that staff members meet their obligations, said
Martha Honey, a fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies, a Washington think
tank that is mobilizing a campaign to protect the domestics' rights.

Mark Bowyer, manager of the World Bank's human resources service center, said
the bank relies on the staff members themselves to comply with U.S. law. World
Bank staff members in the Washington area currently employ 790 domestics. Bowyer
said the bank's ethics office investigates about seven complaints of abuse a
year from domestics who know enough to contact the organization. He acknowledged
that these cases "are probably only a subset" of the overall problem.

The State Department says it has no way of measuring the extent to which
domestic servants are abused. But it was sufficiently alarmed two years ago to
send all Washington embassies a nine-page note expressing concern that some
diplomats have substantially underpaid household workers or failed to pay them
at all, required them to work long hours with no overtime, confiscated their
passports and confined them to their workplaces.

Church workers, attorneys and former domestics say such practices are common.
Unlike maids hired in the United States, those brought in under special visas
are not free to work elsewhere if they do not like the pay or working
conditions. In effect, says Edward Leavy, a Washington lawyer who has
represented a number of domestics, the system amounts to a form of indentured
servitude that embassies, international organizations and the U.S. government
for years have been content to preserve.

According to the Rev. Mark Poletunow of the Spanish Catholic Center, the charity
has seen "many cases of abuse" in its 31-year history, and the situation is
"progressively worsening."

Over the past two years, about 60 Philippine domestics have come to
Washington-based immigration lawyer Arnedo S. Valera after running away from
their employers. Most say they were underpaid but opt not to file labor claims,
he said. Instead, they simply want help obtaining legal immigration status.

"They're scared to complain," Valera said. "They don't want to confront the
employer."

A new advocacy group here, the Campaign for Migrant Domestic Workers Rights,
says the World Bank and IMF bear major responsibility because they actively
assist their non-U.S. staff members in arranging visas for domestics. The group
wants the World Bank to help inform domestics of their rights, fund a $
350,000-a-year independent monitoring program and require staff members to
submit copies of contracts, federal tax forms and proof of wage payment.

The World Bank has expressed a willingness to discuss the proposals, but the IMF
has rebuffed the group's request for talks. The IMF "is prepared to take
disciplinary action" against staff members who mistreat domestics, but only "a
handful" of such cases have come up, a spokesman said.

The international organizations usually urge staff members to settle disputes
with their servants out of court.

In one recent case in New York, Marie Angelique Savane, a leading women's rights
advocate from Senegal who headed the Africa section of the United Nations
Population Office, agreed to pay $ 7,000 to a Senegalese domestic who complained
of inhumane treatment in Savane's Manhattan apartment. Savane, who denied
wrongdoing, returned to Senegal. Her maid remained in the United States
illegally.

Among other alleged victims who are pursuing private lawsuits is Ayelech Mamo,
an Ethiopian woman in her fifties who says she was enslaved in Rockville for 6
1/2 years by an Ethiopian-born immigrant couple, Tewolde and Elizabeth Iyob, who
arranged for her to come here in 1990 on a tourist visa.

Mamo said she was required to provide round-the-clock care for the couple's
seriously ill child in addition to her household chores. She said the Iyobs
never paid her personally, but sent her family in Ethiopia $ 2,100, which
amounted to less than $ 28 a month for her work.

Breaking down in tears as she told her story in an interview, Mamo said the
Iyobs never gave her any time off, never took her to a doctor, did not allow her
to go to church and discouraged her from making friends. She finally fled last
year.

"I felt like a prisoner," she said. Now destitute and in hiding, she said she
fears retaliation if her former employers learn where she is staying.

In court documents, the Iyobs denied Mamo's charges, saying they did not bring
her to the United States as a domestic servant, but "as a loved and respected
member of the Iyob family." Tewolde Iyob called Mamo "my wife's aunt" in a
letter used to request her U.S. visa, but an affidavit by Elizabeth Iyob
described a more informal godparent relationship and acknowledged that Mamo "is
not technically related to me by blood."

The Iyobs said no payment was ever contemplated for Mamo's work, which was
"merely her voluntary contribution to the family which sustained and supported
her."

Besides, said the Iyobs' lawyer, David C. Simmons, Mamo's claim for full back
wages is invalid because of a two-year statute of limitations. He denied that
his clients committed immigration fraud in the case, saying it was up to Mamo to
legalize her status after her tourist visa expired.

The case of another nanny, 38-year-old Margarita Miranda, illustrates how an
imported servant can end up working for someone other than the sponsor of her
special visa, in apparent violation of labor and immigration laws. She came to
Northern Virginia three years ago to take up a job offer she received while
working as a nanny in Manila.

But to get the job with Mark and Vesta Dimatulac, who needed a nanny for their
infant daughter in Fairfax, she had to sign a contract with Vesta Dimatulac's
best friend, Annamarie Go, who worked as a secretary for the Saudi Embassy in
Washington. Like Miranda, Go and the Dimatulacs are from the Philippines.

Because Go held an A-2 diplomatic visa, she was allowed to bring in a servant, a
perk that the Dimatulacs did not enjoy. Miranda's contract with Go called for a
weekly salary of $ 210 for the standard 40 hours of work. Instead, Miranda said
in court documents and an interview, she had to work about 112 hours a week,
caring for the Dimatulacs' children and performing all sorts of household chores
for $ 200 a month.

The Dimatulacs "told me not to talk to anybody," Miranda said. They were afraid,
she said, that if she met other Filipinos, she would run away.

After 16 months, Miranda finally fled with a few belongings. A legal battle
ensued, with Miranda eventually receiving a modest settlement out of court. The
Dimatulacs and Go dropped counterclaims in which they argued that Miranda owed
them for room and board and for failing to work for Go as contracted.

Although the case involved only civil labor issues, U.S. officials said
Miranda's account suggests she was brought here through visa fraud, a felony. A
lawyer for Go and the Dimatulacs, James L. Marketos, had no comment on this, and
federal authorities have not investigated it. Yeshehareg Teferra says she came
here from Ethiopia under a contract guaranteeing $ 235 a week but received 3
cents an hour. Ayelech Mamo is hiding from the Rockville family she says never
gave her time off, never took her to a doctor and discouraged her from making
friends.  Margarita Miranda signed a contract with one family, but upon arrival
from Manila was sent to work for another family -- an apparent legal violation.


LOAD-DATE: January 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, JUANA ARIAS; Photo, RUDY SAGUN

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              41 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 07, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Not in This Country, They Can't

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 401 words


THE ATTORNEY general calls it "the serious problem of modern-day slavery" in
America. A Washington lawyer brands it a form of indentured servitude. Both are
referring to the exploitation of domestic servants brought into the United
States from impoverished countries by foreign employers. Apparently these women
-- mostly poverty-stricken and from Africa, Asia and Latin America -- are
exploited with impunity, and by employers who should know that what they are
doing is wrong.

Thanks to human rights groups, immigration attorneys and former domestics, the
lid is now being lifted off this terrible problem. Some of these domestic
servants, according to Post writer William Branigan, are confined to households
where their passports have been confiscated and they are forced to work long
hours without overtime for little or no pay. And because they are here on
special work visas that prevent them from working elsewhere if they don't like
their jobs, and make them subject to deportation if they quit, most suffer their
slave-like conditions in silence.

It's not as if they are without protection of U.S. laws, however. They are in
the United States under an immigration law that permits them to be brought here
as household workers with the understanding that their employers will obey U.S.
labor laws. A Justice Department "worker exploitation task force" has found
evidence, however, that suggests the scale of lawbreaking may be "larger than
people have thought." And who are some of the worst offenders in this area?
Foreign diplomats, embassy employees and officials of the World Bank,
International Monetary Fund and the United Nations.

The problem is compounded by a State Department that claims to have no way of
measuring the extent to which domestic servants are abused and that shows no
inclination to find out. The World Bank and IMF are no help, either. After
helping their non-U.S. staff arrange visas for servants, both institutions take
a hands-off approach once the workers are here.

That is not the right position for the Breton Woods institutions to take.
Instead, they should adopt internal programs that monitor compliance with U.S.
wage and labor requirements, immigration and tax laws, as well as their own
worker guidelines. The servants weren't allowed in this country to work under a
yoke. The U.S. and foreign employers should make certain they don't.

LOAD-DATE: January 07, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              42 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 08, 1999, Friday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

INS Probes Md. Firm In Possible Visa Fraud; Sham Investments in Jobs Are Alleged

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 689 words


In a simmering controversy over a program that grants legal immigrant status to
wealthy foreign investors, federal agents are investigating a Greenbelt-based
immigration services company on suspicion of fraud. The firm, directed by a
number of former top government officials, insists it has acted legally and vows
to keep trying to arrange "investment visas" for its clients.

The dispute revolves around whether the company's methods mean "green cards" are
for sale and circumvent the intent of the law.

Green cards denote an immigrant's legal permanent residence and are offered
under the program to foreigners who create at least 10 full-time U.S. jobs by
investing $ 1 million -- or $ 500,000 if the jobs are in certain
high-unemployment areas -- in the establishment of a new business or the rescue
of a failing one.

The company in Greenbelt, formerly called American Immigration Services and now
known as AIS Inc., has come under scrutiny by the Baltimore district office of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service for some of the practices it has
pioneered to entice investors into the program.

The company advertises a risk-free and "amazingly affordable" process in which
investors typically put up $ 135,000 and arrange to borrow the rest of the
required funds. Of the outlay, $ 35,000 normally goes for AIS fees and $ 100,000
is put into escrow. AIS also guarantees an eventual return of investment costs.

In an internal memo obtained by The Washington Post, the INS district director
in Baltimore, Benedict J. Ferro, said the investigation shows that "most, if not
all, of the [investment visa] petitions prepared by AIS are merely
accommodations, based upon 'paper investments.' " He said AIS has filed hundreds
of such petitions using "a 'boiler-plate' format."

While the new enterprises formed by AIS are legally constituted, they appear to
be "paper companies" that are not "conducting day-to-day business and have not
created jobs for at least 10 U.S. workers" as the law requires, Ferro wrote.

William P. Cook, a lawyer for AIS, said the problems have arisen because INS
keeps changing its interpretation of the investor visa law's requirements. He
said the agency is going after his client because it "is simply trying to kill
the program."

The INS froze the program early last year while it examined investment plans
filed by AIS and other immigration services firms. After deciding that the plans
did not comply with a 1990 law that created the program, the agency reviewed
more than 600 pending applications and denied most of them. Before that action,
applications had surged from a few hundred a year to around 1,400 last year,
largely because of aggressive international marketing by firms like AIS.

AIS, which bills itself as "the world's leader for immigration to the U.S.A.,"
is headed by Diego C. Ascencio, a former top U.S. diplomat. On its board of
directors are former representative John W. Bryant (D-Tex.); Prescott S. Bush
Jr., chairman of the USA-China Chamber of Commerce and brother of former
president George Bush; former assistant secretaries of state William Clark Jr.
and Richard W. Murphy; and retired ambassadors Stephen W. Bosworth and Jack F.
Matlock Jr.

A U.S. official familiar with the investigation described AIS as "a second
cousin to a pyramid scheme" and said investigators are "finding blatant fraud,"
although not with the direct involvement of the high-powered board members
listed on the company's brochures. As part of the probe, agents have interviewed
green-card recipients who said they never intended to set up an enterprise
employing 10 people and "understood this would be a paper business," the
official said.

Cook, a former general counsel of the INS, said some companies appear to have no
money because AIS holds the money in escrow until the green cards are issued.

Within the INS, he said, there is "a philosophical aversion to the notion that
people can buy green cards." And when it comes to AIS's program to make the
transaction more "affordable," Cook added, "what [INS officials] are quibbling
about is the price."

LOAD-DATE: January 08, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 1999



CORRECTION: An article yesterday on an Immigration and Naturalization Service
investigation referred to William Clark Jr., a former ambassador to India and
assistant secretary of state for East Asia and the Pacific, as a director of AIS
Inc. He should not be confused with William P. Clark, a former deputy secretary
of state, national security adviser and secretary of the interior under
President Reagan who has no affiliation with the company.
CLARIFICATION

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              43 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 25, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

INS Managers Say Agency Retaliated; Directors Allege Hill Testimony Led to
Reprisal

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 826 words


Three senior Immigration and Naturalization Service field managers are pursuing
complaints against the agency over an alleged threat to retaliate against them
for congressional testimony in which they criticized a plan to reorganize the
service.

Their case is one of a series of disputes that have soured relations between INS
headquarters and some of the agency's top field managers. At least seven current
and former district directors, including the three making the latest complaints,
have pending Equal Employment Opportunity cases in which they allege various
types of discrimination against them by INS headquarters officials.

In the most recent case, the three -- INS district directors Robert L. Brown,
Benedict J. Ferro and Thomas P. Fischer -- appeared before the immigration
subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee last May to oppose the
restructuring plan of INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner. Faced with calls to
dismantle the INS and distribute its functions to other federal departments,
Meissner has proposed splitting the enforcement and benefits operations within
the agency and abolishing its 33 district director positions.

Two days before their appearance at the invitation of House Judiciary Committee
Chairman Henry J. Hyde (R-Ill.), the three district directors charge, they were
the subject of comments by a senior headquarters official that they took to be
derogatory and intimidating. They say that they have since suffered reprisals by
the agency.

The headquarters official named in the complaints, George H. Bohlinger III, who
is executive associate INS commissioner for management, strongly denies making
any such remarks.

"There was no threat of any reprisal or anything like that," Bohlinger said.
"What I'm being accused of, I never said. Those accusations are absolutely
false."

The INS declined comment on the matter. "The complaint process is a private
process, and we are not in a position to provide any information on any cases
that may or may not have been filed," said Maria Cardona, an INS spokeswoman.

The Office of Special Counsel, an independent federal agency that investigates
charges of retaliation against whistleblowers, formally informed Fischer last
month that it has reviewed his complaint and has "determined that further
investigation of your allegations is warranted." The complaints of Ferro and
Brown, who has since retired, are still under consideration.

Fischer, 55, district director in Atlanta and a 23-year veteran of the INS,
attributes to "age discrimination" the agency's refusal to consider him for any
of five high-level jobs he applied for in recent years or to select him for
temporary assignments in Washington. Fischer says his congressional appearance
subjected him to further reprisals.

In an interview, Fischer said Bohlinger told colleagues in a Capitol Hill bar
last May that if not for the three district directors' pending EEO cases, he
would take some action against them over their congressional testimony.

"It hurt my career that I stood up for what I believed in" at the congressional
hearing, Fischer said. He said another top INS official had told him that
headquarters perceived him as "disloyal."

Brown, who retired as INS district director in Cleveland effective Jan. 1, said
he had been told that Bohlinger made comments "along the lines of, 'I would take
some action against these guys, but they would probably claim retaliation in the
EEO matter.' "

Although Brown ranked second in seniority among the district directors, he said
he was not "selected for any details" -- special assignments -- after his
congressional testimony.

As chairman of the Immigration Directors' Association, Brown had testified that
Meissner's restructuring plan would only "create more chaos" within the agency.
"The functions performed by the immigration service are too interdependent . . .
to be separated into competing agencies or cosmetically split internally," Brown
said.

Ferro, 61, a 36-year veteran of the INS who runs the district office in
Baltimore and is the most senior of the agency's field managers, declined to
comment publicly on the case.

While denying the comments attributed to him, Bohlinger would not say exactly
what he had told colleagues two days before the district directors' testimony.
He stressed that none of the three were present and that, in any case, he could
not have retaliated against them because "they were not in my chain of command."

In addition to the investigations by the Office of Special Counsel and the Equal
Employment Opportunity staff, Fischer's complaints also have triggered an
inquest by the INS Office of Internal Audit, according to a Jan. 4 letter to him
from Deputy Attorney General Eric H. Holder. The INS said it could not comment
on any of the probes.

Thomas Fischer, INS director in Atlanta, says testifying to Congress against the
agency's overhaul "hurt my career."


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE/RICH PENDERGIST

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              44 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 01, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

Hands -- and Hopes -- Across the Sea; Tough U.S. Immigration Policy Keeps Asian
Families Apart

Peter Pae; Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1875 words


In an Annandale shopping center seven years ago, Chris Kong did what millions of
hard-working Asian immigrants have done before him: He opened his own business
-- Starland Club, a video game store where customers can swap or buy Nintendo
and other games. It has been so successful that Kong has since opened another
store in Centreville and is scouting for a third Virginia site.

Back in the little fishing town of Sunchon, South Korea, Kong's brother-in-law
is not faring so well. Shin Sam Ho is looking for a job as an architect at a
time when nine of the city's 13 architectural firms have gone bankrupt and the
nation is struggling to lift itself out of a deep economic recession.

And he got more bad news when he applied for a tourist visa to visit his
relatives in Northern Virginia. He said officials at the U.S. Embassy in Seoul
rejected him as a bad risk; they concluded that, because he was unemployed, he
might be tempted to overstay his visa and work illegally at Starland Club.

"I was very upset because I just wanted to see my sister," said Shin. "They
asked me two or three questions, just said, 'No,' and called the next person."

Fairly or unfairly in a land built by and for immigrants, U.S. immigration
policy results in the rending of millions of families, with some members in
America and some in their homelands. As the Asian economic crisis grinds on,
those divisions have become an obsession for many families split between places
like Washington and Sunchon.

Shin and his Virginia relatives say their situation shows that the doors to
America are closing tighter all the time. "It's easier to get into North Korea
than into America," said Shin, noting that South Koreans can now visit the
Communist half of the Korean peninsula on day trips via a cruise ship -- albeit
under armed guard. "The U.S. is putting up a wall between families. It's ironic,
because the U.S. is a country that calls itself free, the most welcoming in the
world."

One in 10 Americans was born in another country, and many of those 26 million
people have mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, cousins and friends who want to
join them. The demand is growing in such countries as South Korea, Indonesia and
Thailand, where economic turmoil has thrown millions out of work and crushed the
fortunes of many families newly arrived in the middle class.

For the same reason, immigration officials and attorneys say, it has become
increasingly difficult for such people to win approval to come to the United
States, even temporarily, since joblessness began to soar in East Asia in late
1997. "They're not denying the applications; they're always asking for more
papers, documents they never asked for before," said Jong-Joon Chun, a Korean
American attorney in Fairfax County. "They're constantly delaying the
application until you give up. It's inhumane."

About 8,000 South Koreans a year are granted immigrant visas allowing them to
reside permanently in the United States. But it could take Shin a decade or even
two to get one of these, because spouses and children of U.S. citizens have
preference over siblings and because so many other applicants are on the list
ahead of him.

So the overwhelming number of South Koreans who come to the United States apply
as non-immigrants -- tourists, students, temporary workers. Last year, the
number of applications for these temporary visas plummeted from 589,000 to
355,00 as the country sank into recession and people could not afford the travel
costs.

At the same time, the percentage of these visa applicants rejected by U.S.
authorities increased because of official concerns that people fleeing hard
times would stay on illegally in the United States. In South Korea, that meant a
reduction in the approval rate for such applications from about 95 percent to 90
percent. While Americans might see that as a high figure, in South Korea it has
left 35,500 people dejected, including Shin.

The story of one American family in Northern Virginia and a relative stuck on
the coast of South Korea is becoming an everyday American tale, as common today
as immigrants' stories of acceptance and rejection on Ellis Island earlier this
century.

Chris Kong, 36, came to the United States legally in 1987 with a green card,
under the sponsorship of his parents, who had emigrated a few years earlier. It
was the classic immigrant story: He left his fiancee behind and set out to build
a better life, hoping to return for her later. "I didn't know much about
America, but they said life was better there and that I would have better
opportunities," he said.

He took a job installing vinyl siding -- the only job he could find that did not
require that he speak English. He had no idea what vinyl siding was, and he
showed up the first day in black dress pants, which were quickly ruined on a
long day of climbing 30-foot ladders to nail siding to houses.

After eight months of 16-hour workdays, Kong had saved $ 5,000 and returned to
South Korea, where he married his fiancee, Sook Shin, Shin Sam Ho's sister,
before returning to Virginia. It took her two years of interviews with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service before she could join her husband -- an
extraordinarily difficult and lonely time for her.

"I cried when I first saw [the kind of work] he did," she said. "He is skinny,
and he was carrying these long vinyl sidings up the ladder all by himself. I
couldn't stop crying." But when Kong started his own vinyl-siding business, she
joined in the work.

By 1991, Kong had saved enough money to try out an idea -- a sort of swap shop
for video games, something he believed no one else had tried. So with a little
cash and a lot of entrepreneurial spirit, he sublet the back room of a travel
agency and began his video game club.

A year later, Kong opened Starland Club in the Backlick Shopping Center in
Annandale, and his business career was launched. The Kongs became U.S. citizens
in 1995, and they set their sights on helping other relatives.

Their first priority was her brother Shin, who is married and has a new baby and
has been unable to find a job since he graduated from college a year ago with an
architecture degree. Ideally, Sook Kong said, she and her husband would bring
him to America for a fresh start because there is not much work in Sunchon,
where their parents had been rice farmers.

But trying to get her brother in on an immigrant visa could easily take 10
years, she said. So for now, she is simply trying to get him a tourist visa so
he can have some respite from the harsh economic conditions at home. On tourist
visas, visitors can stay in the United States for up to six months. "We would
like to be together," Sook Kong said, "But since we can't do that, we would like
him to visit and regain some hope."

Half a world away in Sunchon, a small fishing port in Southwestern South Korea,
Shin picked at his lunch and spoke of his disappointment. "It's a very
uncomfortable feeling to be rejected," he said. "Of course I think it is unfair;
Americans can visit anywhere they want."

When Shin applied for his tourist visa 14 months ago, he had no job, no property
and virtually nothing else to tie him to South Korea. He was thus unable to
persuade officials at the U.S. Embassy that he simply wanted to visit his
sister. Shin said the experience was humiliating and costly -- he paid $ 150 to
a "visa consultant" who helped him prepare the paperwork. In Seoul, as in many
Asian capitals, there is a lucrative industry of "U.S. visa fixers," who claim
to be able speed the visa process through "connections" at the embassy -- for a
price.

Since Shin applied for his visa, things have only gotten worse. He's taken
part-time work driving a truck, but even laboring jobs are hard to find in South
Korea's tight economy. His wife gave birth to their first child, a daughter, in
late December, and they have been living off savings and money sent by his
sister in Annandale and other relatives. His wife is a clinical pathologist but
is not working because of the new baby.

Shin said his sister was going to pay his way to the United States as a college
graduation present. "If I had rich parents or had money I could go," said Shin,
a broad-shouldered former marine. "It's very unfair."

Shin does not speak English and knows that living in the United States would be
difficult. He acknowledges he would like to attend an American school to further
his architecture studies but insists that all he is trying to do now is visit
his sister and her family.

At the U.S. Embassy in Seoul, visa officials say they sympathize with Shin and
others like him. But, they say, U.S. law requires them to assume that all people
applying for tourist and other temporary visas are actually attempting to
emigrate and that it is the applicants' burden to prove otherwise.

Even with this kind of screening, tens of thousands of foreign tourists from all
over the world overstay their visas in the United States every year, often
melting into an underworld of illegal workers. In the Washington area alone,
where 350,000 legal immigrants have arrived since the early 1980s, the federal
government estimates that there are at least another 130,000 illegal immigrants.

"If we were God, we could see into people's hearts and minds and see exactly
what their intentions are, but we are not," said David Rollman, acting consul
general at the U.S. Embassy in Seoul. Instead, Rollman said, interviewers must
weigh evidence they can actually see: Can the applicant show employment records,
bank accounts, a rental lease, a deed to property -- anything to suggest he'll
come back.

Shin is free to apply for a visa again in the future, but he said he is still
smarting from the last experience. In Annandale, his sister worries and hopes he
will keep trying to get into the United States because, she said, "there is no
option for him in Korea."

Pae reported from Washington, Jordan from Sunchon.

Gates to U.S. Closed for Many

Many of the 26 million people in the United States who were born in another
country have relatives who want to join them, but getting an imigrant visa is
becoming harder and keeps families apart. Even visitors' visas are sometimes
hard to come by because U.S. consular officials often suspect these visitors
will stay illegally in the United States.

27 percent of all Americans born abroad came from Asia, according to 1996 data.
Here is a breakdown:

Philippines 18%

China 12

India 12

Vietnam 11

S. Korea 8

Other 39

Some examples of the waiting time for potential immigrants from three countries,
according to two of the preferences assigned by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

1st preference: Un-married children of U.S. citizens.

4th: Brothers and sisters of U.S. citizens.

Philippines

1st: 13 years

4th: 23

Mexico

1st: 6 years

4th: 21

South Korea

1st: 5 years

4th: 18

SOURCE: INS, Census Bureau

Sook Kong takes time out from the family's video game business for a kiss from
3-year-old son Daniel. Chris Kong, an immigrant who has fulfilled the American
Dream, repairs equipment at his Fairfax video game store.


LOAD-DATE: February 01, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post; Photo, CAROL GUZY; Photo, CAROL GUZY

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              45 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 02, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

Injustice in America

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A14; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 340 words


The Post's Jan. 25 editorial "The Facts of the Pollard Case" rightfully decries
the widening use of secret evidence. While the spy Jonathan Pollard has been
duly convicted of a serious crime, dozens of individuals are imprisoned in
American jails who have never been charged with any wrongdoing. Neither they nor
their attorneys have been permitted to review any evidence against them -- and
some have not even been told why they are being held.

The 1996 antiterrorism law, hastily passed in the wake of the bombings in
Oklahoma City and at the World Trade Center in New York, allows the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to arrest, detain and deport legal immigrants based
on evidence whose source and substance is not revealed to the potential
deportees or their counsel. This is a deplorable violation of individual
liberties and due process.

Muslims have been the primary target of the secret evidence procedure. Perhaps
the most egregious case is that of Mazen Al-Najjar, a scholar, engineer and
editor in Tampa. Mr. Al-Najjar, a Palestinian by birth, has raised a family in
Tampa since moving there in 1981. He co-founded the World and Islam Studies
Enterprise (WISE) at the University of South Florida.

On May 19, 1997, agents of the FBI, and INS and local sheriff's officers
arrested Mr. Al-Najjar. He was taken to an INS detention facility, where he
remains today. He was denied bail on the basis of secret evidence despite having
no criminal record. An independent investigation ordered by his employer, the
University of South Florida, concluded that Mr. Al-Najjar has done nothing
wrong. Twenty months after his arrest, he still has not been charged with a
crime -- or released on bail.

Everybody in the United States -- including Mr. Al-Najjar -- should have the
right to review the evidence and criminal charges against them. We should
restore due process and eliminate the use of secret evidence.

DAVID E. BONIOR

U.S. Representative (D-Mich.)

Washington

The writer is House Democratic Whip.

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              46 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 05, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Without Taxpayer Expense

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A32

LENGTH: 336 words


THERE IS A way to provide hurricane-struck Central America with billions in
prompt, steady and effectively targeted aid without a penny's expense to U.S.
taxpayers. But it will take some legislative and bureaucratic agility to produce
it.

The smart way would be to provide the option of immediate permanent residence to
those who fled upheaval in Central America in the '70s and '80s and whose
immigration status is uncertain now. That status is already given to Nicaraguans
as a class, but it is offered to Salvadorans and Guatemalans only on a slow,
costly and uncertain case-by-case basis. Permanent residence would allow the
several groups of beneficiaries to continue sending home the billions in
remittances crucial to a region that was still gasping for rebirth even before
Hurricane Mitch delivered its once-in-a-century haymaker in November.

So why not make it fairer and easier for Salvadorans and Guatemalans, who
otherwise face being deported or going underground? Because the immigration law
of 1997 compels them to prove on an individual basis that their deportation
would result in "extreme hardship" -- a proof, as we say, slow, costly and
unreliable to make.

And why was the law written in this unequal fashion? Because Cold War
immigration law has consistently favored those who fled communist-led regimes
(such as Nicaragua in the '80s, unlike Guatemala and El Salvador). And, adds
House immigration Chairman Lamar Smith of Texas, because this is what
immigration groups asked for in a famous suit alleging unfairness in
administration of the law.

To treat immigration privileges as foreign aid to friends in distress -- this
cannot be the law's first purpose. But in the special circumstances of Central
America, which is (1) devastated, (2) close and (3) dependent, it is a good
second purpose. The case is strong for touching up the law while administering
it as flexibly as possible and otherwise supporting President Clinton's appeals
for the reconstruction of the region.

LOAD-DATE: February 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              47 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 12, 1999, Friday, Final Edition
                              CORRECTION APPENDED

Lawmakers Press INS Chief for Alternative to Freeing Criminal Aliens

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 580 words


Two key House Republicans yesterday threatened to demand the resignation of
Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris M. Meissner if she
does not move quickly to resolve the agency's problems in detaining foreign
criminals.

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House immigration subcommittee,
and Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), the committee's ranking member, said the INS
is "endangering the safety of countless citizens" through plans to release from
detention foreign convicts who are being held pending their deportation.

In a letter to Attorney General Janet Reno, Smith and Gallegly said they were
"incredulous" that the INS was drafting plans to release more than 1,500
"criminal aliens" because of a shortage of funds to pay for detention space, a
story first reported in The Washington Post last week. Among those the INS could
free are foreign convicts whose detention is mandatory under a 1996 immigration
law, according to internal documents and agency officials.

In response, the White House said Meissner "continues to serve with the full
support and confidence of the president," who praised her "tough but
compassionate enforcement" of U.S. immigration laws.

INS spokeswoman Maria Cardona said that so far, "we have not released any
mandatory detainees, and we are working aggressively to alleviate the detention
situation." Other INS officials have said the agency may have no choice but to
release criminal aliens, who make up more than 90 percent of its 16,000
detainees, if the agency is to remain within its 1999 budget.

Most of the jailed criminal aliens are illegal immigrants, but a quarter to a
third are legal permanent residents or refugees who have committed crimes that
require their detention and deportation under the 1996 law, the INS says.
Immigration lawyers say many of them were convicted long before the law was
passed, have since served their sentences and should not have been arrested
again.

The letter to Reno also criticized the INS's handling of temporary refuge for
thousands of Central Americans whose homelands were devastated last fall by
Hurricane Mitch. The administration announced Dec. 30 that it was granting
"temporary protected status" for 18 months to illegal immigrants from Honduras
and Nicaragua who were already living in the United States on that date.
Salvadorans and Guatemalans residing here illegally were told they would not
face deportation until after March 6.

However, thousands of Central American newcomers, who were apprehended upon
entering the United States illegally, are being released by the INS even though
they arrived after the cutoff date and do not qualify for temporary refuge. INS
officials say the releases are motivated both by sympathy for the hurricane
victims and by the lack of detention space.

The INS failed to explain temporary protected status adequately, and many
Central Americans read it "as a blanket invitation to come to the United
States," Smith and Gallegly said. "INS ineptitude threatens to turn an already
grave situation into a major crisis." They asked Reno to order that all Central
Americans attempting an illegal crossing be detained and repatriated as quickly
as possible.

"If Commissioner Meissner is unable to quickly address these enforcement
problems," Smith and Gallegly said, "we will have no choice but to ask for . . .
her replacement with a new commissioner who is capable of enforcing the law . .
. ."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 1999

CORRECTION:

Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.) was identified as the "ranking member" of the
House immigration subcommittee in an article Friday. Gallegly is considered the
No. 2 Republican on the subcommittee while Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Tex.) is
the ranking minority member.

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              48 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 26, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

INS Leader Drops Plan to Release Criminal Aliens

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 660 words



The nation's top immigration official repudiated plans to release certain
foreign criminals because of a funding crunch and said yesterday the
administration would seek more money for its detention program.

Doris M. Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
told the House immigration subcommittee that despite the earlier planning, the
INS had not released any "criminal aliens" who were subject to mandatory
detention under a 1996 law, and she said she "does not intend to direct [field
offices] to do so." But the agency still must resolve its budget problems, she
said, noting that it "is detaining more people today than current funding
allocations will support."

The INS planning had come under sharp criticism from Rep. Lamar S. Smith
(R-Tex.), the subcommittee chairman, who called yesterday's hearing. He charged
that the administration's record on criminal aliens and its failure to request
any new Border Patrol agents in next year's budget amounted to a "full retreat,
if not a complete surrender, in the war against drugs."

In a Jan. 8 memo, INS headquarters had informed field offices of the budget
crunch and had offered guidance for releasing criminal aliens, who make up the
vast majority of INS detainees awaiting deportation. In reply, the agency's
eastern regional office submitted a draft plan to free foreign criminals under a
point system that would give priority to those with the least serious
convictions. Among those eligible for release under the proposal were foreigners
who had been convicted in U.S. courts of crimes such as drug trafficking,
assault, burglary, counterfeiting and alien smuggling.

"We will have to release criminal aliens to stay within our budget allocations
this year," the eastern region's memo said. It indicated that more than 1,500
such convicts would have to be freed.

Meissner said the number of INS detainees has tripled since 1994, to about
16,400. During that period, the proportion of detainees with criminal records
has risen from 60 percent to more than 90 percent, she said.

The 1996 immigration law expanded the category of deportable aliens who must be
detained, while limiting the government's authority to release those who pose no
threat to society and are unlikely to flee. The INS also found itself stuck with
thousands of Central Americans who could not be deported because Hurricane Mitch
had devastated their homelands. Moreover, Congress gave the agency $ 56 million
less for detention this year than the administration wanted, Meissner said.

But she said a new request for $ 80 million to pay for about 3,000 more
detention beds -- part of a nearly $ 1 billion emergency aid package for the
hurricane-ravaged countries -- should alleviate the problem. She said she also
plans to ask Congress for permission to reallocate funds from other enforcement
programs within the INS and the Justice Department "to ensure that INS will
continue to detain every alien subject to mandatory detention."

Democrats on the subcommittee said the law should be changed to ease the
mandatory detention requirements and give the INS more leeway to decide which
aliens can be released until deportation proceedings are complete. They said
many now being held are legal immigrants who were convicted years ago of minor
crimes that did not make them deportable at the time.

"The problem here is not detention space; it's the law," said Rep. Sheila
Jackson Lee (D-Tex.), the ranking minority member on the subcommittee.

Of the 16,400 INS detainees, a quarter to a third are legal residents and the
rest are illegal aliens, INS officials said. Although it is unclear how many are
relatively minor offenders who ordinarily should be freed, they said anecdotal
evidence suggests the number is probably less than 10 percent of the total.

Commissioner Doris M. Meissner says the INS will seek more funding. (Photo ran
in an earlier edition)



LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,AP

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              49 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 28, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Law Without Mercy (Cont'd)

Fred Hiatt

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 907 words


John Gaul III was adopted by American parents when he was 4 years old. He grew
up in New Jersey, North Carolina and Florida. He played basketball and attended
Baptist church. Though he was born in Thailand, he speaks no Thai, has no Thai
relatives, knows nothing of Thai culture and has never been back.

Never, that is, until last Monday. That's when the U.S. government deported him
to Thailand, declared that distant Asian country his home and -- sending shivers
through the wide community of international adoptions -- left him there to make
his own way. At age 25, Gaul had run afoul of anti-immigration laws Congress
passed in 1996 to crack down on crime. In 20 years, he will be eligible to apply
for readmission to the United States and be reunited with his father (an Air
Force sergeant) and mother (a night-shift respiratory therapist).

As in most such cases, Gaul's own law-breaking helped land him where he is. But
his story has a special poignancy, in part because he is also a victim of
government mistakes.

"In my opinion, the Immigration Service is totally to blame in this case,"
immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh opined back in 1997. But McHugh also ruled
that because Congress had eliminated any possibility of discretion in
deportation cases, he couldn't save Gaul from his fate.

The Gauls are just one of many families that have been ripped apart by the 1996
laws. Congress expanded the number of crimes for which a legal immigrant could
be deported to include minor theft or drug possession. It removed all judicial
discretion from the process: no more mercy for exceptional cases.

And it made the new laws retroactive, so that immigrants who had committed a
crime, paid the price and disclosed all to authorities suddenly found themselves
-- in some cases after years of peaceful, law-abiding living -- deportable and
deported.

The idea was to speed the expulsion of undesirables, and that goal has been
achieved. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has deported almost 300,000
people during the past two years, about double the previous two-year total. Most
of those deportees were people who shouldn't be here. But too many of them --
thousands, almost surely -- are getting a raw deal.

Gaul was one of the tens of thousands of babies and toddlers adopted by
Americans from overseas (there were about 14,000 such adoptions last year).
Neither they nor their parents think of themselves in any sense as immigrants.
He is Pam Gaul's only child, and she is "devastated," as she told the judge,
that he is being "taken from me."

The Gauls obtained an American birth certificate for John shortly after adopting
him and didn't realize until he was 17, when he applied for a passport, that he
had not been naturalized. They immediately filed papers. "The respondent's
paperwork was submitted on time," McHugh said, but the INS took forever. By the
time the government was ready, John had turned 18 and it was too late.

That's when Gaul got into trouble, joining a gang and eventually being convicted
of car theft and credit card fraud. He served 20 months in prison. Until he was
deported, he was working at an auto-parts shop and paying restitution.

Susan Cox, vice president of Holt International adoption agency, said she knows
of at least 10 other adoptees now in detention awaiting deportation, all of them
in their twenties or thirties, all of whose naturalizations somehow fell through
the cracks.

"I was adopted from Korea when I was 5, so I can identify," Cox says. "We don't
speak the language or know the culture. John will always be the outsider."

The expulsions strike Cox as "one more example of people not believing adoption
is as real as birth kids." She said the deportations also are making people
nervous in countries such as Korea and Thailand, where some officials always
doubted America would truly accept their orphans.

But it's not just adoptees. Elaine Lee, a U.S. citizen in Fairfax County, is
about to lose her husband, Davey, who immigrated from Taiwan when he was 8. Like
Gaul, Davey Lee committed crimes -- car theft, drunk-driving and shooting at a
stop sign in Loudoun County while drunk. But Davey changed after he met Elaine
in 1991. He stopped drinking. He supports their family -- her partially disabled
15-year-old son, their 3-year-old daughter. He hasn't been in trouble in years.

Under pre-1996 law, Lee would have been eligible for a waiver, and as the
husband and father of U.S. citizens, he would have stood a good chance. In fact,
he applied for a waiver way back in 1994. But the Justice Department sat on his
application until Congress passed the harsher laws -- and until Attorney General
Janet Reno ruled in 1997 that even the withdrawal of waiver authority should be
retroactive. Then the INS said Lee should be deported.

He hasn't been yet, because U.S. District Court Judge Joyce Hens Green disagreed
with what she called Reno's "creative but tortured reading" of the law. Judge
Green said Lee at least deserves to have his waiver request considered. The INS
is appealing.

"Well, it's your problem, you shouldn't have married him," one official told
Elaine Lee. Maybe most Americans would agree, but I doubt it. I think they would
want the law to allow for the possibility that once in a while people deserve a
second chance -- even people who weren't born in America.

The writer is a member of the editorial page staff.

LOAD-DATE: March 01, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              50 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 01, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

Should We Welcome Criminals?

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 447 words


"INS Weighs Plan to Free Criminals; Space Lacking," [news story, Feb. 4]
distorts the mandatory detention provision of immigration law. This provision
causes the detention of legal permanent residents with relatively minor or old
convictions who already have served a criminal sentence. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the American people would be better served if these
legal permanent residents could go before an immigration judge to prove they are
not a flight risk or threat and be granted a bond. The American families
dependent on these legal residents also would be better served if these income
providers were allowed to remain free on bond while fighting deportation. This
also would keep these families off government support.

Mandatory detention of nonviolent legal residents with past convictions goes too
far. It is an unnecessary financial burden to the United States to house these
people, and it is time Congress stop deceiving the American people into
believing these residents are all heinous criminals who, if not detained, pose a
threat to our society.

The solution is clear. Instead of building more detention facilities, amend the
mandatory detention provision of the immigration law and allow nonviolent legal
residents bond hearings.

LAURIE KOZUBA

Mesquite, Tex.

The Feb. 4 article does not focus on the real problem concerning the release of
criminal aliens from INS detention centers. As a former INS agent, I realize
that many of these aliens are arrested by the INS only after their release from
prison. Many may not have done any real jail time. These people are not held by
the INS because they pose a threat to the community; they are held to ensure
their appearance at subsequent deportation hearings. To say that the INS is
negligent for releasing these aliens into the community is to say that state and
federal governments are negligent for releasing them in the first place.

The real issue is the deportation procedure itself and the amount of time the
INS takes to remove individuals who have no right to remain in our country.
Deportation hearings are administrative, not criminal procedures. Criminal
aliens should not be afforded the endless number of waivers and appeals that can
delay and, more often than not, avert deportation. If individuals commit crimes
that violate their conditions of residence, they should be deported immediately
after their release from jail. The INS even could streamline the deportation
procedure by holding the deportation hearing while the person is in jail. Being
allowed to live in the United States is a privilege, not a right.

LEE BALDWIN

Bluemont, Va.


LOAD-DATE: March 01, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILL,,MARGARET SCOTT

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              51 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 10, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

High Court Leaves Tougher Deportation Laws in a Legal Limbo; Advocates Hail
Supreme Court Action as Victory for Immigrants' Rights

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 923 words


In hundreds of federal courtrooms across the country, immigrants and their
advocates are steadily chipping away at 1996 laws that promised a sweeping
crackdown on illegal aliens and the swift deportation of foreign criminals and
accused terrorists.

While many of those challenges remain unresolved, the advocates are hailing a
Supreme Court action this week as a key victory for immigrants' rights -- and a
setback for the government in a three-year crusade to step up the expulsions of
"criminal aliens."

"It's a vindication of the right to judicial review for immigrants," said Lucas
Guttentag, director of the immigrants' rights project of the American Civil
Liberties Union (ACLU). "It says that they, like everyone else, are entitled to
their day in court."

But the justices' refusal to hear government appeals of circuit court rulings in
three cases involving immigrants subject to deportation left a confusing
patchwork of lower-court decisions that effectively apply the laws in the
immigrants' favor in some jurisdictions and to their disadvantage in others.

Under challenge before federal judges are provisions of anti-terrorism and
immigration laws that, among other effects, sharply reduce the ability of
immigrants with criminal convictions to fight deportation orders in the courts.

Besides these objections to the laws' denial of judicial review, immigrants'
advocates are pressing cases aimed at overturning provisions that order
mandatory detention of certain deportable foreigners, apply new immigration
restrictions retroactively and expedite the removal of those who arrive without
proper documents.

Immigrants have won some significant legal victories, but their advocates say
they have a long way to go to eliminate what they regard as some of the harsher
effects of the 1996 immigration and anti-terrorism laws.

In the latest moves affecting immigrants' rights, the Supreme Court on Monday
refused to hear the government's appeals of rulings by the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the 1st and 2nd Circuits covering seven northeastern states, including New
York and Massachusetts. Those rulings allowed immigrants convicted of crimes to
ask federal courts to review their cases and intervene in their deportation
orders. The Supreme Court also vacated a similar decision by the 9th Circuit
Court of Appeals in San Francisco, sending it back for further consideration.

Supporters of tough enforcement of the 1996 immigration law were stunned by the
justices' orders, which left the nation's circuit courts split over how to apply
the provisions in question.

"It was very surprising to a lot of people who have been following these
issues," said an aide to Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), the chairman of the House
Judiciary panel's immigration subcommittee and a leading proponent of strict
enforcement.

Since the law took effect, more than 500 federal court cases have cited it in
some way, many of them substantively challenging its provisions, the aide said.

The law's opponents, on the other hand, hailed the Supreme Court action -- or
lack of it -- as a victory.

Guttentag of the ACLU said that by letting the circuit court rulings stand, the
Supreme Court implicitly "rejected the Clinton administration's efforts to make
harsh provisions even worse by applying them retroactively."

Justice Department officials said they are still studying the mixed signals from
the court and are not ready to concede defeat. Other analysts said the court may
be waiting for another case in which to take up the same issues. In any event,
they said, when the court rejects a case, it is not an endorsement of the lower
court ruling.

In the latest immigration cases, however, the court refused to accept the
Justice Department's arguments that the lower court rulings required immediate
reversal. Thus, the action could be seen as a blow to the administration's
efforts to speed up the deportation of immigrants accused of committing crimes
here.

T. Alexander Aleinikoff, a former top official of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service who now teaches law at Georgetown University, said many
members of Congress and the public have recognized that a series of 1996 laws
"went too far," not only on matters involving deportation but in denying welfare
benefits to legal immigrants.

"I think there's been a correction and a restoring of balance, but there's a lot
more work to be done," Aleinikoff said. "The courts, where they are finding
room, are trying to . . . soften some of the harshest aspects of the 1996
[immigration] law, but their ability to do so is rather significantly
constrained by Supreme Court cases that make congressional immigration laws
virtually unreviewable."

In other recent decisions, federal courts in Colorado and Oregon have held that
provisions requiring the "mandatory detention" of legal immigrants with prior
criminal convictions are unconstitutional because they violate due process. The
courts ruled that the immigrants at least have the right to a bail hearing.

But in another case involving detention issues, the Court of Appeals for the
11th Circuit covering Alabama, Florida and Georgia ruled in favor of the
government on jurisdictional grounds.

And in U.S. District Court here, the government prevailed against a challenge to
the immigration law's provision allowing the "expedited removal" of certain
arriving foreigners, including asylum-seekers who make claims deemed to be
false.

Staff writer Joan Biskupic contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              52 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 22, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Deportations for Petty Crimes

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 438 words


I write in response to the article by William Branigin and Gabriel Escobar about
the Immigration and Naturalization Service's deportations of criminals [front
page, April 12].

As a social service agency that works with immigrants and refugees, Lutheran
Social Services has seen the effect that the harsh new law and policy on
deportation of immigrants with criminal convictions has had on immigrant
families in the Washington area. Refugees, legal permanent residents and those
who have been granted asylum have seen family members deported, sometimes to
countries where they fear persecution, because of criminal offenses that are
sometimes minor.

For example, a Lutheran Social Services client, a divorced mother of three
children, is now in jail waiting to be deported to a war-torn African country
where she fears arrest and torture for her political beliefs. Her crime?
Shoplifting. She pled guilty to shoplifting several years ago and was given a
one-year suspended sentence. Under the new immigration law, a one-year sentence
for theft, even a suspended sentence, is a crime considered serious enough to
require automatic detention and eventual deportation, with almost no provision
for relief. Meanwhile, one of her children lives in foster care and visits her
mother once every week for the half-hour of visiting time that the jail allows;
the other children live with their father.

While this woman is in jail awaiting deportation, thousands of aliens who do
pose a danger to the community remain free, because INS does not have the
resources to detain and deport them all. Who bears the blame for this? The
Clinton administration blames Congress, and Congress blames the administration
and INS. In reality, all three bear some responsibility: Congress for passing
immigration laws that are too harsh to families and too difficult to enforce;
the Clinton administration for interpreting these laws in the harshest way
possible; and INS for failing to set sensible priorities in administering the
law.

Congress, the administration and the INS need to stop blaming one another to
make political points and to start looking in a rational way at the issue of
deportation of aliens with criminal convictions. As a nation, we need to balance
our need to maintain public safety with our desire to protect refugees and keep
families together. Only when all parties look at this issue rationally and
fairly can we have an effective policy on the removal of aliens with criminal
convictions.

CHRISTOPHER J. EINOLF

Asylum Advocate

Lutheran Social Services

Of the National Capital Area

Falls Church

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              53 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 27, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

Deporting Criminal Aliens

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A16; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 232 words


The news story "Rate of Deported Criminals Falls as Total Rises" [front page,
April 12] reads as if criminal alien removals are declining and are less of a
priority for the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) than in the past.
Nothing could be further from the truth.

The INS currently removes more than 1,000 criminal aliens each week. From 1993
through 1998 and into the first quarter of Fiscal Year 1999, the number of
criminals removed from the United States has more than doubled.

As criminal removal numbers have increased, non-criminal removal numbers have
increased at an even faster rate. This is because a new category of non-criminal
removals -- namely, expedited removals -- has been added to INS removal
statistics. Expedited removal, established by Congress as part of the Illegal
Immigration and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, allows the INS to remove
non-criminal aliens at ports of entry.

The article's comparison of 32 percent criminal removals in FY 1998, which
includes expedited removals, with 66 percent criminal removals in FY 1994, when
expedited removals did not exist, is a misleading and inappropriate comparison.
It misrepresents INS's successful efforts to keep our communities safe by
deporting criminal aliens in greater numbers every year.

DORIS MEISSNER

Commissioner

Immigration and Naturalization Service

Washington

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              54 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 30, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Charles Gordon Dies; Immigration Law Expert

Louie Estrada, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07; OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 318 words


Charles Gordon, 93, former general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and author of an authoritative 20-volume treatise on immigration law,
died of a kidney ailment April 28 at a hospital in Panama City, Fla. Mr. Gordon,
who lived in Potomac and Panama City, had been in ill health since a stroke in
1993.

Mr. Gordon, INS general counsel from 1966 to 1974, wrote "Immigration Law and
Procedure" in the late 1950s. He continued to publish annual supplements and
updates to the treatise until his stroke.

The text has been widely cited in court opinions and scholarly articles. In a
decision handed down in February, the Supreme Court majority opinion in the case
of American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee v. Reno quoted a long passage
from the treatise.

Mr. Gordon was born in New York and graduated with a law degree from New York
University. He joined the INS in 1939 and later served as a regional counsel.
While at the INS, he argued eight cases before the Supreme Court.

In 1974, he became a partner in the Washington firm of Gordon & Bryant. His
immigration cases there included a challenge of the interdiction of Haitian
refugees on the high seas.

Throughout his career, he was active in professional organizations advocating
the rights of immigrants and shaping of immigration law policy. He was past
chairman of American Bar Association's committees on immigration and
nationality.

For more than 20 years, he was an adjunct professor of law at Georgetown
University, teaching an advanced course on immigration law.

His honors and awards included the National Center for Immigrant Rights' Honor
Award for Exemplary Contributions to Immigration and Nationality Law.

Survivors include his wife of 59 years, Anne Gordon of Potomac and Panama City;
two children, Michael Gordon of Potomac and Ellen Gittel Gordon of Los Angeles;
and two grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              55 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 04, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

High Court Backs INS on Deportation; Serious Crimes Allowed as Asylum Bar

Joan Biskupic, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 681 words


The Supreme Court yesterday buttressed the federal government's authority to
deport political refugees who have committed crimes in their homelands,
regardless of the punishment they could face upon return.

The nine justices unanimously ruled against a Guatemalan protester who had set
buses on fire and beaten passengers, embracing a Justice Department view that
foreigners who have committed serious nonpolitical crimes outside the United
States are ineligible for asylum.

The justices reversed a lower court ruling that said immigration officials must
consider, among other factors, whether an alien's actions were "grossly out of
proportion to their political objective" and what torture, imprisonment or other
persecution the alien could suffer if deported.

Written by Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, the decision gave great deference to
immigration officials and how they handle asylum matters. The court said the
executive branch, rather than the federal bench, knows best how to carry out a
policy that could affect relations with other countries and have diplomatic
repercussions.

Such a view is consistent with past rulings giving the administration a strong
hand in deciding which foreigners find shelter here. But some critics said
yesterday's decision could hurt people who pose no real danger here but face
torture and even death at home.

Federal refugee law protects foreigners fleeing persecution in their home
country based on their political views. But the law bars relief for aliens who
have committed "a serious nonpolitical crime outside the United States" before
arriving here.

Juan Anibal Aguirre-Aguirre tried to fight deportation in 1994 by claiming that
his political activities in Guatemala, which included protesting the
government's abuse of students and its high bus fares, made him a government
target. An immigration judge ruled for him, but the Board of Immigration Appeals
reversed, focusing on Aguirre-Aguirre's burning of buses, assaults on passengers
and vandalism, which it characterized as serious nonpolitical crimes.

Yesterday the Supreme Court upheld that approach, saying that the "plain
language" of refugee law does not require immigration officials who are looking
at an applicant's wrongdoing to weigh whether he will be subject to persecution
if he returns home.

"The BIA, in effect, found [Aguirre-Aguirre] ineligible . . . even on the
assumption he could establish a threat of persecution," Kennedy wrote. "This
approach is consistent with the language and purposes of the statute."

The refugee rule stemmed from a United Nations protocol three decades ago. The
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees warned in a "friend of the court"
brief that a ruling against Aguirre-Aguirre could affect how dozens of other
countries that signed the protocol treat those fleeing persecution.

"It is cause for major concern," said Daniel Wolf, a lawyer who wrote the brief
on behalf of the U.N. high commissioner. He asserted yesterday that the ruling
could hurt any refugees coming out of Kosovo who may have had to engage in
criminal wrongdoing to escape.

But Nadine K. Wettstein, who represented Aguirre-Aguirre, said she did not think
the ruling would have such broad impact. She noted that any asylum application
still begins with a determination of whether the individual faces persecution in
his home country and whether any potential wrongdoing was more of a political or
criminal nature.

"The Supreme Court is not giving the government a license to reject everyone's
asylum claim on this basis," she said of Immigration and Naturalization Service
v. Aguirre-Aguirre.

Separately the justices said they would decide next term whether police have
grounds to stop and question a person based on the fact that the person began
running at the sight of the police.

The justices took up an appeal of an Illinois Supreme Court ruling (Illinois v.
Wardlow) that police officers patrolling a high-crime area are not justified in
stopping someone just because he suddenly and without provocation runs away.

LOAD-DATE: May 04, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              56 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 20, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Immigration Rules to Be Eased For Salvadorans, Guatemalans

William Branigin; Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A27; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 781 words


Long-awaited regulations that the Clinton administration plans to announce today
will make it easier for nearly a quarter-million Salvadorans and
Guatemalans--thousands of them in the Washington area--to obtain legal status in
the United States, according to officials familiar with the new rules.

The regulations, in the works at the Immigration and Naturalization Service for
the past year and a half, will allow illegal immigrants from El Salvador and
Guatemala who are covered by a previous class action lawsuit to apply to remain
in this country through a new, simplified procedure outside a courtroom. Their
cases will normally be decided by INS asylum officers, rather than immigration
judges, and a key test of eligibility--proving that deportation would result in
"extreme hardship"--will effectively be eased, the sources said.

In the Washington area, where more Salvadorans have settled than any other city
but Los Angeles and possibly New York, at least 35,000 and perhaps as many as
50,000 people may benefit from the new rules, according to community leaders. If
so, the group would account for more than one in 10 of the region's Hispanic
residents.

Immigrants' rights groups and advocates for local Central Americans hailed the
impending announcement as a major step toward their full acceptance.

"It's a good day for the community," said Saul Solorzano, director of the
Central American Resource Center in the District.

"It's not amnesty," said Clare Cherkasky, director of Hogar Hispano, a Falls
Church-based organization that provides services to immigrants, "but it's the
closest thing to amnesty that these people have ever had."

"This new program is consistent with the commitment that President Clinton made
when he visited Central America in March" and reflects the will of Congress, an
administration official said.

Immigration "restrictionists," who strongly oppose illegal entry and favor
reducing immigration, denounced the rules as a duplicitous move by the
administration.

A de facto amnesty for hundreds of thousands of Central Americans is "not what
Congress intended," said Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House
Judiciary immigration subcommittee. "Amnesty rewards those who break the law and
encourages more illegal immigration."

The regulations implement a section of the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central
American Relief Act passed in November 1997. That law was aimed primarily at
easing the impact of a 1996 immigration law on Central Americans who had fled
their war-ravaged and impoverished homelands in the 1980s or early 1990s and
entered the United States illegally.

The act granted amnesty to about 155,000 Nicaraguans and Cubans but offered less
generous, case-by-case relief to about 300,000 Salvadorans, Guatemalans and
Eastern Europeans. They had been allowed to apply for "suspension of
deportation"--a first step toward legal status--under the less restrictive rules
that existed before the 1996 law toughened requirements. That meant they still
had to prove individually that they had lived in the United States continuously
for at least seven years, had "good moral character" and would suffer "extreme
hardship" if deported.

Since the act was passed, immigrants' advocates and their backers in Congress
have argued that the Salvadorans and Guatemalans should be presumed to have met
the difficult-to-prove "extreme hardship" test. Opponents said such a "blanket
presumption" would violate the law.

Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.), an advocate for the Central Americans, said
the rules apparently fall "somewhere in between" the opposing sides' positions.

In trying to split the difference, the INS has opted for what officials call a
"rebuttable presumption of extreme hardship" for at least 190,000 Salvadorans
and 50,000 Guatemalans who entered the United States before October 1990 and
have been protected since then by a class action lawsuit. The suit charged that
the government discriminated against them in rejecting their asylum claims
because they had fled from countries with U.S.-backed governments.

Under the new rules, the Salvadorans and Guatemalans will be given a brief
questionnaire in which they will be asked if they have family in the United
States, a job and ties to the community, sources said. If they answer yes, they
will be presumed to meet the hardship test. But the INS will have the option of
rebutting an application and contesting it in court.

"It shifts the burden a little bit away from the applicant having to prove
hardship and puts the onus more on the INS if they choose to disprove the
hardship," said a source familiar with the rules.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              57 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 28, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Marlene Cooke Reprieved During Deportation Fight

Bill Miller, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 459 words


Marlene Ramallo Cooke, widow of Washington Redskins owner Jack Kent Cooke, can
remain in the United States for at least four more months while her attorneys
keep fighting the Justice Department over plans to deport her.

Cooke and her attorneys appeared in U.S. District Court in Washington yesterday
to argue that U.S. immigration authorities have no legal right to return her to
her native Bolivia. Government lawyers argued otherwise and urged Judge Emmet G.
Sullivan to dismiss her lawsuit immediately.

Sullivan, however, said he was not inclined to reject Cooke's claim so quickly.
He ordered attorneys on both sides to submit briefs during the summer. A
follow-up hearing is scheduled for Oct. 1. Meanwhile, Cooke can stay in the
country.

Cooke, who gained prominence during her sometimes tumultuous marriage to Jack
Kent Cooke, declined comment on her latest legal strategy, as did one of her
attorneys, Lynda Schuler.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service wants to deport Cooke, citing her
1986 guilty plea to a charge of conspiracy to distribute cocaine. Because she
was not a U.S. citizen, the conviction subjected her to deportation procedures.
Cooke contends that the government promised in 1988 not to deport her in return
for her help in narcotics investigations. Both sides agreed that Cooke's
cooperation helped lock up major drug dealers.

But in court yesterday, the Justice Department's Mary Jane Candaux said Cooke
was supposed to remain in the United States only until the drug investigations
were completed. Once that was over, in 1992, the INS acted to deport her. If
anyone from the Drug Enforcement Administration made promises beyond that,
Candaux said, they were "contrary to law" and not binding.

The two sides have gone back and forth over the issue in previous court
proceedings. Cooke earlier filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court contending
that she had a "contract" to stay in the United States. A federal judge ruled in
her favor in 1996, but the decision was reversed by the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the D.C. Circuit. The Supreme Court declined in March to hear that case.

Cooke and the INS also are fighting before the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
in Richmond over administrative procedures used by the INS in its efforts to
deport her. Candaux contended that the Richmond court is the proper forum for
Cooke's legal challenges and accused her of "shopping" around for a favorable
decision.

The latest Washington lawsuit, filed in March, alleges that deportation would be
an extreme violation of Cooke's constitutional rights to due process. Cooke's
attorneys contend that she has no chance of survival if returned to Bolivia
because of her cooperation in the drug investigations.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              58 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 05, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

Court Rules INS Can Revoke Fraudulently Obtained Citizenships

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 4


Federal immigration authorities can revoke an immigrant's naturalized
citizenship if it was obtained by fraud, a federal appeals court ruled today.

The 2 to 1 ruling by a panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned
the decision of a Seattle judge who said the power of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to revoke citizenship for fraud was open to serious
question.

The case arose from a class action lawsuit that challenged the INS's authority
to revoke the citizenship of immigrants who failed to disclose their past
arrests. The immigrants argued that only a court could revoke their citizenship.

A 1990 law authorized the INS to grant citizenship to qualified immigrants, a
power that was previously handled by the courts. But the INS said the power to
grant citizenship included the power to revoke it as well, although that was not
expressly stated in the wording of the statute.

Today, the appellate panel said the power to revoke was implicit in the power to
naturalize.

The INS adopted the rules in 1996 after the agency conducted a study of the 1
million persons granted citizenship between August 1995 and September 1996. The
study found that about 6,300 persons allegedly lied or failed to inform the INS
about prior arrests. However, the agency acknowledged that only 369 of those
people had committed crimes that would have made them ineligible for
citizenship.

Proponents of the new policy said that lying under oath -- as most of those
targeted under the new program were accused of doing -- should disqualify
applicants from the privileges of citizenship.

But immigrant advocates said that the new program violated their clients'
constitutional right not to testify against themselves and in numerous instances
unfairly targeted people for innocent or minor mistakes.

The INS had instituted 2,722 denaturalization proceedings under the program and
had revoked the citizenship of 16 people at the time U.S. District Judge Barbara
J. Rothstein issued her injunction. The agency had another 1,900 cases under
review at that time. Those can now go forward.

Jonathan S. Franklin, a lawyer for the immigrants, said he would appeal by
asking for a hearing before the full appeals court. The case affects about 4,500
people.

"Citizenship is among a person's most cherished rights," he said. "This is the
first time any court has ever held that the INS may take that right away on its
own, without going before a judge."

INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said the agency was pleased with the decision.
"We feel that the administrative denaturalization process is less cumbersome
than the existing judicial denaturalization process."

LOAD-DATE: June 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              59 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 05, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

Court Declares U.S. Can Deport Cuban Spy

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 4


An immigration court has ruled that a Cuban who admitted spying for his homeland
may be deported from the United States, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service said today.

The U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals ruled that Jorge Luis-Rodriguez, a Cuban
citizen arrested in April 1996 by FBI and INS agents in Miami, could be deported
under laws barring "any activity to violate any law of the United States related
to espionage."

The INS said Luis was an agent of the Cuban Intelligence Service. When he was
arrested, authorities said he was holding instructions from his superiors and
the names of several Cubans living in the United States identified as members of
a well-known exile group opposed to the government of Fidel Castro.

They said the documents were written on water-soluble paper and concealed in a
wallet with a secret compartment.

In a news release, the immigration service said Luis admitted in subsequent
interviews that he was an intelligence agent.

An immigration judge dismissed the deportation case in 1996, saying that Luis
was not secretly gathering sensitive or defense-related information. But the INS
appealed, saying he violated the U.S. Foreign Registration Act, which focuses on
espionage, making him subject to deportation.

The Board of Immigration Appeals sustained the INS's appeal.

The INS said the ruling is binding on immigration courts throughout the United
States and called it a significant victory that expands the government's ability
to deport aliens involved in espionage-related activities.

LOAD-DATE: June 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              60 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 12, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

5 Iraqis to Be Freed Pending Deportation

Vernon Loeb, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 525 words


Five of eight Iraqi dissidents imprisoned near Los Angeles for the past two
years because they were deemed national security threats will be freed and
allowed to live and work indefinitely in the United States pending deportation,
according to an agreement filed yesterday.

The eight were airlifted out of northern Iraq in 1996 after participating in
CIA-financed efforts to topple President Saddam Hussein, but were imprisoned in
March 1997 after they arrived in the United States. An immigration judge ordered
their deportation in March 1998 on the basis of secret evidence alleging ties to
foreign intelligence agencies, including those of Iraq.

The Iraqis' embittering odyssey through the U.S. justice system garnered
headlines last year when former director of central intelligence R. James
Woolsey signed onto their legal defense team, pro bono, calling the imprisonment
of Iraqi anti-government fighters on the basis of secret evidence a "stain" on
America's honor.

Under the agreement between their attorneys and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS), the five Iraqis will be confined to Lincoln, Neb.,
where four of their families have been resettled by the government, pending
deportation to one of 74 countries where the Iraqis believe they can live
safely.

As part of the settlement, the five have agreed to waive all further appeals,
admitting that they are in the United States without proper visas. The INS, in
turn, agreed to vacate the finding of an immigration judge, since overturned on
appeal, that the Iraqis represented threats to national security.

Three other Iraqi opposition members have until July 9 to accept the same
arrangement and join the others in Nebraska. Fully litigating their claim for
political asylum and, ultimately, U.S. citizenship, could take years, their
attorneys said.

Woolsey called the agreement "less than a full victory" but said his clients
will be released from jail within two weeks and have admitted to no wrongdoing
beyond the visa violation. "The reason they're here without a visa is not that
they snuck in -- it's that the INS wouldn't give them one when it brought them
here," Woolsey said.

Woolsey said the government's practice of using secret evidence against people
it has brought to the United States for political asylum without allowing review
by their attorneys "is an abomination -- and that practice has to be changed."

Woolsey called the secret evidence used against his clients "junk" and denied
that any of them were Iraqi spies or threats to national security. Much of the
secret evidence, released by the government last year after U.S. officials
determined it never should have been classified in the first place, consisted of
interview notes filed by FBI agents.

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., an INS spokesman, said the agreement freeing the Iraqis
"is in no way an admission by the U.S. government that these men were not
threats to U.S. national security."

Bergeron said he did not know how long it will take the government to find
countries willing to accept the Iraqi opposition members and their families for
permanent resettlement.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              61 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 20, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Abused Woman Is Denied Asylum; Immigration Ruling Reflects Split Over Gender
Persecution

Fredric N. Tulsky, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1649 words


A foreign woman fleeing a violently abusive spouse cannot gain asylum in the
United States even if she faces a direct and serious threat of harm in her home
country, a federal immigration panel has ruled in a case that is drawing
protests from asylum advocates and women's groups.

The decision this month by a sharply divided Board of Immigration Appeals, the
Justice Department panel that sets and interprets U.S. immigration policy,
reflects a growing philosophical tension within the immigration system over how
to treat women's claims of gender persecution.

Since issuing guidelines intended to recognize gender-based persecution under
U.S. asylum laws, the federal government has sent mixed signals about whether
women fleeing persecution from their husbands -- as opposed to persecution by a
government -- should be allowed to seek refuge here.

The subject in the case, Rodi Alvarado Pen a, now 33, was abused for years by
her husband in Guatemala in ways that U.S. officials agree were horrific. Her
husband, a former soldier, beat her unconscious, raped her and kicked her so
badly she hemorrhaged, she has told authorities. He broke windows and mirrors
with her head, pistol-whipped her and threatened her with a machete.

Alvarado attempted suicide and vainly sought protection from Guatemalan police
and courts, who told her it was a private matter. Finally, Alvarado said, in
despera tion she fled Guatemala and sought protection in the United States. An
immigration judge granted her asylum claim in September 1996.

But in its 10 to 5 decision, the Board of Immigration Appeals ruled that
Alvarado does not qualify for asylum under U.S. immigration policy. The board
found she had not proven that she suffered persecution under any of the five
categories enumerated under international and U.S. law: race, religion,
nationality, political opinion or membership in a social group.

The majority's opinion reflects the caution that many immigration judges and
U.S. officials feel about allowing new categories of eligible asylum seekers
that would open the floodgates to large numbers of new claims by people seeking
residence in the United States.

Already, U.S. immigration courts wrestle routinely with the difficulties of
evaluating evidence of government persecution claims presented by asylum seekers
whose experiences and travels pose huge challenges of documentation and
corroboration. A new category of claims involving domestic violence would impose
further burdens on the immigration courts.

With persecution based on gender status emerging as a relatively new area of
asylum law, the board's majority said that it would be up to Congress to step in
and provide more detailed guidance about how new standards should be applied.

But the five dissenting appeals board members contended that the board's
decision not to recognize domestic abuse victims in Guatemala as a social group
"cannot be reconciled either with the reality of the respondent's situation in
Guatemala, or with U.S. law." They said the United States has an obligation to
protect those who fear harm because of "some fundamental aspect of their
identity."

U.S. asylum policies offer protection for refugees who demonstrate a "credible
fear" of persecution if they are sent home. But they must show that their
persecutor is either the government itself or someone the government is unable
or unwilling to control. The persecution must be on account of one of the five
enumerated grounds.

In Alvarado's case, the board majority said in the June 11 decision that
resolution of her spousal abuse claim "does not lie in our asylum laws as they
are currently formulated."

The case illustrates the latest zigzag in U.S. immigration policies toward
women. In 1995, the Immigration and Naturalization Service first issued
guidelines intended to recognize gender-based persecution under the asylum laws.
But asylum advocates contend that the guidelines have been erratically applied
and interpreted.

The guidelines are not binding on the immigration judges, who work for a sister
agency within the Justice Department. The board majority concluded at any rate
that the guidelines do not resolve whether domestic violence victims are a
protected social group.

The board factions split over whether the majority was departing from the
reasoning that it used in overturning an immigration judge and granting asylum
in 1997 to Fauziya Kasinga, who said she faced female genital mutilation if
returned to Togo. The board ruled then that women who opposed the practice were
singled out for persecution because of their opposition. In contrast, the
majority said in Alvarado's case, Guatemalan women were not singled out because
they opposed domestic violence.

"The record in this case reflects that the views of society and of many
governmental institutions in Guatemala can result in the tolerance of spousal
abuse at levels we find appalling," states the majority opinion, written by
board member Lauri S. Filppu. "The record also shows that abusive marriages are
not viewed as desirable, that spousal abuse is recognized as a problem, and that
some measures have been pursued in an attempt to respond to this acknowledged
problem."

The INS does not tally asylum claims by sex, but says that 20,459 people applied
between last October and May, and 8,028 were granted protection during that
period.

Women's rights advocates condemned the Alvarado decision. San Francisco attorney
Jane Kroesche, who represents Alvarado, on Thursday said she plans to appeal to
federal court. While the Board of Immigration Appeals is the highest
administrative authority for asylum cases in the federal system, its decisions
can be appealed directly to the U.S. Appeals Court.

"She suffered prolonged torture, and did everything in her country she could to
help herself," Kroesche said. "At great sacrifice, she left behind her country,
her family and her children, knowing she might not see them again. If she is not
protected, what kind of woman would be?"

Karen Musalo, resident scholar at the University of California at Hastings, who
was Kasinga's attorney and who advised Kroesche, called the similarities in the
cases "striking."

"What is so distressing is that the board seems either to have not understood
its decision in Kasinga, or is refusing to apply its own principles," she said.

Maria T. Cardona, INS spokeswoman, said Friday, "The INS is absolutely committed
to gender protection where the claims can be supported by law." But Cardona
added that defining a "social group is complicated, and is a difficult legal
standard."

U.S. officials do not dispute Alvarado's account of brutal treatment by her
husband. "We struggle to describe how deplorable we find the husband's conduct
to have been," the board majority wrote.

In an interview conducted through a translator, Alvarado, now a maid in San
Francisco, recounted in Spanish how the abuse began when she was a 16-year-old
newlywed and continued throughout 11 years of marriage. The couple has a
12-year-old daughter and 6-year-old son, now living with relatives in Guatemala.

"Some nights I don't sleep at all," she said. "I think of all that has happened.
I'm very sure if I were not here, I would be dead."

Usually her husband put the children in the yard while he abused her, she said.
But once, when she tried to take the children and flee to a new house, she said,
he tracked them down and beat her unconscious in front of them.

On occasion, she called the police and even filed a formal complaint. But she
said she was told that "he was my husband. They couldn't insert themselves in
the matter of a couple." The courts told her the same thing.

She said she tried to take an overdose of pills. When she was revived, she said,
her husband told her that she was not going to die or leave him. "You're going
to stay here, even without any feet or any arms," she quotes him as telling her.
Finally, she waited until her children were away in May 1995, got on a bus and
left for good. She ended up in San Francisco with no money or knowledge of the
United States, she said.

Just days after Alvarado's arrival in the United States, INS issued its gender
guidelines. The guidelines warned that female refugees might fear authority
figures during questioning and that sexually abused women "may appear numb . . .
or show emotional passivity."

Alvarado's asylum claim was granted by Immigration Judge Mimi S. Yam of San
Francisco in 1996, but the INS promptly appealed. It said she did not fall under
one of the five protected categories under the law.

Deborah Anker, head of Harvard University's immigration and refugee clinic, said
Thursday that the appeals board decision was contrary to a growing body of
international authority.

"Gender is an immutable characteristic, and persecution on account of gender
violates the most fundamental rights that the Refugee Convention was clearly
intended to address," she said, referring to the 1951 international agreement on
which U.S. asylum law is based.

Even as they issued the decision, the board majority acknowledged the possible
danger facing Alvarado if she returned home.

"The respondent in this case has been terribly abused and has a genuine and
reasonable fear of returning to Guatemala," the opinion says.

Nevertheless, the majority concluded that "the solution to the respondent's
plight" does not exist in U.S. asylum laws "as they are currently formulated."

The dissent, written by board member John Guendelsberger, contends that the
majority opinion is contrary to U.S. law, prior board decisions and federal
court decisions.

"The respondent has a fundamental right to protection from abuse based on
gender," the dissenting opinion states. Rodi Alvarado Pen a says years of
violent abuse by her husband led her to flee Guatemala.


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, STEVE CASTILLO FOR TWP

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              62 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                June 24, 1999, Thursday, Saturday, Final Edition

Families With Mixed Citizenship On the Rise

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 394 words


One in 10 children in the United States lives in a family of "mixed immigration
status" in which at least one parent is a foreign national and one child is a
U.S. citizen, according to a new study by the Urban Institute.

The large number of these "mixed-status families," which surprised researchers
of the Washington-based think tank, reflects high immigration levels in recent
years, the U.S. tradition of birthright citizenship and the tendency of
immigrants to have more children than the native-born. "The prevalence of so
many mixed-status families suggests that recent welfare and illegal-immigration
reforms limiting the rights and benefits of noncitizen adults are affecting a
large number of the nation's U.S. citizen children who live in the same houses
and eat at the same tables," said Wendy Zimmerman, co-author of the Urban
Institute study.

According to the study, entitled "All Under One Roof: Mixed-Status Families in
an Era of Reform," 75 percent of children in immigrant families nationwide are
U.S. citizens.

Mixed-status families are especially common in California and New York, two
states with high concentrations of immigrants, the study found. In Los Angeles,
47 percent of all children live in mixed-status families, it concluded. In New
York City, 27 percent live in such families.

According to Michael Fix, the study's other author, use of welfare benefits has
dropped much more sharply among mixed families than among U.S. citizen families
with comparable incomes. He attributed this in part to "confusion" about welfare
reform among noncitizen parents and fear that use of welfare by their citizen
children would adversely affect their own immigration status.

Critics of the current high immigration levels said the report ignores a
fundamental policy issue -- the admission by the United States of large numbers
of poor, unskilled immigrants who are ill-equipped to compete in a modern
economy and thus likely to resort to welfare.

"The important question is not how these immigrant families are faring in the
welfare system, but rather why our immigration policy is admitting so many poor
people in the first place," said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for
Immigration Studies here. He said he views the study as a "tool in the lobbying
campaign to reinstate welfare eligibility for noncitizens."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              63 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  June 25, 1999, Friday, Sunday, Final Edition

Protesters Demand Immigration Amnesty

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 659 words


Hundreds of Central American immigrants from the Washington area and beyond
staged a colorful demonstration in Lafayette Square yesterday to urge the U.S.
government to grant all refugees who fled civil war and poverty in the region
the same amnesty given to Cuban and Nicaraguan immigrants two years ago.

Waving flags from several countries and chanting slogans demanding "Residencia,"
they called on Congress to allow Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Hondurans to apply
for permanent residency under the same generous terms it set for Cubans and
Nicaraguans.

Although the left-wing Sandinista regime fell in 1990, lingering Cold War
attitudes led lawmakers to grant an outright amnesty to immigrants from
Nicaragua, as well as from Cuba, while offering less generous relief to refugees
from Central American nations that once had U.S.-backed governments.

"It's not fair," said Milagro Perez, 36, a Salvadoran cook at Afterwords Cafe in
Dupont Circle, who took her 7-year-old son, Jimmy, to the rally. "We all have
the same needs. We all have the same problems."

During Central America's civil wars of the 1980s and early 1990s, more people
from that region settled in the Washington area than in any other except the Los
Angeles area. Central Americans are now, by far, the Washington area's largest
immigrant population. But tens of thousands of them live in fear of deportation.
Many have been granted permission to work but not to stay permanently; others
are here illegally.

Last month, the Clinton administration issued regulations making it easier for
as many as 50,000 Salvadorans and Guatemalans in the area to become permanent
residents, including many who had been in legal limbo for as long as 15 years.
But the measure did not apply to many others, including those who immigrated
here illegally after 1991.

The administration indicated in May that it would support legislation to grant
all Central Americans the same blanket amnesty that Congress granted Nicaraguans
and Cubans who entered the country before 1995. But activists said yesterday
that they are still waiting for Clinton to push a bill.

"We haven't seen anything concrete that we can take to Congress," said Saul
Solorzano, director of the Central American Resource Center in the District.
"It's a bad precedent for us, as Americans, to have this practice of dividing
people based on their perceived ideological differences. That's not what America
is about."

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who is pushing his own bill to help the
immigrants, told the crowd that White House officials had assured him that they
remain committed to "equal treatment" for all Central Americans. He said as many
as 600,000 Central American and Haitian immigrants would benefit.

But Allen Kay, spokesman for Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House
Judiciary immigration subcommittee, dismissed the plan. He said Salvadoran and
Guatemalan immigrants already have been granted "everything they asked for" when
they sued the U.S. government in the late 1980s.

Juan Escobar, 26, a Guatemalan immigrant who works at a Delaware poultry plant,
said he traveled to the rally to make a statement. "We want equal justice for
our people," he said. "We'll keep coming until they hear us."

Felix Castillo, 33, a Salvadoran waiter who works at two Silver Spring
restaurants, said he fled from leftist guerrillas during the civil war in 1988
while others fled from U.S.-backed government forces. "But we all suffered
through the same situation, so it's only fair for us all to be treated the
same," he said.

The Honduran flag is reflected in the glasses of Christina Miranda at the rally,
which brought out many Hondurans, Salvadorans and Guatemalans. Central Americans
rally in Lafayette Square for more relaxed immigration laws. Demonstrators say
all immigrants from the region should receive the same sort of amnesty granted
to Cuban and Nicaraguan immigrants.


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, GERALD MARTINEAU

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              64 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 4, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Judge Orders INS to Accept Amnesty Pleas

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


In a case that could affect tens of thousands of people, a federal judge Friday
ordered U.S. immigration officials to accept applications for legal status from
immigrants who were abroad during an amnesty period in the 1980s.

The written ruling by U.S. District Judge William Keller came in a class action
lawsuit filed by the applicants, who were rejected by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service because they had left the country during the May 1987 to
May 1988 amnesty period authorized by Congress.

Lawyers for the immigrants, who filed the lawsuit in 1987, hailed Keller's
decision, but said they expect the INS to appeal.

"After 10 years of litigation, we are excited that tens of thousands of families
may finally emerge from their underground status," said Peter Schey, an attorney
with the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law, which represented the
class of immigrants.

Schey said some 2 million immigrants applied for amnesty during the one-year
application period, including those who had traveled briefly outside the United
States during that time.

An INS spokesman in Washington, Russ Bergeron, said his agency would have to
review the ruling before deciding whether to appeal.

The amnesty applied to immigrants who had maintained a continuous residence in
the United States from 1982 to 1987, with brief travel abroad permitted.

When the INS refused to consider applications by those who had left the country
during the one-year window, that group of immigrants sued, and the issue has
been in litigation for more than a decade.

"Defendants shall accept and adjudicate applications for legalization . . . of
plaintiff class members who attempted to file a completed application and
application fee with the INS during the [amnesty] period," Keller wrote in his
ruling. "Plaintiff class members whose standing claims are denied by the INS and
whose applications for legalization the agency will not voluntarily adjudicate
shall be advised in writing of the individualized reasons why they lack
standing," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 04, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              65 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 4, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Asylum Denied For Abused Girl; Ruling of Appeals Panel Is Assailed

Fredric N. Tulsky, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1146 words


A 16-year-old Mexican girl who says she endured a lifetime of abuse from her
father is not entitled to asylum in the United States under current immigration
laws and must be returned home, a federal immigration appeals board ruled last
month in overturning a judge's asylum grant.

The June 17 decision by a three-judge Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) panel
demonstrates again the panel's reluctance to read too broadly the laws governing
asylum. But some advocates argue that it offers another example of the
immigration system's insensitivity toward the special problems of children and
women who flee to the United States seeking protection.

The Justice Department in recent years has recognized that both unaccompanied
minors and adult women may suffer unique forms of persecution in foreign
countries that qualify them for asylum. Just last year, in wrestling with the
special circumstances posed by minors, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS) adopted guidelines recognizing "the inherent vulnerability of
children." Minors, the guidelines state, are often "at the mercy of adults who
may inflict harm without viewing it as such, sometimes to such a degree of
severity that it may constitute persecution."

An administrative judge, after hearing evidence of domestic abuse in Mexico and
the failure of police to address it, granted asylum to the Mexican girl. The
judge determined that she was part of a "social group" entitled to protection
under U.S. asylum law. The law provides for asylum to be granted only to
foreigners who can prove they face persecution in their homelands because of
race, religion, political affiliation, national origin or social group.

The appeals panel rejected the judge's determination, although it did not
question the girl's account of long-term parental abuse.

The panel decision, which was not published and is not considered a legal
precedent, came one week after the full board overturned an asylum grant to Rodi
Alvarado Pena, a Guatemalan woman who said she fled to the United States after
she was raped and pistol-whipped by her husband. Asylum rights activists say the
two rulings undercut the system's ability to protect the vulnerable.

"We now may be entering the dark ages for the adjudication of gender- and
aged-based persecution cases," Wendy Young, staff attorney for the Women's
Commission for Refugee Women and Children, said last week of the two BIA
decisions.

INS officials said last week it is premature to conclude there is a developing
trend that restricts the rights of persecuted women and children. The officials,
who spoke on condition that they not be named, said that area of the law is
complex and outcomes may vary depending on the facts of the case.

The latest decision heightens the controversy over the board's reluctance to add
protections for children and women who are victims of domestic violence rather
than political, ethnic or religious persecution. The board's action comes as
officials in Canada, Britain and other countries have expanded their laws to
include such protections, and it cited an earlier BIA decision.

Young said the Justice Department is "sending mixed signals" on the protections
it will offer abuse victims. "The department issued gender and children
guidelines, but the issues addressed in those guidelines are now being ignored
in these decisions," she said.

The Mexican girl, whose name was not revealed in documents reviewed for this
report, used a relative's passport to enter the United States last year and was
detained in Los Angeles. She told authorities that from the time she was 3 years
old her father had beaten her with whips, tree branches, his fists and a hose.
The beatings caused her to be knocked unconscious, she said, and left her with
scars and a dislocated elbow.

Often, she contended, the beatings occurred when she tried to intervene in
beatings her father was inflicting on her mother. She said her mother told her
not to turn to the police.

At issue in the recent cases is the extent to which U.S. asylum law--which
derives from international agreements reached in Geneva in 1951--protects
foreign citizens from persecution. The law offers refuge to people who have a
well-founded fear of being persecuted back home because they fall into the five
categories.

The new decision highlights the conflicts within the Justice Department over how
liberally to interpret asylum law. In 1995, the INS first issued guidelines
intended to establish a policy that recognizes forms of persecution suffered
specifically by women, including rape and domestic abuse. Guidelines dealing
specifically with children were issued in October.

In 1997, the BIA issued a precedent-setting ruling, granting asylum to a Togo
woman named Fauziya Kasinga who said she faced female genital mutilation if
forced to return home. The BIA determined that she was part of a "social group"
of female tribe members who oppose genital mutilation.

But the BIA, in both of its recent rulings, said that it did not interpret the
INS guidelines--which are not binding on the BIA--as resolving the issue of
whether women or minors could be considered a "social group" entitled to asylum
under the law.

In Alvarado's case, the full board refused to identify the social group as
women, or even--as the immigration judge had done--as Guatemalan women living
under male domination. Officials did not contest Alvarado's testimony that she
was raped and beaten unconscious by her husband, and that Guatemalan police
would not intervene.

Jane Kroesche, Alvarado's attorney, said this week that she was hoping to
persuade Attorney General Janet Reno to intervene and overturn the BIA decision.
Such intervention is rare. The law permits the INS commissioner, the BIA board
or its chairman to ask for such a review; the attorney general also could
undertake the review on her own.

Kroesche also is preparing to appeal to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. That
circuit covers the westernmost states, and any decision there would cover only
that region; Reno, on the other hand, could change policy nationwide.

The Alvarado decision affects all pending asylum cases. Even before the Alvarado
case, INS officials had been cautious about granting asylum in domestic violence
cases if no additional factors, such as a woman's religion or politics, were
involved.

Attorneys representing asylum seekers said they feel discouraged.

"I've got two women with incredibly strong facts whose cases the INS has been
sitting on," said Nancy Kelly of Greater Boston Legal Services Corp., who helped
write the gender guidelines enacted by the INS. Kelly fears that the Alvarado
case "will only make it more difficult to win these cases."

Unlike the Mexican girl, Fauziya Kasinga of Togo gained asylum as part of a
"social group" covered by the law.


LOAD-DATE: July 04, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, BILL O'LEARY

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              66 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 15, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Plan Would Split INS Into 2 Units; House Proposal Generates Opposition

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 613 words


Picking up where they left off last year, a bipartisan group of House members is
again seeking to abolish the beleaguered immigration service and separate its
service and enforcement functions.

A bill that lawmakers plan to introduce today would break up the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and create two bureaus in the Justice Department to
replace it. A Bureau of Immigration Services would process applications for
visas, U.S. citizenship, asylum, refugee status and other benefits. A separate
Bureau of Immigration Enforcement would oversee the Border Patrol, inspections
at airports and other entry points, investigations, detentions and deportations.

Sponsored by Reps. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.) and Silvestre
Reyes (D-Tex.), the bill is the latest in a series of proposals to reform the
INS, a 31,000-employee agency that they charge is "overwhelmed" by its
"conflicting responsibilities." Rogers and Smith respectively chair the House
Appropriations and Judiciary subcommittees with jurisdiction over the INS. Reyes
is a former Border Patrol sector chief.

Rogers and Reyes last year advanced separate bills to reorganize the INS, but
the proposals fell by the wayside during the debate over impeaching President
Clinton.

The INS has crafted its own reorganization program aimed in part at heading off
more drastic proposals. It plans to set up separate structures to administer
benefits and enforcement, but keep them under the same INS roof within the
Justice Department.

Maria Echaveste, White House deputy chief of staff, said the administration "is
absolutely committed to fundamental change in the way the INS conducts its
business" and supports separating enforcement from services. But a "single
immigration official" must remain in overall charge of the two functions to
maintain "clear lines of authority and accountability," she said.

The INS plan is strongly opposed by the agency's powerful district directors,
who say it would solve none of the INS's most pressing problems. Among these are
huge backlogs of applications for immigration benefits, with 1.8 million people
waiting for citizenship.

The House bill would require the directors of the two new bureaus to report to
the deputy attorney general. The bill also would install "chief financial
officers" in each bureau to ensure that funds are properly spent. INS employees
would be protected for one year from termination or reduction in pay, and the
number of authorized positions would not be cut.

INS detention operations would be transferred to the U.S. Bureau of Prisons
within four years, the bill says.

The proposal does not detail how the new bureaus would be structured or funded,
but calls on the attorney general to work out such matters in an implementation
plan.

While there is no comparable Senate bill yet, immigration advocates said the new
proposal appears to have a better chance of getting off the ground than last
year's efforts, largely because there is now widespread agreement that some sort
of reform is needed.

However, some of the INS's fiercest critics strongly oppose the House plan,
fearing it would only make matters worse.

"We want reform more than anyone," said Frank Sharry, director of the National
Immigration Forum. "This is an agency that's in the intensive care unit. But
this proposal will push it into the graveyard." He said the House plan would
likely "cripple services, eviscerate accountability and even weaken
enforcement."

A main worry, he said, is that there would be no one in charge to avoid "dueling
bureaucracies."

Rep. Lamar S. Smith seeks to separate INS services, enforcement.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              67 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 23, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

Ukrainian Ex-Leader Awaits U.S. Immigration Ruling

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 301 words


The detention of former Ukrainian premier Pavlo Lazarenko by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has nothing to do with a corruption charge he faces at
home but could lead to his forced departure from the United States, an INS
official said yesterday.

Lazarenko was detained upon his arrival in New York on Friday and put into an
"expedited removal" process that could take from a few days to several months to
resolve, said INS spokesman Russ Bergeron.

"He sought entry into the United States and did not have the proper documents,"
Bergeron said.

He declined to discuss reports that Lazarenko was seeking political asylum, but
said the decision to hold him was made by an immigration official without
reference to any Ukrainian charge. He is accused of stealing $ 2.1 million from
his own government.

Lazarenko denies the charge and contends Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma, a
political rival, is merely trying to prevent him from running in the October
presidential election.

Bergeron said INS policies prevent him from commenting on whether Lazarenko
requested asylum. Any person who expresses fear of being returned to his
homeland is given 72 hours to prepare for an interview with an asylum officer
who decides whether the person has a credible case.

That decision is reviewed at a hearing, where a formal request for asylum may be
made. Any decision by immigration officers at the hearing is subject to review
by an immigration judge, who may grant asylum or issue a removal order.

Last week, Ukraine's parliament stripped Lazarenko of immunity, clearing the way
for his arrest. Lazarenko, 45, of the centrist opposition Hromada party, was
prime minister in 1996-97.

Swiss authorities are also investigating Lazarenko on separate money-laundering
charges.


NAME: PAVLO LAZARENKO

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              68 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 14, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

7 Illegal Immigrants Die as Heat Raises Peril of Border Crossings

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 13


Border Patrol agents found six bodies early today alongside a remote stretch of
road in the searing Southern California desert, huddled together in the cruel,
slim shade of a cedar shrub. A seventh person, they reported, had crawled a few
feet away and then died in the intense heat.

All were believed to be illegal immigrants who sneaked across the nearby border
from Mexico and then were abandoned by a smuggler. The agents estimated they had
been dead for at least three days before this morning's gruesome discovery.

The seven deaths in the Anza-Borrego Desert, about 80 miles east of San Diego,
added to a grim toll of illegal immigrants who have died attempting to enter the
United States from Mexico. More than 70 crossers have perished so far along the
California border this year. They have been run over by cars and have drowned in
canals, have frozen to death in the winter and have died from dehydration in the
summer, as this group apparently did, according to a preliminary investigation
by the Border Patrol and local sheriff's office.

The Clinton administration has been attempting to stem the illegal flow of
humans and drugs along the border from Texas to California. As part of what is
called Operation Gatekeeper, the administration has poured in additional
equipment and tripled the number of agents on the California border.

The increased pressure has had the desired effect of making entry more
difficult, by pushing illegal immigrants and their smugglers away from the
well-guarded city crossing points and eastward into the mountains and deserts.
The thinking, Border Patrol officials said, is that by making it so hard to
cross, fewer illegal immigrants will attempt the journey.

Over the past four years, Operation Gatekeeper has made crossing ever more
difficult in San Diego County. There are now 2,350 agents working the 66-mile
border in the county, up from 890 agents in 1993, the year before Gatekeeper
began. There are now 44 miles of fence-line, 1,200 motion sensors buried along
trails, 60 mobile infrared scopes and 10 helicopters, including a new
super-quiet MD-600N with forward-looking infrared vision that not only can
detect and tell the difference between the body heat given off by a rabbit and
human at night, but can "lock on" to its target.

"Gatekeeper has been successful in pushing the traffic to the east," into the
eastern part of San Diego County and on into neighboring Imperial County, said
Border Patrol information officer J.T. Moore.

Partly as a result, Border Patrol agents in San Diego County have rescued -- as
opposed to apprehended -- more than 100 crossers in the past nine months.
Sometimes, women in heels have attempted to cross the desert. Other groups have
been abandoned with no water, and left to die by their smugglers, and agents
have found them near death or wandering dazed.

The Border Patrol has begun posting signs along desert trails warning potential
crossers how dangerous the trip can be. There is also an upcoming public service
advertisements to be aired soon along the Mexican side of the border urging
people not to attempt the crossing.

In Imperial County, where today's dead were found, illegal immigrants attempt to
swim across the All-American Canal or sneak through the sprawling farmlands and
desert. Some 28 illegal crossers have drowned in Imperial County so far this
year. The ones who employ smugglers are then often kept in "safehouses" around
the town of El Centro and later shuttled in a series of trucks or vans north to
Los Angeles. The price can be as much as $ 1,000 a person.

Operation Gatekeeper has ex panded this year into Imperial County, with more
agents and equipment, in an attempt to shut down illegal traffic between
Mexicali, Mexico, and El Centro.

Little was known about the five men, one woman and one teenage boy who were
found dead in the desert today. A worker on a nearby ranch alerted agents at a
Border Patrol post near the Salton Sea that there were some people in trouble.
The agents first searched the area by plane and then by car and found the seven
dead, identities unknown. It sometimes can take months before the Mexican
consulate can learn who they are.

"It appears they were dropped off by a vehicle and left there alive. And we're
assuming they were told to wait to picked up later," said Bill Strassberger, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "It also appears they
just waited and waited until it was too late."

Temperatures in Borrego Springs, near where the immigrants were found, reached
107 degrees Wednesday. Agents said the immigrants carried few possessions. There
were no empty water jugs under the cedar tree.

"It was not a pretty sight," Strassberger said.


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,IMPERIAL VALLEY PRESS/ADAM HARJU, Imperial County, Calif.,
officials search for evidence at scene where seven suspected illegal immigrants
were found dead. Preliminary investigation indicates that border crossers were
dead at least three days before they were found.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              69 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 21, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05; NATION IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 449 words



Texas Border Practice Lets Many Non-Mexican Immigrants Go Free


HOUSTON -- More than a quarter of non-Mexican illegal immigrants who are caught
in south Texas are allowed to stay because the U.S. Border Patrol does not have
enough space to detain them, the Houston Chronicle reported yesterday.

Of the 12,084 non-Mexican illegal immigrants caught in south Texas between Oct.
1, 1997, and Aug. 31, 1998, 3,122 were released there. The majority were from
Central America.

"We all get frustrated and say, 'Why are we going to mess with them? [Other
agents are] going to cut them loose anyway,' " said a Border Patrol agent whom
the newspaper did not identify. "But by the same token, it's our job. We're here
to enforce the law, not to be immigration judges."

Chief Joe Garza, who oversees the McAllen Border Patrol sector at the southern
tip of Texas, noted that 96 percent of undocumented immigrants in his region are
Mexican. They can be returned easily across the border, which is standard
procedure for people with no criminal record who agree to return voluntarily.
It's harder to deport people from farther away.


Small Plane Crashes Claim 6 Lives


MYRTLE BEACH, S.C. -- A twin-engine plane crashed near Myrtle Beach, killing all
four people aboard and seriously injuring a man who was walking his dog.

Also yesterday, a twin-engine plane crashed in northern Los Angeles County,
Calif., killing both people aboard, authorities said.

The Cessna 310 went down in a residential neighborhood of Santa Clarita, about
30 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles. No one on the ground was hurt,
authorities said.

In the South Carolina crash, the plane had just taken off from Grand Strand
Airport when it started having engine trouble, police Lt. Myron Creel said. The
pilot called in a distress signal and tried to return. The plane crashed between
U.S. Highway 17 and the ocean, near the Ocean Creek Resort.


Law Targets Denial of Anesthesia


SACRAMENTO -- Hospitals will be prohibited from denying anesthesia to women
during childbirth based on their ability to pay for the procedure up front,
under a bill signed yesterday by Gov. Pete Wilson (R).

The bill stems from a case involving a Medi-Cal insurance patient who was denied
an epidural while in labor at Northridge Hospital Medical Center. An
anesthesiologist had demanded she pay $ 400 in cash for the pain-control
procedure.

Northridge later was cited for breaking six state regulations and ordered to
give refunds to as many as 300 women. The state also accused five other Southern
California hospitals of demanding cash for the anesthesia even though Medi-Cal
covers the epidurals.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              70 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 25, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Loudoun Policy on Immigrants Criticized; Schools Require Visa Status Report

David Nakamura, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 830 words



A Loudoun County policy requiring illegal immigrants to sign a statement that
they have no visa before enrolling their children in school has drawn objections
from civil liberties groups, who say the practice is unconstitutional and is
causing some parents to keep their children at home.

Loudoun school officials say they require the written statement as evidence that
the child is not living in the United States on a tourist visa. The school
system imposes a tuition fee on students with tourist visas, just as it would
for anyone who is not a Loudoun resident, Assistant Superintendent Ned D.
Waterhouse explained.

The school district does not charge tuition for children who are illegal
immigrants, and the statements that their parents sign are confidential under a
federal law that protects the privacy of student records, Loudoun officials
said.

But critics of Loudoun's policy say its effect is to discourage illegal
immigrants from sending their children to school, because such parents fear that
signing the statement could lead to their deportation. The policy conflicts with
a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that all children living in the United States,
regardless of their immigration status, are entitled to a free public education,
civil liberties groups contend.

"It's just a blatant violation of the law," said David Bernstein, chairman of
the Immigrants Rights Coalition of Greater Washington. "It creates a chilling
effect on enrollment because it discourages immigrant children from going to
school. This should be about education and not illegal immigration."

Bernstein's organization and other immigrant advocacy groups have asked Loudoun
school officials to drop the requirement. Waterhouse said the county is seeking
an opinion from Virginia's attorney general on whether the policy is
constitutional.

Loudoun appears to be the only Washington area school district with such a
requirement.

Rebecca Moscoso, coordinator for central student registration in Fairfax County,
said she was surprised to hear of Loudoun's policy. She said Fairfax, like
Loudoun, asks parents whether their children are U.S. citizens and, if they are
not, inquires about their visa status so that school officials will know whether
to charge tuition. But families without visas are not required to sign any form,
Moscoso said, citing the 1982 Supreme Court ruling.

Waterhouse said Loudoun's unwritten policy has been in effect for many years. He
said he has no idea how many parents have signed the statement that they are
living in the U.S. illegally. He added that he could not recall a case in which
a parent declined to register a child rather than sign the statement.

But immigrant rights advocates say they learned about Loudoun's practice because
of just such a case.

Barbara Libarkin, a social worker, said she became involved last spring with a
Hispanic mother in Loudoun who was keeping her daughter at home because she did
not want to sign the document affirming her illegal status.

The woman moved to Fairfax for a brief period so that her daughter could attend
an elementary school there, Libarkin said. But she later returned to Loudoun and
signed the document, and her daughter is enrolled in a Loudoun County school
this fall.

Libarkin said she contacted Rosemary Hidalgo, vice president of the Hispanic Bar
Association, in an effort to get Loudoun's policy overturned. Hidalgo said she
has since become aware of other such cases, but she declined to provide the
names of any of the families involved, saying they did not want to be
identified.

"What we're seeing is probably the tip of the iceburg," Libarkin said. "The
immigrant community in Loudoun is growing by leaps and bounds. Often they're the
people who don't speak English, don't have lot of education, don't have someone
to go to bat for them."

Waterhouse said Libarkin told him about the Hispanic woman but that he could not
confirm that such a case had occurred.

Roger Rosenthal, executive director of the Migrant Legal Action Program in
Washington, said several school districts in recent years have changed such
policies after legal challenges.

"It is a common problem in many parts of country, particularly areas of the
Southeast where they have not been as accustomed to an immigrant population,"
Rosenthal said. "There is no reason that to determine residency you have to ask
immigration status. That can be determined by questions such as, 'Are you here
with your child? How long do you intend to stay in the community? Show me a
phone bill or gas bill or a lease,' or that kind of thing."

Waterhouse said the school district will wait for a response from the attorney
general's office before taking any further action.

"Right now, what we are not sure of is if anything we're doing is improper," he
said. "We're going to continue to pursue it to determine if our procedures are
appropriate. . . . If they are illegal, we'll make changes."


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              71 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 03, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Violence, Questions Grow in U.S. Crackdown on Border Crossers

Rene Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1505 words

DATELINE: CHULA VISTA, Calif.


In the rough and desolate foothills that straddle the Mexican border near here,
where desperate cat-and-mouse chases between illegal immigrants and federal
agents never end, it has been an uncommonly bloody week.

In four separate confrontations, U.S. Border Patrol agents have opened fire on
migrants who had allegedly pelted them with stones or rushed toward them in cars
after being caught attempting to sneak into the country. Two of the Mexicans
were fatally shot and a third was seriously wounded.

The outbreak of violence, the most serious along the California border in years,
is prompting new questions about the training of border agents and the tactics
at the heart of Operation Gatekeeper, a massive federal crackdown against
illegal immigration here.

Mexican authorities and some human rights groups here have expressed alarm over
the rash of shootings and have demanded an extensive investigation. Federal
officials, meanwhile, are adamantly defending their policies and say that
preliminary findings suggest that in each case the use of deadly force was
justified.

There are now more than 2,200 agents -- more than double the number earlier this
decade -- guarding the 66 miles of the border stretching from the Pacific Ocean
into the California desert, a region that has long been one of the busiest
points of illegal entry into the United States. The tremendous rise in manpower
and the array of sophisticated new tools that agents are using -- such as
stadium lighting, infrared scopes and motion sensors buried in trails -- have
made illegal border crossings far more difficult than they once were.

It is also making the daily showdowns between well-armed Border Patrol agents
and migrants ever more dangerous and tense. Earlier this year in Arizona, an
agent was shot and killed by drug smugglers illegally crossing the border. At
times, snipers on Mexican hilltops have fired on agents in California.

"We've never had this many serious incidents at once in a long time," said
Harold Beasley, the deputy chief of the Border Patrol division here. "The
threats our agents are getting are from frustration with how tight the border is
becoming. These incidents are of great concern. We want to save lives, not take
them."

But others contend that blame for the violence may lie mostly with the Border
Patrol. "They are getting a lot more aggressive out there with people," said
Roberto Martinez, director of the American Friends Service Committee, a
nonprofit group whose San Diego office monitors abuses by border agents. "Their
shooting policies need desperately to be reviewed."

Details of the two killings are still sketchy. The first occurred last Saturday
night, on a narrow dirt path on the U.S. side of a 10-foot-high metal fence that
lines the border for miles. According to Border Patrol officials, an agent
confronted three men who had just climbed the fence from Tijuana.

As the agent struggled in the darkness to detain one of the migrants, officials
said, one of the others allegedly hurled a rock at him from a few yards away,
then moved closer with another rock in his hand. Authorities said the agent
ordered the man to stop and drop the rock, but he didn't. The agent drew his
weapon and fired.

The man died on the scene. One of the other migrants was apprehended, and the
third fled back over the fence.

Before the second killing, which occurred a day later and several miles west of
here, an agent who was checking for footprints was suddenly struck by a shower
of rocks, border officials said. As he retreated to his vehicle, they said, he
spotted a man approaching him with a rock and ordered him to stop. When he
didn't, Border Patrol officials said, the agent shot him.

Officials said the other two shooting incidents were sparked by drivers
apparently trying to run over agents near vehicle checkpoints. One migrant was
shot in the chest by an agent who fired into an approaching car, but no one was
killed. The Border Patrol agents involved have been placed on paid leave while
federal and sheriff's department officials in San Diego County investigate.

Mexican authorities, who have been working closely with the Border Patrol here
on several new campaigns to warn migrants of the many dangers of illegal
crossing, are now calling for a review of Operation Gatekeeper's policies and
are questioning whether the shootings were justified. Other human rights
activists say that opening fire on illegal immigrants armed only with rocks is
extreme.

"In the past, Border Patrol agents were able to handle the situations and use
weapons as a last resort," said Carlos Felix Corona, Mexico's deputy consul
general in San Diego.

Border Patrol officials contend that rock-throwing is one of the most serious
threats agents face. In the last year, they have logged more than 200 incidents
in which agents were pelted by rocks, often as large as softballs. Officials say
lobbing rocks over the fence can be merely a tactic to divert the attention of
agents, but some agents have been badly injured by rocks aimed right at them.

"We're dealing all the time with huge rocks, thrown with the intention of
hurting us," border agent Caesar Zambrano said one afternoon this week, as he
stood watch in a truck parked on a windy, barren bluff overlooking the slums of
Tijuana and the border fence. "You hear it on our radios at least three or four
times every day out here: 'More rocks.' It's dangerous."

But critics charge that the Border Patrol is using the onslaught of
rock-throwing as cover for the problems it has had recruiting, training and
keeping enough qualified agents to fill the ambitious expansion of the force
that Operation Gatekeeper has required.

Launched four years ago, Gatekeeper has by most accounts succeeded in making
illegal entry into the United States along the California border much more
difficult, especially in well-guarded city crossing points that once were
overrun by migrants. Now, many illegal immigrants -- and the smugglers to whom
they pay sometimes thousands of dollars for illegal passage -- have little
choice but to try to sneak into the country through the mountains or desert
farther east of San Diego. Those routes are so treacherous -- more than 70
crossers have died there this year, and border agents have rescued more than 100
others -- that fewer are apparently attempting passage.

Apprehensions of illegal immigrants in the Border Patrol's division here are the
lowest they have been in 18 years, down from nearly 700,000 a year in the
mid-1980s to about 250,000 now.

The border is heavily guarded around the clock by armed agents stationed in
all-terrain trucks not more than 100 yards or so apart from each other. The
division can even scatter a second line of agents in trucks in the ravines that
lie just beyond the steep hills along the border, in case illegal immigrants
elude the first line of defense.

Federal officials say they have not compromised standards, or relaxed Border
Patrol policies regarding the use of force, as part of the hiring surge and the
growing crackdown. Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's western regional office, which oversees the Border
Patrol, said that all agents must pass a rigorous screening process that
includes an 18-week academy and extensive training in firearms. For every 500
applicants who take the initial competency test, she said, only about three
dozen get hired.

"We don't want to downplay these shooting incidents, because we're very
concerned about them and are investigating what happened," Kice said. "But I
think we've had a pretty good record in the last few years."

Still, more than 20 percent of agents quit every year, and some union officials
in the Border Patrol have complained publicly that the constant pressure to fill
jobs is lowering standards.

"There is no way that the Border Patrol could double in size over the last
couple of years, rushing 1,000 new agents a year to the border, and ensure that
these recruits were well-trained and well-supervised," said Martinez, of the
American Friends Service Committee.

What is clear to both sides, however, is that the mood along the border has
changed. The days are over when crossers offered little resistance when caught,
and Border Patrol agents simply shipped them back home without even detaining
them.

"They have their plans with their rocks, and we have our plan to stop them when
they cross," Zambrano said, as he kept close watch on the border fence. "It's
just like a chess match every day here. We're trying to be very cautious, but
we're dealing with a lot of tensions now."



Special correspondent Cassandra Stern contributed to this report.

A U.S. Border Patrol vehicle guards the fence north of a Tijuana bull ring near
where an agent killed a man Sunday. On the fence, Jorge Alvarez of Tijuana
watches as San Diego police survey the scene where a Mexican was fatally shot by
a U.S. agent last Saturday.



LOAD-DATE: October 03, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, UNION-TRIBUNE VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS/ JOHN GIBBINS; Photo, ap/
LENNY IGNELZI

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              72 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 13, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

6 Mexicans Killed While Sleeping on Texas Train Track

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 229 words

DATELINE: NORIAS, Tex., Oct. 12


Six men believed to be illegal immigrants from Mexico were killed by a freight
train early today while sleeping on the tracks, possibly in the mistaken belief
that they would be safe from snakes there.

"The train crew saw some debris on the tracks," said Letty Garza, a spokeswoman
for the Border Patrol. "That next split-second, they saw heads raise up and then
six people were killed instantly."

The accident happened about 60 miles north of the Mexico border. The train was
going about 45 mph. The 94 loaded cars were carrying mixed freight.

Union Pacific spokesman Mark Davis said the railroad is working with the Border
Patrol and Mexican authorities to discourage people from sleeping on tracks.

Some illegal immigrants, as well as transients, sleep on the tracks because they
think snakes won't get them there.

"Unfortunately, trains will," Davis said.

Sleeping between the rails offers no protection from snakes, Kenedy County
Sheriff Rafael Cuellar Jr. said.

The area, sparsely populated ranchland and desert, is where nine illegal
immigrants died in searing heat this summer as they made their way from Mexico.

The bodies of the six men who died today were at the medical examiner's office
in Corpus Christi for autopsies. A dispatcher with the sheriff's department said
authorities were working to identify the men using fingerprints.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              73 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 31, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Faster Boats Carry Cubans, Haitians to Florida

Sue Anne Pressley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 993 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 30


The flimsy rafts that once carried thousands of illegal immigrants from Cuba and
Haiti into the waters off South Florida are becoming a thing of the past. In
their place are fast-moving motor vessels piloted by well-paid professional
smugglers who are bringing a rising number of people to the beaches around
Miami.

"This has been a very busy year. The idea is not to get caught by the [U.S.]
Coast Guard," said Dan Geoghegan, assistant chief of the U.S. Border Patrol in
Florida. "The idea is not to leave Cuba in a raft, but to leave it in a fast
boat."

The last "hallmark year" for illegal immigration to the area was 1994, Geoghegan
said, when more than 30,000 Cubans made it to South Florida. But those high
numbers prompted a dramatic change in U.S.-Cuban policy in 1996. Since then, any
refugees from Cuba captured by the Coast Guard at sea are automatically sent
back to Cuba instead of being allowed to enter the United States.

If the Cuban immigrants reach American soil, however, they are usually permitted
to remain. This has made a faster boat a prerequisite, to dodge the Coast Guard
and get all the way to shore rather than hope to be picked up at sea as in in
the past.

The policy toward captured Haitians -- about 25,000 of whom arrived here during
that benchmark year of 1994 -- has been to return them to Haiti, regardless of
whether they are caught at sea or make it to shore.

Geoghegan said that in fiscal 1998, which ended Sept. 30, 1,063 illegal
immigrants were detected as they arrived on Florida shores, with about
two-thirds of them from Cuba and the rest largely from Haiti. From Oct. 1
through today, he estimates that another 550 have arrived, again the majority of
them Cubans. Because U.S. officials base their estimates on those detected on
arrival, they are unable to say how many others may have slipped through.

The Christmas holidays have brought much of the deluge: Since last Friday alone,
13 separate landings have been detected, involving about 145 men, women and
children. The illegal immigrants, detained by Border Patrol agents, apparently
were operating on a mistaken theory that officials would be relaxing their
scrutiny during the holidays.

"One theory for all the activity is that the Cubans who came here in 1994 have
been here four years now, saving money," Geoghegan said. "It is not
inconceivable that they could be funding relatives to come here too."

Furthermore, the number of Cubans and Haitians captured at sea this year and
returned to their countries has more than doubled over last year, according to
U.S. Coast Guard officials, who also have noted the recent smuggling trend. As
of today, 1,025 Cubans and 1,206 Haitians had been captured by the Coast Guard
at sea this year, compared with 406 Cubans and 587 Haitians last year.

"We're seeing more and more smugglers bringing human cargo," said Coast Guard
Petty Officer Jeff Murphy. "A big concern we see quite often is when we stop
them at sea and we notice grossly overloaded vessels. Most of those vessels do
not have life jackets, and conditions can change so drastically out there."

Three illegal-entry cases this year have involved loss of life. The most recent
was Dec. 17, when a boat overloaded with 23 Cubans capsized in the Gulf Stream
off Elliott Key, south of Miami. Eight people were confirmed dead, another six
are missing and the smuggling suspect who was arrested with the boat could face
the death penalty, according to the U.S. attorney's office here.

Murphy said boats captured by the Coast Guard in recent months have ranged from
"homemade vessels with outboard motors to more sophisticated speedboats."

Smuggling illegal immigrants "takes on a variety of forms," said Geoghegan. "Six
Cubans can chip in on a boat and bring themselves in, and that is called
cooperative smuggling. What we are seeing here is their relatives are residing
in the United States and they seek out a smuggler in the United States and pay
him money, between $ 7,000 and $ 9,000" a person.

Occasionally, the pickup is made in Cuba, but more often the illegal immigrants
first make it to the Bahamas, where they are met by the smuggler hired by family
members, Geoghegan said.

"We've had loads of 37; we've had loads of six," he said. "It is not uncommon in
a large group for many to be related, and sometimes some are related to the
smuggler. The fact that there is an element of gain still makes it a smuggling."

The most recent landing occurred about 2 p.m. today, when Monroe County
sheriff's deputies detained 21 Cubans who had come ashore on a 23-foot boat at
Key Largo, Geoghegan said. Like other Cubans who make it here, they likely will
be quickly processed by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service and
released pending the outcome of their case, according to an INS spokeswoman.

Jose Basulto, head of Brothers to the Rescue, a Cuban-exile pro-democracy group
based in Miami, said one rumor floating through the Cuban community here to
account for the recent influx of refugees involves possible disinformation by
the Cuban government that U.S. policy may be tightened further and that the
potential exiles "must act now or forever lose their chance."

"It is a possible way of affecting the conduct of potential refugees within the
island that it is now or never," he said. "The government of Cuba has been known
to do things like this before -- a form of human blackmail to pressure the
United States to do certain things."

Basulto said exile groups in Miami "are categorically not involved" in the
smuggling operations.

"Everybody I know of has condemned this," he said. "We contacted our brothers in
Cuba and said that not only is this dangerous, but it doesn't forward a solution
from within the island to the problem." Jose Basulto, head of Brothers to the
Rescue, says Miami exile groups are warning Cubans of the physical and political
dangers of sailing to Florida.


LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,AP/MARTA LAVANDIER

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              74 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 03, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Reprieve for Illegals

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 348 words


TO KEEP THEIR remittances flowing and to spare their countries a sudden mass
return, the American immigration service has granted further temporary refuge to
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants from storm-battered Central America.
This is a double gesture of relief to the individuals, their families and their
communities and to the countries of the region. It was on the short list of
things that could be done relatively easily to assist the recovery from
Hurricane Mitch.

The gesture is part of a more extensive package of relief and development
measures, and is generous as far it goes. Illegals from Nicaragua and Honduras
get to stay an extra 18 months, those from El Salvador and Guatemala two extra
months. The difference is said to reflect degrees of storm damage. This may be a
hard equation to calculate with precision, but it has its rationale. The
equation leaves open the question of how the different groups will be treated
when their "temporary" extensions expire. Experience shows they tend to stay on.

Many Americans would prefer it that way. Even though they are illegal, these
immigrants, like others from Mexico and Caribbean countries, enjoy a regard in
American society for their devotion to work and family. Especially is this so in
times, like now, of a tight labor market. The favor they enjoy helps explain why
the American people are prepared to accept one changing rationale after another
for their continued presence: rescue from communist regimes, political
persecution, economic underdevelopment and hardship and now natural disaster.

In a country that advertises itself as a "nation of immigrants," immigration
policy will be changeable and, to a point, inconsistent. Not just the relative
ease of coming, staying and going but the flexibility of the policy undercuts
the efforts of legislators and bureaucrats to regulate the flow. This is not to
minimize the strenuous element of law enforcement in immigration policy. It is
to note respectfully the tendency of Americans to bend immigration to fit the
circumstances of the day.

LOAD-DATE: January 03, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              75 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 08, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

U.S. Admits Wave of Illegal Migrants Fleeing Mitch's Wake; Central American
Refugees Detained, but Not Deported

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1655 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex.


Following a hurricane that devastated their homelands, thousands of Central
Americans are making their way across the southwest border, and federal
authorities are allowing many to enter the United States even though they do not
qualify for temporary refuge.

Officials of the Border Patrol and its parent agency, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, say the influx so far has been manageable. But agents
posted along the border say the lenient response to the illegal immigration is
sending a message back to Central America that the United States has opened its
doors. And that, they say, means that more migrants are destined to follow.

Hurricane refugees from Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala and El Salvador are
crossing mostly into Texas after arduous trips through Central America and
Mexico on foot, by bus, in freight trains and by hitchhiking. Many report being
robbed or beaten by Mexican immigration officials or police.

They say they often endured hunger, exposure and exhaustion during their long
treks north, only to be swindled at the U.S. border by Mexican guides known as
"coyotes."

The migrants say they want to work in the United States so they can send money
back to help rebuild their families' lives. Typically, the goal is to repair or
reconstruct a home that was damaged or washed away by the devastating floods and
mudslides that Hurricane Mitch unleashed.

"The hurricane left me in the street," said Joel Ramos Cruz, an 18-year-old
Honduran who was caught by the Border Patrol here last week. "The river took all
our cattle." Before the storm, he said, he lived comfortably in a two-story
house with his grandfather, who grew coffee, corn, beans and rice and kept 100
dairy cows. "Now there is only the land," Ramos said. "The floods wiped out
everything."

Mexicans still account for the vast majority of illegal crossers who are caught
here and elsewhere along the 2,000-mile border. But apprehensions of Central
Americans -- especially from Honduras, the hardest-hit of the four countries --
have risen sharply in recent weeks. Those worst affected by Hurricane Mitch took
some time to gather themselves after the storm struck in late October, killing
more than 10,000 people and forcing as many as 3 million to flee their homes.
Many are reaching the U.S. border only now, having taken a month or more to
journey north because they had to stop along the way and work at odd jobs to
sustain themselves and finance their travel.

Growing numbers of Mexicans are trying to pass themselves off as Hondurans so
the Border Patrol will let them into the country rather than summarily bus them
back to Mexico.

Under a Dec. 30 order by Attorney General Janet Reno, Hondurans and Nicaraguans
who were already living in the United States illegally as of that date were
allowed to apply for "temporary protected status," a form of interim refuge that
permitted them to obtain work permits and remain in the country legally for 18
months. Guatemalans and Salvadorans were not offered that status, but were
granted suspensions of deportation until March 6. Officials stressed that those
who arrived after Dec. 30 would not be eligible for temporary refuge.

In practice, however, Central Americans who arrive after Dec. 30 are being sent
on their way with documents that require them to appear before an immigration
judge at a later date. Some are held for 10 days or more before being freed.
Others, including those like Ramos who were recently caught in the Laredo
sector, are being released without bond immediately after they are processed.

Border Patrol agents believe that few of those who entered after the cutoff date
will show up for their hearings and risk getting a deportation order. Instead,
agents say, the Central Americans are likely to scatter, taking jobs where they
can find them and swelling an underground work force populated by the more than
5 million illegal immigrants who live in the United States.

Immigration officials attribute the policy both to a humanitarian desire to help
Central American countries recover from the hurricane's devastation, and to a
lack of funds to detain those who are apprehended pending deportation. The
funding crunch means that jail space increasingly is reserved for illegal
immigrants with the worst criminal records, rather than hurricane victims
crossing the border in search of work.

The Honduran government also has moved to head off deportations. Its consulate
in Houston is refusing to issue travel documents to its detained citizens,
effectively preventing the United States from sending them back.

The INS tries to turn Central Americans over to church groups or charities that
can help them join relatives, if they have any here, or shelter them while they
find jobs if they have no U.S. ties. However, many are let loose with little
idea of what to do or where to go.

Their quandary was illustrated one night last week when Daniel Perales, a Border
Patrol special operations supervisor here, came upon five young Hondurans
loitering near a railroad yard and stopped to question them. They produced
documents showing they had been released from custody that afternoon, but said
nobody came to pick them up and that they had no money for bus fare. At a loss
for advice, Perales warned them not to lose their papers and to stay off the
freight cars that many illegal aliens try to ride.

According to Border Patrol statistics, apprehensions along the southwest border
of illegal immigrants classified as "other than Mexican" -- most of them Central
Americans -- totaled 6,064 during the last three months of 1998, up from 4,374
during the same period a year earlier. Although figures for January have not yet
been compiled, agents say such captures appear to be on the rise.

"We're expecting an increase," one field agent said. "We're getting intelligence
that thousands are heading this way."

Illegal crossings by Central Americans have "picked up," said Oscar H. Garza,
the assistant Border Patrol chief in Laredo, "but it's not to the point we're
being overrun."

Said INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner, "Obviously we're concerned about the
possibility of a larger flow, and we're watching it very carefully." But she
noted that illegal entries by Central Americans have been "steadily increasing"
in recent years anyway.

"It appears that the message put out by the administration about temporary
protected status has been misconstrued," said Luis Garcia, INS district director
in El Paso. "The understanding [of many Central Americans] is that if they make
it to our border, they'll be granted a stay in the United States."

According to Alfonso Moreno III, a Border Patrol intelligence agent in Laredo,
"It's not uncommon for Hondurans to walk up to our office and say, 'I'm here
illegally. Where's my permit?' "

Manuel Antonio Valles Lara, 21, a construction worker from the Honduran city of
La Ceiba, considered approaching U.S. immigration inspectors after reaching the
Mexican border town of Nuevo Laredo, but decided to swim the Rio Grande instead.
He made his way through the carrizo cane that grows thick along the riverbanks
and wandered for two days on the U.S. side before a Border Patrol agent picked
him up.

The trip from his homeland had taken a month and a half, and he crossed the U.S.
border just after the Dec. 30 cutoff date for temporary refuge. Detained in the
Laredo immigration jail, he was waiting for the INS to find him a sponsor so he
could be released.

"I don't want to return to Honduras," he said. "The hurricane destroyed our
place, and my family is suffering from hunger. After all that happened there, I
would try again to enter the United States."

In McAllen, a particularly busy sector for crossings by Central Americans,
assistant Border Patrol chief Harry L. Beall said, "We try to hold everyone we
can. Detention is a very important part of the deterrent role we have." But
migrants apprehended there after the cutoff date also are being freed after
short stays at the INS's Port Isabel detention center.

From November to the end of January, 1,600 Central Americans were released from
the facility, and others are coming out now at a rate of up to 50 a day, said
Cecilio L. Ruiz Jr., a senior INS detention official. "We're being as humane as
possible," he said. "I'm sure that the word has already gone back to Central
America, but that's something beyond our control."

Shortly after he spoke, an INS bus pulled up at the Ozanam Center homeless
shelter in Brownsville and dropped off 17 Central Americans who had been freed
from Port Isabel. "They wanted to give us 31, but we don't have room," said
center director Alejandro Fuentes.

Inside, Samuel Lopez Barrera, a 17-year-old with a sixth-grade education, said
he left Honduras in mid-December after his father was laid off from his job in a
palm-oil company because the hurricane had wiped out the crop. After being
robbed repeatedly by Guatemalan and Mexican police as he made his way north on
foot, in trains and with truckers who offered him rides, he reached the Rio
Grande in late January.

"I was alone," the teenager said. "I took off my clothes, but I was afraid to
get in the river. I know how to swim, but they say there are crocodiles in
there."

Lopez finally swam across with a couple of Mexicans he met and managed to reach
the shelter without detection by the Border Patrol. He said he has a cousin in
Miami, but was hesitant to leave Brownsville for fear of being caught at one of
the Border Patrol checkpoints on the roads leading out of the city.

Border Patrol agents Richard Johnston, left, and Mark Jones cruise down the Rio
Grande near McAllen, Tex. Below, three Hondurans whose homes were destroyed by
Hurricane Mitch await release from a Laredo, Tex. jail. From left, Manuel
Antonio Valles Lara, Jose Wilmer Delgado Lopez, and Carlos Melendez Martinez.


LOAD-DATE: February 08, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,WILLIAM BRANIGIN

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              76 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 16, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

As Crossings Grow Treacherous, More Aliens Are Dying to Get In; Urban Patrols
Push U.S.-Bound Migrants Into Remote Areas

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1506 words

DATELINE: ON THE RIO GRANDE


As the Border Patrol boat rounded the river bend, a group of Mexicans on the
high southern bank waved their arms and pointed to the murky water below. One
youth clutched his neck with both hands to indicate someone had drowned.

About 20 feet beneath them, floating face down, the body of a woman was tethered
to an overhanging tree to keep it from drifting away before rescue workers could
bring it up the steep embankment. The word on the Mexican side was that a man
had also drowned during a crossing to the United States the night before, and
the group on the riverbank wanted the Border Patrol to join the search for his
body.

The unidentified woman was one of the latest victims of an illegal migration
that has claimed the lives of untold thousands of people over the decades. By
most accounts, the trek has grown more treacherous in recent years, with rising
death tolls along certain stretches of border.

The danger attracted national attention last summer. Scores of undocumented
immigrants died of heat stroke in deserts on the U.S. side as temperatures
soared above 100 degrees day after day. But an equal number of people drowned in
the waterways that separate the United States from Mexico, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service says.

The deaths stem in part from a U.S. border strategy aimed at pushing illegal
crossers away from urban centers, where they can blend in with the local
populace, and toward more remote areas where they risk prolonged exposure to the
elements in much rougher terrain.

However, U.S. officials and illegal immigrants also blame many deaths on
professional alien smugglers, who have assumed a growing role in the
cross-border traffic because of the increased difficulty of evading the Border
Patrol's beefed-up forces and high-tech detection equipment.

Smugglers have been accused of guiding people into hazardous areas and
abandoning them, or overloading makeshift rafts for the short but often risky
trip across the Rio Grande.

According to the INS, 254 people died trying to cross the 2,000-mile
U.S.-Mexican border in fiscal 1998, the first year in which the agency
systematically compiled such statistics. Of the total, a third drowned, while
another third died from heat exposure. The highest number of fatalities was
recorded in California's El Centro Border Patrol sector, where 83 illegal
immigrants perished in the desert or drowned in the deceptively swift-flowing
All American Canal, which runs along 82 miles of border in Imperial Valley.

The five sectors that span the Texas border along the Rio Grande from El Paso to
McAllen accounted for 109 deaths, 43 percent of the total. More than 40 percent
of the victims were never identified, U.S. officials said.

While deaths have risen in remote areas of the border, they have dropped in more
populated sections, where hundreds of illegal crossers formerly were hit by cars
while trying to cross busy highways, said Renee Harris, the Border Patrol's
Washington-based border safety coordinator.

The Mexican Embassy in Washington says 368 migrants died trying to cross the
border last year, 78 of them on the Mexican side.

In a recent study, "Death at the Border," the University of Houston's Center for
Immigration Research documented more than 1,600 "possible migrant fatalities"
along the southwestern border from 1993 to 1997. Nearly 600 of them were "Rio
Grande drowning deaths" that were reported by Mexican sources but not tallied in
the United States, the report said.

The Border Patrol acknowledges that its count is not comprehensive. It includes
illegal immigrants whose deaths have been confirmed on U.S. territory, but not
those whose remains were never found or whose bodies were recovered in Mexico.

Among those not counted is the unidentified woman found floating in the Rio
Grande late last month a few miles west of McAllen, Tex. According to the Border
Patrol, she was in a group that tried to cross illegally after midnight on a
small, rickety raft. Agents caught nine members of the group on the U.S. side
and were told that two others had been lost when gusts of wind kicked up
foot-high swells, capsizing the raft.

The Border Patrol sent a dozen agents and a helicopter equipped with an infrared
scope to search for the two, but nothing was found that night.

The next morning, agents Mark Jones and Richard Johnston came upon the woman's
floating body while patrolling the Rio Grande in the McAllen sector. "This
happens probably more often than we know," said Jones, 38, as he piloted the
16-foot, flat-bottomed boat, one of 10 new craft that make up the only riverboat
fleet in the Border Patrol.

At the request of the Mexicans, the agents ventured up the river to look for the
other reported victim. Carrizo cane growing on the banks rustled in the breeze
as blue herons, ducks and kingfishers flew overhead or paddled in the greenish
waters. A long-necked white egret stood on one leg, seemingly oblivious to the
boat's passage. A turtle splashed into the water from a fallen tree limb at the
river's edge.

But while this river of contradictions harbors abundant wildlife and showcases
spots of pristine beauty, its polluted waters also flow past man-made eyesores
and detritus. Black inner tubes and plastic garbage bags dot the banks where
alien-smugglers and drug-traffickers have brought their loads across. Among the
junk left on the U.S. side are plastic bottles that have been tied together to
make crude flotation devices, pieces of abandoned clothing, and rags tied to
tree limbs to mark crossing points.

And despite its often placid appearance, the river can be treacherous. Shallow
enough to walk across in some places, it is more than 20 feet deep in others. To
Mexicans, it is known as the Rio Bravo, an adjective that can mean valiant, but
also savage or fierce.

"Many times the water looks very still, but there are some undercurrents that
are very strong," said Armando Mercado Jr., assistant Border Patrol
agent-in-charge in McAllen. "It may be that it's named the Rio Bravo because
it's very vicious and can easily end your life."

Wearing bulletproof vests as protection against potshots by drug traffickers,
Jones, who formerly served in the Coast Guard, and Johnston, a recent recruit
who emigrated from Canada 10 years ago, peered into the vegetation on both banks
of the river but could not find a second body. The Border Patrol later heard
that the purported male victim, apparently the husband of the drowned woman, had
turned up alive on the Mexican side after trying to rescue her.

"Since she wound up on the Mexican side . . . [the woman] is not part of our
statistics," Mercado said.

As often happens, the smuggler hired to bring the group across was
"irresponsible," he said. "It wouldn't take but an extra three minutes to make
two trips, but that increases the chance of being caught. So they'll load these
rafts beyond their capacity, and that's where they wind up having accidents."

Smuggling guides known as "coyotes" have caused many deaths by abandoning their
fee-paying charges in dangerous areas or turning them over to border bandits,
illegal immigrants say. Other migrants have simply disappeared, their fates
unknown.

Fidencio Delgado Cardona, a 23-year-old Honduran interviewed at a Brownsville
homeless shelter, said he was robbed before crossing the river last month with
other young men from Central America, where Hurricane Mitch caused extensive
damage last year. A coyote on the Mexican side "led us to bandits," who pulled
guns on the group and demanded money, he said. "The coyote was in league with
the robbers."

Delgado, who said his father and two brothers were killed in the hurricane, knew
that his trip to "El Norte" could be dangerous, but felt he had no choice.

"I have an uncle who left for the United States 19 years ago," he said. "We
never heard from him again. He left behind children who grew up never knowing
their father. Is he dead? We don't know."

Border Deaths

Drowning and heat exposure cause most of the deaths of illegal immigrants trying
to cross the U.S.-Mexico border. The Border Patrol says many deaths go uncounted
because the bodies aren't found.

Migrant deaths along border by Border Patrol sector

10/97 to 9/98 10/98 to 11/98

McAllen 28 6

Laredo 19 1

Del Rio 35 1

Marfa 3 0

El Paso 24 4

Tucson 11 3

Yuma 8 1

El Centro 83 10

San Diego 43 1

Cause of migrant border deaths

10/97 to 9/98

Drowning 84

Heat exposure 84

Unknown 30

Cold exposure 16

Vehicle accident 16

Train-related 8

Other 16

SOURCE: Immigration and Naturalization Service On the Rio Grande near Laredo,
Tex., Border Patrol agent Richard Johnston retrieves an inner tube used by
illegal immigrants to cross the river.


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post; Photo, WILLIAM BRANIGIN

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              77 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 25, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Court Curbs Free Speech Of Illegal Immigrants; Government Wins On Deportation
Rules

Joan Biskupic; William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1085 words


The Supreme Court sharply limited the First Amendment rights of illegal
immigrants yesterday, ruling that people here unlawfully cannot shield
themselves from deportation by claiming the government is trying to banish them
simply because of their controversial political views.

The 6 to 3 decision involving a group of Palestinians living in Los Angeles goes
to the heart of the American tradition of safeguarding free speech, no matter
how unpopular, and offers one of the court's strongest opinions limiting the
constitutional freedoms of illegal immigrants. But for the government, the case
marks an important victory in its effort to keep immigrants who have no legal
right to be here from evading deportation on extraneous grounds.

The two-pronged decision also forbids illegal immigrants to avail themselves of
the federal courts in trying to fend off deportation unless they have already
exhausted every other administrative procedure offered by immigration officials.
That portion of the ruling, decided by an 8 to 1 vote, upholds a 1996 federal
law aimed at speeding the deportation of illegal aliens, many of whom have
managed to remain in the United States for years through lengthy legal
challenges. The law has produced record deportation levels in the past two
years; in all, 171,154 illegal immigrants and criminals were forced to leave the
United States last year, a 50 percent jump over already increasing 1997 figures.

As a practical matter, immigration experts said yesterday's ruling in Reno v.
American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee is unlikely to affect most of the
thousands of illegal immigrants subject to deportation annually because few
claim they are being targeted for their political views. But immigrant advocates
said the ruling nonetheless has great potential to intimidate immigrants and
make them wary of speaking out about any political matter for fear of drawing
attention to their illegal status.

The opinion is specifically aimed at illegal immigrants, but advocates warn that
it could have the effect of endangering the rights of those who may in fact be
here legally because it curtails their rights before a final determination of
their legal status has been made.

"It relegates immigrants to second-class citizens, and it's reminiscent of the
political witch hunts of the McCarthy era," said Marc Van Der Hout, a co-counsel
in the case representing the National Lawyers Guild.

The case also marks a departure from a general court trend of bestowing on
illegal immigrants the same due process of law and other constitutional freedoms
granted American citizens. And although the majority opinion by Justice Antonin
Scalia did not address the case, dissenting justices pointed to a 1945 court
ruling that said "freedom of speech and of press is accorded aliens residing in
this country."

Yesterday's case traces to 1987, when the government began trying to deport
seven Palestinians and a Kenyan with ties to the Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine. The Justice Department described the group as a
terrorist organization opposed to U.S. peace efforts in the Middle East and
responsible for many incidents of violence and death.

But the Los Angeles area activists contended they were selectively investigated
and targeted for potential violations of immigration law because of legitimate
fund-raising and other free speech activities related to the PFLP. A lower
federal court blocked the deportation and said the aliens should be able to make
their case that they suffered retaliation for their political views.

Yesterday, the Supreme Court reversed the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and
ruled that the 1996 immigration law bars federal courts from intervening.

On the larger First Amendment question, Scalia wrote, "As a general matter . . .
an alien unlawfully in this country has no constitutional right to assert
selective enforcement as a defense against his deportation." He was joined by
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony M.
Kennedy and Clarence Thomas. Justice John Paul Stevens agreed with that portion
of the majority opinion but wrote separately.

The court's holding, as Scalia described it, bars anyone who is subject to a
deportation hearing from trying to defend himself by saying he was singled out
because of political beliefs or activities that any legal resident would be free
to express.

"Aliens now have no meaningful First Amendment freedoms because the government
can selectively target them for expulsion from the country based on core
political activities," said David Cole, the other counsel for the eight
activists.

But Washington Legal Foundation lawyer Richard A. Samp, who had submitted a
brief supporting the federal government's position, praised the court's
decision, saying the "executive branch ought to have the right to decide which
aliens are in this country lawfully and which are not, and the courts should be
not interfering." The Immigration and Naturalization Service had no immediate
comment yesterday.

It was a surprise to many legal observers that the court even addressed the
important issue of constitutional rights, because when it agreed to hear the
case, the court specifically excluded the First Amendment question and said it
would only review the 1996 immigration law. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg noted
yesterday that neither the Justice Department nor lawyers for the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee had been given a chance to address this issue in
their legal briefs or oral arguments before the court.

Only Justice David H. Souter dissented from the portion of the opinion saying
that the new immigration law restricts access to the courts until a foreigner
threatened with deportation exhausts the administrative process.

While some immigration lawyers complained that forcing any alien who wants to
protest his deportation on constitutional grounds to first go through an
administrative hearing might hurt efforts to gather evidence to be used in
court, most advocates focused their protest on the part of the ruling that
barred illegal aliens from claiming they were selectively prosecuted because of
their political beliefs.

Linton Joaquin, litigation director at the National Immigration Law Center in
Los Angeles, said, "It's very troubling . . . that the court is saying these
claims can't be heard. There's no question that what happened in this case was
purely an attack on speech."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              78 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 07, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Clinton May Face Tough Demands on Trip; Central American Leaders to Seek Break
for Illegal Immigrants

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 664 words


Central American leaders plan to urge President Clinton this week to let illegal
immigrants from their countries remain in the United States so they can send
back much-needed remittances, but U.S. officials said last week that the
administration will be hard-pressed to meet those demands.

Immigration will likely be one of the main agenda items during Clinton's visit
to four Central American countries that were damaged last fall by Hurricane
Mitch. The president leaves Monday for Nicaragua and is scheduled to stop in
Honduras and El Salvador before attending a summit in Guatemala Thursday with
the presidents of the four countries -- plus the leaders of Costa Rica, Belize
and the Dominican Republic.

The Central Americans want the United States to treat illegal immigrants from El
Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras the same way as those from Nicaragua, who were
granted amnesty under a 1997 law. Clinton supports "parity" for the Central
Americans, but there is "nothing specific he can offer," a senior White House
official said.

The law allowed as many as 155,000 Nicaraguans and Cubans to apply for
legal-resident status, but offered less generous relief to more than 280,000
Salvadorans and Guatemalans. They were permitted to apply only for suspension of
deportation on a case-by-case basis under the less stringent rules that were in
effect before 1996. Tens of thousands of Hondurans were left out of the law
entirely.

The administration is still working on final regulations to implement the law.
Advocacy groups and congressional backers have urged it to declare a
"presumption of extreme hardship" for the Salvadorans and Guatemalans, allowing
them automatically to meet a key requirement for remaining in the United States.
A number of House Republicans oppose such a move, calling it a "de facto
amnesty" that would violate the 1997 law.

Since last year, the United States has offered limited refuge to Central
American illegal immigrants because of the devastation wrought by Hurricane
Mitch. Those from Nicaragua and Honduras, the two worst-hit countries, were
granted "temporary protected status" for 18 months, while Salvadorans and
Guatemalans were given stays of deportation. The latest stay will expire Monday,
and U.S. authorities are planning to resume deportations soon.

The suspension "is not going to be extended," a White House official said. "We
want to send a very strong signal that you cannot come to this country illegally
and assume you can stay."

Clinton plans to stress that "while we have been generous with the Central
Americans in the wake of Mitch . . . we also need to enforce the law," another
administration official said. Those who do not qualify for temporary refuge,
such as criminals and people who arrived after the Dec. 30 cutoff date, will be
sent back, the official said.

Last week, the INS deported three planeloads of ineligible Hondurans, totaling
about 150 people. Most were convicted criminals, but some were job-seekers who
had sneaked into the country after the cutoff, officials said.

For their part, the Central Americans plan to argue for an extended amnesty
covering illegal immigrants from all four countries on grounds that the money
they send home from their U.S. jobs is vital for reconstruction efforts.

"There is a consensus forming around this desire to get equal treatment," said
Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa, the Nicaraguan ambassador to Washington. He said
Salvadorans, thousands of whom live in the Washington area, send back more than
$ 1 billion a year, while Nicaraguans remit an estimated $ 200 million annually.

A State Department official said the administration is "sensitive" to the issue,
"but we do not want to encourage a mass migration out of Central America. . . .
[In] the long run that wouldn't be beneficial to those countries. Who's going to
be left to rebuild Honduras and Nicaragua if the most productive members of the
population are in the United States?"

LOAD-DATE: March 07, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              79 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 15, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

INS Shifts 'Interior' Strategy to Target Criminal Aliens; Critics Say Plan to
Curtail Work-Site Raids Will Hurt Immigration Compliance

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1570 words



In what it calls a "major shift" in strategy, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service is moving away from its traditional raids on job sites to round up
illegal immigrants, emphasizing instead operations against foreign criminals,
alien-smuggling rings and document fraud.

The new "interior enforcement strategy," outlined in an internal INS document,
affords a measure of relief to the estimated 5.5 million illegal immigrants
living in the United States and the thousands of businesses that employ them.

But it is generating intense criticism within the INS and among advocates of a
tougher stand on illegal immigration. They say the new policy undermines the
INS's commitment to removing illegal aliens, essentially ignoring them as long
as they do not commit a crime that brings them to the agency's attention.

"There is resistance . . . because, basically, if you get through the border,
you're home free," a senior INS field manager said. "Everybody recognizes that,
and the aliens know that by now." He added, "We basically have ceased work-site
enforcement. . . . We're extremely frustrated. Morale is low."

The strategy shift underscores the nation's ambivalence about illegal
immigration. While most Americans oppose the idea of sneaking across the border
or overstaying a visa, there also is widespread recognition that illegal
immigrants typically work hard, often at jobs Americans shun.

The change also reflects the political reality that has doomed previous
crackdowns on illegal employment. According to INS insiders, neither the
Democrats nor the Republicans have demonstrated the political will to seriously
reduce the illegal work force, in large part because key constituencies oppose
such efforts. On the Democratic side, interior enforcement directed against
undocumented workers tends to alienate lawyers, ethnic lobbies, civil rights
groups and, increasingly, unions trying to organize the newcomers. For the
Republicans, work-site raids often pose problems because they arouse bitter
complaints from business and agricultural interests.

Among those who can breathe easier because of the new strategy are thousands of
Central Americans, many from El Salvador, who have migrated to the Washington
area in recent years. Although the chances of being picked up in an INS raid
have been slim, that possibility has imbued them with a certain wariness, a
sense of always having to look over their shoulder.

Rosa, 44, overstayed her visa and has been living here illegally for four years
with her husband and teenage daughter. "I'm always afraid," said the Salvadoran
waitress in Adams Morgan. She said she welcomes the INS's shift away from
work-site raids. "As Latinos, the raids made us feel discriminated against,
persecuted," she said.

Ruben, 28, who fled El Salvador in 1990, said he has learned to "always keep an
eye open" when working as a painter. During an INS raid while on a job at Dulles
Airport, he said, he ran outside to hide in a company car. His worries increased
when his wife, also an illegal Salvadoran immigrant, recently gave birth.
"Before, if they sent me back, okay. But now I have a son, someone who needs
me," he said.

The strategy document, which has been distributed to INS field offices but has
not been publicly released, says the agency's goal in interior enforcement is to
"reduce the size and annual growth of the illegal resident population." The INS
has used new powers under a 1996 immigration law to step up deportations in
recent years, removing a record 169,000-plus people in fiscal 1998. But the
increased expulsions are not keeping pace with the estimated 275,000 illegal
immigrants who permanently settle in the United States every year, much less
putting a dent in the core illegal population.

The top priority, the document says, is to identify and remove "criminal
aliens," many of whom "are released before their legal status is ascertained or
before the INS can be called" to pick them up. The agency estimates that about
221,000 foreign-born criminals are in federal, state or local jails--two-thirds
of them illegal immigrants. As many as 142,000 others are on parole or probation
but are subject to removal under the immigration law. An additional 161,000 are
"abscondees" who disappeared after receiving deportation orders.

The next interior enforcement priority is dismantling networks that smuggle
illegal aliens, an underground industry that makes as much as $ 8 billion a year
worldwide. These networks have grown increasingly sophisticated, often
recruiting and transporting illegal workers to job sites with the knowledge and
participation of employers, the document says.

The strategy also calls for action against fraud that enables illegal aliens to
obtain legal documents and other benefits, often through high-quality
counterfeiting and false claims to U.S. citizenship.

The last priority is to change "hiring practices" by building "relationships"
with employers, openly conducting "audits and surveys" and inviting "employer
cooperation" in identifying illegal workers. The document says work-site
enforcement has failed to deter illegal immigration, "yielding uneven results in
communities and across industries" and prompting numerous complaints.

The strategy was drafted by Joseph R. Greene, the INS district director in
Denver, at the direction of Robert L. Bach, executive associate commissioner for
policy and planning. The INS still could use work-site raids and arrests, Greene
said, "but the goal is not simply to remove a bunch of people from the work site
and leave it at that. The goal is changing the way employers do business."

Critics within the INS and the Border Patrol support going after alien smugglers
and document counterfeiters but say work-site enforcement is vital to the fight
against illegal immigration. INS field offices already have sharply curtailed
raids because of new restrictions from headquarters and budget cuts, officials
said.

"We're out of that business," one INS district director said. He said employers
"are not going to comply [with immigration laws] if there's no reason to comply,
no social outrage, no law that's being enforced." The idea that employers can be
persuaded not to hire illegal workers, who will then go home, "is a fairy tale,"
he said.

The INS actions are "telling would-be illegal aliens that if you don't get
caught entering the United States, we'll look the other way so you can stay,"
said Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee.

Rep. Nathan Deal (R-Ga.), whose north Georgia district has large numbers of
illegal workers from Mexico, said the new strategy also signals employers that
"they don't have to worry about the sanctions" enacted in 1986 as part of an
immigration reform package that offered legal status to about 2.7 million
illegal aliens. The sanctions were supposed to stop further illegal immigration,
but the undocumented population has doubled since then.

Dan Stein, director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
advocates reducing immigration levels, called the strategy a "capitulation" to
pressure from the "alien rights lobby" and "cheap-labor interests."

"Never before has the INS explicitly abandoned the goal of apprehending large
numbers of illegal immigrants who are residing in the U.S. interior," he said.
"It's a complete surrender. . . . Criminal aliens should be an enforcement
priority, but not political cover for ignoring the rest of the job."

An INS official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the strategy "signals
an inability within current resources to deal with the undocumented population
in the United States."

While the INS budget has risen to almost $ 4 billion and the Border Patrol has
nearly doubled in size in the past five years, relatively little has been spent
to enforce immigration laws inside the country, even though more than 40 percent
of the illegal population originally came in legally and overstayed their visas.
Of 2,000 INS special agents, about 1,750 conduct investigations of alien
smuggling; illegal employment; various types of fraud, including fake marriages;
and immigrants' involvement in drug trafficking and violent gangs.

"That's half the size of the [D.C.] police force to cover not only the entire
nation but the entire world," the official said. "If Congress and the
administration were serious, how'd we end up with 1,750 agents to do all this
work?

"No one has stepped up to the plate when it comes to interior enforcement," he
said. "The border is easy money politically. But the interior is a political
minefield."


Enforcement Trends


An estimated 5.55 million illegal aliens live in the United States today.


The number of illegal aliens settled in the United States increases by an
estimated 275,000 a year.


The United States removed 169,072 aliens in 1998, up from 114,285 in 1997.


The number of special agents -- enforcers in the U.S. interior -- has grown at a
smaller rate than other INS ranks.


SOURCE: Immigration and Naturalization Service

INS Special Agent Lewis Spurry handcuffs a suspect during a dawn raid in 1994 on
a landscape contracting company in Crofton, Md. INS policy is shifting away from
such raids and toward a focus on alien smuggling rings, document fraud and
foreign criminals.



LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post; Photo, KEITH JENKINS

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              80 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 20, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

What Rights For Illegal Aliens?

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 198 words


The counsels for illegal alien litigants quoted in "Court Curbs Free Speech of
Illegal Immigrants" [front page, Feb. 25] resort to hyperbole and misstatement.

First, illegal aliens aren't "second-class citizens." They aren't citizens,
period. They are not like legal immigrants, who aren't citizens but enjoy
certain constitutional rights. Illegal aliens don't enjoy and shouldn't be
extended rights they don't deserve.

Second, illegal aliens are not subjected to "political witch hunts of the
McCarthy era." Whenever authorities seek to deport illegal aliens, no matter on
what basis, they are justified in doing so because illegals already are marked
as removable.

Third, aliens do indeed have meaningful First Amendment liberties. However, when
those liberties are exercised, aliens of legal status don't generally have to
fear deportation.

The Supreme Court rightly decided that illegal aliens can't use constitutional
smoke screens to fight deportation, which entails proceedings of an
administrative nature. I guess we'll have to inform the lawyers about these
common-sense differences that average Americans understand.

JAMES R. EDWARDS JR.

Springfield

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              81 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 03, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

7 Illegal Migrants Die in Snowstorm; Crackdown Pushing Traffic Into Mountains

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 2


At least seven illegal immigrants died in a freak snowstorm that descended on
the mountains and canyons above California's inland border with Mexico and
dozens of others were rescued by U.S. Border Patrol agents, authorities reported
today.

The deaths were part of a mounting toll as the United States pours money and
personnel into the border area, erecting fences and increasing patrols around
urban areas and pushing illegal traffic and human smugglers farther and farther
out into the badlands and mountains where patrols are less frequent.

The Border Patrol said it rescued 50 crossers and found seven bodies in and
around the Cleveland National Forest, in an isolated area 30 miles northeast of
San Diego and 20 miles north of the Mexican border, where a sudden storm brought
freezing temperatures, fog, high winds and as much as 16 inches of wet snow.

All the dead were reported to be men, while two sisters and two children were
rescued and taken to area hospitals.

The first woman came out of the freezing cold Thursday night, suffering from
hypothermia, fearing for the husband she had left behind in the sudden storm.
She was saved by a rancher. But her husband was found dead by the time the
rescue operations got underway today.

The Border Patrol expressed fears that dozens more are still missing, lost in
the forests.

South of the border, Mexican authorities reported they rescued about 80 people
who were attempting to cross and that at least two more had died in the freezing
temperatures and slushy snow.

"The storm surprised them," said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. "It caught these people out there, and
they don't dress for this kind of weather. They're wearing jeans and T-shirts
and maybe light jackets."

The dead all died from exposure to the weather, according to preliminary
reports.

The migrants were attempting to cross in the mountains because the Border
Patrol's "Operation Gatekeeper" has made the San Diego metropolitan area much
more difficult for smugglers and illegal immigrants. With the increased patrols
and double lines of fences, the human traffic has moved east.

This strategy has led some human rights and immigrant advocates to charge that
the policy is killing people. But the Clinton administration defends the
operation, saying it simply wants to discourage illegal immigration by making it
more difficult.

From the border, many crossers now wind their way through the mountain canyons
and along ridge lines. They can be exposed to extreme conditions -- to snakes
and scorpions and rugged terrain.

An El Nin o storm last April left three migrants dead, and in February 1997 a
surprise snowstorm took seven lives. Last summer, Border Patrol agents found
seven dead migrants huddled together in the searing high desert.

From the Mexican border near the town of Tecate, it is not unusual for migrants
to walk for three or four days until they reach Interstate 8, where they are
picked up by friends or relatives.

The Border Patrol shifted from its job of apprehending illegal migrants to an
intense search-and-rescue operation early this morning, employing dogs and
helicopters. More than a hundred agents participated in the search.

Bodies and migrants wandering in the snow and cold were found all over the
mountains. This morning, after a Coast Guard helicopter spotted one group of 12
in distress, Border Patrol agents led them to safety down the side of a cliff
where they had become trapped.

The weather in the mountains is still cold, but no more snow is expected to fall
tonight.

LOAD-DATE: April 03, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              82 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 05, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18; NATION IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 588 words


3 Mexican Immigrants Found Dead After Border-Area Snowstorm

SAN DIEGO -- Three more illegal immigrants were found dead in the area where a
surprise snowstorm stranded dozens who tried to enter the United States, and
three Mexican nationals who accompanied the immigrants were arrested on federal
smuggling charges, officials said.

One victim was found Friday in a rugged area that has become a border crossing
point, said Rebeca Romero, a spokeswoman for the Mexican consulate in San Diego.
More than 50 immigrants were rescued around Cleveland National Forest, about 40
miles east of San Diego, late Thursday and Friday.

Mexican authorities working the other side of the border south of Tecate, in an
area known as La Rumorosa, reported finding an additional two people dead and
more than 80 people stranded by the cold.

In addition to the three arrested Mexican nationals, who could face a minimum
three years in prison plus additional time because immigrants died, U.S.
authorities also detained four immigrants as possible witnesses, the consulate's
spokeswoman said.

Medical Helicopter Crashes; 3 Dead

INDIAN SPRINGS, Nev. -- A medical helicopter crashed while returning to its base
after taking a patient to a hospital, killing the pilot and two nurses,
authorities said.

The Euro BO-105 had taken a patient to Valley Hospital Medical Center in Las
Vegas, which operates the Flight for Life air ambulance program.

The twin-engine aircraft was reported down about 12:10 a.m. near Indian Springs,
35 miles northwest of Las Vegas, said Jerry Acosta, a duty officer with the
Federal Aviation Administration in Los Angeles.

The victims were identified as pilot James Bond Jr. and flight nurses Kathy
Batterman and Leroy Shelton, according to hospital spokeswoman Rebecca Blair.

Addenda

LIMA, Ohio -- A bus carrying high school students returning from a tour of
Canada went off Interstate 75 and landed in an embankment, leaving 34 people
with minor injuries, the State Highway Patrol said. The driver, Robert G.
Shattuck, 55, of Peebles, apparently fell asleep at the wheel four miles south
of Lima. He was cited for impaired alertness, said Sgt. Mary Cosgrove of the
patrol's Lima post.

SAN ANTONIO -- Two Huichol Indians who had admitted to killing a journalist now
say Mexican police tortured confessions from them. Juan Chivarra de la Cruz, 28,
and his brother-in-law, Miguel Hernandez de la Cruz, 24, remain jailed in the
Mexican state of Jalisco, charged with murdering San Antonio Express-News
correspondent Philip True. True, who was based in Mexico City, disappeared in
December while on a 100-mile hike to document the Huichols. His body was found
in a shallow grave.

DALLAS -- The John F. Kennedy Memorial was defaced late Friday night or Saturday
morning by vandals with spray paint who caused thousands of dollars worth of
damage. The black and red graffiti on the interior walls of the downtown
memorial might have been done by a hate group, said officer Leroy Quigg. Painted
images included a swastika.

CAMP WOOD, Tex. -- FBI agents wrapped up a three-day search at a south Texas
cattle ranch for clues to the disappearance of atheist leader Madalyn Murray
O'Hair but declined to say whether they found anything. The FBI has refused to
confirm the subject of the investigation, but the Texas Department of Public
Safety said it was helping federal agents in a search for evidence in the 1995
disappearance of O'Hair, her son, a granddaughter and $ 500,000 in gold coins.

LOAD-DATE: April 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              83 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                 June 26, 1999, Saturday, Monday, Final Edition

Rail-Killings Suspect Was Freed

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 238 words


Suspected serial killer Rafael Resendez-Ramirez was in the custody of U.S.
Border Patrol agents and was let go just three weeks before he was put on the
FBI's 10 Most Wanted list as a suspect in eight brutal murders.

Resendez-Ramirez, whose alleged trademark is to travel by hitching rides on
railroad freight trains and kill near railroad tracks, was apprehended on June 2
by the Border Patrol after entering the United States illegally from Mexico and
was subsequently sent back to Mexico, according to an Immigration and
Naturalization Service statement. INS officials said the incident took place in
Texas.

More than 1.5 million people a year are apprehended entering the country
illegally and are sent back after processing that normally takes just a few
hours. They are photographed and fingerprinted by the Border Patrol, and that
information is entered into an INS database. The identities of illegal entrants
are not routinely checked to determine whether they are wanted on criminal
charges. The Border Patrol photograph was circulated nationwide by the FBI on
Friday.

Resendez-Ramirez was added to the 10 Most Wanted list on Monday after he was
charged in a double murder discovered June 15 in Gorham, Ill. He also is a
suspect in six other killings committed in Kentucky and Texas over the past two
years and is the subject of a manhunt involving hundreds of federal, state and
local investigators.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              84 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 26, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

Gore Proposes Restoring More of Legal Immigrants' Benefits

Judith Havemann, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 525 words


Vice President Gore proposed a five-year, $ 1.3 billion plan yesterday to
restore some of the disability, health, and food stamp benefits for legal
immigrants that were eliminated in the 1996 welfare overhaul.

Gore announced the plan to politically influential Hispanic and Asian immigrant
groups in San Francisco, saying it was designed to close some of the biggest
remaining gaps in the safety net supporting immigrants who are in the United
States legally but who have not become citizens.

President Clinton signed far-reaching welfare legislation on Aug. 22, 1996,
which cut those benefits, but complained about that provision at the time and
pledged to rectify it.

Disability and health benefits have since been restored to 420,000 legal
immigrants who were in the country before that date, and food stamps have been
provided to 225,000 children, elderly and disabled.

The new proposal would go a step further by restoring eligibility for immigrants
who have entered the country since the passage of the welfare bill, and may
spark sharp controversy because some Republicans have contended that making such
public assistance available to all legal immigrants would make the U.S. a
"welfare beacon," in the words of Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.).

The House Agriculture Committee last year voted to restore food stamps to
thousands of children and elderly who had immigrated before August 1996, but
balked at any changes beyond that date.

"Doing anything for the people who entered after that was a complete
non-starter," said a House Agriculture Committee aide who did not wish to be
named. This year, the fate of the proposal, according to GOP and Democratic
aides, may depend on the details and how it will be financed.

Generally, the growing importance of the immigrant vote, particularly in key
states like California, has quieted once-vocal opposition to benefits for legal
immigrants. Within the past two years, Congress has committed more than $ 12.3
billion to restore such benefits over the next five years. The original benefit
cuts were designed to produce savings of $ 20 billion through the year 2001.

The Gore disability and health care proposal would assist about 54,000 legal
immigrants by 2004. An immigrant would have to be in the country for five years
before becoming eligible for health insurance or disability payments. The food
stamp proposal would cover immigrants who have been here since before the
welfare law was passed, but who are only now age 65 or older. It would help
about 15,000 immigrants.

"This is a good political move if the administration is serious about reaching
out to Hispanic and Asian voters," said Joel Najar, immigration policy analyst
for the National Council of La Raza. Such voters consider benefits an "issue of
fairness."

Najar said the 1996 welfare law already placed stringent new legal requirements
on sponsors of immigrants to provide support for individuals they help bring
into the country.

The extension of disability and medical benefits to such individuals, he said,
is necessary for emergencies, such as when a sponsor is unable to provide
support.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              85 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 23, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

CRIME & JUSTICE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02; CRIME AND JUSTICE

LENGTH: 487 words



VIRGINIA


Middle School Students Accused of Hoax


Two Herndon Middle School students were charged yesterday with filing false
police reports after saying they had discovered notes with racially directed
threats and turning them over to the school's police officer.

The first student said that she found two such notes on top of her locker April
15 and that they specified a date when the threats would be carried out. A
second student said she found another note identifying certain minority
students; those students were made aware of the notes during the investigation,
Fairfax County police officer Katie Hughes said. The principal sent a letter
home to parents Wednesday explaining the situation.

But officers from Herndon and Fairfax believe that the two girls, ages 13 and
15, wrote all of the notes and that there was no actual racial conflict. Police
said the girls wrote the notes to get attention. Fairfax school officials
declined to say what action has been taken against the girls, but spokesman Paul
Regnier said the school system was confident the notes were a hoax.


Couple Convicted of Immigration Fraud


A West African woman and her husband were convicted Wednesday of conspiracy to
defraud the Immigration and Naturalization Service after she posed as her twin
sister to obtain U.S. citizenship and the couple applied for legal status for
five people from Ghana, claiming the five were their children.

Patricia Agyemang and Solomon Adusei stood trial this week in U.S. District
Court in Alexandria. According to federal prosecutors, Agyemang applied for U.S.
citizenship in 1995 using the identity of her twin sister, Nakita Agyemang, who
was a legal resident of the United States until she left in 1990.

Patricia Agyemang became a U.S. citizen in 1996, and Adusei acquired permanent
resident status based on his wife's fraudulent citizenship. The couple then
applied for legal status for five people they claimed were their children.


MARYLAND


Husband Charged With Courtroom Assault


A Beltsville man was arrested yesterday by Maryland State Police after he
allegedly assaulted his wife in a Hyattsville courtroom.

Trooper David Thomas and other police officers arrested Romeo Gipson, 29, after
Gipson allegedly pushed his wife, Angela, as the two were leaving a Prince
George's County District courtroom about 10:30 a.m. yesterday, state police
said.

Romeo Gipson apparently was upset after a second-degree assault charge he had
filed against his wife was dropped by an assistant state's attorney, authorities
said. Angela Gipson also had filed a second-degree assault charge against Romeo,
which is still pending, officials said.

Romeo Gipson was charged with an additional count of second-degree assault for
allegedly pushing his wife, officials said.


Compiled from reports by staff writers Tom Jackman, Leef Smith and Ruben
Castaneda.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              86 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 31, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

OBITUARIES; Marianne M. Gingell Dies at 85; Government Lawyer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 242 words


Marianne McConnaughey Gingell, 85, a government lawyer for 37 years before
retiring in 1974 after eight years on the Justice Department's Board of
Immigration Appeals, died May 29 at Suburban Hospital. She had Parkinson's
disease.

She began her career as a government lawyer in 1937 with the National Labor
Relations Board in Chicago.

Mrs. Gingell came to Washington in 1938 to join the Justice Department's
antitrust division.

She later worked in the office of the solicitor general in the Agriculture
Department before returning to Justice in 1948 as a staff attorney with the
Board of Immigration Appeals.

Mrs. Gingell was a recipient of the Justice Department's Sustained Performance
and Special Commendation awards.

She was a member of the Chevy Chase Club, the Kenwood Garden Club and the Sierra
Club.

Mrs. Gingell, who lived in Chevy Chase, was born in Missouri and reared in
Minnesota. She was a 1935 graduate of the University of Minnesota and a 1937
graduate of the University of Virginia law school.

Her first husband, Robert K. McConnaughey, whom she married in 1941, died in
1966.

Survivors include her husband, Robert A. Gingell, whom she married in 1981 and
who lives in Chevy Chase; four sons from her first marriage, Robert S.
McConnaughey of Chevy Chase, Dr. John B. McConnaughey of Spokane, Wash., David
T. McConnaughey of New York and Terry W. McConnaughey of Bethesda; a brother;
and six grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              87 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 16, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Probe's Findings Support INS Whistleblower; Supervisor Ordered Returned to
Former Position

Stephen Barr, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 1054 words


After Immigration and Naturalization Service official Neil Jacobs, who had won
public service awards from Vice President Gore and the Ford Foundation,
criticized the INS during testimony on Capitol Hill, his superiors apparently
decided he had to go.

But the attempt to punish Jacobs has snared the INS in a potentially
embarrassing investigation by an independent federal agency, the U.S. Office of
Special Counsel, which was created to protect whistleblowers.

In response to the probe's preliminary findings, the U.S. Merit Systems
Protection Board, which rules on federal personnel disputes, directed the INS
last month to return Jacobs to his supervisory job in Dallas, pending further
legal review of his charges that he has been harassed at the INS.

The efforts to remove Jacobs from his post as assistant district director for
investigations in Dallas allegedly came after he testified about possible fraud
and abuses in the processing of naturalization applications before a House
subcommittee hearing in September 1996.

"This is a most blatant retaliation, to pick on someone who has testified before
Congress, and the whole way they have gone about it is stunning," said Jacobs's
lawyer, David R. Schleicher of Waco.

Jacobs denounced the INS for launching an "attack" and "fishing expedition"
against him in a bid to ruin his 27-year career at the agency but, in a brief
telephone interview, referred all questions to his lawyer.

A spokesman for the INS said it would not be appropriate for the agency to
comment on a personnel dispute under investigation.

The petitions filed by the Office of Special Counsel (OSC) with the merit board
described how OSC's ongoing investigation "revealed reasonable grounds" to
conclude that Jacobs's whistleblowing played a role in INS decisions to punish
him.

At first, according to the OSC probe, INS officials wanted to fire Jacobs, then
tried to demote him and reassign him to El Paso. When that plan could not be
carried out, the INS decided to suspend Jacobs for 21 days and move him into a
non-supervisory job in Dallas.

In his 1996 testimony before the House Government Reform and Oversight
subcommittee, Jacobs criticized a new INS program called "Citizenship USA." His
testimony raised the prospect of fraud and other abuses involving the Dallas
district office's processing of about 10,000 naturalization applications.

The INS launched the citizenship program in late 1995 to deal with an
unprecedented surge in naturalization requests that grew out of a 1986 amnesty
that legalized about 2.6 million aliens. As the 1996 election year began, the
INS tried to speed up the program.

Republicans soon complained that thousands of criminals were being given
citizenship in a rush to turn out new Democratic voters. The GOP charges set off
congressional hearings and investigations, including an ongoing Justice
Department inspector general probe. Audits showed that more than 70,000 persons
granted citizenship in the program's first year had criminal records, but
subsequent studies narrowed the problem cases to around 6,000.

According to the OSC, Jacobs first heard about the citizenship program at a June
5, 1996, conference in Arizona, where then-INS executive commissioner Alexander
Aleinikoff described it as a "top priority." Jacobs later sent a letter to an
aide of Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.) criticizing the program, and some of the
criticisms subsequently appeared in a Washington Times article.

In September 1996, in response to a congressional subpoena, Jacobs testified
before the House subcommittee. Contrary to usual INS practices, he said that not
a single case out of 10,000 individuals naturalized at Texas Stadium that month
had been referred to his office for review of criminal records and possibly
fraudulent statements on naturalization applications.

OSC, in its petition to the merit board, said Jacobs's supervisors, former
Dallas INS executive Arthur Strapp and INS Commissioner Doris Meissner, "reacted
negatively" to the criticism. After his congressional testimony, OSC said,
Jacobs "became the target" of internal INS investigations.

The INS investigation of Jacobs produced a series of allegations. In the end,
the INS decided to discipline Jacobs because he gave inappropriate reasons when
he denied merit pay raises for three subordinate Hispanic agents and instead
gave them $ 1,000 cash awards. INS viewed that action as creating the appearance
of favoritism toward Anglo Americans, OSC said.

INS also alleged that Jacobs engaged in "inappropriate conduct" and made
"inappropriate remarks" in his dealings with some INS agents, OSC said.

But the special counsel questioned whether Jacobs's alleged misconduct warranted
the proposed punishment and suggested the INS handling of the matter might
support Jacobs's contention that he had faced "retaliation by investigation."

OSC asked the Merit System Protection Board for time to conduct a longer review
of the case and the proposed INS disciplinary action. If the OSC supports
Jacobs, it may petition the merit board for corrective action or attempt to
negotiate a settlement of the dispute with the INS.

Prior to his congressional appearance, Jacobs won a $ 100,000 Innovations in
American Government award from the Ford Foundation and Harvard University for
creating a program in Dallas that allowed companies to avoid INS raids that
might put them out of business.

Under "Operation Jobs," Jacobs gave companies that hired illegal aliens a 60-day
period to recruit replacements from community and welfare groups before the INS
moved in to check immigration papers and make arrests.

Vice President Gore honored Jacobs with a "Hammer Award" for trying to build a
better government based on the vice president's management reform principles.
Jacobs also briefed President Clinton on his initiative during one of Clinton's
visits to Dallas.

OSC also noted that Jacobs had received an INS award for bravery and several "
'outstanding' annual performance ratings and special achievement awards."

Neil Jacobs, assistant district director for investigations in Dallas, testified
in September 1996 about possible fraud and abuses within the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in the processing of naturalization applications.


NAME: NEIL JACOBS

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHM

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              88 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 15, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

Guilty Plea Entered By Phony Lawyer; Ex-Club Owner Admits to Fraud

Michael E. Ruane, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 422 words


Paul C. Kurtz, the former Washington impresario and restaurant operator who was
charged last year with illegally passing himself off as a lawyer, has pleaded
guilty to four of 48 counts of fraud and misuse of a credit card, federal
officials say.

Kurtz, 57, of Bethesda, who was briefly a co-owner of the District's legendary
Cellar Door nightclub before it shut down in 1982, was charged last year by
federal authorities in New York City with numerous instances of acting as a
lawyer, when he was not.

Federal prosecutors called Kurtz a con man "of breathtaking audacity," and he
was accused of representing "clients" in 14 federal criminal cases, five cases
before the Immigration and Naturalization Service and even a case in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court.

In one case, shortly before he was arrested July 7, he got a sentencing
postponed by falsely telling a federal judge that his elderly mother had just
died. But Kurtz also spoke and wrote superb legalese and did have some expertise
in the area of federal sentencing guidelines, former colleagues said.

Kurtz, who served two sentences in federal prison in the 1980s on unrelated
fraud charges, entered his plea Thursday in federal court in the Southern
District of New York, according to the U.S. attorney there, Mary Jo White.

He pleaded guilty to one count involving a federal criminal case, one count
involving an immigration case and one count involving his masquerading as a
lawyer to see prison inmates. He also pleaded guilty to one count of credit card
fraud.

Kurtz had founded a legal counseling service, the National Correctional
Counseling Center, after his most recent release from prison. He ran the
business out of his condominium apartment in a Bethesda high-rise, where he
served on the building's board of directors.

Prosecutors said his bogus lawyering took place between 1992 and last year.

He faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison on the credit card count and
five years each on the others, White said in a statement announcing the plea.

Prosecutors noted in a letter to Kurtz's Washington attorney, Brian W.
Shaughnessy, that Kurtz's plea "demonstrated acceptance of responsibility for
his offense" and saved the government the time and expense of preparing for
trial.

In return, authorities agreed not to prosecute him on the other charges,
although the other charges may be taken into consideration at the time of his
sentencing, scheduled for Sept. 24.

Neither Kurtz nor his attorney could be reached for comment.

NAME: PAUL C. KURTZ

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              89 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 01, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

High Tech, High Demand

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A13; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 393 words


In "Visa Program, High-Tech Workers Exploited, Critics Say" [front page, July
26], William Branigin does not focus on the critical need for these high-tech
workers, and the incredible expense companies incur in bringing them on board.
Rather, he perpetuates negative stereotypes Americans have of cheap,
exploited-immigrant labor taking jobs from U.S. workers. In particular, he cites
the alleged plight of Indian "techno braceros" who come to the United States to
fill high-tech positions and are relegated to suffering under allegedly
despicable working conditions (long days); intolerable housing (sharing an
apartment with one or two other individuals); and living on below- average wages
($ 50,000 per year). Many U.S. workers would be happy to live and work under
these conditions.

According to the article, these "immigrant cyberworkers constitute a vulnerable
group that can be easily exploited." Truth be told, these highly paid workers
can practically name their price in the current labor market. They often jump
from one high-tech employer to another searching for even higher pay, more
challenging work and better benefits.

As part of the Immigration Act of 1990, Congress capped the number of temporary
foreign workers entering the United States annually to 65,000. In fiscal year
1997, this cap was reached in July. This year the cap was reached in May,
preventing U.S. companies from sponsoring much-needed foreign workers for
temporary visas until the beginning of fiscal year 1999.

In today's global economy, the most successful companies have operations and
workers all over the world. U.S. immigration policy has not kept up with the new
multinational business climate. U.S. companies wishing to hire foreign nationals
either from a U.S. university or from outside the United States must jump
through regulatory hoop after hoop. And after all that, these employers can
still find the visa status denied and the vacancy unfilled -- costing money,
jobs, time and a competitive edge.

Congress finally is attempting to address this problem, which should have been
the focus of the article. Instead, it perpetuates anti-immigrant sentiment in
this country by quoting a few disgruntled workers.

-- Laura Foote Reiff

The writer chairs the

Government Task Force for the

American Immigration Lawyers

Association.


LOAD-DATE: August 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, randy mack bishop

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              90 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 22, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Immigrants Depress Wages

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A16; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 105 words


In addressing the question of whether the unprecedented flood of foreign workers
and their families into the Washington area over the past two decades has been
good for us ["Immigrants: More Boon Than Burden," front page, Aug. 31], the
authors refer to the National Research Council study of last year. They note the
tiny net gain for the overall economy the NRC found.

But they ignore the council's more important findings that immigration has
depressed wages for the least-fortunate American workers. This has been the
prime reason for the rising economic disparity in the United States.

TIM REID

Alexandria

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              91 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 25, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

House Backs Increase in Visas for Skilled Foreign Workers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 383 words



A bill allowing more high-skilled immigrants to work in the United States was
passed yesterday by the House despite concerns the foreign workers may take jobs
away from Americans.

The legislation would increase the number of H-1B visas granted each year to
foreign computer programmers, engineers and other skilled workers. Currently,
only 65,000 visas are granted annually, and this year's supply was exhausted in
May.

The bill, which passed by a 288-133 vote, would raise the annual cap on those
special visas to 115,500 for the next two years and then reduce it to 107,500 in
2001. The ceiling would return to 65,000 in 2002.

President Clinton originally threatened to veto the bill but said yesterday he
would sign this compromise, which White House economic adviser Gene Sperling and
Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.) agreed to Wednesday night. This version, he said,
"institutes new reforms to ensure that employers do not replace U.S. workers
with temporary foreign workers and requires employers to recruit U.S. workers."

The bill establishes a fee for each visa to fund training programs for U.S.
workers. A different version passed the Senate earlier this year.

"The fundamental concept behind this bill is that skilled people create jobs,
they don't take up jobs," said Rep. David Dreier (R-Calif.).

High-tech companies say they need thousands more skilled employees than they can
find in the United States. The bill's opponents claim many companies are laying
off U.S. workers and want to replace Americans with immigrants whom they could
pay lower wages.

"This is not about a lack of workers, it's about a lack of workers that are the
cheapest you can find. It's about a lack of indentured servants that we can
bring from other nations," said Rep. Ron Klink (D-Pa.).

Dreier said the legislation requires U.S. companies to provide the foreign
workers with pay and benefits equal to those given to their American
counterparts. It also gives the Labor Department authority to audit companies
suspected of using the visas to replace American workers.

A $ 500 fee for each visa application and annual renewal, to be paid by the
hiring companies, would be collected to fund math and science scholarships as
well as job training programs for U.S. workers.



LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              92 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 28, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigrants to Become Citizens of Germany; New Legislation Sets Off Fierce Debate

William Drozdiak, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1278 words

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany


When Mehmet Oncu arrived in Germany 13 years ago, he dreamed about accumulating
a small nest egg and returning to his native Turkey. But like many of Germany's
"guest workers," he changed his ambitions and decided to settle here permanently
-- with the goal of becoming a German citizen.

After years of fruitless effort, Oncu now appears to be on the verge of
achieving his most fervent wish. Along with his wife and two small children, the
40-year-old social worker is among an estimated 3 million foreigners who will
qualify for a German passport once Germany's newly elected Social Democratic-led
government fulfills its campaign promise and changes the country's antiquated
citizenship laws.

"We work hard, we pay taxes, but until now we have never been accepted in this
society," Oncu said. "It may take time to change attitudes about whether Germany
can function as a nation of many cultures. But now that we will have the power
to vote, our interests will be better represented."

The nationality reform, which Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder lists among his top
priorities, is expected to transform Germany's social and political landscape
once it is passed in the next few weeks. "We'll bring our laws up to a modern
level that corresponds with the rest of Europe," Interior Minister Otto Schily
said. "It is a truly historic step and will show Germany is a tolerant society
open to the world."

But controversy still rages over whether Germany should keep its doors open to
the outside world. As an affluent nation bordering nine countries in the heart
of Europe, Germany has become a magnet for people seeking political asylum or a
better life. It now absorbs about 300,000 people each year -- well more than
half of all foreigners entering the European Union -- and ranks second only to
the United States as a haven for immigrants.

While eager to integrate Germany's 7.37 million foreigners, who account for
nearly a tenth of the population, Schily insists the time has come to draw the
line against subsequent waves of immigrants. With many communities in Frankfurt,
Berlin and Cologne now dominated by people who cannot speak German, Schily fears
that a dangerous political backlash is developing that will engender greater
sympathy for right-wing extremists.

"The threshold of Germany's capacity to accept more immigrants has already been
passed," Schily said. "Future quotas for foreigners must be set at zero."

Schily's comments have sparked a fierce debate within the nascent governing
coalition that reflects the complex nature of Germany's relations with the
outside world. By allowing dual citizenship and easing the process of
naturalization, Germany will no longer be the only Western nation that bases
citizenship on bloodlines rather than residence or place of birth.

Some Germans fear the new law will encourage a flood of immigrants from Turkey,
Eastern Europe and the former Yugoslavia eager to join relatives now living
here. They worry that such an influx could depress wages, overwhelm a job market
already suffering from 10 percent unemployment, exacerbate ethnic tensions and
overburden the country's generous welfare system.

But others argue that, for economic and demographic reasons alone, Germany has
no choice but to embrace its discomforting fate as a nation of immigrants. "As a
large industrial nation in the middle of Europe, the facts of life are that we
simply cannot afford to turn away immigrants for the foreseeable future," said
Marieluise Beck, the government minister for foreigner affairs and a leading
member of the Greens party, the junior government coalition partner.

Beck says Germany -- which has the lowest birthrate in Western Europe -- will
require a continuing inflow of foreign workers as the population ages and a
larger proportion of Germans becomes dependent on the state to finance
retirement. Contrary to popular belief that they milk Germany's welfare network,
foreigners provide a net contribution of about $ 60 billion a year to help
sustain the country's pension and social security benefits. By 2010, when one
out of five Germans will be past retirement age, economists estimate at least
400,000 immigrant workers a year will be needed just to maintain current living
standards.

In many respects, the ambivalent attitudes surfacing in Germany's debate over
foreigners are shared by immigrants themselves. While many of Germany's 2
million Turks, 721,000 Yugoslavs, 608,000 Italians and 363,000 Greeks yearn for
a more open society that mirrors their ethnic backgrounds, they also abhor the
prospect of unchecked immigration that could jeopardize political stability and
economic prosperity here.

"It's not a matter of those of us who came here years ago now wanting to help
close the door behind us," Oncu said. "We see Germany as our new homeland and we
want to act as responsible citizens who do the right things, and make the right
decisions, to maintain and even improve the quality of life here."

Among native Germans and foreigners alike, there is a growing realization that
Germany must come to terms with the forces of globalization and try to
capitalize on prospective dividends offered by their multicultural society.

Many German companies have stepped up hiring of foreign employees, who can be
helpful in opening potentially lucrative markets in Russia, Iran and the Middle
East, according to Aydin Yardimci, president of the Turkish businessmen's
association in Cologne, representing 3,000 entrepreneurs.

"We see Turkey as our mother and Germany as our father, and we would like to
live happily with both of our parents," Yardimci said. "In a world of global
markets, there is no reason why this relationship cannot be profitable for all
sides."

A Nation of Immigrants?

At the beginning of this year, 7.37 million foreigners lived in Germany, making
up about 9 percent of the population.  A proposed law, to be debated soon, would
make it easier for many foreigners to obtain German or dual citizenship.

Foreigners in Germany by national origin, in thousands

Turkey: 2,107

Yugoslavia: 721

Italy: 608

Greece: 363

Poland: 283

Bosnia: 281

Croatia: 207

Austria: 185

Portugal: 132

Spain: 132

Iran: 114

Netherlands: 113

Britain: 112

United States: 110

France: 104

Vietnam: 88

Morocco: 84

Afghanistan: 66

Sri Lanka: 60

Lebanon: 56

Other countries: 1,440

Principal provisions of the proposed law:

German-born children of foreigners will have an automatic right to citizenship
for the first time, if one of their parents has been living in Germany since age
14.

Foreigners in Germany will be eligible for naturalization after residing there
legally for eight years instead of the current 15 years.

Dual citizenship will be allowed for the first time and naturalized citizens
will no longer be required to surrender their previous passport.

Foreigners according to length of stay in Germany

25 years or more: 20 percent

15 to 25 years: 20 percent

8 to 15 years: 16 percent

4 to 8 years: 23 percent

less than 4 years: 21 percent

U.S.  GERMANY

Population 268 million 84 million

Population

per square mile 72 620

Foreigners

arriving each year 900,000 300,000

Total population

of foreigners 26 million 7.4 million

Proportion of

foreigners 9.7% 8.8%

SOURCE: German Statistics Office

Mehmet Oncu, a 13-year resident of Germany, may soon become eligible for
citizenship, along with his wife, Ronahi and their two children.


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,MARKUS SCHREIBER FOR TWP; IG,,TWP

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              93 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 24, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Human Smuggling on the Increase; 100,000 Chinese Nationals Enter U.S. Illegally
Each Year, Officials Say

Jacqueline L. Salmon; Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 935 words



Authorities say human smuggling from Asia is a growing problem in the Washington
area, as illustrated by the case of a Chinese girl who was intercepted while
trying to slip into the country through Dulles International Airport, then
mysteriously disappeared from her foster home this week.

An estimated 100,000 Chinese nationals arrive in this country each year after
paying international smuggling rings tens of thousands of dollars. Most of these
immigrants are believed to be headed for New York City, but officials say the
Washington-Baltimore region is becoming an increasingly likely gateway because
of its growing Asian population and its international airports.

Some authorities also believe that children are an increasing part of the
billion-dollar industry.

"There's a million and one schemes," said James Goldman, assistant Washington
district director for investigations at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. "They'll use maritime smuggling. They use the Canadian and Mexican
borders. They'll smuggle folks through airports using fraudulent documents.

"Alien smuggling has become a cottage industry," he said. "The Washington area
is not immune."

In recent months, prosecutors have charged four groups with trying to smuggle
Chinese nationals through Dulles using Japanese or Thai passports. In each case,
the escorts said they knew little about the organization. Several said they had
been offered plane tickets -- and sometimes more money -- to bring other people
through customs and then told to contact someone else for further instructions,
officials said.

In one June incident, a Japanese man, Kenshi Iwabuchi, claimed to be traveling
with his wife and two children, but the other three people were actually from
Fuzhou, the capital of China's Fujian province. The three adults pleaded guilty
to using false passports, and charges were dismissed against a girl, Liu Hong,
after her lawyer presented evidence that she was a minor.

Liu's criminal attorney, Denise Tassi, said that her client insisted that she
was coming to see relatives and wanted to get an education in this country.

In the most recent case, the girl, Wang Yuanxia, vanished Wednesday afternoon
after getting off the school bus at the Fairfax County home of her foster
family. She had been intercepted at Dulles in August after arriving with a Thai
escort. She was carrying a Thai passport, but officials discovered the girl was
from Fujian province.

Her lawyer, Jeffrey D. Zimmerman, said Wang had appeared frightened by her
ordeal but was placed in a temporary foster home because she had not wanted to
return home. Immigration officials had not decided whether she would be deported
or permitted to stay.

Wang claimed to be 12, but her foster parents, Robert and Caroline Conway, said
she appeared to be 14 or 15. Authorities speculate that she could have been
kidnapped by the same group that brought her from Asia, although they said she
could have run away or escaped with a relative.

Authorities say the global industry of human smuggling each year brings
thousands of Chinese nationals to the United States via air, land and sea. The
organizations that conduct these operations are controlled by international
crime rings that charge would-be immigrants as much as $ 45,000, authorities
say. Immigrants who have the money pay it in advance, but most rely on
"guarantors" -- relatives in the United States who promise to make good the debt
even if the immigrant cannot.

"I'm sure there are cases where people are put into indentured servitude, but
those are few and far between," Goldman said. "Normally there's a guarantor."

Several years ago, Goldman said, his office investigated several District-based
cases where a gang would track down the people they had smuggled in, kidnap them
and hold them for ransom, even though the victims had paid their smuggling
debts.

Last year, an FBI spokeswoman said yesterday, three men were arrested on charges
that they kidnapped and beat an undocumented Chinese immigrant because he had
not repaid them for smuggling him into the country. Charges are pending, she
said.

Those who study human smuggling say the crime rings that conduct these
operations have had to change tactics in recent years, switching to air travel
after U.S. authorities cracked down on shipborne trafficking.

The crackdown came after the freighter Golden Venture, packed with 298 Chinese
immigrants, ran aground off Queens, N.Y., in 1993. Ten of the immigrants on
board died. In 1994, federal agents intercepted a trawler headed for the
Virginia coast with 120 illegal Chinese immigrants aboard. Authorities said
organizers of the smuggling operation planned to land in Virginia and then ship
the immigrants to New York.

Some scholars say that smugglers have increasingly been shipping children to
skirt immigration laws that have made it easier for INS officials to deport
illegals. The INS is believed to be more reluctant to quickly ship children back
to their homelands, according to Peter Kwong, director of the Asian American
Studies Program at Hunter College.

He said children, usually in their teens, are then put to work in family
businesses, mostly in New York, to pay back their smuggling fees and to earn
money to bring other family members over.

Goldman said children usually come as part of a family or are on their way to be
reunited with relatives. Wang's case, in which she came in alone with only an
escort, "is kind of an oddity," he said.



Staff writer Tom Jackman contributed to this report.

WANG YUANXIA


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, FAIRFAX POLICE PHOTO

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              94 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 01, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

House Sets Aside Bill to Allow Hiring of More Foreign Workers; Measure Sought by
High-Tech Firms Had Split GOP

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 817 words


House Republican leaders, faced with a White House veto threat and sharp
differences in their own ranks, yesterday shelved a controversial bill that
would have allowed the nation's high-technology companies to bring in tens of
thousands of additional foreign computer programmers to fill temporary jobs.

The move left the nation's technology firms without an immediate fix to what
they claim is an acute shortage of workers that is hampering their productivity.
Critics of the program dispute that such a shortage exists and charge that
employers are merely seeking cheaper labor at the expense of U.S. workers.

The computer software industry has pressed hard to raise the limit on the
so-called H-1B visa program, which allows up to 65,000 temporary skilled workers
to come into the United States in any one year. The cap for this fiscal year was
reached in May, forcing a cutoff of visas under the program until Oct. 1.

In the latest twist in a protracted tussle over the issue among congressional
Republicans, House GOP leaders called off a planned vote yesterday on an H-1B
visa bill conceived as a compromise between conflicting House and Senate
versions. The original House bill, sponsored by Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.),
included provisions designed to protect American workers that were absent from
the strongly pro-business Senate version, backed by Sen. Spencer Abraham
(R-Mich.).

The compromise would have gradually raised the ceiling to 115,000 a year by
2001, allowing a total of 515,000 H-1B visas over five years -- 190,000 more
than under current law. It also would have softened Smith's provisions requiring
companies that use the program to attest that they tried to recruit Americans
and did not lay off U.S. employees to replace them with H-1B workers.

The White House issued a veto threat, saying the compromise -- crafted
exclusively by Republicans -- did not provide adequate protections for U.S.
workers or enough money for training.

House Majority Leader Richard K. Armey (R-Tex.) said it was "shocking to see an
administration devoted to building a bridge to the 21st century pull the rug out
from under our most future-oriented industries." He accused the White House of
bowing to "Big Labor politics."

However, fellow Republican Rep. Gerald B.H. Solomon of New York, the chairman of
the House Rules Committee, expressed concern about widespread layoffs at such
companies as International Business Machines Corp., which is headquartered in
his district, and said he thought high-tech companies were "just looking to
replace qualified Americans with a cheaper work force."

Smith also raised questions about the shortage claims in recent weeks, even as
he backed an increase in the visa cap. Since the beginning of the year, he said,
high-tech firms have laid off at least 142,000 Americans while lobbying Congress
to bring in hundreds of thousands of H-1B workers. He asked why "at least some
of those American workers" could not have been recruited or retrained for those
jobs.

In asserting that it faces a severe shortage of skilled workers, the high-tech
industry cites advertisements for job openings and a survey conducted earlier
this year by Virginia Polytechnic Institute for the Information Technology
Association of America, a lobbying group. Industry spokesmen say the survey
found 346,000 "vacant" information technology jobs.

But Virginia Tech's own report on the survey does not actually say there is a
shortage. It cautions that its findings represent estimates of "claimed"
vacancies. It warns that the 346,000 figure could be "misleading" because even
if that many qualified applicants suddenly appeared, "in all probability
immediate positions would not be available" for them. One reason for this is
that many of the jobs listed as vacant are actually filled by temporary U.S. or
foreign workers. According to the report, three-quarters of the 532 responding
companies in the survey "are using consultants and temporary contract employees
to fill the gap" of information technology workers.

Among those who dispute the shortage claims is Norman Matloff, a computer
science professor at the University of California at Davis. In recent
congressional testimony, he argued that employers were being excessively
"picky," hiring only about 2 percent of programmers who apply for jobs. In
addition, wage increases for programmers have been relatively modest, and age
discrimination in the industry against older U.S. workers is "rampant," he said.

Meanwhile, Matloff said, the supply of American candidates for high-tech jobs
has been growing, with university enrollment in computer science courses jumping
by 40 percent annually in the past two years. He charged that the H-1B program
"is already overused and badly abused," and that foreign high-tech workers are
paid 15 percent to 30 percent less on average than Americans.

LOAD-DATE: August 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              95 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 26, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

The Need for Foreign Specialists

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 468 words


If William Branigin's report on the use of highly skilled foreign employees at
U.S. companies ["Visa Program, High-Tech Workers Exploited, Critics Say," news
story, July 26] had been longer on facts than it was on opinion, it would have
pointed out that unemployment is nearing an all-time low; that -- according to
the Bureau of Labor Statistics -- the high-tech industry has created 615,000 net
new jobs since 1994; and that almost everyone agrees that we face a serious
shortage of computer programmers, engineers and other technical personnel.

It also would have noted that the number of students, particularly U.S.-born
students, going into these fields is declining. The Department of Education
estimates that the number of bachelor's degrees in mathematics and computer
science declined by 29 percent between 1985 and 1995, the number of degrees in
engineering declined by 16 percent, and the number of graduates in electrical
engineering fell by 37 percent. And a full 42 percent of all master of science
degrees in engineering and electrical engineering conferred by American
universities in 1997 went to foreign nationals, as did 48 percent of the PhDs.

While most wouldn't have guessed it by reading the article, foreign-born
professionals still represent a very minor percentage of the work force at
nearly all the companies that employ them. These highly skilled and educated
foreign employees possess extremely specialized and uncommon skills, which they
lend to their U.S. employers on a short-term basis, working on a specific
project or product.

Here's just one example: James Gosling, a Canadian national employed by Sun
Microsystems here in the United States, developed Java, Sun's revolutionary
computer language that enables businesses to mix and match different types of
computers, networks and operating systems. Currently, more than 400,000 software
developers are using Java technology. Clearly, Mr. Gosling's expertise has been
very important to Sun Microsystems, and he has gained a great deal from working
with the company. Thousands more stories like his are out there waiting to be
told.

The truth is, U.S. businesses, particularly in the high-tech sector, need
employees with highly specialized and technical skills, and they need them now.
In many cases, that means they must hire a foreign national. While a very small
number of companies may unfairly take advantage of the desire of many foreign
professionals to settle in the United States, the evidence is overwhelming that
these "bad apples" are a minuscule component of the whole barrel of companies
that follow the rules, treat their employees well and make use of H-1B visas
only when necessary and appropriate.

JERRY J. JASINOWSKI

President

National Association of Manufacturers

Washington

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              96 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 09, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Return of the Bracero Program

Cindy Hahamovitch

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 744 words


This summer the Senate approved a "guest worker" measure that would allow U.S.
growers to import unlimited numbers of Mexican farmworkers under no-strike,
short-term contracts. There's a name for such a plan because we've experienced
one before: it's the Bracero program. Under that program, 4 to 5 million Mexican
farmworkers endured miserable working conditions in the United States between
1942 and 1964. Why repeat history?

U.S. growers currently have a work force of 1.6 million that, according to the
Department of Labor's National Agricultural Workers Survey, includes about a
million domestic workers (mostly immigrants), perhaps 600,000 undocumented
workers, and about 20,000 H2-A workers (foreign farmworkers whom growers import
legally under short-term contracts).

Using undocumented workers is, of course, illegal, and growers don't like the
H2-A program because it comes with strings attached. Growers who want H2-A
workers must demonstrate that domestic workers aren't available, pay prevailing
wages and provide free housing that meets federal migrant housing standards. In
return, growers get workers who can't just switch jobs if they don't like the
wages or conditions and who can be deported for striking. Growers complain that
this system is cumbersome and too costly. Critics call it indentured servitude.

The Senate plan would remove most of what growers don't like about the H2-A
program. There would be no limit on the number of farmworkers growers could
import, and the onus would be on federal officials to prove that domestic
workers are available before denying a grower the right to import workers.
Growers would no longer have to provide housing, at all, and they would have to
guarantee only that their workers earned the minimum wage as a group, not as
individuals. What growers would get, in essence, is a new Bracero program.

The original Bracero program was created at a time when World War II was
beginning to give farmworkers some leverage in their negotiations with growers.
First Public Law 45 was enacted, denying American farmworkers the right to leave
their jobs and prohibiting the use of federal funds to improve their wages and
living conditions. Then federal officials signed agreements with the governments
of Mexico and the British West Indies to import workers under temporary,
no-strike contracts. Though the program was intended as a war measure, Congress
quietly extended it in 1945, and the number of braceros peaked during the Korean
War.

Advocates of the current bill insist that it differs from the World War II-era
program because it includes measures designed to protect workers. What they
neglect to mention is that the Bracero program too came with stringent standards
for working and living conditions; in fact it included provisions that American
farmworkers never enjoyed. Growers couldn't get braceros if their housing didn't
make the grade; they had to pay at least a set minimum wage; and the workers
were guaranteed subsistence and three-quarters of the promised wages, even if
they sat idle because of freezes or floods. The Mexican government negotiated
this contract, acting as a sort of union negotiator for its expatriates.

The problem then and now is that labor regulations are useless if the workers
don't have the power to enforce them. Once the war ended and government
officials turned their attention to other matters, Mexicans found themselves
sleeping in sordid labor camps, drinking contaminated water and accepting
whatever wages they were offered. The regulations designed to protect them were
rarely enforced. Those who complained or went on strike were deported and
blacklisted.

What's to stop a new Bracero program from devolving into a similar system?
Farmworkers still lack the right of collective bargaining and "guest workers"
are particularly vulnerable because they labor under the threat of deportation.

If there were truly a labor shortage today, farm wages would be rising. Yet
Congress's fact-finding commissions have found that farm wages have been falling
for 20 years, and housing conditions on both coasts are deteriorating.
Remarkably, the states where growers protest loudest about labor scarcity are
the places where wages are lowest.

Before signing a new Bracero program into law, Congress should ask if this is a
history we want to repeat.


The writer is an associate professor of history at the College of William &
Mary.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              97 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 24, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Deal Reached on Foreign Workers; Compromise Aimed at Meeting Demand for
High-Tech Skills

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 613 words


The White House and a key Republican senator reached a compromise last night on
a controversial visa program for high-tech workers, clearing the way for the
U.S. computer industry to import more than 300,000 foreign programmers and other
highly skilled employees over the next three years.

The agreement, reached principally between White House economic adviser Gene
Sperling and Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.), chairman of the Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration, was aimed at meeting the demand of the high-tech
industry for thousands more workers while protecting U.S. employees and
providing more funds to train them.

The compromise came less than 24 hours before a vote House Republican leaders
had scheduled on a bill to allow more temporary workers into the country over a
longer period. The White House had threatened a veto, saying the bill did not
provide adequate job protections and training funds for U.S. workers.

The H1-B visa program, as it is known, has allowed employers to bring in up to
65,000 skilled workers a year to fill certain "specialty occupations." The guest
workers are allowed to stay for up to six years and are supposed to be paid the
prevailing wages in their occupations. This year and last, the limit was reached
before the end of the fiscal year.

The compromise raises the ceiling to 115,000 workers in fiscal 1999 and 2000,
lowers it to 107,500 in 2001, then reverts to the original limit of 65,000. An
earlier bill sponsored by Abraham provided for increases over five years.
Administration officials hope the sharp increase next year will take care of an
estimated backlog of 30,000 applicants who could not be given visas this year
because the ceiling was reached in May.

The House leadership now is expected to withdraw its bill and vote on the new
compromise in the coming days, officials on both sides said. Key House members
from both parties were involved in some aspects of the negotiations, they said.

Abraham essentially represented the interests of the powerful U.S. high-tech
industry in the talks. The Clinton administration had come under pressure from
organized labor to ensure that employers could not lay off Americans and replace
them with cheaper foreign temporary workers.

In addition to raising the cap, the agreement requires employers to pay a $ 500
fee for each H1-B visa and renewal they request. The money is to be used for
training, scholarships and increased enforcement of the program's restrictions.
The White House expects the fees to raise about $ 250 million over three years.

In exchange, the administration agreed to soften its demands for worker
protections, sparing most employers from having to attest that they had not laid
off an American in order to hire an H1-B worker and instead targeting the "job
shops" that specialize in importing high-tech workers only to hire them out to
other companies. Only "H1-B dependent firms" -- primarily those with more than
50 employees, of which at least 15 percent are foreign temporary workers -- will
have to prove they are not displacing U.S. citizens.

The agreement also redefines "prevailing wages" to include various benefits,
tightening a loophole the administration says has allowed companies to abuse the
program.

The deal "is not going to be everything that any particular side wanted, but it
addresses the fundamental concerns of significantly increasing worker training
and worker protections in the context of addressing a temporary perceived skill
gap," Sperling said.

Abraham is "very pleased" with the agreement and thinks it "will help America
stay competitive" while protecting U.S. jobs, a spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              98 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 09, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

Farm Work Made Fair

Ron Wyden; Gordon Smith

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 776 words


When the Senate recently passed our proposal for agricultural labor reform,
America took the first important step in moving from an underground, illegal
farm-labor economy to a system that will finally safeguard basic human rights,
provide a reliable, documented work force for farmers and reward legal conduct.

We aren't the first to try to solve the complex labor problems plaguing
agricultural workers and growers. The problem goes back more than a
half-century. When worker shortages first emerged during World War II, the
United States instituted the infamous "Bracero" program, through which foreign
workers were brought into this country, housed in inhumane conditions and paid
substandard wages. Because the program's labor standards were never enforced, in
many instances it was little more than a form of legalized slavery.

The Bracero program was replaced long ago with a new farm-labor system, known as
the H-2A program, that was little better. On paper, under this current law,
farmers are allowed to hire foreign workers when faced with a shortage of
domestic workers, and are required to provide wage, housing and other labor
benefits.

Unfortunately, the H-2A program has proven so cumbersome, bureaucratic and
unreliable that it isn't a realistic option for many growers. When farmers need
to harvest their fields, they hire readily available workers -- anyone
possessing legal-appearing documents -- to avoid losing their crops and their
source of income. Most of the readily available workers, however, are here
illegally, using forged documents.

Worker and farmer alike are thus trapped in a system that rewards illegal labor
practices and punishes the most vulnerable. Foreign workers who have risked
their lives, paying human "coyotes" $ 1,200 to be smuggled across the border in
the trunk of a car, work in this country without any guarantee of housing or
transportation benefits, or even the minimum wage.

The system we have proposed in our legislation has its roots in testimony by
Delores Huerta, co-founder of the United Farm Workers of America, before a
Senate committee three years ago. "If employers would go to the employment
services for their workers, the workers know then where they can go to find
jobs," she told senators. "This is a system that could be developed by the
Department of Labor. We do not need the labor contractors."

Our bill, first and foremost, requires farmers to recruit and hire Americans --
using a system like the one envisioned by Huerta -- before they hire any foreign
workers. If domestic workers could not be found through traditional means,
farmers could then utilize our proposed H-2A program, requiring them to hire
U.S. workers through a computer registry administered by the Department of
Labor.

Any legal U.S. resident who wants to work in agriculture would get an absolute
right of first refusal for any and all jobs that become available. Only if the
Department of Labor certified that a sufficient number of workers was
unavailable would farmers be able to recruit legally documented foreign workers.

To combat the inefficient, bureaucratic process that farmers must endure when
applying for H-2A workers, we have streamlined the application system. By
shortening the application period from an unrealistic 60 days to a more feasible
21, the program will be made more responsive to the actual demands nature puts
on growers.

Contrary to the claims by some of the bill's opponents, our bill also takes a
number of specific steps to greatly improve farm workers' lives and reward legal
conduct:

First, if our bill becomes law, farm workers' wages will go up. Our proposal
requires growers to pay each farm worker hired under the program a minimum of 5
percent more than the Davis-Bacon (prevailing) wage, an amount significantly
higher than the federal or state minimum wage.

Also, our bill guarantees either on-site housing or a housing allowance to pay
for other accommodations to all farm workers participating in the program. And
for the first time, all workers in the program -- foreign and domestic -- would
have their transportation costs fully paid for.

Our bill would finally extend the Migrant and Seasonal Workers Protection Act to
all workers, regardless of national origin, guaranteeing basic workplace
protections.

By passing this legislation, America can finally cast off the legacy of the
Bracero program, give farm workers the opportunity for a better life, and give
growers the security and stability their difficult business requires.


Ron Wyden, a Democrat, and Gordon Smith, a Republican, are the senators from
Oregon.



LOAD-DATE: October 09, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              99 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 09, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

What U.S. Workers Have to Fear

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 202 words


William P. Cook is wrong when he says that adequate safeguards will protect
unemployed American workers from foreign H-1B visa laborers [letters, Oct. 26].
I read the law. American workers must fear the H-1B visa program because the
"safeguards" do not protect them.

Those safeguards, when they apply, require an employer to recruit in the United
States and to offer the job to a U.S. worker who applies and is equally
qualified for the job. How can such fine-sounding safeguards not protect
American workers? Because the "safeguards" rarely apply. Only a few employers
are covered and many H-1B visa holders are exempted from the safeguards. A large
employer could bring in thousands of foreigners for work, and none of the
safeguards would apply to any of those jobs. Americans would be left out in the
cold.

Of the 115,000 foreign laborers to be brought in each year, an estimated 15,000
positions may be protected by the "safeguards." That leaves 100,000 unprotected
jobs every year.

American workers should fear the H-1B visa program, and they should fear their
congressional representatives and President Clinton, who knowingly did this to
them.

JAMES G. MCDONALD

Arlington



LOAD-DATE: November 09, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              100 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 16, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

Abused Foreign Workers

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A24; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 298 words



We and the staffs of the institutions we head are appalled by the alleged abuses
of domestic employees of non-U.S. staff of international organizations, foreign
embassies and consulates reported by William Branigin ["A Life of Exhaustion,
Beatings and Isolation," front page, Jan. 5]. We are determined to prevent abuse
and thus take all reported cases very seriously. We share the view that even one
victimized individual is one too many.

Thus, we support many of the suggestions in The Post's Jan. 7 editorial "Not in
This Country, They Can't." More should be done to advise holders of G5 and
similar visas of their rights and avenues of redress, as well as to monitor
compliance with U.S. laws. We welcome discussion with all concerned of
alternative approaches to addressing problems of G5 visa holders in the United
States.

What is being done by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank? For
several years our two institutions have made certain that every staff member
seeking to obtain a G5 visa for a domestic employee is fully informed of, and
agrees in writing to observe, all the legal rights of G5 employees and
responsibilities of employers. Both institutions will investigate any complaints
brought to our attention, and our staffs are subject to disciplinary action --
including possible dismissal -- if infractions occur.

We are aware that violations can occur despite these safeguards, and we are
considering how to reduce still further the chance that any employee of our two
institutions might violate U.S. law or our own internal rules and ethics codes
in regard to a G5 visa holder.


MICHEL CAMDESSUS

Managing Director and CEO

International Monetary Fund


JAMES D. WOLFENSOHN

President

The World Bank

Washington



LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              101 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 22, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 1021 words


THE AMERICAS

Cuba to Crack Down on Alien Smugglers

HAVANA -- Cuba announced a law yesterday that will fine the owners and operators
of boats used to illegally transport Cubans to the United States. The publishing
of the new law in the Communist Party daily Granma came amid increased tensions
here and in Miami over illegal immigration by Cubans.

The law approved by Cuba's Council of State, led by President Fidel Castro,
establishes fines ranging from $ 500 to $ 10,000 for operators or owners of
boats used to smuggle people. The law is apparently aimed at discouraging Cubans
from taking to the sea either on their own vessels or boats operated by
smugglers who charge as much as $ 8,000 for the journey across the Florida
Straits.

Sixteen Killed in Nicaraguan Plane Crash

MANAGUA, Nicaragua -- Fourteen passengers and two crew members were killed when
a commercial plane crashed on a remote hillside near Nicaragua's Caribbean coast
Tuesday, the airline said after finding the wreckage. "The plane crashed for
unknown reasons, and no survivors were found," said Alfredo Caballero, owner of
the Nicaraguan airline La Costena. The wreckage of the Cessna 208 Caravan was
discovered on a forested hillside about 150 miles east of Managua.

Guyana's Leader Seeks Health Care in U.S.

GEORGETOWN, Guyana -- Guyanese President Janet Jagan left for the United States
to undergo medical tests and receive care three weeks after she was hospitalized
for treatment of a heart condition. The American-born Jagan, 78, has been under
medical care since the three-day hospital stay. Officials at St. Joseph's Mercy
Hospital in Guyana said she was treated for the heart condition angina,
exhaustion and diabetes. The government has not said where in the United States
Jagan will undergo treatment, although one source said she went to Ohio.

ASIA

Kashmir Fighting Continues Despite Pact

KARGIL, India -- Pakistani shells struck the largest town in Indian-controlled
Kashmir despite an agreement to halt more than two months of fighting. The
bombardment targeted an army headquarters and civilian areas. Kargil was plunged
into darkness as frightened residents switched off lights after about 40 shells
landed in an hour-long period. Cars raced to safety with their lights off.

In Islamabad, a guerrilla group that said it is fighting in the mountains above
Kargil dismissed efforts to restore peace to the region. "Mujahedeen [holy
warriors] consider withdrawal a sin. We have to choose only between victory or
martyrdom," said Bakhat Zameen Khan, chief of the guerrilla group al-Badar.
"Fighting with Indians in Kashmir is not over."

THE MIDDLE EAST

Khatemi Moves Against Hard-Liners in Iran

TEHRAN -- Iranian President Mohammed Khatemi and his reformist allies, accused
of failing to defend the Islamic system during recent unrest, moved against
hard-line publications that had challenged him. The Culture and Islamic Guidance
Ministry, firmly under Khatemi's control, said it had moved against three
newspapers after they published a letter by Revolutionary Guards commanders
criticizing Khatemi and warning that their patience for "insults against the
system" was running out.

The ministry said the Guards' letter to the president was classified "top
secret" and its printing violated the press law. It said it had sent the case to
an advisory committee, a prelude to legal action by a press court, which can
close the dailies.

Turkey Arrests Kurdish Rebel in Moldova

ANKARA, Turkey -- Turkey arrested a leading Kurdish guerrilla in Moldova,
Turkish Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit said, five months after rebel leader
Abdullah Ocalan was captured in Kenya. German officials confirmed that Cevat
Soysal, who had political asylum in Germany, was arrested five days ago. The
rebel Kurdish Workers' Party played down Soysal's importance and insisted he was
not seized but handed over to Turkish authorities by Moldova. In a police
interrogation this year, Ocalan said Soysal was in charge of training rebels
abroad.

EUROPE

Mitchell Tries to Salvage Good Friday Accord

BELFAST -- The American architect of Northern Ireland's faltering peace accord
met with key parties in hopes of paving the way for formation of a provincial
government.

Former U.S. senator George Mitchell plans in September to review the problems in
implementing the Good Friday accord of 1998, stalled by an argument over the
Irish Republican Army's refusal to disarm. Mitchell was called in again by the
British and Irish prime ministers, Tony Blair and Bertie Ahern, after Northern
Ireland's Protestant and Catholic parties missed yet another deadline for
forming their coalition government.

Russian Official Says Mir Should Be Scrapped

MOSCOW -- A top Russian official said what NASA has been waiting to hear for
months: Russia should scrap its Mir space station and concentrate on
contributing to the international space station. Deputy Prime Minister Ilya
Klebanov said the 13-year-old Mir has served its purpose and is falling into
disrepair, the Interfax news agency reported.

Klebanov said the government can't afford to pay $ 250 million a year to operate
Mir and should focus instead on building the international space station with
NASA.

ASIA

Suharto's Condition Improves After Stroke

JAKARTA, Indonesia -- Former president Suharto has a good chance of a complete
recovery after suffering a mild stroke and could soon be back to normal, doctors
said. Suharto, 78, who ruled Indonesia for 32 years before being forced to step
down last year, was sitting up and receiving visitors in his hospital room, a
day after being admitted. Doctors carried out tests including a CT scan and said
Suharto's condition had improved. "There is a problem with blood vessels in his
brain, but he can still talk and we hope that he will improve today," said
Sudjono Martoatmodjo, the director of Pertamina Hospital in Jakarta.

QUOTE OF THE DAY

"We don't want to do anything to create confusion or misunderstanding."

Taiwan's chief government spokesman Chen Chien-jen, on its policy toward China
-- Page A20

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              102 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 19, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

8 Cubans Dead As Smuggling Boat Capsizes

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 180 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH, Dec. 18



A boat carrying Cubans capsized in the choppy Atlantic, killing eight people and
leaving four missing in what investigators said appeared to be the deadliest
ever immigrant-smuggling attempt off the Florida coast.

The 30-foot boat went down with 21 people aboard late Thursday in waves of up to
six feet. It sank off Elliott Key, which is about 30 miles from Miami.

A freighter rescued nine people, including at least two children. The survivors
hung on to the overturned vessel for about 10 hours after the accident, said
Coast Guard Petty Officer Scott Carr.

The Coast Guard pulled eight bodies from the water today and continued to search
for the missing.

The boat was registered in Florida, meaning it may have been operated by
smugglers who charged the Cubans to take them to the United States, Carr said.
Two of the survivors were believed to be smugglers.

"We have no record of any smuggling episode with a higher fatality rate" in
waters stretching from Key West to the Carolinas, said Daniel Geoghegan, an
assistant chief with the Border Patrol.


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              103 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 28, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

Colombians Fleeing Homeland; U.S. Officials Worry About Tide of Immigration
Flowing North

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 691 words


Driven by worsening economic conditions and political violence, growing numbers
of Colombians are fleeing their country in an exodus that U.S. officials fear
may turn into an immigration crisis.

The U.S. Embassy in Bogota has been swamped with requests for visitor's visas
and is turning down record numbers of applicants because of suspicions they
intend to stay in the United States permanently. "There's a potential for mass
departures," a federal immigration official said. "Planes are booked solid.
Everyone's trying to get out."

Colombian American groups and other Latino activists are urging the federal
government to accommodate the fleeing Colombians by offering temporary refuge to
those who reach the United States and by softening the criteria for granting
political asylum. In several U.S. cities last week, thousands of Colombians and
their supporters held rallies to demand "temporary protected status," which
allows people from war-torn or disaster-ravaged countries to live and work in
the United States for up to 18 months.

But the State Department says it has no plans to recommend temporary protected
status for Colombians, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service says it
cannot bend the asylum rules to cover people affected by "generalized" strife or
economic conditions, rather than persecution aimed specifically at them.

In a letter to President Clinton last week, Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R), whose
South Florida district includes thousands of Colombians, attributed an "exodus
of refugees" from Colombia to "escalating guerrilla violence" and "rampant
kidnapping." He said asylum approval rates for Colombians are "exceptionally
low" and called for immediate action "to correct this disparity."

The INS said the asylum approval rates in recent years have been comparable to
those for other nationalities and have risen sharply since 1997. In the first
six months of this fiscal year, 35 percent of Colombian asylum applications were
approved, the same as the worldwide average for that period, INS officials said.

From January through April, an estimated 65,000 Colombians left the country,
many bound for the United States, and Colombian officials estimate that up to
300,000 others could leave by the end of the year. Nearly 1 million people have
been driven from their homes by fighting between the army and leftist rebels, a
conflict that has dragged on for three decades but now seems to have shifted to
the rebels' favor. Authorities in neighboring Venezuela, Ecuador and Panama have
expressed concern about a swelling flow of refugees across their borders.

In Bogota, the U.S. Embassy reports that visa applications this summer have
jumped to 50,000 a month, double the rate of a year ago and far more than
consular officers can process. The embassy's appointments calendar for
interviews with visa applicants is fully booked until January, a State
Department official said.

The long visa lines in front of the U.S. and other embassies reflect growing
disillusionment among Colombia's middle class, officials said. While the
guerrilla war is an enduring factor, much of the impetus for the flight appears
to come from the country's deteriorating economy. Since the early 1990s,
Colombia's foreign debt and its unemployment rate have doubled, reaching nearly
$ 34 billion and 20 percent respectively. After years of steady growth, the
economy shrank by nearly 6 percent in the first quarter of this year.

In demonstrations on Colombia's independence day last Tuesday in Miami,
Washington, Houston, Atlanta, Chicago and New York, organizers called on the
administration and Congress to pay more attention to the country's problems and
provide refuge for the thousands of Colombians who have arrived here. According
to Juan Carlos Zapata, head of the Colombian American Service Association in
Miami, an estimated 15,000 Colombian families have arrived or overstayed their
visas in South Florida in the past few months.

Fewer than 15,000 Colombians a year are admitted as legal immigrants, the INS
says. It estimates that about 60,000 live in the United States illegally.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              104 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 28, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

THE RELIABLE SOURCE

Annie Groer; Ann Gerhart

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C03; THE RELIABLE SOURCE

LENGTH: 745 words


A Bit of Beaneficence

One in an occasional series

Finally, some good news from the Beanie Wars front.

Beanie Babies maker Ty Inc., which steadfastly refuses to give to charity any
possibly counterfeit or undocumented immigrant critters, yesterday donated 500
real Beanies and 500 Pillow Pals (for kids under 3) to La Rabida Children's
Hospital and Research Center in Chicago.

The gift was brokered by Sen.  Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), who had asked the U.S.
Customs Service to free the Beijing 40, that pride of plushies bought in China
(where they are made but cannot be sold) by U.S. Trade Representative Charlene
Barshefsky. Alas, Ty officials won't let Customs dilute the Beanie pool (or
devalue the wildly inflated market) by giving illicit Beanies to needy or infirm
children, partly because the company fears product liability lawsuits from
substandard specimens.

Durbin said the giveaway was "amazing. These are some kids in pretty tough
shape. But when they saw the Beanies they reached for them. . . . The 40 wannabe
Beanies will be mourned but their memories will live on at La Rabida."

Barshefsky handed in her Beanies to Customs after learning she could import only
one.

"I'm sure she wishes it would all go away, but her replacements ended up
creating a lot of happiness," said Durbin.

True, true. The original 40 are on death row at Dulles International Airport,
and "the clock is ticking," said Customs spokesman Pat Jones. "I don't think
[Virginia Gov. James] Gilmore will commute their sentence."

Judge Downshifts Driving Charge Against Actress

Louise Fletcher, best known for her Oscar-winning portrayal of Nurse Ratched in
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," might be going back to school -- driving
school, that is.

The actress, 64, who owns a home southwest of Leesburg, was charged with
reckless driving in May for allegedly striking a Leesburg police officer who had
stopped his cruiser to pick up a deer carcass.

That charge was reduced to "improper driving" yesterday by a Loudoun County
judge, reports The Post's Susan Saulny. Fletcher's Leesburg attorney, William C.
Mims, asked for a "deferred finding," which would allow the case to be dismissed
if Fletcher, who was not present for the court proceedings, pays a $ 30 fine,
attends driving school and keeps her driving record clean until a Jan. 11 court
date. Mims, who is a Virginia state senator, said Fletcher has otherwise
unblemished Virginia and California driving records.

The injured officer, Matthew Bennett, 27, is undergoing physical therapy and has
not yet returned to his regular job.

NOW YOU KNOW...

You flip through a fashion magazine spread saluting fab femmes who look like a
million bucks and have Very Important Jobs. Then you read the fine print and
discover this is no accident because they are wearing very expensive, very
designer clothing.

Indeed, the August Harper's Bazaar piece on "The New Achievers" has Martha
Stewart in a Michael Kors sweater and Lilith Fair founder Sarah McLachlan in
Alberta Ferretti, Dolce & Gabbana and Voyage. Next comes Sylvia Mathews, Office
of Management and Budget deputy director-designate, described as "Washington's
secret weapon."

Her pale blue shell, dark mini skirt and scarf, the fine print says, are . . .
"Mathews' own."

"They didn't offer clothes. If they had, during the time it would take to shoot
some pictures, I probably would have gone over the [government's] $ 20 gift
limit," said Mathews, an off-the-rack shopper.

Oh, yes, the fourth Achiever also wore her own duds, but that's because she's
designer Nicole Miller.

CBS-TV President Leslie Moonves rang up radio shock jock Howard Stern yesterday
to deny emphatically that the network was leaning on David Letterman to hire a
sidekick.

Moonves was reacting to Friday's Stern show report by National Enquirer gossip
columnist Mike Walker that CBS is pressuring the late-night TV talker to get a
collaborator.

"No one in the network has ever, ever, ever, ever told David Letterman he needs
a sidekick," said Moonves. The network chief had tried to get on the air Friday
when he first heard the report. But he was in Los Angeles, the show was heard on
tape, and the three-hour time difference meant Stern was already off the air in
New York.

The raunchy Stern -- whose own Saturday night TV talk show debuts next month on
CBS stations -- introduced Moonves as "totally hetero." Stern could not be
reached.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, harper's bazaar/anders overgaard; Photo, james a. parcell, "New
Achiever," old clothes: OMB nominee Sylvia Mathews.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              105 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 05, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

Legal Aid Gets Boost In House; Vote Rejects Plan To Halve Funding

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 474 words


The House voted yesterday to provide $ 250 million next year for the Legal
Services Corp., rejecting a Republican plan to halve spending for legal
assistance for the poor.

By a 255-170 roll call, Democrats and moderate Republicans united to add $ 109
million to the $ 141 million a spending bill had contained for the agency's
budget. This year, it is receiving $ 283 million.

The Legal Services Corp. is an annual target of conservatives, who believe it
pursues an activist, ideological agenda. In recent years, lawmakers have
narrowed its range of activities, forbidding local agencies that receive its
grants from engaging in cases involving congressional redistricting, abortions,
welfare, prisoners, lobbying, pro-union advocacy and illegal immigrants.

The underlying bill contains $ 34 billion for fiscal 1999, beginning Oct. 1, for
the departments of Commerce, Justice and State plus the federal courts. That
includes $ 4.8 billion for aid to state and local law enforcement agencies, $
400 million more than President Clinton sought and enough to hire 17,000 more
officers; $ 4.1 billion for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
including money to hire 1,000 additional Border Patrol agents; and $ 180 million
for the advanced technology program, $ 80 million less than Clinton wants.

The vote came as the two parties prepared to square off over another issue in
the same bill: how the 2000 census will be conducted. Clinton and Democratic
lawmakers favor the use of sampling, a technique for estimating the number of
people who might otherwise not be counted, often minorities, who frequently vote
Democratic. Republicans oppose sampling, saying the administration could
manipulate those figures for partisan advantage.

At stake in that battle are population data that will help determine how
congressional districts are redrawn and how billions in federal aid dollars are
dispersed in the next decade. Spotlighting the high stakes, Clinton told a dozen
members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus visiting the White House on Tuesday
that he would stand firm.

"The president committed again that he would not allow the Republicans to allow
again an inaccurate count of the census, and he would be prepared to veto any
bill that did not allow for the most accurate count possible through statistical
sampling," Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.) told reporters.

The underlying bill would provide $ 952 million for census preparations, but
only half would be available through next March. The rest could be spent after
that, but only if Congress and Clinton agree to do so -- an effort by
Republicans to force the president to work out an agreement by then.

Democrats were ready with an amendment that would provide all $ 952 million
immediately, but it was expected to lose in a virtual party-line vote.

LOAD-DATE: August 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              106 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 06, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Asian Americans: Still Seen as Outsiders

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 784 words


I read with interest Roberto Suro's thoughtful article in which he convincingly
argues that because of a new era of immigration involving Latinos and Asians,
our current vocabulary of race, which describes a world seen only in black and
white, is inadequate ["The Next Wave: How Immigration Blurs the Race
Discussion," Outlook, July 19].

While I am in general agreement with most of his observations, his statement
that "several nationalities of Asian immigration . . . have higher levels of
education and higher earnings than whites, on average" may be misinterpreted
and, therefore, needs further clarification.

The 1990 census data show that 24.6 percent of non-Hispanic whites have
bachelor's, graduate or professional degrees; the corresponding number for
non-Hispanic Asians is 38.6 percent. This obviously corroborates Mr. Suro's
statement of higher levels of education for Asian Americans.

The 1990 census data also show that the mean annual earnings of full-time
workers is $ 31,911 for whites and $ 32,375 for Asian Americans. Does this
comparison lead us to conclude that Asian Americans have higher earnings than
whites, as Mr. Suro seems to have suggested?

Any comparison of overall earnings between two groups is not meaningful without
taking into account their education and occupation structures, particularly when
these structures are widely different, as in the case of whites and Asian
Americans. If we restrict our comparison to the same education-occupation
category, a different pattern of earnings differentials between whites and Asian
Americans emerges.

For example, the mean annual earnings for 35- to 44-year-old males with a
bachelor's degree in the four leading high-paying occupation categories --
executive and administrative occupations, management related occupations,
engineers and architects, and computer scientists -- are, respectively, $
61,741, $ 51,011, $ 49,650 and $ 48,256 for whites. For Asian Americans, these
earnings are, respectively, $ 56,065, $ 42,927, $ 46,836 and $ 45,686 --
consistently less than those for whites.

Again, for the same age-sex group, if the education level is raised to graduate
and professional degree, the mean earnings in these occupation categories
increase to $ 71,647, $ 66,914, $ 56,936 and $ 55,252 for whites. The
corresponding earnings for Asians are $ 67,592, $ 56,098, $ 54,009 and $ 52,396,
which, again, uniformly fall short of those for whites.

I hope these numbers will help dispel the widely held myth that Asian Americans
have higher earnings than whites. On the other hand, a possible explanation for
higher earnings for whites may lie in Mr. Suro's observation about Asian
Americans: "Despite their successes, they still suffer real discrimination on
many fronts and are still viewed as outsiders by many of their fellow Americans
-- black, white and Latino."

PRITHWIS DASGUPTA

Silver Spring

Roberto Suro's article "The Next Wave" is thought provoking. But I am concerned
about his focus on comments made by Elaine Chao, who is with the Heritage
Foundation. On the Jim Lehrer "NewsHour," Ms. Chao complained that, based on
race, some Chinese Americans were being denied admission at Lowell High School
in San Francisco. What Ms. Chao neglected to disclose is that the school is
operating under a desegregation order to combat the effects of past intentional
discrimination and that the issue for most of the parents is not affirmative
action but the fact that white students with lower scores than Chinese American
students were being admitted.

Based on Ms. Chao's remarks, Mr. Suro states that Asian Americans "were once the
victims of racism but have now crossed over into the realm of relative
privilege" and intimated that affirmative action programs hurt Asian Americans.

In fact, as Mr. Suro later notes, Asian Americans still suffer from myriad forms
of discrimination. Affirmative action is a particularly effective tool in
attacking the glass ceiling that is a painful reality to Asian Americans.

This is why a majority of Asian Americans support affirmative action. Last year,
the most conservative estimates were that 61 percent of Asian Americans voted
against the anti-affirmative action initiative Proposition 209. Washington state
Gov. Gary Locke and San Francisco police chief Fred Lau have acknowledged that
they are beneficiaries of affirmative action and are fighting to preserve it
along with countless other community leaders.

Ms. Chao's perspective is not as representative of Asian Americans as Mr. Suro
has been led to believe.

KAREN NARASAKI

Washington

The writer is executive director of the National Asian Pacific American Legal
Consortium.

LOAD-DATE: August 06, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              107 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 12, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

INS Agrees to Expedite Paperwork of Disabled Man

Emily Bazelon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 428 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service will expedite the citizenship
application of a disabled man that was delayed for 15 months because he could
not give a full set of fingerprints, officials said yesterday.

Tal Klement, 26, who was born with shortened arms, has three fingers on his
right hand and two on his left. His citizenship application was delayed because
of an administrative error, INS spokesman Greg Gagne said.

"We're trying to accommodate his schedule and finish this by the end of the
month," Gagne said.

The INS uses fingerprints to establish an applicant's identity for criminal
checks. Under an INS policy set last year, every applicant whose prints are
rejected must return for a second printing before the agency will ask the FBI to
run a name check, the alternative means used to verify a person's identity.

Klement, who moved from Britain to California when he was 14, submitted two sets
of prints more than a year ago. He's now a student at Yale Law School. One set
of Klement's prints was rejected because it was not a full set of 10.

But Gagne said that until officials looked into his case this week, the INS
showed no record of receiving two sets of prints from Klement as required before
the agency could turn to the FBI.

"You have to appreciate the huge number of cases we're dealing with," he said.
With record numbers of citizenship applications flooding the INS in recent
years, a backlog of pending cases has grown to about 2 million, 60,000 of them
in the San Francisco office where Klement applied.

Klement passed his citizenship test yesterday, and said he was relieved by the
agency's move to expedite his application.

"I'm glad that my frustration is coming to an end, and I'm very happy that it
looks like I'll be a citizen in the next few weeks," said Klement.

But Klement's lawyer said he would not withdraw a complaint filed with the
Justice Department claiming that the INS fingerprinting policy violates the 1989
Rehabilitation Act, which requires federal agencies to reasonably accommodate
people with disabilities.

"This is a general complaint about the INS's failure to modify its procedures,"
said Stephen A. Rosenbaum of the Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund in
Berkeley, Calif. "We have other clients facing this problem."

INS officials said the agency would reevaluate its fingerprinting requirements
in light of Klement's case.

"Now that we've had experience with this, we'll look at what we can do to
accommodate these kinds of special circumstances," Gagne said.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              108 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 29, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Coast Guard Discovers 150 Chinese Aboard Suspected Smuggler's Ship; Immigrants
Off Mexican Coast Badly Needed Food and Water

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 457 words


Coast Guard officials in the Pacific have intercepted a ship crammed with more
than 150 suspected illegal immigrants from China in the latest of a spate of
attempts to smuggle Chinese job-seekers into the United States, U.S. officials
said yesterday.

The ship, a 180-foot converted fishing vessel named the Chih Yung, was detected
by a Coast Guard patrol plane and stopped Thursday by a cutter in international
waters about 100 miles off the coast of northern Mexico, officials said. A
boarding party found the migrants jammed below decks "in desperate need of food
and water," said Cmdr. Jeff Robertson, a Coast Guard spokesman in California.

Two Coast Guard cutters have detained the ship, and federal investigators have
been sent to question the crew and passengers in an effort to unravel the
origins of the smuggling operation, officials said.

The smuggling appears to be part of a growing pattern in which groups attempt to
avoid interdiction by bringing their loads to staging areas outside the United
States and then transporting them through other means for their final entry.
However, the Chih Yung's human cargo was unusually large by comparison with
other recent smuggling efforts.

In late May, 23 illegal Chinese immigrants were found in a wealthy seaside
community in New Jersey after a small powerboat, the Oops II, landed them there
by mistake in heavy fog. The Coast Guard subsequently detained a
Venezuelan-registered fishing trawler as the "mother ship" in the operation
after it dropped off two dozen other Chinese in the Bahamas.

In August last year, the Coast Guard intercepted a coastal freighter, the Lapas
No. 3, with 69 Chinese illegal aliens on board in roughly the same area as the
Chih Yung was found, Robertson said. The 57 men and 12 women were eventually
sent back to China.

The captain of the Chih Yung, which appeared to be registered in Belize,
initially claimed to be fishing with just his crew when challenged by the Coast
Guard cutter Munro, Robertson said. The captain subsequently admitted that he
was carrying passengers and agreed to let a Coast Guard party on board, he said.

A patrol first became suspicious of the vessel because it "didn't have any
fishing gear" and "looked out of place," Robertson said.

He said a doctor was sent to the ship yesterday out of concern for the health of
the passengers, who had pleaded for food and water when the Coast Guard boarding
party found them in the hold.

An interagency working group, consisting of officials from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and departments of Justice, State and Defense, will
investigate the case and determine what to do with the passengers and crew, a
Justice Department spokeswoman said.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              109 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 30, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Lives Transplanted, a Region Transformed; Steady Immigration Changes Face of the
Region; Schools Add Up Immigrant Costs

D'Vera Cohn; Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3954 words


First of three articles

ABOUT THIS SERIES

Immigration is having a profound impact on Washington and its suburbs. The
number of foreign-born in the region -- up from one in 22 residents in 1970 to
one in six now -- has dramatically altered dozens of neighborhoods, changed the
economic fabric of the metropolitan area and imposed new service demands on
governments.

TODAY: A computer-assisted analysis of immigration and population data provides
a detailed look at the lives of immigrants in the region, including where they
have come from and where they have settled.

MONDAY: Immigrants here appear to have had a more positive overall impact --
with less of a backlash -- than in many other urban areas with large
foreign-born populations.

TUESDAY: Immigrant women in metropolitan Washington face unique challenges as
they adapt to a new country and try to preserve the cultural customs and
traditions of their homelands.

"Adios!" calls out "Mo" Bojang, a cashier from Gambia, as a shopper from Central
America carries her groceries out the door of Rodman's. The Wheaton variety
store is global on both sides of the counter, and so is the suburban
neighborhood around it. In 1996 alone, immigrants from 85 countries settled
here, making the community the most ethnically diverse in the Washington region.

The managers and clerks at Rodman's come from Ethiopia, the Ivory Coast, El
Salvador, Colombia, Bolivia and Pakistan. The store sells Jamaican beef patties,
fresh plantains and giant jars of curry powder to its increasingly international
clientele. "I try to learn a few words in other languages," Bojang says. "It
helps with the customers."

Fifteen miles around the Beltway, on Columbia Pike in South Arlington, Dolores
Espinoza greets the first lunchtime arrivals at Wendy's. Behind her, the
Pakistani district manager confers with the Peruvian-born store manager. In
front of her, hungry whites, blacks and Latinos line up at this popular
fast-food hub, located in a shabby but thriving community that has the highest
concentration of immigrants in the metropolitan area.

"May I help you?" asks Espinoza, a shy woman from Honduras who has learned a few
useful English phrases. After six years of bagging burgers, the young mother
mustered the courage to try handling the cash register, at $ 6.50 an hour. "I
thought I could never do it, but I memorized all the keys," she explains in
Spanish before placing the next order. "One Nomber Tree Combo," she calls to the
kitchen.

Bojang, Espinoza and their multicultural mosaic of bosses and customers
epitomize the profound transformation of Washington and its suburbs. More than
350,000 legal immigrants, a number greater than the combined populations of
Alexandria and Arlington County, have arrived here or legalized their status
since the early 1980s. From Cameroon and Cambodia, El Salvador and Israel,
Bulgaria and Jamaica, this influx has rippled throughout the region, enriching
most communities, their residents say, but also challenging governments, schools
and American-born neighbors to adjust.

Factoring in tens of thousands of illegal immigrants, the foreign-born now
account for about one in six area residents -- a figure that has steadily
increased from one in 22 in 1970, one in 12 in 1980 and one in eight in 1990.
Only New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Miami draw more immigrants each year.

Immigration is the engine driving population changes in the region's inner
suburbs. In the District and Alexandria as well as in Arlington, Fairfax,
Montgomery and Prince George's counties, most of the growth in new residents has
come from immigrants.

Nine in 10 of these newcomers settle first in the area's suburbs, seeking good
schools and safe streets far from the city blocks where immigrants of decades
past got their foothold in America. Those who remain in the District are often
the poorest and least educated.

The arrival of so many foreign-born has fueled tensions in some communities and
imposed new, costly demands for services. In the District and neighboring school
systems, for example, the number of students needing help with English has
tripled in the last decade.

But these immigrants from scores of countries also have revitalized fading
inner-Beltway neighborhoods and support hundreds of small businesses, churches
and self-help organizations. They have added salsa, saris and spring rolls to
once-homogeneous blocks, creating a Little Saigon in Arlington, a Central
American barrio in Adams-Morgan and other ethnic enclaves.

Unlike several major urban centers, Washington's immigrant population is
remarkably diverse. While Cubans are predominant in Miami and Mexicans in Los
Angeles, no one group defines immigrant life here -- or, by the same token,
exercises any significant political clout.

A computer-assisted regional analysis of data from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the U.S. Census Bureau and other sources shows:

Since the early 1980s, the greatest number of immigrants has come from El
Salvador, followed by Vietnam, South Korea, India, the Philippines, China, Iran,
Ethiopia, Jamaica and Pakistan. Only one out of 10 is from Europe, a big
difference compared with earlier this century, when Europeans made up the
majority.

One out of nine immigrants is a war refugee or someone seeking political asylum.
Often such immigrants are the least skilled, especially if they fled conflicts
in poor countries where most people can't read or write in their own language.

Foreigners admitted on work visas and their families make up a quarter of the
region's immigrants. Most are professionals, managers, skilled workers or their
relatives, but one in four is a nanny, a janitor or fills some other low-skill
job.

In 1996, the most recent year for which statistics are available, 36,000 people
immigrated legally to this area from 182 countries, the peak year so far.

"I fit in here," said Fadi Zakaria, 37, a former investment adviser in Lebanon
who started over as a waiter and now owns two gas stations in Arlington. After
10 years in this country, "My children would die if I ever moved them back home.
I took them to Caracas on vacation, and they missed McDonald's and Pizza Hut."

Accelerated Pace

Greater Washington, unlike more industrialized urban areas, hasn't always been a
magnet for immigrants, according to Robert D. Manning, a visiting professor at
Georgetown University who has studied the region's immigration patterns.

Before World War II, the District had a few ethnic neighborhoods -- Italians
near Union Station, Irish in Georgetown, and, of course, Chinatown -- but the
foreign-born populace was small and confined to the city.

More immigrants began settling here in the 1950s, with the founding of
international institutions, the growth of the diplomatic community and the
arrival of many overseas students.

The pace accelerated in the 1970s and 1980s, but with immigrants who were less
educated. By all predictions, immigration will continue at the same rate,
although who is admitted will depend on U.S. policy and world events. The Census
Bureau ranks Virginia eighth and Maryland ninth among states in projected
immigration growth by 2025. The District is expected to attract more immigrants
than 30 states during the same period, which should help the city reverse its
population decline.

"We're talking a particularly heterogeneous group, from unskilled Vietnamese to
physicists from China," Manning said. "Both are critical to the post-industrial
economy."

As immigration to the suburbs has swelled, Maryland and Virginia have become
almost equally popular with foreign-born residents. But there are some striking
differences along ethnic and racial lines as to who settles where.

Most Israeli immigrants live in the Maryland suburbs, where there is a large,
established Jewish community. People from predominantly Muslim countries
generally gravitate to Northern Virginia, which has an Arabic TV station and a
Falls Church mosque that is swamped with traffic for Friday afternoon prayers.
Most Pakistanis settle in Virginia; most immigrants from India prefer Maryland.

There are Spanish-speaking immigrants throughout the region, but Virginia is
drawing more of them, partly because Arlington's well-entrenched Latino
community keeps absorbing newcomers. Immigrants from Africa and the Caribbean
usually go to Maryland, where most of the region's native-born blacks live.
Middle-class Filipinos are heavily concentrated in Fort Washington, near
military bases where many first came to work. Fairfax City is favored by
Koreans, many of whom moved there from more modest Arlington neighborhoods.

Immigrants higher up the socioeconomic ladder seldom live in ethnic enclaves.
But war refugees and those fleeing political persecution have often settled in
scattered apartment complexes where agencies place them or where refugee
services are nearby.

The region's once-rural areas also are attracting the foreign-born. Since the
early 1980s, the number of new immigrants coming to Loudoun and Prince William
counties has tripled, although they still make up only a small fraction of the
population. In Montgomery County, two social service workers who help immigrants
were recently redeployed north from Wheaton to Gaithersburg, because that's
where the newest foreign-born are locating.

"People share information: If you want to go to U.S.A., where is the place you
can enjoy year-round? Seattle, San Francisco and Washington, D.C.," said the
Rev. Kim Man-Poong, senior pastor at Korean Global Mission Church in Silver
Spring. This region also is attractive, he said, because of its many colleges
and universities.

Montgomery's Melting Pot

As immigrants push farther out from the inner city, they are transforming
ordinary suburban communities into polyglot worlds. Among them is Zip code 20906
-- the Wheaton-Silver Spring-Aspen Hill community that is the region's most
internationally diverse.

Located five miles outside the Beltway, with Connecticut Avenue, Georgia Avenue
and Layhill Road as its major commercial arteries, this area had farms and dirt
roads until the 1960s. Home construction crested in the 1970s, and the big wave
of immigrants began arriving in the 1980s. Now, more than one in five residents
in this community of 56,000 is an immigrant.

The area has both crowded apartment buildings where hardly anyone speaks English
and brick Colonials with rolling lawns where most homeowners are American-born.
There is more of a mix along the blocks of one-story starter homes with
chain-link fences, where immigrants make up a growing share of buyers and
tenants.

The 1990 Census showed that, in contrast to the rest of the region, most
Hispanics in this Zip code, natives and immigrants alike, own their own homes.
Joe Leon, a Latino Realtor born in this country, said immigrants are so eager to
own homes that four adults often co-sign a mortgage in order to qualify. One
couple had such tight finances, he recalled, that all they served at their
housewarming party was baloney on Ritz crackers.

"There are people who are more interested in a house than a car," said Leon,
whose "For Sale" signs identify him as both "Joe Leon" and "Jose Leon." "The
first thing they ask [is], 'What bus line is it on?' "

The influx of more than 6,000 immigrants to the Zip code since the early 1980s
has touched every corner of life in this community. The Aspen Hill post office
keeps a notebook of foreign phrases to help customers who do not speak English.
The staff does a brisk business in money orders for funds that are sent to
relatives from Manila to Managua.

But money orders are just one way immigrants here let relatives back there know
how well they are doing. One recent day, postal customers included a Thai-born
woman sending her children's diplomas from a Thai culture school home to her
family, and a young woman from Argentina who was mailing wedding invitations --
and planning a honeymoon in the South Pacific.

Hue Trinh, 33, who supervises the counter staff, fled Vietnam by boat 14 years
ago. Today, she is married, with a 3-year-old daughter. Her Vietnamese-born
husband also works for the U.S. Postal Service, and they own a house in the
neighborhood.

"We've been there before," Trinh said, explaining why she and other foreign-born
workers at the branch, including Cambodians and Thais, have a little more
patience with customers who struggle with English.

There is no central gathering point for immigrants in this sprawling suburb, but
places of worship can provide a sense of community. Nearly every
English-speaking church offers services in Spanish, Korean or Chinese. A Thai
Buddhist temple, where monks say prayers at dawn and dusk, has its own Web site.

St. Mary Magdalene Episcopal Church advertises itself in the Yellow Pages as
"international multicultural." At its recent annual picnic in Wheaton Regional
Park, the aroma of grilled hot dogs blended with the accents of several
continents. The picnickers included a lawyer from Liberia, a former tailor from
Jamaica, a maintenance man from Nicaragua and a retired computer programmer born
in the United States.

"The last time I counted, we were from 17 nations," said the Rev. Arthur Fouts,
who is half-Panamanian.

"We have Vietnamese and Filipinos in our neighborhood, and many Africans in the
church," said Maxine Gunawardane, a World Bank employee from Sri Lanka who sings
in the choir. "We have international nights every year, with costumes, dances,
food. This is a great place."

Yet the church's evolution from a mainly American-born congregation is still a
work in progress. Some immigrant members initially felt left out of the church
grapevine; some older white members have complained that immigrants get too much
attention.

Ray Barnes, the retired programmer, who has lived in the neighborhood since
1955, conceded that diversity "bothers some people." But, he said, chatting at
the picnic with a choir member from Nigeria, "You gotta live with it. This is a
changing period."

The community's most powerful draw for many foreign-born residents is the
well-rated Montgomery County school system. So many have come that at Weller
Road Elementary School, which has one of the highest proportions of immigrant
children in the county, one in five students speaks a language other than
English at home.

In this neighborhood and throughout the county, most foreign-speaking students
were born in the United States, including many children of parents who fled
civil strife to seek refuge and advancement here.

"One bad thing about my country is they have war," said Somrit Tim, 10, whose
parents escaped Cambodia. "I like this place because they have jobs and houses."

N.Va.'s Growing Pains

In South Arlington, the immigrant community is larger, older and far more
visible than in Montgomery County. Parts of Columbia Pike, a busy bus route that
slices through the heart of Zip code 22204, look like a Third World bazaar --
dilapidated, but colorful and bustling.

Along one five-block stretch, shoppers can get a haircut while watching Mexican
soap operas on TV, haggle over a diamond ring with a Cambodian jeweler, chat
with the Eritrean manager of a used-clothing shop, get their car serviced by a
Palestinian mechanic, and dine at any of a dozen inexpensive ethnic restaurants.

Since the early 1980s, at least 10,000 immigrants have settled in this densely
populated community of 42,000 people. Foreigners and American-born residents are
used to rubbing elbows with each other, even if there are occasional jabs.

The stream of immigrants with limited skills and education has caused problems.
Some neighbors complain about noise, trash and loitering around apartment
buildings filled with low-income Latinos. And police patrolling the Pike play a
constant cat-and-mouse game with immigrant teenagers who skip school, hang out
in gangs and get into fights. In general, though, most immigrants and
non-immigrants in the community seem to get along just fine.

"When we moved in, the civic association brought us presents. We've felt welcome
ever since," said Yolanda Torricos, a Bolivian immigrant who runs a day-care
center in the basement of her home. Each Christmas, she decorates her porch with
orange and green lights in the design of Bolivia's flag.

But unlike Wheaton, where many immigrants have purchased homes, most of the
foreign-born in South Arlington are less established and struggle in low-paying
jobs. Few join civic groups or attend PTA meetings because they work long,
irregular hours and speak little English. Some are refugees from Ethiopia or
Vietnam; others were once illegal immigrants from Central America who have since
received temporary or permanent permission to stay.

Ricardo Trejo, a Salvadoran delivery driver, has achieved the immigrant dream of
buying a home, even though he still can't speak even rudimentary English. After
a decade in this country, he and his wife, Rosa, who cleans office buildings at
night, have a combined salary of about $ 400 a week. Yet, by saving and
scrimping, they recently moved with their five children from a two-bedroom
apartment into a town house.

Trejo longs to buy the computer his 12-year-old boy keeps asking for, but
Pampers, sneakers and now a mortgage come first.

"I never had time to study English, but the boys are so hungry to learn," Trejo
said. "I don't want to fail them as a father."

The Arlington County government, long used to dealing with immigrants, has gone
out of its way to provide services for them. Its public schools have had
bilingual teachers and counselors for years. Low-cost nighttime English classes
for adults are available at dozens of locations. Social workers offer "survival
skills" programs for new immigrants in several apartment buildings along the
Pike.

"From the top down, the county has tried to set a welcoming tone," said Chris
Zimmerman, who heads the Arlington County Board. "Some people have raised
legitimate concerns about overcrowded schools and apartments and traffic. But I
remember when you couldn't find a restaurant on Columbia Pike except Big Boy.
Now it's an international corridor."

Principal Larry Grove of Thomas Jefferson Middle School, which is 36 percent
Latino and 12 percent Asian, visited El Salvador in 1993 so he could understand
the violence and poverty many of his students had fled. And staff member
Patricia Yurrita, an immigrant from Guatemala, works full time to encourage
foreign-born parents to participate more in school life.

"They need to feel there is someone who will welcome them, who speaks their
language, and who won't turn them in" if they're illegal, she said. "When
families have problems, kids can't concentrate in school. I end up helping them
do everything from finding apartments to getting to the doctor."

But providing such programs has been expensive. A decade ago, Arlington County
spent $ 3.8 million to help 2,115 foreign-born students. This school year,
special English classes and other services will cost $ 9.1 million for 4,162
students -- 21 percent of the student body.

While many American-born residents are proud of the county's inclusive
reputation, some community leaders are beginning to weary of the cost.

"Since the 1970s, this has been a 'Y'all come' community, and we've established
every kind of program imaginable," said Conchita Mitchell, executive director of
the Columbia Pike Revitalization Organization. "It has helped many people . . .
[but] maybe the time has come to ask whether we can afford it."

Immigrant Population Strong in Region

The immigrant population in the metropolitan area has grown steadily for
decades. One in six residents is foreign-born. Once here, nine out of 10
immigrants choose to settle in the suburbs first, not the city.

Percent foreign-born for the region

1970 -- 4.5%

1980 -- 8%

1990 -- 12%

1998 -- 17%

Number of immigrants, 1983-96

D.C. -- 43,306

Maryland --144,010

Virginia -- 138,692

TOTAL: 326,008*

*Does not include immigrants who legalized their status under the 1986
Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA).

More than 350,000 immi-grants have come to the region or legalized their status
since 1983.  Thousands of illegal immigrants already living in the area are not
included in that total.

Number of immigrants** In thousands

1983: 17,126

1996: 36,007

**Includes IRCA immigrants, which in 1991 numbered more than 10,000.

About half of all immigrants settling in the region during the last 13 years
came from 10 countries.

Coming from...

Top countries --Count 1983-96

El Salvador -- 27,510

Vietnam -- 24,714

S. Korea -- 23,431

India -- 19,257

Philippines -- 16,006

China -- 13,946

Iran -- 13,022

Ethiopia -- 9,862

Jamaica -- 8,756

Pakistan -- 8,170

TOTAL:164,674

. . . Going to

Count Zip code/Location

10,126 22204 Arlington

8,921 20009 D.C.

7,392 20783 Montgomery

6,343 20906 Montgomery

6,220 22041 Fairfax

6,021 20904 Montgomery

5,992 22003 Arlington

5,819 22304 Alexandria

5,686 20903 Montgomery

5,638 20010 D.C.

SOURCE: Census Bureau; Immigration and Naturalization Service records for
immigrants who arrived or legalized their status, 1983-96, in the District, Anne
Arundel, Calvert, Charles, Frederick, Howard, Montgomery, Prince George's, and
St. Mary's counties in Maryland, Arlington, Fairfax, Fauquier, Loudoun, Prince
William and Stafford counties and Alexandria city in Virginia. Fairfax City and
Falls Church are included in the Fairfax County totals; Manassas and Manassas
Park are included in Prince William County totals.

Diversity Abundant in Neighborhoods

22204 ZIP CODE

South Arlington's immigrant population is the largest in the region. More than
10,000 immi-grants have moved into this Zip code since 1983.

Total population: 43,173

Racial breakdown (1997):

White -- 67%

Black -- 21%

Asian* -- 12%

Hispanic -- 23%

(any race)

Percent foreign-born (1990): 28%

1996 Immigration**

Top countries of birth

1.El Salvador -- 139

2.Ethiopia -- 124

3.Bolivia -- 114

4.Somalia -- 72

5.Vietnam -- 54

6.Philippines -- 42

7.Peru -- 38

8.Pakistan -- 36

9.India -- 33

10.Guatemala -- 28

20906 ZIP CODE

The Aspen Hill, Silver Spring, Wheaton community is the region's most
internationally diverse. More than one in five residents is foreign-born,
hailing from 85 countries in 1996.

Total population: 58,137

Racial breakdown (1997):

White -- 68%

Black -- 19%

Asian* -- 12%

Hispanic -- 12%

(any race)

Percent foreign-born (1990): 22%

1996 Immigration**

Top countries of birth

1.El Salvador -- 86

2.China -- 35

3.S. Korea -- 28

4.Philippines -- 28

5.Ethiopia -- 28

6.India -- 28

7.Portugal -- 28

8.Sierra Leone -- 27

9.Liberia -- 26

10.Peru -- 26

20009 ZIP CODE

The Adams-Morgan area of the District is the heart of the city's Latino
community. More than 8,000 immigrants have moved there since the early 1980s.

Total population: 40,834

Racial breakdown (1997):

White -- 52%

Black -- 46%

Asian* -- 6%

Hispanic -- 25%

(any race)

Percent foreign-born (1990): 22%

1996 Immigration**

Top countries of birth

1.El Salvador -- 133

2.Vietnam -- 118

3.Ethiopia -- 62

4.Iraq -- 22

5.Bangladesh -- 20

6.Morocco -- 20

7.Sierra Leone -- 15

8.Nigeria -- 14

9.Peru -- 11

10.United Kingdom -- 11

*Includes Pacific Islanders

**Most recent data available

SOURCES: Census Bureau, Claritas, Immigration and Naturalization Service


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, BILL O'LEARY; Chart, Rodman's in Wheaton draws workers from many
nations, including Maria Santos, of the Dominican Republic, "Mo" Bojang, of
Gambia, and Khalid Tabassum, of Pakistan.  YOLANDA TORRICOS, Bolivia: Standing
amid the cribs in her basement day-care center, she says she's always felt at
home here.  HOCSIEU SOU Cambodia 'TACK' FRENCH Thailand ELSY ANDRADES El
Salvador PAREK MADUOT Sudan HUE TRINH Vietnam Jose Chinchilla eats pizza with
his children Christian, 4; Alex, 6; and Edgar, 11, while waiting for their
clothes to dry at an Arlington laundromat.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              110 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 30, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Some Succeed in Barrio, But All Face a Struggle

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 1202 words


Silvia Alfonzo has observed life along Columbia Road NW, the seedy commercial
strip at the center of Washington's immigrant community, for well over a decade.
From early morning until long after dark, she sits behind the cramped counter of
La Colmenita, her tiny grocery store, listening to Spanish-language radio and
chatting with customers.

"This is our village," said Alfonzo, a 48-year-old immigrant from El Salvador.
"We have worked hard and survived. But we always have examples of what not to
copy -- right outside this door."

In the course of an afternoon, a dozen Latino workmen stop by for a six-pack and
a couple of cheese pupusas. Children count out pennies for chewing gum. An old
Salvadoran woman wheels in a cart, selling homemade atol, a sweet hot drink.
Someone leaves a shoe box in the shop to collect donations for a crippled
Guatemalan boy.

But outside, the gritty sidewalk pageant never changes. Grizzled vagrants slump
against the walls, arguing or panhandling. Young men hover around vendors'
tables that blare competing salsa and merengue music. Police in cruisers circle
the block, constantly on the lookout for drunken fights and drug deals.

Twenty years ago, this area was a mix of low-income blacks, bohemian-minded
whites and small clusters of legal immigrants from countries like Chile and
Bolivia. In the early 1980s, a flood of refugees from the civil war in El
Salvador began moving in, eventually pushing the District's Latino population
from less than 5,000 to more than 70,000.

The District's highest concentration of immigrants lives in Zip code 20009,
followed closely by the adjacent Zip code 20010. These include the glitzy clubs,
cafes and condominiums of Adams-Morgan but also the shabbier apartments, shops
and eateries of Columbia Heights and Mount Pleasant. Thousands of Latinos, and a
lesser number of Asians and Africans, live above these storefronts. They work
long and hard, often sharing living quarters and sending money to relatives back
home. Few, however, manage to save enough to move out of the barrio.

Salvador Paz, 27, who fled El Salvador with his family in 1984, is one of the
community's success stories. His father never learned English, but Paz attended
D.C. public schools, cleaned buildings at night and today owns Avignon Freres, a
landmark cafe on Columbia Road.

Paz lives in Hyattsville now, and Alfonzo in Falls Church. Many other Latinos,
once they could scrape together a down payment for a town house, have also moved
to the suburbs. They still stop by on weekends to shop and gossip or to attend
Mass at Sacred Heart Catholic Church.

"When I look around the community, I feel proud and sad at the same time," Paz
said. "There are more businesses here now, and there's a safer feeling, but you
still see guys drinking and sleeping on the streets."

Increased investment and many public improvements, including vivid murals and
mini-parks, have brightened the area. But it has never quite overcome the image
of poverty and trouble spawned by street disturbances that erupted in 1991 after
a police officer shot a drunk Latino man.

One factor holding Central American immigrants back is that so many came here
illegally, with little education or money. Barely literate in their own
language, knowing little if any English, many sank to the bottom of the economy
-- and their children are still struggling to rise a little higher.

"Latinos here want [success], but they still feel hurt by the stereotype of the
dirty, stupid office cleaner," said Saul Solorzano, a Salvadoran refugee who
heads the Central American Resource Center. And in truth, "a lot of people are
still stuck in those low-level jobs."

Latino leaders also complain that poor public services have hurt immigrants.
Unlike surrounding jurisdictions, the D.C. government has devoted scant
resources to helping the foreign-born. Most Latinos rely on private, nonprofit
agencies for health, youth services and other assistance.

At the Clinica del Pueblo in Columbia Heights, which treats about 4,000 Latino
patients a year for a few dollars a visit, about 60 percent of the clients have
no health coverage and cannot afford care elsewhere.

"I'd have to give the city a D" for immigrant services, said Mario Acosta, who
directs the D.C. Latino Civil Rights Center.

Community activists, complaining that police have been rude and unresponsive to
Latinos, successfully lobbied to make Jose Acosta, a 28-year veteran of the
force (and no relation to Mario Acosta), the commander of the 3rd District,
which includes Adams-Morgan. That makes him the highest-ranking Hispanic officer
in the city, but Latino activists say there is still a dire need for bilingual
staff at the Department of Motor Vehicles and other government offices.

Some well-established Latinos have worked hard to promote the community, but
there is an awkward social gap between old and new generations.

"These Central Americans aren't bad people, they just need education," said
Pedro Lujan, 60, a Peruvian-born businessman who lives in Mount Pleasant and
owns a bakery and nightclub. "The second generation is starting to move up; the
community is getting stronger. But it all takes time."

In some cases, though, the second generation of Latino immigrants has not fared
much better than the first. Living in crowded apartments with parents who speak
little English, many younger Central Americans have had a tough time adjusting.
Nonprofit programs like the Latin American Youth Center have helped, but
community leaders say too many are dropping out of school, getting pregnant,
doing drugs or joining gangs.

Nubia Pacheco, 18, a Salvadoran immigrant, supported herself while attending
Bell Multicultural High School and graduated as valedictorian in June with a
full college scholarship. But Guillermo Somarriba, 18, from Nicaragua, was
already into drugs and wanted on several criminal charges in the District by the
time his mother, a low-level school aide, saved enough money to rent a house in
Rockville.

"I didn't realize what was happening to him, because I was always at work or
school," Rosa Somarriba said. "I was so happy to [move to] a safer place. But he
didn't want to go with me. The influence of the street was just too powerful."

Alfonzo is luckier. During the years she and her husband, Raimundo, worked in
restaurants and garages, scrimping to buy La Colmenita (The Beehive), all three
of their children made it through school. One daughter is married, another is a
cosmetologist and their son is studying at a community college.

"We always taught our children to be honest and optimistic," said Alfonzo, who
still works long hours behind the counter. "Thank God they listened."

On the Net

A searchable database of Immigration and Naturalization Service information on
immigration is available on The Post's Web site (www.washingtonpost.com). The
database shows how many legal immigrants in the years 1992-96 said they intended
to settle in any county in the Washington area or any Zip code in the United
States. It shows the native country of each area's immigrants and under what
legal provision they were allowed to immigrate.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, BILL O'LEARY, An ad hoc band of percussionists performs at
Malcolm X Park in Northwest Washington as Olessia Smotrova, center, and
Antoinette Haynes perform an African dance.  Along Columbia Road NW, the center
of Washington's immigrant community, Ray "the handyman," above, hawks a bolt of
cloth to passersby. Silvia Alfonzo, right, serves a customer at La Colmenita. On
18th Street NW, below, restaurants reflect influences of immigrants.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              111 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 31, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Immigrants: More Boon Than Burden; Woven Into Economic Fabric Is Strength of
Foreign Threads

Pamela Constable; D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3446 words


Second of three articles

They are physicians and uninsured patients. They are bilingual teachers and
teenagers struggling to learn English. They are business owners paying thousands
a week in payroll taxes and grandmothers living on Social Security.

Immigrants are having an enormous effect on economic and civic life in the
Washington region, where their numbers have swelled by more than 350,000 since
the early 1980s. In schools and work places, at community health clinics and
social service offices, their increasing presence in the District and Washington
suburbs affects nearly every aspect of private industry and government --
although not necessarily in ways their native-born neighbors might realize.

Whether this surge in immigration adds up to a boon or a burden for local
jurisdictions and the area's economy is difficult to assess, however. No
systematic survey has documented what the Washington region's immigrants provide
in taxes and economic growth vs. what they cost in services. Still, the best
available evidence suggests that area immigrants -- who now account for one in
six residents -- make greater contributions and impose fewer costs than those in
many other urban centers that have large foreign-born populations.

The most comprehensive immigration study yet, released last year by the National
Research Council, found that immigration provides an overall modest net gain for
the United States -- roughly $ 7 billion to $ 10 billion a year in an $ 8
trillion economy. Some local governments feel the financial strain in states
with a large number of immigrants, notably California, the report said, because
those households are more likely to have school-age children, depend on social
services and pay lower taxes than native residents.

But the Washington region, besides having fewer immigrants, has an above-average
proportion who arrived with skills, education or jobs already waiting for them,
according to U.S. Census Bureau and Immigration and Naturalization Service data.
This is probably a key reason why -- even as Congress and D.C.-based think tanks
wage a national debate on the pros and cons of immigration -- the
anti-immigration backlash in California and Texas has failed to take hold here.

In the Wheaton-Silver Spring-Aspen Hill Zip code of 20906, the region's most
ethnically diverse, more than one in five of the 58,000 residents is
foreign-born. In South Arlington's Zip code 22204, which has the highest
concentration of immigrants in the area, 28 percent of the 43,000 residents is
foreign-born.

Still, greater Washington does not appear to be a place where low-paid,
native-born employees have been pushed out by a new, foreign-born work force,
says William Frey, a University of Michigan demographer who has studied
metropolitan areas with high immigration.

In addition, illegal immigrants, who are more likely to be uneducated and poor,
make up only 11 percent of the foreign-born population in Maryland and 15
percent in Virginia -- as compared with 25 percent in California, according to
government estimates. The percentage in the District is unknown but could be
substantially higher.

As immigrants have become part of the region's economic fabric, their purchasing
power has grown steadily. In communities such as Seven Corners in Falls Church,
Adams-Morgan in the District and Wheaton in Montgomery County, hundreds of
immigrant-owned or inspired shops and services -- from international couriers
and fast-food chicken to auto body shops and ethnic restaurants -- have opened
in the last decade.

"If you really want to look at the immigrant impact, look at all the small
business starts in a place like Wheaton -- the ethnic markets, the travel
agencies, the laundries," said Ana Sol Gutierrez, a member of the Montgomery
County school board who was born in El Salvador and whose father was once its
finance minister.

In Arlington, Angel Juarez Valle, who arrived penniless from Central America in
1980 and today co-owns Restaurante Abi, a popular Salvadoran restaurant, boasts:
"I was the first one to introduce pupusas to Virginia. Now people can't get
enough of them."

But immigrants are buying much more than $ 5 lunch specials. The region's
Hispanic community is the fifth largest Latino enclave in the nation -- and one
of the four wealthiest, according to private marketing surveys. More and more,
mainstream insurance companies, car dealerships and other firms are discovering
and courting this lucrative market.

A Nissan dealer in Tysons Corner takes out regular ads in local Spanish-language
newspapers, featuring two Latino salesmen. A Giant store in Arlington just added
an entire aisle of popular Latino foods, from black beans to guava paste. A
chiropractor says 90 percent of the 850 patients at his four suburban Maryland
clinics are Latinos, who often turn to chiropractors because they are cheaper
than physicians.

The Hispanic Yellow Pages, a private guide published in Alexandria, carries ads
for U.S.- and foreign-born dentists and doctors as well as national real estate
firms, airlines and banks.

"I'd say 98 percent of my clients are Hispanic," said Joel Atlas Skirble, a
U.S.-born lawyer who started out in Adams-Morgan in 1974 and now does most of
his business in the Virginia and Maryland suburbs. He is widely known for his "I
speak your language" pitch on Spanish-language television. In truth, he doesn't,
but it hardly matters: His firm has 19 Spanish-speaking employees.

Classroom Challenges

The region's public schools have experienced the most dramatic and visible
impact of immigration. Ten years ago, there were about 25,000 students in the
District and surrounding suburbs whose first language was not English, and many
schools had no immigrant students. Today, there are more than 75,000 such
youngsters, and hundreds of classrooms where more than 40 percent of the
students are immigrants or the children of immigrants.

Many of these students have made notable contributions to schools, becoming
class leaders and winning college scholarships. At Annandale High School, the
top-performing seniors last year included children of immigrants from India,
South Korea, the Philippines and Costa Rica, all of whom say they and the school
benefited from the diversity.

"The American side keeps us bonded together; the other side contributes flair
and spark," said Jaspreet Singh, 19, an Indian immigrant who is now a freshman
at the University of Michigan.

But the continuing influx, especially rural refugees from underdeveloped or
war-torn countries, has placed costly demands on school systems to hire more
bilingual aides and English as a Second Language (ESL) teachers.

In Arlington, the budget for ESL programs has risen from $ 3.8 million in 1988
to an expected $ 9.1 million next year. In Fairfax County, the cost of ESL
services jumped from $ 7 million in 1989 to $ 24 million this year. In
Montgomery County, it has increased from $ 5.3 million in 1988 to $ 15.2
million.

At Weller Road Elementary School in Wheaton, located in an area that has the
region's most diverse immigrant population, teachers use hand gestures to
communicate with students when language fails. They also schedule 7 a.m.
appointments with immigrant parents, many of whom work two or three jobs. The
school has received government grants that help keep classes smaller, buy
bilingual software and fund an after-school homework club.

At Patrick Henry Elementary School in Arlington, bilingual staff members visit
the homes of foreign-born students who fall behind. After school, a program
called "Arroz con Leche," or Rice with Milk, lets youngsters and their mothers
practice reading in both English and Spanish.

"I love this school," said Belkis Gallo, 34, a Salvadoran mother and nighttime
office cleaner who was reading, very slowly, to her 7-year-old son about bats
and penguins. "Both me and my son are learning a lot here."

But there have been complaints that too much attention is being given to
immigrant students at the expense of their American-born classmates.

The special effort to help immigrants "has not come without a great price tag,"
said Conchita Mitchell, executive director of the Columbia Pike Revitalization
Organization. "There is some worry that the balance is tipping."

Francisco Mallet, who directs the ESL program in Fairfax County, concedes that
"working with 10 different languages at once can make teachers [initially]
scratch their heads in frustration." But he and school officials defend the
investment.

"Immigrants bring us a great richness," said Donald Clausen, principal at
Annandale High, where more than half the 2,100 students are immigrants or the
children of immigrants. "We have a reputation as a diverse school, and some
[parents] want to avoid it. I say that's their loss."

By way of example, Ghassam Tarazi, the Lebanese American principal at Ellen
Glasgow Middle School in Annandale, recounts walking through the cafeteria and
hearing a Muslim student being asked why he wasn't eating lunch.

"He was explaining what Ramadan was," said Tarazi, referring to the Muslim
observance that requires fasting. "There was education going on right there."
Tarazi's school has 1,000 students from 42 countries, "and as an immigrant, I
have a vested interest in meeting the needs of the child."

Montgomery County school board member Gutierrez said it's "a myth" that
immigrants are a drain on the system. About 90 percent of the budget is funded
locally based on real estate and income taxes, she said, and all people pay
their fair share "whether they come from Oklahoma or El Salvador."

Whatever the expenditure, and despite intensive efforts, alarming numbers of
young immigrants "are right at the edge," said Sam Miranda, an English teacher
at Bell Multicultural High School in the District. The parents often work at
night and don't speak English well, so "the kids start falling behind, and then
they are more susceptible to dropping out and joining gangs."

For Those in Need

Across the region, social services, health agencies and police departments are
also feeling the effect of rising immigration. Few localities track the use of
such services by nationality, and many agencies make a point of not asking an
immigrant's status unless, as with Medicaid applications, federal law requires
it. Still, scattered statistics and ample anecdotal evidence suggest that
foreign-born newcomers and their children draw heavily on these public programs.

Some area health workers have seen an increase in tuberculosis cases among
Hispanic and Southeast Asian immigrants. In Arlington, 60 percent of the
pregnant girls attending alternative high school classes are Latino. In
Montgomery County, officials estimates that 30 percent to 40 percent of
maternity clinic patients are foreign-born.

"The population growth in our county in the last 10 years has been largely in an
immigrant population, so obviously a lot of these folks are coming to us for
services," said Charles L. Short, director of Montgomery's Family Services.

In the mid-1980s, the Immigration Reform and Control Act enabled thousands of
illegal immigrants to legalize their status. But in 1996, concerned that
immigrants were drawing too heavily on federal programs, Congress cut benefits
-- chiefly food stamps and Supplemental Security Income -- for many noncitizens.

Food stamps were later restored for some immigrants, specifically any elderly,
disabled or children who were in the country before the law took effect. But the
restrictions led to a rush of people, locally and nationally, applying for
citizenship. And local service agencies report that hardship cases have
increased because benefits are more difficult to get.

"We're seeing people in more dire conditions of poverty -- more overcrowding,
more difficulty putting food on the table," said Leslye Orloff, of Ayuda, a
private agency in the District that helps mostly Central Americans.

Ayuda is one of a network of nonprofit agencies and churches trying to fill the
gap in immigrant services because many local public agencies, especially those
in the District, haven't been able to handle the demand. These organizations
provide everything from nighttime English classes to well-baby checkups.

But despite a common public perception that immigrants receive excessive public
benefits, few foreign-born in the region receive government cash assistance --
and most who do are new refugees or senior citizens. Illegal immigrants are not
allowed to receive welfare or food stamps.

Of nearly 238,000 people in Maryland, Virginia and the District who receive
Supplemental Social Income, a monthly grant for the poor who are elderly or
disabled, only about 13,000 are noncitizens. Virginia's Medicaid program spent
an estimated $ 40 million on health care for noncitizens in 1997, but most of
that money went to help U.S.-born children or for one-time emergencies.

The National Research Council's immigration report challenged assertions by
anti-immigrant groups that immigrants raise crime rates, saying this is only a
problem in some border areas. Still, the arrival of low-income immigrants in
Mount Pleasant in the District, Culmore in Fairfax County and Langley Park in
Prince George's County has spawned numerous Latino and Asian youth gangs whose
members, police say, sell drugs, steal, beat one another up in turf fights, and
force sex on young female members.

"Most often, the kids I deal with on probation were born outside the U.S.," said
Gerald Jackson, Fairfax County's chief juvenile probation officer. "We tend to
see war refugees" from Central America or Southeast Asia. "The country makes no
difference; we see trauma from war zones."

It's clear that immigration has caused demographic changes, but "xenophobia is
discouraging," Jackson said. "One man stood up at a meeting and said, 'Why don't
we shoot all these illegals?' You almost have to change attitudes one person at
a time."

Besides, he added, the problems are not as bad as they were five years ago.
"Ethnic leaders are emerging -- they don't want to be victimized either," he
said. Young immigrants trying to get out of street life have enrolled in a new
tattoo-removal program. And, according to Fairfax County Sheriff Carl R. Peed,
the number of foreign-born in county detention has decreased from 14 percent to
10 percent of the overall prisoner population.

In the District, the Latin American Youth Center has set up a drop-in program to
keep teenagers off the streets and out of trouble. And in Arlington, police have
formed a Spanish-speaking task force that removes gang graffiti, questions
teenagers loitering in parks and handles calls from worried Latino parents.

Usually, however, the behavior that irks some American-born neighbors of
immigrants is not criminal, but cultural: poor immigrants sharing housing and
parking a bunch of old cars on the street; Latino women turning their kitchens
into informal restaurants or selling homemade food in the neighborhood.

"In some cultures, you always have your mother-in-law . . . and other extended
family members living with you," said Kim Ouan Cook, a Vietnamese social worker
in Falls Church. "Here, people complain that their property values are being
destroyed."

Fairfax County Supervisor Penelope A. Gross (D-Mason) is dismayed when she hears
hostile comments about immigrants. "Some of them can only see it as foreigners
coming in and taking over," she said. "I tell them, these are your neighbors and
mine, and they all want clean water, safe schools, and decent wages -- the same
things you do."

Jorge Mora, an immigrant from Chile and a Montgomery County homeowner since
1967, agrees. He and his wife, he said, "live life like anybody else -- cut the
grass, keep it short, go to the beach."

Numbers, Not Clout

For all their increased population and economic influence, the region's
immigrants are still just a blip on the local political landscape. In most
communities, only a handful regularly participate in civic activities, and area
ethnic leaders don't see that changing any time soon.

"To participate in public life, you have to have a certain amount of leisure
time," said Charles Cervantes, a Mexican American lawyer and former Arlington
School Board member. "You have to master English, learn complicated issues and
not be afraid to speak out. For most immigrants in the first generation, those
barriers are just too high."

In the Maryland suburbs, Del. Kumar Barve (D), an immigrant from India, heads
Montgomery County's delegation to the state legislature. Prince George's County
Del. David M. Valderrama (D) is from the Philippines. But elsewhere in the
region, no immigrant has won elective office higher than the school board.

Latinos, by far the largest immigrant group in Washington and its suburbs, "are
still in Pampers" politically, said Saul Solorzano, who directs the Central
American Resource Center in the District. The city's Hispanics "are seen as a
bunch of undocumenteds. [We] haven't been included in policy or resources."

Keith Haller, president of Potomac Survey Research, which tracks political
trends in the region, said immigrant and native-born Asian Americans have been
more aggressive in registering to vote, raising money and organizing. The area's
Hispanics are "just on the cusp of breaking through."

As more foreign-born become eligible to vote, research suggests Republicans will
likely attract affluent immigrants and Democrats will draw support from poorer
immigrants hoping to preserve social services.

Immigrant activists successfully beat back efforts several years ago in the
Virginia General Assembly to require that illegal immigrants in public schools
be identified so that they could be deported or forced to repay the government.

"If the hostility level grows, or [immigrants] want a particular change in a
law," they will organize themselves, said Toni-Michelle Travis, a government
professor at George Mason University. "Then the impact will come."

Arlington community activist Ralph Perrino cites his Italian mother, who took
her time learning English and never attended PTA meetings, in predicting that it
will take another generation for newer immigrants to raise their profile. "It's
the same whether you're Italian, Greek or Vietnamese," the former PTA president
said. "The first and second generations feel uneasy approaching institutions in
a different culture. . . . It takes time for people to work their way into it."

Foreign-born in Virginia, Maryland

Virginia has 372,000 immigrants. Maryland has 412,000. More than two-thirds live
in the Washington suburbs.*

VIRGINIA MARYLAND

Race/ethnicity

Black 8% 27%

White 58% 54%

Asian/Pacific islander 34% 19%

Hispanic (any race) 24% 24%

Education (people 25 and older)

Not a high school graduate 15% 19%

High school graduate/some college 39% 35%

Bachelor's degree 32% 22%

Graduate/professional degree 15% 23%

Income (1995)

Under 16 or without income 18% 20%

$ 1 to $ 19,999 50% 42%

$ 20,000 to $ 49,999 24% 27%

$ 50,000 or more 9% 10%

Owner/renter Rent 41% 55%

Own 59% 45%

Poverty Status Above poverty line 84% 90%

Below poverty line 16% 10%

*1996 statistics unless otherwise noted.

ABOUT THIS SERIES

Immigration is having a profound impact on Washington and its suburbs. The
number of foreign-born in the region -- up from one in 22 residents in 1970 to
one in six now -- has dramatically altered dozens of neighborhoods, changed the
economic fabric of the metropolitan area and imposed new service demands on
governments.

SUNDAY: A computer-assisted analysis of immigration and population data provides
a detailed look at the lives of immigrants in the region, including where they
have come from and where they have settled.

TODAY: Immigrants here appear to have had a more positive overall impact -- with
less of a backlash -- than in many other urban areas with large foreign-born
populations.

TUESDAY: Immigrant women in metropolitan Washington face unique challenges as
they adapt to a new country and try to preserve the cultural customs and
traditions of their homelands.


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post; Photo, BILL O'LEARY, Services: Ronny Parada
cuts Nelson Flores' hair at Parada's shop in Arlington.  Schools: Ryan Khlok,
left, and Reginald Hunter play at Patrick Henry Elementary in Arlington.  In
Arlington, the Andrade family operates a pupusa wagon along Columbia Pike. Maria
Andrade and her granddaughter Jacqueline, 6, lean on their van as a customer
departs with his lunch.  Nora Vallejos relies on 10-year-old son Edwin for help
in filling out a form at a free clinic set up at an Arlington school.  A
Glenmont Realtor, above, has signs listing his name as Joe Leon and Jose Leon.
And Angel Juarez Valle has been successful selling Salvadoran food at
Restaurante Abi in Arlington.  Children of different hues line up at the end of
recess at Patrick Henry Elementary School in South Arlington. The county expects
to spend $9.1 million this school year on programs in English as a second
language.  On Columbia Pike in Arlington, shops carry signs in Vietnamese,
right, and Spanish, rear. Immigrant population growth is reflected in many
businesses.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              112 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 31, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

For a Dying Teen, a Meaningful Journey; Newly Naturalized Citizen Sees Sights of
Washington

Maria Elena Fernandez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 740 words


On his first trip to Washington, Gimel Aguinaga got the VIP treatment: a room at
the Mayflower Hotel, a tour of the White House and a visit to the Capitol. But
for the 16-year-old Nicaraguan native, who is dying of bone cancer and recently
became a naturalized citizen as his last wish, nothing was more important than
going to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The teenager met Friday with INS Deputy Commissioner Mary Ann Wirsch and, though
speaking in almost a whisper, made his point loud and clear. His mother hasn't
been able to work because she takes care of him around the clock. The immigrant
family has not been able to get any public assistance, he said, and his mom
needs financial help.

Wirsch gave Gimel a small Statue of Liberty and assured the Texas teenager that
she will put him in touch with people who can help him.

Gimel became something of a celebrity, albeit a reluctant one, this summer after
expressing his desire to become a U.S. citizen -- and, in turn, help his family.
Working with the Texas Gulf Coast Make-a-Wish Foundation, INS officials made
Gimel's application a priority. His mother, Blanca Sunsin, was sworn in as a
citizen July 29; Gimel and his sister, Blanca Aguinaga, 14, became citizens Aug.
4. The family left Managua 13 years ago.

"Any time a young person his age wants to become a citizen, we think that's
pretty special, and we're very happy to do what we can to make that happen,"
said INS District Director Richard Cravener, who administered the oath to Gimel
and his sister during a private ceremony in Houston and greeted the family
Friday at the INS office in Washington.

Teri Andrepont, the executive director of the Texas Gulf Coast Make-a-Wish
Foundation, said Gimel's wish was a first for the foundation, which grants about
5,000 wishes a year to children with terminal illnesses.

"A lot of kids in his situation are angry," Andrepont said. "But he's not angry
about the hand he's been dealt. That's what impresses me the most about him.
He's happy, and he lives each day to the fullest. His wish made a lot of us
realize that we take our citizenship for granted."

Other well-wishers arranged for Gimel, his mother and his sister to visit
Washington. United Airlines provided free transportation, and the Mayflower put
the family up and paid for its meals.

At the White House, Gimel toured the Oval Office and the vice president's office
and even got a sneak peek at the treats Buddy, the president's dog, likes. His
face lit up as he passed FBI headquarters in a car -- his dream has been to be
an FBI agent in charge of narcotics investigations.

In the House chamber at the Capitol, Gimel smiled widely as he relaxed in a seat
on the Democrats' side.

"Enjoy the floor while you can," guide David Hauck told him. "Not many people
get to be on the floor."

To visit the INS, Gimel passed up a chance to see the National Air and Space
Museum, where a Star Wars exhibit is on display. The teenager, who is quite shy,
described his Washington trip as "fantastic," even though he had to cut it a day
short because he was tiring easily and wanted to return home.

"I'm very glad to be here . . . but I don't like Washington," he confessed.
"There's a lot of traffic and a lot of cars, and it's very busy. But I've
enjoyed the places I visited."

Typically adolescent in some respects, Gimel spent some of his time in the city
girl-watching. He sang a Spanish song about needing a girlfriend as he got into
a car outside the Capitol.

"Yes, please, a girlfriend is needed urgently," he joked while eating a turkey
club sandwich at the Mayflower. "Please! Help me with that. It's only normal."

Gimel's mother said she was touched by the special attention her son received in
Washington and was grateful for the gifts that "important" people gave him. The
U.S. Border Patrol gave him an official cap, pins and other souvenirs, and
Border Patrol Deputy Chief Michael Nicly remarked on Gimel's keen sense of
priorities.

"I can tell you right now that my sons would have walked right by me and gone
straight to Star Wars," Nicly said.

Gimel, who has been sick for two years, is uncomfortable with his recent fame.
Since becoming a citizen, he has turned down several national television
interviews.

"He told me he is tired of being famous," Andrepont said. "He really didn't do
this for that reason. He was trying to take care of his family."


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dudley m. brooks, New Friends: Gimel Aguinaga, 16, of Houston,
who is dying of bone cancer, gets a kiss from well-wisher Jeannine Cota during
lunch at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington. Gimel, a Nicaraguan immigrant,
recently became a naturalized citizen.  Gimel Aguinaga, 16, of Houston, flanked
by his sister, Blanca Aguinaga, and mother, Blanca Sunsin, right, listens to
guide David Hauck during a tour of the Capitol.

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              113 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 01, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Culture Clashes Put Immigrant Women on the Front Lines

Pamela Constable; D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3096 words


Last of three articles

At a middle school in Annandale last spring, a tearful Muslim girl begged her
principal to withdraw a yearbook photograph of her walking beside a boy. She was
afraid her father might get angry.

In Wheaton, a Thai woman married to an American visited a Buddhist temple in her
neighborhood for the first time, returning to her native religion to find
comfort after the death of her son.

And at a health clinic in the District, a mother fretted that her rebellious
teenage daughters, newly arrived from El Salvador, had spent too many years
deprived of her love and supervision while she worked to bring them to the
United States.

For immigrant women in the Washington area and elsewhere, life is sometimes an
awkward tug of war between the excitement and opportunities of modern America
and the familiar but usually confining customs of their homelands. This struggle
is most intensely played out in the family, where women frequently are both the
cultural guardians of the old country and the force pushing their children to do
well in the new one.

"These mothers want their children to succeed, but they may not know how," said
Gloria Starr, the Ecuadoran-born director of a parenting skills program in
Arlington County that draws hundreds of immigrant mothers a week.

All immigrants initially straddle two worlds, choosing between native cultures
and the new customs of their adopted country -- and the ability to assimilate
quickly can be critical to their success.

But many immigrant women, particularly in a place like Washington, are
especially challenged and conflicted as they try to fit in. Back home, their
roles were apt to be more clearly, if restrictively, defined by traditional
expectations -- and the acceptance of a male-dominated family structure. Here,
they encounter a society where most women work outside the home, raise families
and espouse the feminist notion of equality between the sexes.

For some women, immigration itself is a rejection of the culture in which they
grew up. The extreme cases are refugee women from northern Africa who are trying
to escape such abusive practices as female circumcision. In general, though,
most foreign-born women want their children to grow up honoring at least some
customs of their homelands, even if that makes adapting to U.S. social norms and
regulations more difficult.

The issue of how far to melt into modern America's melting pot can complicate
daily choices made by women of all faiths and ethnic backgrounds. They must
decide how to dress in public, how to discipline their children, and whether to
make them speak their native tongue in the home -- or push them to learn English
as fast as possible.

"We have to struggle with two cultures within our children, and sometimes they
have identity crises," said Virginia Le, a Vietnamese-born business consultant
from Vienna, whose daughter used to come home crying because classmates called
her names. "The kids are ashamed to speak Vietnamese in front of their peers,
and sometimes their parents don't speak English. It can create a lot of
pressure."

The struggle intensifies when families are physically and emotionally split
between two countries -- with the parents working here for years while their
children are left with relatives back home. There are abrupt departures, painful
separations and awkward reunions, all of which can damage the family structure
the parents are trying so hard to preserve.

"It's a very painful process," said Silvia Aveneda, a Falls Church psychologist
from Chile and one of many foreign-born women in the Washington region who serve
as professional liaisons to help ease the rough transitions for immigrants.

At a recent evening meeting of Latino parents, where every point she made drew
nods and sighs of recognition, she described the problems teenage newcomers face
as they adjust simultaneously to a new culture, a new language, parents or
stepparents they barely know and sometimes siblings they have not met.

"The children don't feel the bond of love. They feel abandoned," Aveneda said.
"The parents are furious. They spent so much money and effort to bring them
here, and now they are faced with this big, silent adolescent who won't obey
them."

When Cultures Collide

As her three daughters grew up in the Maryland suburbs, Bano Makhdoom, an
immigrant from Pakistan and a devout Muslim, gradually adapted to meet American
culture halfway.

A decade ago, when her middle daughter, Saima, wanted to attend her high school
senior prom, Bano and her engineer husband, Rashid, refused. Their religion and
custom forbade girls to socialize with boys, let alone dance, and they feared
she would be corrupted by Western ways.

But last spring, when their youngest daughter, Amina, 21, graduated from
Georgetown University, she was determined to go to her senior dance. Without
much fuss, the daughter prevailed. The Makhdooms felt they could not deny her
the chance to participate in such an important American ritual.

"This time, they said, 'Fine, get your hair cut, get a nice dress. Just tell us
where to pick you up,' " Amina recounted.

"By now, I feel equally at home in both cultures," said Bano, 55, a homemaker.
When she attends Friday mosque services or family gatherings, she wears the
traditional Pakistani head scarf and billowy trousers. But when running errands,
"I just pull on jeans and sneakers."

Adaptation is much more painful for Muslim families from more conservative
societies in Somalia or Afghanistan, where women and girls are expected to cover
themselves completely when they leave home and aren't permitted to shake a man's
hand.

As the number of Muslims has swelled to tens of thousands in the Washington
region, public schools have had to accommodate students who must leave on
Fridays for prayer services and cannot eat lunch during Ramadan. It is
especially hard for girls, whose parents may forbid them to attend gym or talk
with male classmates.

"Peer pressure on our daughters can cause real problems," said Anwar Hajaj, a
Muslim scholar who attends a mosque in Falls Church. "Sometimes our kids come
home and ask why everything is 'No, no, no,' and it puts tough pressure on the
parents."

The Makhdoom daughters have followed three different paths in trying to balance
East-West values. The eldest, Rina, 33, is a devout Muslim who married another
Pakistani. Saima, 30, is a lawyer who rebelled against organized religion and
wears her tailored skirts well above the knee.

"I'm the confused one," Amina said. "I love going to dances and football games,
but now I think being a Muslim should come first."

"She's the lucky one," retorted Saima, making a face as the family sipped tea on
their back porch in North Potomac. "I had all the stupid rules, and she got away
with everything."

Tug of Traditions

Sacraments and rites of passage can often draw immigrants back to the cultural
ties they allowed to lapse amid the demands and distractions of a busy new life.

Many elderly immigrants from Vietnam or South Korea, even after years in the
United States, insist on returning to their native countries to be buried near
their ancestors.

Struggling Latin American families spend thousands of dollars to provide their
teenage daughters -- sometimes reluctant participants -- with a traditional
quincean era, or "sweet 15" ceremony, complete with satin dresses and escorts in
tuxedos.

At times, the tug of tradition can yank a family out of its American routine and
responsibilities. At public schools in immigrant communities, teachers
frequently discover that a student from El Salvador or another Latin American
country has been flown back home to a village for a patron saint festival --
even if it conflicts with exams.

And sometimes, love can cause further strains in immigrant families when elders
insist that their children marry within their ethnic group. A Korean pastor in
Maryland described how a church member phoned him one day, triumphant and
relieved. "We won!" he said, announcing that his son had decided to marry a
Korean-born woman.

Duangkamol "Tack" French, a Thai-born woman who lives in Silver Spring with her
American husband and their 13-year-old son, said that at first she resisted
becoming part of the local Thai community, partly because many from her country
look down on women who marry outside the culture.

French, who worked as a lawyer in Thailand, said some Thais "feel that Thais who
marry white must be a bar girl or something."

The couple, who met in Thailand and moved here in 1996 after spending years in
Asia, celebrate both Christmas and the Thai New Year. But she never visited a
nearby Buddhist temple -- until last year, when grief drew her back.

An older son died after a long illness. Searching for solace, French visited the
temple. In a room overflowing with fresh flowers, the orange-robed, barefoot
monks held a memorial service for the boy. The ceremony reminded French that her
culture offered something she had not found here: a sense of a tightknit
community looking after its children.

"It's really a help for me," she said, "something I can go [to] and feel at
home."

Now she visits the temple each Saturday, carrying home-cooked Thai dishes for
the monks. And she is proud that her surviving son, Jay, recently completed a
three-week class in which he lived with the monks at the temple and followed
their routine -- even shaving his head.

Helping One Another

Wherever there are immigrant women in the Washington area trying to decide where
they belong, there are other immigrant women helping them and their families
adjust.

These educated, English-speaking professionals -- nurses, language teachers,
social workers -- can deal with a welfare agency, a hospital or the police,
while identifying with the cultures and concerns of their clients or students.

They persuade shy Latino parents to attend PTA meetings, translate Arabic or
Urdu in maternity clinics, moo and flap and make contorted faces until a dozen
students understand what "calf" and "feathers" and "stomachache" mean.

Cecilia Cuadra, 49, a teacher from Nicaragua, is a family outreach worker for
Arlington County schools. Each week, for eight years, she has visited the homes
of Latino students who fall behind, coaxing them and their parents to talk about
their troubles.

"I saw how many Latin American families needed to integrate more into the
culture," she said. "Even if you speak Spanish, if you are not from a family's
culture, they will not open up as much. But when you are [from Latin America],
immediately there is trust."

Ivette Laureano, a Puerto Rican who is a PTA activist at Wheaton High School,
helped form a separate parents group for Latinos who "were hungry for
information" on sex, dating, discipline, violence and other customs and issues
in American society.

"I tell them it's okay to continue their traditions and discipline the kids,"
she said. "The kids say, 'We don't do it that way in this country,' and it's
hard [for parents to know what to do] because they don't speak the language."

When her daughter, now a senior, started first grade, she and another girl were
the only Hispanics in the elementary school. "All of a sudden, you have 35
percent" Latino enrollment in the school, Laureano said. "I don't think the
teachers were prepared."

For some foreign-born women, assisting immigrants provides a natural outlet for
language skills or a secure economic niche. For others, who come from more
privileged backgrounds and may not need a job, the work is a labor of love.

Tuyet "Tina" Tran, a 50-year-old Bethesda woman, once attended an elite girls'
school in Vietnam. She and several hundred other graduates meet once a year for
an elegant reunion in Virginia that includes Vietnamese food, dance, and
sentimental recitals of the school marching song.

But in her here-and-now life, Tran is immersed in the language difficulties of
new refugees. By day she counsels foreign-born students for Montgomery County
schools; at night she directs a "homework club" in Silver Spring where she and
other volunteers tutor young Vietnamese refugees in algebra, reading and
biology.

"People think Asians in America are doing so well," Tran said. "In fact, many of
the new refugees have the same problems as Central American kids: They come from
rural poverty; their parents work late and are poorly educated. But with a
Vietnamese tutor, they can catch up very fast."

Alienation and Reconciliation

Every week, at a clinic in Northwest Washington, a group of Central American
women assembles to discuss the trials of being mothers in America. They are
tired-looking women who clean houses or hotels for a living, and they have all
made difficult choices that they fear have backfired on their children.

Some came to the United States illegally, leaving their babies behind. They
toiled at menial jobs, saving money and dreaming of a glorious family reunion.
Instead, when their children finally arrived, they were adolescent strangers --
resentful, resistant to parental authority, and bewildered by a competitive,
freewheeling society.

After a decade apart from her, Ana Moreira's daughter Isabel, 15, arrived last
year from El Salvador, along with her younger sister Emely. Now, slumped in the
clinic waiting room, Isabel complains of feeling dizzy, not wanting to eat or
sleep. Her mother thinks the problem goes deeper.

"She is so new here, and she has gone through so many changes. I want to give
her advice, but I leave so early and I get home so late," said Moreira, who
remarried after moving to the United States. "I worry about drugs, about AIDS,
about pregnancy. So much can happen here. But they don't want to listen to me,
and they don't know their stepfather."

Isabel shakes her head, angry. She wishes her mother trusted her. She says she
never wanted to leave El Salvador. At night, she dreams about a beautiful field
back home, full of animals. Here, she's not allowed to go out.

"I struggled so hard to bring them here," Moreira said. "I sent them cassettes
with my voice; I sang to them so I wouldn't lose them. But . . . the money I
sent wasn't worth the affection they missed."

Immigrant parents from many countries expressed similar fears of family
alienation, of not being able to compete with the opportunities -- or guard
against the dangers -- of American society. Many complained that U.S. laws
prevent them from physically disciplining their children as severely as they
would in their home country.

Savvy teenagers, who usually speak better English than their parents, take
advantage of the situation. Police in several communities said immigrant
youngsters, threatened with a beating at home for misbehaving, sometimes call
911. At one Latino parents' meeting in Rockville, several complained to a social
worker that immigrating had cost them their authority as parents.

"It is so hard to control your kids here," said Elena Fuentes, a Honduran
housecleaner in the District who is struggling to raise a teenage daughter. "I
can't communicate with her anymore. I tell her if she keeps skipping school,
she'll end up like me, cleaning garbage all her life. But she's in America now,
and she thinks she knows it all."

To help their children stay in touch with their native cultures, some immigrant
groups have established summer schools where students learn Vietnamese, the
Tagalog tongue of the Philippines and other languages and customs of their
homelands. Bolivian organizations sponsor youth troupes that perform Andean folk
dances. Annual beauty contests crown Miss Korea Washington and Miss Bogwas of
Maryland, a reference to an island in the Philippines.

Keeping the culture requires persistent discipline, immigrants said, even as
they and their children adapt to being Korean Americans, Hispanic Americans,
Vietnamese Americans or other "hyphenated" identities.

Some foreign-born parents said that, much to their surprise and delight, their
children rediscovered their roots in college, as they gained self-confidence or
were drawn to ethnic student politics. Virginia Le's daughter, once too insecure
to speak Vietnamese at school, is now immersed in Vietnamese culture at college
in Paris.

"It is very encouraging," Le said. "We parents face such a dilemma. We want to
be assimilated into the mainstream, but we also want to preserve our culture. We
get so exasperated with our kids, but in the end, we see the seeds do grow."

ABOUT THIS SERIES

Immigration is having a profound impact on Washington and its suburbs. The
number of foreign-born in the region -- up from one in 22 residents in 1970 to
one in six now -- has dramatically altered dozens of neighborhoods, changed the
economic fabric of the metropolitan area and imposed new service demands on
governments.

SUNDAY: A computer-assisted analysis of immigration and population data provides
a detailed look at the lives of immigrants in the region, including where they
have come from and where they have settled.

MONDAY: Immigrants here appear to have had a more positive overall impact --
with less of a backlash -- than in many other urban areas with large
foreign-born populations.

TODAY: Immigrant women in metropolitan Washington face unique challenges as they
adapt to a new country and try to preserve the cultural customs and traditions
of their homelands.

Immigrants in Profile

More than 350,000 immigrants have settled in the Washington metropolitan region
since 1983. Seven out of 10 immigrants are of working age.  More than half are
married and slightly more than half are women. Women are a majority of those
admitted as spouses, fiances and parents of people already living here. Men make
up a majority of those admitted as skilled workers, refugees and people seeking
political asylum.

Sex

Female 52%

Male 48%

Marital status*

Married 67%

Single 27%

Widowed 3%

Divorced 2%

Other 1%

Age

Younger than 18 24%

18-64 71%

Older than 64 4%

*For people 17 and older.

SOURCES: Census Bureau, Immigration and Naturalization Service


LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,FRANK JOHNSTON; PH,,BILL O'LEARY; IG,,TWP, Women of the Makhdoom
family of North Potomac have adapted Pakistani customs to the United States.
From left, sisters Saima and Amina, their mother, Bano, and grandmother, Sajeela
Khan.  Abla Hammad holds her year-old son, Alladin, while he plays with a mirror
at a parenting class in an Arlington apartment complex that houses many
immigrants.  Duangkamol "Tack" French, who married an American she met in her
native Thailand, returned to Buddhism in Silver Spring after the death of her
elder son. She says she can "feel at home" at the Buddhist temple.  A
multinational staff at Rodman's, in Wheaton, includes Marias from three
countries: Maria Pineda, of El Salvador; Maria Santos, of the Dominican
Republic; and Maria Antonia Lucio, of Mexico.  The Makhdoom family of North
Potomac has adjusted since emigrating from Pakistan. From left, Rashid Makhdoom
with daughters Saima and Amina, mother-in-law Sajeela Kahn and wife Bano, who
says she feels "equally at home in both cultures."

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              114 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 18, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

A New Sort of Multiracial America

T. Alexander Aleinikoff

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 835 words


After a year of hearings and deliberations, the advisory board of the
president's Race Initiative will present its report this afternoon. Much of the
initiative's work has focused on the black/white color line. But immigration
from Asia and Latin America is helping to create a multiracial America that
calls into question many of the assumptions and strategies of traditional civil
rights approaches.

Forty years ago, immigration was at historically low levels, and the vast
majority of immigrants were white Europeans. Today the United States is
witnessing record-high immigration, and the vast majority of immigrants are "of
color." The top six sending countries are Mexico, the Philippines, Vietnam, the
Dominican Republic, China and India, with immigrants from these countries
accounting for more than a third of the flow.

The National Research Council has estimated that the U.S. population will
increase by almost 50 percent in the next half-century, and more than two-thirds
of the increase will come from immigrants, their children and grandchildren.
Because of the impact of immigration, Hispanics will soon outnumber African
Americans, and the Asian-American population is expected to nearly triple by
2050 (to 8 percent of the total population).

Immigration history shows that racial categories are not fixed and unchangeable.
Groups once considered "non-white" -- the Irish in the 19th century and southern
and eastern Europeans in the 20th -- have later crossed the color line. Other
diverse immigrant groups -- such as Chinese, Filipinos and Indians -- are fitted
into a racial category labeled Asian. These complications only underscore the
fact that the concept of "race" in America is not, and can no longer be, a black
and white discussion.

Some civil rights advocates are concerned that high levels of immigration spell
danger for the African American community. Immigrants are portrayed as
competitors for jobs and housing, and whites are seen as preferring immigrant
workers to native black workers. It also is asserted that white Americans, in an
attempt to preserve their majority status, will ensure that some groups of new
immigrants will be considered "white." But current research is unable to find a
significant adverse impact of immigration on black prospects. African Americans
face many challenges -- including the persistent effects of past and present
discrimination -- but immigration does not appear to be a major determinant of
their economic or social status.

Some on the other side of the debate see different risks from immigration. They
fear that it is contributing to an increasingly multicultural United States that
is on the verge of balkanization. These concerns are dramatically overstated.
Most immigrants learn English, and it is the preferred language of the vast
majority of their children. If anything, the problem runs the other way.
Immigrant children lose proficiency in their parents' language -- at the same
time that public schools spend millions of dollars teaching foreign languages to
native English speakers.

Although immigrants are concentrated in some large American cities, there is no
"Quebec" problem here. The greatest threats to successful assimilation may well
be anti-immigrant measures that create barriers to integration and stigmatize
immigrants.

If there is a problem in the integration of immigrants, it is economic.
Immigration has an hourglass quality; a great many immigrants enter the United
States with education and skills significantly above the national average and
fairly rapidly assimilate into the American middle class. Immigrants who come
without skills and without much education face poorer prospects, particularly if
they do not finish high school. These immigrants (most of whom are non-white) do
not directly compete with African Americans. But they are subject to the same
structural obstacles to upward mobility that hinder the advancement of
low-skilled black workers.

A 21st century civil rights strategy must follow two tracks. First, it must
continue to call attention to the debilitating effects of past and present
discrimination and demand strong enforcement of anti-discrimination laws on
behalf of African Americans and other minorities, many of whom may be immigrants
or the children of immigrants. Such a strategy also must recognize that the
discrimination against immigrants may be based on alien status, language or
religion as well as on race.

Second, the strategy must look to the future, supporting policies that foster
the healthy functioning of a multiracial nation. These would include policies
aimed at economic advancement, including education, skills training and English;
citizenship training in U.S. history and civics (for newcomers and native-born
citizens alike); and promotion of empathy for and respect among groups.


The writer, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, is a senior
associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              115 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 18, 1998, Friday, Final Edition

A New Sort of Multiracial America

T. Alexander Aleinikoff

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 835 words


After a year of hearings and deliberations, the advisory board of the
president's Race Initiative will present its report this afternoon. Much of the
initiative's work has focused on the black/white color line. But immigration
from Asia and Latin America is helping to create a multiracial America that
calls into question many of the assumptions and strategies of traditional civil
rights approaches.

Forty years ago, immigration was at historically low levels, and the vast
majority of immigrants were white Europeans. Today the United States is
witnessing record-high immigration, and the vast majority of immigrants are "of
color." The top six sending countries are Mexico, the Philippines, Vietnam, the
Dominican Republic, China and India, with immigrants from these countries
accounting for more than a third of the flow.

The National Research Council has estimated that the U.S. population will
increase by almost 50 percent in the next half-century, and more than two-thirds
of the increase will come from immigrants, their children and grandchildren.
Because of the impact of immigration, Hispanics will soon outnumber African
Americans, and the Asian-American population is expected to nearly triple by
2050 (to 8 percent of the total population).

Immigration history shows that racial categories are not fixed and unchangeable.
Groups once considered "non-white" -- the Irish in the 19th century and southern
and eastern Europeans in the 20th -- have later crossed the color line. Other
diverse immigrant groups -- such as Chinese, Filipinos and Indians -- are fitted
into a racial category labeled Asian. These complications only underscore the
fact that the concept of "race" in America is not, and can no longer be, a black
and white discussion.

Some civil rights advocates are concerned that high levels of immigration spell
danger for the African American community. Immigrants are portrayed as
competitors for jobs and housing, and whites are seen as preferring immigrant
workers to native black workers. It also is asserted that white Americans, in an
attempt to preserve their majority status, will ensure that some groups of new
immigrants will be considered "white." But current research is unable to find a
significant adverse impact of immigration on black prospects. African Americans
face many challenges -- including the persistent effects of past and present
discrimination -- but immigration does not appear to be a major determinant of
their economic or social status.

Some on the other side of the debate see different risks from immigration. They
fear that it is contributing to an increasingly multicultural United States that
is on the verge of balkanization. These concerns are dramatically overstated.
Most immigrants learn English, and it is the preferred language of the vast
majority of their children. If anything, the problem runs the other way.
Immigrant children lose proficiency in their parents' language -- at the same
time that public schools spend millions of dollars teaching foreign languages to
native English speakers.

Although immigrants are concentrated in some large American cities, there is no
"Quebec" problem here. The greatest threats to successful assimilation may well
be anti-immigrant measures that create barriers to integration and stigmatize
immigrants.

If there is a problem in the integration of immigrants, it is economic.
Immigration has an hourglass quality; a great many immigrants enter the United
States with education and skills significantly above the national average and
fairly rapidly assimilate into the American middle class. Immigrants who come
without skills and without much education face poorer prospects, particularly if
they do not finish high school. These immigrants (most of whom are non-white) do
not directly compete with African Americans. But they are subject to the same
structural obstacles to upward mobility that hinder the advancement of
low-skilled black workers.

A 21st century civil rights strategy must follow two tracks. First, it must
continue to call attention to the debilitating effects of past and present
discrimination and demand strong enforcement of anti-discrimination laws on
behalf of African Americans and other minorities, many of whom may be immigrants
or the children of immigrants. Such a strategy also must recognize that the
discrimination against immigrants may be based on alien status, language or
religion as well as on race.

Second, the strategy must look to the future, supporting policies that foster
the healthy functioning of a multiracial nation. These would include policies
aimed at economic advancement, including education, skills training and English;
citizenship training in U.S. history and civics (for newcomers and native-born
citizens alike); and promotion of empathy for and respect among groups.


The writer, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, is a senior
associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              116 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 20, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

A New Year, A New Start; Immigrant Jews Reclaiming Faith

Caryle Murphy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1241 words



As sundown signals the onset of Jewish New Year 5759 tonight, Raisa Karolinskaya
and her family will move closer to reclaiming what was too long lost.

For the first time, the Ukrainian-born immigrants will enter a synagogue to
attend religious services. And as they celebrate Rosh Hashanah with Kehilat
Shalom congregation in Gaithersburg, they will begin recovering the Jewish
identity that lay buried for generations beneath the fear and ignorance born of
official repression.

"We are making the first step towards our religion," said Karolinskaya, 38, who
will be accompanied at tonight's service by her husband, two children and
mother.

The Derwood residents are among more than 288,000 Jewish refugees who have come
to this country from the former Soviet Union since 1988, according to the New
York-based Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society (HIAS). Though their numbers have
dropped since the peak year of 1982 with 46,083 arrivals, they continue to join
relatives under family reunification programs. In 1997, HIAS said, 14,529
arrived in the United States.

Jewish social service agencies in Washington and Baltimore have helped thousands
of these refugees find homes and jobs, assisting in the resettlement of 6,142
from 1991 to 1997. In the year ending in June 1998, 445 Jewish refugees arrived
in the two metropolitan areas, according to Jewish social service officials.

For most of these immigrants, practicing their faith in their native land was a
surreptitious or forgotten endeavor. Jewish identity was often no more than a
fleeting childhood memory -- a Hebrew melody hummed by a grandfather or the
smell of challah baking in the oven.

Like Karolinskaya, however, these Jewish immigrants are rediscovering what their
families were forced to abandon under a political regime that denied God to
build communism's "new man."

"I didn't know about my religion. I only knew the names of holidays and some
recipes from my grandmother," said Karolinskaya, whose round face is framed by
black curls flecked with gray. "We lost our religion and our history because it
was restricted. Even my grandmother . . . could only recall a few of the
holidays."

Karolinskaya, who like many Ukrainian women retains her maiden name, arrived
here a year ago with her husband, Aleksander Gorokhov, 38, their two children,
Aleksander, 11, and Pavel, 10, and her parents and grandmother.

She holds down part-time jobs at an Olney boutique and a Rockville fabric store
while Gorokhov works at a furniture shop by day and delivers pizza at night. The
entire family lives in a four-bedroom apartment where the wall by the dining
table is covered with certificates and awards citing the boys' achievements at
school.

Slowly, they have been learning about their faith. At the Jewish Community
Center of Greater Washington in Rockville, they were taught the significance of
Jewish holidays and traditions. Asya Veytsman, 62, Karolinskaya's mother,
visited a matzoh factory. At Jewish day camp over the summer, the boys struggled
to sing songs in Hebrew, a language they are just beginning to understand.

One day, Pavel raced home from camp with a small, rectangular box decorated with
curlicues of blue and yellow sand. Inside was the traditional verse from
Deuteronomy reminding Jews of God's oneness. "He said, 'I have to put it near my
door!' " recalled Karolinskaya. Now plastered to the wall, it is the family's
first mezuza.

The apartment also has a brass menorah, the traditional Jewish candelabrum. And
the family had its first Jewish burial when Karolinskaya's grandmother, Shendel
Veytsman, 84, died last winter. The Jewish Community Center helped find a rabbi.

When Karolinskaya was growing up in Ukraine, there was "a silent disapproval
from the government" toward all things Jewish, she said. Her home town of
Kharkov is a major city, but it had no synagogue. When one opened a few years
ago, she and her family never went there, partly out of fear, partly out of
ignorance.

"If you didn't have [that tradition] in your family, it's hard" to start
attending services, she said. "And we were not sure of our safety."

Karolinskaya, struck by the abundance of activity in the Jewish community here,
said it "is like a big family, and you can be with your friends and you can get
any support any time you need it."

"I think most families are very impressed and touched first of all by how easy
it is here to access anything Jewish, whether it be a synagogue or people in the
Jewish community, Jewish education, Jewish books," said Roberta Drucker,
supervisor of newcomer resettlement for the Jewish Social Service Agency in
Rockville.

When they first arrive, "100 percent do not know what a bar or bat mitzvah is
unless they are over 75 years old," she said. "If you have a Hanukah party,
they've never seen anyone light candles. They don't know what matzoh is or a
Jewish burial or a Jewish wedding."

Kandy Hutman, senior adult program director at the Jewish Community Center, said
that at a recent lunch for elderly newcomers, a cantor gave a performance of
ancient Jewish tunes, or niguns. As he sang, "you could see the ripple go across
the room. One woman said, 'I remember hearing something like this from my
grandfather.' "

"It's almost as if history is reaching out and embracing these people again,"
Hutman said. "Their ties to Judaism were so faint. But a tune sparks a memory. .
. . It was very emotional for the people."

The center also teaches kosher homemaking, as well as civics for those studying
to become U.S. citizens. "They learn English, and they learn about government,"
she said. "Of course, now they are learning what impeachment is."

About 20 of the 50 Jewish families who have resettled in Columbia have
affiliated with Temple Isaiah there. Michael Elkis, 47, an engineer, left
Ukraine in 1989 with his wife, two children and six other family members. They
arrived knowing neither English nor Hebrew -- and began attending services at
the temple right away.

"My son went to Hebrew school, and through his books, we learned more about
Judaism," said Elkis, who eventually served on the temple's board for two years.
"We also got information from television, from the newspapers. You can get
information everywhere in this country. It was a big difference" from home.

Greater religious liberty now permits Jews still in former Soviet republics to
practice their faith more openly, said HIAS Executive Vice President Leonard
Glickman. But many believe their new freedom remains precarious. But he said
they do not feel totally secure because institutional protections such as
"responsive law enforcement and judicial systems" are still missing.

Karolinskaya, meanwhile, is learning about the wider religious landscape of this
country. A couple of Jehovah's Witness missionaries recently dropped off a Bible
in English. A few days later, they returned to deliver one in Russian. Their
proselytizing, however, had little effect.

Being Jewish in America "is like a big field of knowledge and experiences that I
didn't know before and that is my people's history," she said. "I want to know
more about that. And I want to give my children the first step. . . . I want
them to know about our history."

Aleksander Gorokhov, Raisa Karolinskaya and sons Pavel, center, and Aleksander
will celebrate Rosh Hashanah by attending their first synagogue services
tonight.




LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, JUANA ARIAS

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              117 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 21, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

Fund-Raiser Set Up Fake Firms for Chinese

George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 698 words


Democratic fund-raiser Johnny Chung set up fake businesses in California with at
least a half-dozen Chinese executives to make it easier for them to get U.S.
visas, according to testimony and records compiled by House Republican
investigators.

Chung brought most of the executives, who included the offspring of two retired
Chinese generals, to fund-raisers for the Clinton-Gore 1996 reelection effort.

Irene Wu, Chung's top assistant from 1995 to 1997, said in a deposition to the
House Government Reform and Oversight Committee that "all of these companies"
were set up to facilitate travel to the United States by the Chinese business
officials and eventually help them establish permanent residency here.

The companies engaged in no real business activity, Wu said in her July 28
deposition.

Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Russ Bergeron said setting up
dummy companies to acquire visas is a "growing fraud," particularly in faraway
countries such as China. He said it involves "all kinds of scams," including
bogus business cards, letterheads for nonexistent companies, phony tax returns
and fake photos of business locations.

Wu said Chung used "a lot of invitation letters" that the associates in China
could use when requesting visas. The letters typically urged them to come to Los
Angeles for business discussions about upcoming projects.

Two of the companies, Sino-American Economic Development Inc. and Yuangao
International Inc., were established in 1995 by Chung and Chen Shizeng, the head
of a Chinese beer company. The Taiwanese-born Chung met Chen the year before on
Chung's first trip to China.

Through Chen, "Johnny met a lot of other people," Wu said.

From 1994 to 1996, Chung visited the White House 49 times and attended numerous
Democratic fund-raising events, sometimes escorting Chinese business officials
who were photographed with President Clinton or first lady Hillary Rodham
Clinton. Chung gave $ 366,000 to the Democratic National Committee for the 1996
election, all of which has been returned.

Chung, a California businessman, began cooperating with federal prosecutors in
March after pleading guilty to making illegal campaign contributions. He told
Justice Department investigators that a Chinese military officer who is an
executive with a state-owned aerospace company gave him $ 300,000 in the summer
of 1996 with the understanding that some of the money would be used for
contributions to Democratic campaigns. China called the report a "sheer
fabrication."

Wu said the officer, Liu Chaoying, daughter of an Army general who retired last
year, made two visits to the United States -- in July 1996 when Chung
accompanied her to two fund-raising events Clinton attended and in August 1996
when she came with plans to buy spare parts for aircraft. "She thought Johnny
had connections" with U.S. aerospace companies, Wu said. "To my knowledge, he
didn't."

Chung filed papers in California on Aug. 9, 1996, setting up Marswell Investment
Inc. He listed Liu as president and himself as vice president and stated its
purpose as "import/export of auto accessories."

Wu said Marswell did no business and now is dormant.

Six days after the company was established, one of Chung's three bank accounts
received a $ 79,980 wire transfer from Hong Kong; an attorney familiar with the
transaction told The Washington Post in May the money came from Liu.

Chung has told investigators that Liu told him the money came from Chinese
military intelligence. Liu has denied Chung's account.

According to Wu, Chung also had dealings with Liu Bin, the son of another
retired Chinese general, who was Chung's guest at a September 1995 Clinton-Gore
fund-raiser in Century City, Calif.

Chung set up a company called C.L. International with Liu Bin (no relation to
the aerospace executive) in July 1996, but Chung resigned from it a few months
later. According to Wu, Chung quit after learning that Liu Bin, a hotel and
nightclub executive, had written four bad checks for $ 220,000 on C.L.
International's bank account from China.

Johnny Chung's dummy businesses helped Chinese executives obtain U.S. visas.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,AP/NICK UT

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              118 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 22, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Laurel Vows to Reach Out To Latinos; Police Effort Comes After Fatal Beating

Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 759 words


The chief of Laurel's police department said yesterday that he is concerned some
crimes against Spanish-speaking immigrants there go unreported and that he will
increase and improve his agency's efforts to reach out to the city's
fast-growing Latino community.

Chief Roy Gilmore's comments came after a meeting with Latino advocates at which
he briefed them on his department's investigation into the stamping death of a
Hispanic immigrant dishwasher this month.

Seven teenagers, all of whom have attended Laurel High School, have been
arrested and charged with killing Gilberto Hernandez, 35, during an attempted
robbery.

The killing has brought into sharp relief the distrust harbored by some of
Laurel's Latino immigrants toward the police and the criminal justice system.

In the wake of the slaying, a half-dozen Spanish-speaking Hispanic immigrants
said in interviews that they or people close to them have been robbed at
gunpoint or assaulted -- but that none of the incidents was reported to police.

The immigrants cited several factors for not reporting the crimes: fear that
their immigration status or the status of relatives would be investigated,
distrust of the justice system and fear of retaliation from the people who
robbed or assaulted them.

Gilmore, the police chief, said he is aware that crimes against immigrants
sometimes go unreported, in Laurel and throughout the nation.

Though officials say Latinos make up less than 1 percent of Laurel's population
of 20,000, the Hispanic community is growing fast, fed by jobs in restaurants on
Route 1 and in the construction industry. The Hernandez slaying and the concerns
expressed by Latino advocates have prompted Laurel officials to pledge to focus
more attention on Hispanics.

"I definitely want to increase [immigrants'] confidence in the system," Gilmore
said. "We'll focus a lot of our outreach efforts on the Hispanic community. We
will reach out and discuss the importance of reporting crimes so we can identify
patterns and get criminals off the street."

The chief said his officers are not concerned with the immigration status of
victims or witnesses and would not initiate contact with federal immigration
authorities. But he said he could not guarantee that immigration authorities
wouldn't make inquiries about victims or witnesses if they were tipped off by
other sources.

Of the 51 sworn officers on the Laurel police force, one, a Latino, speaks
Spanish, Gilmore said. That officer, along with civilian translators, will
spearhead the outreach effort, the chief said.

The Hernandez slaying also has drawn attention to concerns that some Latino
immigrants have expressed that some African Americans are singling out Latinos
for assaults. The seven teenagers charged in the killing are African American.
Gilmore reaffirmed to Latino advocates and to reporters that investigators think
the sole motive for the Sept. 4 attack was robbery and that there was no
evidence it was a hate crime.

The Latino advocates who spoke with Gilmore, Mayor Frank Casula and other police
and city officials for about 45 minutes said they were pleased with the meeting
and with the police investigation.

"This is a good beginning," said Henry R. Quintero, director of the Latino Civil
Rights Task Force of Maryland. "We will be watching [the case] very closely."

Casula said the city will hold a fund-raiser for Hernandez's family. Hernandez,
a dishwasher at the Four Seasons restaurant on Route 1, had a wife and four
daughters in El Salvador and sent a good chunk of his earnings to them. He died
four days after he was assaulted.

The purported ringleader of the group that allegedly attacked Hernandez, Cochise
Iruan "Cody" Queen, 17, of the 7600 block of Erica Lane, is being held without
bond. So is Kelly Day Martin, 18, of the 7600 block of North Arbory Way.

The other suspects are: Gerald Douglas Culbreath, 15, of the 15000 block of
Fourth Street; Shareef Anwar Sinkler, 17, of the 15000 block of Fourth Street;
Anthony Steven Barclay, 16, of the 15000 block of Kalmia Drive; Wayne Darby, 16,
of the 11600 block of South Laurel Drive; and David Eugene Burley Jr., 19, of
the 15100 block of Kalmia Drive.

Each is charged as an adult with first-degree murder, armed robbery and first-
and second-degree assault.

Lt. William Fairall, chief of Laurel's detective squad, said yesterday that
Hernandez still had his wallet when emergency rescue workers arrived and that
the would-be robbers may not have gotten anything from him.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              119 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 15, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

Few Immigrants in Laurel Attend Outreach Meeting; Police Sought to Calm Fears
After Slaying

Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 476 words


Laurel police were ready to reach out Tuesday night to Latino immigrants upset
about a recent killing: Crime prevention literature was spread out on a table,
and several civilian activists stood by, prepared to translate the presentations
of English-speaking officers.

All they needed were some Latino immigrants.

Most of the 25 people who showed up for the meeting at the Laurel Community
Center were Latino activists, many of them from the District and Montgomery
County. But only about five Laurel residents showed up.

And none fit the demographic that Police Chief Roy Gilmore had said he wanted to
reach: Spanish-speaking immigrants, many of whom do not report crimes committed
against them because they distrust the police and the criminal justice system,
are worried about their immigration status and fear retaliation.

The sparse turnout illustrated the difficulty in reaching Laurel's Latino
immigrants, many of whom speak little English and work at night or care for
their children after working day shifts.

Laurel police, with the help of a bilingual resident, produced fliers in Spanish
to publicize Tuesday's meeting, and placed them in the mailboxes and on the
doors of Latinos in apartment complexes. Police also sent a news release about
the meeting to Spanish-language newspapers.

"If there's a disappointment I have tonight, it's not reaching the people I
wanted to reach," Gilmore said at the conclusion of the two-hour meeting.

Gilmore decided to convene the gathering after the slaying last month of
Gilberto Hernandez, 40, a Salvadoran dishwasher who was knocked to the ground
and kicked repeatedly in the head. Hernandez lapsed into a coma and died Sept.
8, four days after the attack.

Police say robbery was the motive, though Hernandez's wallet was still in his
pocket when rescue workers arrived.

Seven African American teenagers, all of whom have attended Laurel High School,
have been arrested and charged with first-degree murder in the case.

Late last month, Gilmore and Laurel Mayor Frank P. Casula met with several
Latino activists who were concerned that the attack was a hate crime. Afterward,
Gilmore pledged to increase and improve his agency's outreach to the Latino
community.

Officials estimate that only several hundred of Laurel's 20,000 residents are
Latino, but the number is growing rapidly, with many moving into Laurel to work
in restaurants and motels along Route 1. Hernandez and two of his brothers were
returning from their jobs at a Route 1 restaurant when they were attacked. The
brothers escaped unharmed.

Police officials pledged to continue reaching out to Latinos, perhaps by holding
such meetings in the daytime, before restaurant workers report to their jobs.

"We know it's gonna be tough, but we'll do it," said Lt. Margo Wenko, chief of
patrol operations.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              120 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 01, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

OBITUARIES

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B08; OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 1924 words



Judith Smith Poulin

Immigration Programs Advocate


Judith Smith Poulin, 55, sponsorship director for the refugee resettlement
program of the Virginia Council of Churches, died of cancer Oct. 28 at her home
in Arlington.

Mrs. Poulin was born in Penn Yan, N.Y. The daughter of a U.S. Agency for
International Development agricultural officer, she spent part of her youth in
Vietnam and Turkey.

She attended the Munich campus of the University of Maryland, then later
attended and graduated from the main campus in College Park. She taught English
in the Philippines and lived in Vietnam, Czechoslovakia and Switzerland with her
then-husband, Martin Poulin, a Central Intelligence Agency case officer.

She was an instructor in English as a second language for Fairfax County from
1985 until the early 1990s. She then did the same type of work for Catholic
Charities before joining the Virginia Council of Churches five months ago.

She was a member of Mt. Olivet United Methodist Church in Arlington and sang in
its choir.

Survivors include three children, Jennifer Poulin James of Gloucester, Va.,
Nicole Lea Poulin of Norfolk, and Simeon M. Poulin of Richmond; her mother,
Gladys K. Smith of Genoa, N.Y.; a sister; a brother; and a grandson.


Francisco Pires Campos

Barbershop Owner


Francisco Pires Campos, 70, who ran the Harrington Hotel Barbershop at 11th and
E streets NW for 15 years until it closed in January, died of cancer Sept. 30 at
a hospital in Charleston, S.C. The former Washington resident had lived in
Charleston since his retirement.

Mr. Campos was a native of Brazil who came to the United States in 1957. After
settling in the Washington area, he attended the Hyattsville School of Barbering
and worked for barbershops in Washington.

His marriage to Josefa S. Campos ended in divorce.

Survivors include three children, Francisco P. Campos Jr. and Norma J. Campos,
both of Washington, and Brenda C. Kearney of Charleston; his mother, Dulce P.
Backer of Charleston; a sister, Teresinha Gouveia of Takoma Park; and three
grandchildren.


James Edward Toomey

Lawyer


James Edward Toomey, 82, a retired patent lawyer who was a native Washingtonian,
died of aspiration pneumonia Oct. 29 at a hospital in Oakland, Calif., where he
lived since 1959.

Mr. Toomey graduated from St. John's High School, Catholic University and
Georgetown University Law School. He joined the Washington office of Henry J.
Kaiser Co. in 1941 but spent the first few years of his career in the company's
operations in California. In Oakland, he worked for various Kaiser affiliates
and subsidiaries, retiring in 1977 as chief patent counsel for Kaiser Aluminum
and Chemicals. He had his own practice until 1993.

He was a former officer of what is now the Intellectual Property Section of the
American Bar Association and a member of the U.S. Trademark Association.

His wife of 50 years, Margaret Batchelder Toomey, died in 1992.

Survivors include a son, James Toomey Jr., of Oakland; seven daughters, Mary
Elizabeth Toomey, Mary Catherine Dunn, Therese Toomey and Rose Mary Toomey, all
of Oakland, Claire Durkin of Chicago, Maura Toomey of San Mateo, Calif., and
Ellen Toomey of Albany, Calif.; two brothers, T. Murray Toomey of Kenwood and
Robert Toomey of Norfolk and Ocean View, Del.; and 10 grandchildren.


Howard J. Blesso

Army Master Sergeant


Howard J. Blesso, 71, a retired Army master sergeant who was a veteran of the
Korean and Vietnam wars, died of cancer Oct. 28 at National Naval Medical Center
in Bethesda.

Mr. Blesso, who lived in Alexandria, entered the Army in 1946 and spent his
early years assigned to field artillery units. He served in Korea during the
Korean War and had two tours of duty in Vietnam during the war there. At the end
of his 27-year career, he served as an executive chef.

His military honors included two Bronze Stars.

He was an avid golfer who managed the golf course at Fort Belvoir for three
years after his military retirement in 1973. He was a member of the Washington
Golf Association and helped organize tournaments and golf clinics for the
Washington Metro Junior Golf Association.

Survivors include his wife, Okhi Blesso of Alexandria; six children, Kim Rinaldo
of Pickerington, Ohio, Richard Blesso of Bowie, Rocky Blesso and Kathy Blesso,
both of Alexandria, and Debra Chiota and Joan Blesso, both of Orlando; two
sisters; and eight grandchildren.


Alfred W. House Jr.

Electronics Engineer


Alfred W. House Jr., 63, a former Air Force staff sergeant who had a long career
with Allied Signal Corp. as an electronics engineer, died of brain cancer Oct.
29 at Doctors Hospital in Lanham.

The Brentwood resident retired in July after 36 years with Allied Signal. During
that time, he was on contract to the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, and he was assigned for a time to Goddard Space Flight Center.
He also worked on the Gemini and Apollo missions.

Mr. House was born in Chelmsford, Mass., and raised in nearby Concord. He
attended Boston College and the University of Nebraska and served 12 years in
the Air Force before his discharge in 1962.

He was a veteran of the Korean War and past president of the Bladensburg Boys
Club and the Northwestern High School Football Boosters Club.

Survivors include his wife, Barbara House of Brentwood; two children, Kenneth
House of Davidsonville and Cheryl Gardner of Hagerstown; a brother; three
sisters; and three grandchildren.


Alice Dooley

Fan Club Founder


Alice Dooley, 85, a former Washington area bookkeeper who founded a fan club for
a 1920s silent movie star, died of congestive heart failure Oct. 23 at a
hospital in Philadelphia.

Ms. Dooley, who was born in Atlanta, lived in Washington from 1936 to 1962.
During that time, she was active in the American Civil Liberties Union and
worked as a bookkeeper for real estate firms.

She moved to Philadelphia in the early 1960s. In 1986, she founded the John
Gilbert Society, a fan club to honor Gilbert, an actor whose credits included
"The Big Parade" in 1925.

Her marriage to Ted Dooley ended in divorce.

She leaves no immediate survivors.


Maurice George Ison

Air Force Colonel


Maurice George Ison, 64, a retired colonel who had a 25-year career with the Air
Force, first as a commissioned officer and then as a civilian employee, died of
cancer Oct. 20 at his home in Alexandria.

A native of Leicester, England, he immigrated to this country in the early 1950s
and shortly thereafter enlisted in the Air Force. Rising from the enlisted ranks
to master sergeant, he received a commission as a captain, then left the Air
Force in 1958 to work as a civilian military technician for the Wisconsin Air
National Guard.

Returning to active duty in the Air Force in 1976, he had a series of
senior-level positions while assigned to the National Guard Bureau, the Pentagon
and Andrews Air Force Base. His last assignment before his military retirement
in 1976 was senior air national guard representative to the assistant secretary
of defense for reserve affairs.

He reentered the civil service in 1989, working six years for the Air Force
until his retirement in 1995 as special assistant to the assistant secretary of
the Air Force.

Survivors include his wife, Maureen G. Ison of Alexandria; four children, Scott
Ison, Justin Ison, Dawn Cornelius and Andrea Tern'e, all of Alexandria; two
brothers; and three sisters.


Irene Haggerty

Club Member


Irene Haggerty, 93, a former member of the Takoma Park Horticulture Club, died
Oct. 19 at a hospital in Naples, Fla., after fracturing a hip. She moved to
Naples from Rockville in January.

Mrs. Haggerty was born in Hurricane Mills, Tenn. She moved to the Washington
area in 1926. She was a stenographer for 10 years at the Bureau of Aeronautics,
a predecessor of the Federal Aviation Administration.

Her husband, Fred Haggerty, died in 1997.

Survivors include four children, Herman F. Haggerty of St. Charles, Ill., Gerald
E. Haggerty of Windham, Maine, Dorothy L. McGrath of Blue Hill, Maine, and Mary
A. Eddis of Naples; a sister; 12 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.


Bruce Birnbaum

Project Manager


Bruce Birnbaum, 53, an Energy Department project manager who worked on problems
of storing and dismantling nuclear weapons, died of cardiac arrest Oct. 20 at
his home in Herndon. He had retired Sept. 30 from DOE's office of defense
programs.

Mr. Birnbaum began at the department's office of fossil energy in 1979 and was
involved in fuel cell research and development for three years. He was a private
consultant for a year and then joined the department's office of project and
facilities management. He later was responsible for a plutonium recovery project
at Rocky Flats, Colo., and for an engineering redesign there.

Mr. Birnbaum was born in Philadelphia and raised in Northern Virginia. He was a
graduate of Annandale High School and the University of Virginia. He received a
master's degree in business administration from Central Michigan University.

Early in his career, Mr. Birnbaum was an engineer with American Cyanamid
Chemical and worked on pollution-control shipboard waste treatment systems for
the Navy.

He was chairman of the building expansion committee of the Unitarian
Universalist Congregation of Fairfax.

Survivors include his wife of 33 years, Kathryn E. Birnbaum of Herndon; three
daughters: Teresa J. Fudala of Chantilly, Rebecca A. Birnbaum of Charlottesville
and Robin L. Birnbaum of Adelphi; a brother, Richard S. Birnbaum of Richboro,
Pa.; and two grandchildren.


Penny Sue Ottman

Secretary


Penny Sue Ottman, 54, a retired Washington area secretary who lived in this area
from the mid-1950s until moving to Oregon in 1994, died of brain cancer Oct. 28
at her home in Baker City, Ore.

She worked for Bell Helicopters from 1983 to 1991. Before that, she was a
secretary with the Institute for Defense Analyses.

Mrs. Ottman, who was born in Colorado, was a former Arlington resident. She was
a member of the Sweet Adelines Vienna-Falls Choir when it won an international
singing competition in 1988.

Her first marriage, to Jerry Broadhurst, ended in divorce, as did her second
marriage, to Walter Fuller.

Survivors include her husband of 23 years, Richard Ottman; a son by her first
marriage, Timothy Broadhurst of Florida; a son by her second marriage, Tom
Fuller of New York; two stepdaughters, Katie Jay of Falls Church and Sarah
Meiburg of Chantilly; her stepmother, Tommie Capshaw of Olney; a brother, Don
Capshaw of Henderson, Nev.; and four grandchildren.


Henrietta Weiss Disenhaus

Congregation Member


Henrietta Weiss Disenhaus, 85, a past member of Arlington-Fairfax Jewish
Congregation in Arlington and past president of the Benjamin Cardozo chapter of
the B'nai B'rith Women, died of cancer Oct. 22 at the Woodbridge Nursing Home in
Barre, Vt.

Mrs. Disenhaus, who was born in Philadelphia, worked as a secretary there before
moving to Washington in 1939. She worked as a secretary for the War Department
during World War II. After her marriage, she was a homemaker.

She lived in Northern Virginia for 44 years before moving to Boynton Beach,
Fla., in 1991 and then to Barre in 1997.

Her husband, Nathan Disenhaus, died in 1997. Survivors include two daughters,
Helen Disenhaus of Washington and Nancy Disenhaus of East Montpelier, Vt.; two
brothers; two sisters; and three grandsons.


LOAD-DATE: November 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              121 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 01, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Asylum-Seeker Escapes From Hospital, Flees U.S.

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 890 words



An Algerian asylum-seeker whose case was championed by human rights advocates
has escaped from a mental hospital in Miami and fled the country.

The flight of Yahia Meddah, 27, who had been detained by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for more than two years, has created a dilemma for the
U.S. government, which accused him of involvement in terrorism and wanted to
deport him. Now that he has left on his own, the government is trying to decide
if it wants him back to file criminal charges against him.

After climbing over an eight-foot fence in a recreation area of the Windmoor
psychiatric hospital on Oct. 2, Meddah made his way to Canada, according to
sources familiar with the case. He had been fighting a deportation order since
his asylum request was denied last year by an immigration judge, who based his
decision in part on secret evidence that he said shows Meddah's "connection with
international terrorism." Meddah's escape effectively scuttles his appeal of
that decision.

While getting Meddah out of the country was precisely what the U.S. government
wanted, his presence in neighboring Canada has raised alarms. U.S. authorities
worry that, if he is allowed to stay there, he could easily sneak back into the
United States. The Canadian government declined to comment on the case.

Officials at the mental hospital said they did not know that Meddah was
suspected of being involved in terrorist activities until FBI agents arrived to
investigate his escape. Law enforcement agencies across the country were
immediately alerted to be on the lookout for the lanky Algerian.

In a telephone interview from the Miami mental hospital last month, Meddah
strongly denied any involvement with terrorism and challenged the government to
charge him if it had any evidence. He asked why, if the United States really
believed he was a terrorist, it was trying to deport him, when U.S. authorities
have gone to great lengths to bring other accused terrorists to this country for
trial.

Meddah's case was featured prominently in a report issued last month by Human
Rights Watch on immigration detainees in U.S. jails. The report criticized the
INS for sending immigration-law violators, especially those seeking political
asylum, to county and local jails, where it said many are mixed with common
criminals and physically mistreated by guards. It said asylum-seekers generally
should not be detained at all.

The INS said it has to use local jails because immigration law requires
detention in many cases and its own facilities can accommodate only about a
third of the agency's 16,000 detainees.

Meddah was held in four local jails, one INS facility and three mental hospitals
in the two years after his August 1996 arrest in West Virginia, where he had
settled after entering the country on a false French passport 10 months earlier.
After his arrest, he claimed political asylum on grounds that he faced
persecution from Algerian opposition forces, who he said had kidnapped his
father and sister and killed many of his relatives.

In detention, Meddah twice committed what Human Rights Watch described as
suicide attempts. After cutting himself on the chest with a razor in
Pennsylvania's Berks County Prison, he was confined naked in an old part of the
jail known as "the hole." The Human Rights Watch report quoted him as
complaining that a guard "refused to give me a mattress, and I was forced to
sleep on the floor."

Jay Carter, a prison psychologist at Berks who was sympathetic to Meddah, said
inmates who attempt to hurt themselves are stripped of their clothing initially
and denied mattresses during the day to prevent them from tearing the material
into strips and hanging themselves. He said the inmates are given mattresses at
night for use on their stainless steel bunks, along with "suicide blankets" that
cannot be torn apart.

Meddah's main problem at Berks was an antagonistic nurse, known around the jail
as "Nurse Ratched" after the character in the film "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's
Nest," Carter said.

"I wouldn't say the prison mistreated him," he said. "The biggest thing with him
was this nurse. She just made him crazy."

The Human Rights Watch report said Meddah's mental health deteriorated after his
asylum claim was denied. In late March, he drank bleach and was hospitalized.
After his lawyers and Human Rights Watch intervened on his behalf, the INS sent
him to Miami's private Windmoor mental hospital, the report said. But it
complained that "the INS still refuses to respond appropriately to the ample
evidence of the destructive effect detention has had on Meddah."

Although several psychologists diagnosed Meddah as suffering from mental trauma,
at least one concluded that he was trying to "manipulate" his conditions of
detention, the INS said.

"We believed from the very beginning that his purpose for being in the United
States had absolutely nothing to do with seeking asylum," an INS official said.
His escape and the circumstances surrounding it show "that he was not a
legitimate asylum seeker."

Allyson Collins, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch, said Meddah's escape
"doesn't mean the underlying asylum claim was invalid." She said his flight
could be attributable to other factors, including poor treatment in detention.



LOAD-DATE: November 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              122 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 05, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

THE DISTRICT IN BRIEF

SECTION: WEEKLY - DC; Pg. J02; THE DISTRICT IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 561 words


Naturalization Workshop Scheduled

A naturalization workshop for immigrants will be held Saturday at the Gavan
Center, Sacred Heart Church, 16th Street and Park Road NW. Appointments will be
at 9 a.m., 10:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.

The workshop, which costs $ 35, includes help with filling out forms, having
photos taken and collecting applications to be mailed to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Lawyers and INS officials also will be present to answer
naturalization questions.

The workshop is sponsored by the Spanish Catholic Center, Latino Civil Rights
Center, Central American Resource Center and Latin American Youth Center.
Several more workshops will be held in December. The organizations are
encouraging as many eligible permanent residents as possible to complete the
naturalization process before January, when the $ 95 INS application fee will
jump to $ 225.

Those interested in participating should call Marisa Ferri at the Spanish
Catholic Center for preregistration information at 202-939-2404.

Washington Avenue to Be Repaired

The city Department of Public Works will get a $ 1.8 million federal grant to
repair a section of Washington Avenue in Southeast.

Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) said the road will be repaired from South
Capitol Street to Independence Avenue.

The grant from the Federal Highway Administration is in addition to earlier road
repair funds totaling more than $ 1.3 billion.

Howard U. Starts Work on Library

The Howard University School of Law held a groundbreaking ceremony last
Wednesday for a $ 17 million, state-of-the-art library supporting legal research
and instruction at the university's west campus, 2900 Van Ness St. NW.

The four-story, 76,000-square-foot facility will provide space for a book
collection of up to 215,000 volumes and seating for more than 295 students
including 90 open carrels. It also will include enlarged microfilm, microfiche
and audiovisual facilities and a room for special collections, newspaper and
periodical reading and the rare book collection.

Walking Tour Set in Georgetown

A walking tour of modern Georgetown, called "Georgetown Under the Whitehurst,"
will be held Saturday at 10 a.m. The hour-long tour includes residential and
commercial structures in the area from M Street NW to the Potomac River,
starting in front of Dean and Deluca, at 3276 M St. NW, and ending at Canal
Square, 1054 31st St. NW.

The tour, which costs $ 10, is sponsored and led by the Washington Chapter of
the American Institute of Architects. For more information and reservations,
call 202-667-1798.

Eastern High's Greenhouse Wins Award

The Eastern High School Demonstration Greenhouse was selected as one of the top
25 community gardens in the country by the American Community Gardening
Association in conjunction with the John Deere Kids line of preschool toys and
the Ertl Co., a toy and collectibles manufacturer.

The "John Deere Kids Seeds of Hope" award recognized the garden, which is
maintained by 15 students. They plan, tend and market produce from the organic
garden. They sell some of the produce and donate the rest to Food and Friends,
which provides for homebound people with AIDS. The students received new
gardening tools and the opportunity to present a collection of gardening toys to
the child-care center of their choice.

LOAD-DATE: November 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              123 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 09, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

A White Migration North From Miami

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3415 words

DATELINE: WESTON, Fla.


Fifth in a series of occasional articles


Everything here is nice and neat, just the way Joanne Smith likes it. The
developers call their new city on the edge of the Everglades "Our Home Town,"
and Smith agrees. "It's more like America," she says.

Like thousands of others, Smith moved to this planned community 40 miles north
of Miami just a few years ago, searching for a safe and secure neighborhood like
this one, where both modest homes and rambling mansions sit against the
manicured landscape of palm and hibiscus, and gated streets called Wagon Way and
Windmill Ranch gently curve around the shallow lagoons and golf links.

Weston is a boomtown filling with refugees. But the migrants pouring into this
part of Broward County are rarely those from the Caribbean, Central and South
America -- the immigrants to the south who have transformed Miami and
surrounding Dade County into a metropolis proudly called by its business and
political leaders "The Gateway to Latin America."

Instead, the refugees here are mostly native-born and white, young and old, and
they have been streaming up from Miami for years now, creating a new version of
the traditional "white flight" in reaction not to black inner cities, but to
immigration.

While Miami is unique in many respects, because of both geography and politics,
the out-migration of whites is occurring in other high-immigration cities.  New
York and Los Angeles, for example, each lost a million U.S.-born residents in
the last decade, as they gained a million immigrants.

According to an analysis of the most recent census data, for almost every
immigrant who came to Miami-Dade County in recent years, a white non-Hispanic
left.

"I loved Miami, but it's a mad scene down there now," said Smith, who is
semi-retired and asked that her occupation not be given. Before her move to
Weston, Smith lived in Miami for two decades, "in a nice neighborhood gone bad.
People say things, 'Oh that's change and that's progress,' but I like it clean
and green -- and everybody speaking English," Smith says.

In discussions about the historic demographic transformations occurring in the
United States, which is absorbing almost 1 million immigrants a year, most of
the attention focuses quite naturally on the newcomers: Who are they and where
are they from and how do they make their way in America?

But immigration is a two-way street -- and the welcome the immigrants receive
from the native-born is crucial for the continued idea of America as a fabled
"melting pot." Of course, there are many whites -- and blacks, too -- who have
remained in Miami-Dade County, to either continue their lives as before or
accept, even embrace the Latin tempo of Miami, who have learned how to pronounce
masas de puerco at lunchtime and to fake a respectable merengue dance step, who
enjoy the culture, the business opportunities and caffeinated hustle of a
metropolis dominated by immigrants. No one could call Miami dull.

But it is almost as if there are two kinds of native whites -- those who can
deal with multiculturalism that has transformed Miami over the past several
decades and those who choose not to. Either way, if the country is to
successfully transform itself into a completely multicultural industrialized
nation, what these internal migrants say -- and there are millions of them
around the country -- needs to be heard and understood.

Those transplants interviewed by The Washington Post, including those who asked
that their names not be used, take pains to explain that, for the most part, the
people like them who are moving out of Miami-Dade to Broward are not
anti-immigrant xenophobes.

In several dozen interviews with a cross-section of these "domestic migrants," a
picture emerges of a segment of the non-Hispanic white population in Miami-Dade
County that feels marginalized, exasperated and sometimes bitter, and who move
from Dade to Broward with a mix of emotions.

Migrants to Broward give many reasons for the move north: Their money buys a
bigger, newer house in Broward; they are tired of the traffic and congestion;
they worry about crime; they complain about the overcrowded schools; those with
young families often say they are looking for a place where their children can
play ball in the front yard and ride their bikes down the block.

But all these things, the good and bad, can also be found in booming Broward
County. Sooner or later, many of the refugees moving north mention immigration
and the sense that they are no longer, as many transplants describe it,
"comfortable."

Phil Phillips was born and raised near what is today downtown Miami, where his
father worked for the Immigration and Naturalization Service during the postwar
years, at a time when the immigrants to Florida were mostly from Europe.
Phillips served in the Navy, taught vocational classes at Miami High School, and
made a living running a small air conditioning and refrigeration business.

Until the rise of Fidel Castro in Cuba, Phillips described the Miami of
yesteryear as a more sleepy, more southern town. It had its glitz in the
fanciful playground of Jackie Gleason's city of Miami Beach, but the county was
still filled with open land and farms.

"Miami was a very happy place," Phillips remembers with nostalgia. "We had our
demarcations, don't get me wrong. But we didn't have the animosity." When
pressed, Phillips does remember that the beaches, restaurants and nightclubs
were often segregated, not only for African Americans. Jews had their own
country clubs.

The Miami of black-and-white all began to change with the arrival of the Cubans
in the early 1960s. "The vast majority of the Cubans came here and worked two
and three jobs," said Phillips, who is retired and living in Weston. A man who
worked with his hands all his life, Phillips respects that. "I saw them do it.
And in time, they took over, and some people resent that. But that's the way it
is."

"There's this myth out there that a Cuban will screw an American in a deal,"
Phillips says. "I don't think that is so, but that's the feeling the whites
have, and it's because the two sides don't communicate, sometimes they can't
communicate, and so they don't understand the other guy."

Phillips has seen decades of change, as the demographics of his home town kept
skewing toward Hispanics, in fits and starts. After the first big influx of
Cubans in the 1960s, there was Cuba's Mariel boatlift in 1980. Then all through
the proxy wars and upheavals in Central America and the Caribbean through the
1980s and 1990s, refugees from Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador and Haiti kept
coming to Miami.

"We're great in America at blaming somebody else for our problems," Phillips
said. "But I will tell that for a lot of the people who leave Miami, they might
not tell you, but they're leaving because of the ethnics."

Phillips offered his opinions as he sat sipping soup at the counter of a new
restaurant here in Weston opened by Tim Robbie, whose family owned the Miami
Dolphins for years, before they sold out to Wayne Huizenga, who is "The Man" in
Broward County, as much as Jorge Mas Canosa, the power behind the Cuban American
National Foundation, was "The Man" in Miami before his death last year.

Robbie was raised in Miami. His family, lead by his father Joe, was a civic
institution. But Robbie himself recently moved to Weston, too.

"I know a lot of our friends down in Miami were disappointed with us," Robbie
said. "They asked: How can you do this to us?"

Robbie agreed that something akin to "the tipping point" phenomenon might be at
work, whereby one or two families in a social or business network can leave a
community and nothing much changes. But at some point, if enough people leave,
the balance suddenly tips, and large groups start selling their homes, and over
a period of several years, they create mass demographic shifts.

Robbie himself said he was comfortable down south in Miami, but concedes that
many are not. "Anglos are accustomed to being in the majority, and down in Dade,
they're not. And that puts some people outside of their comfort zone. People
tend to like to stick together."

Robbie's business partner is Bob Green, who also moved from Miami to Broward. A
longtime denizen of funky and fun Coconut Grove, Green describes himself as one
of those who never would have thought about moving north to Broward.

But then he saw the new business opportunities, and also found himself liking a
place like Weston. "It has this midwestern feeling," Green said. "More downhome
and friendly."

This mass internal migration is the latest version of a classic "push-pull"
model of residential segregation, whereby many whites in Miami feel lured north
by the offerings of a development like Weston, but also feel pushed out of Miami
-- not only by their fatigue with crime or congestion, but the cultural and
demographic upheavals caused by three decades of immigration.

Peter Schott is a tourism official who is changing jobs and, reluctantly, moving
with his wife, who works for a cruise ship line, to Broward. The couple, both in
their thirties and expecting their first child, are looking for a bigger home.
Schott says he will miss the exotic, foreign feel of Miami. Miami, Schott says,
is a media noche, the name for a Cuban sandwich, while Broward he fears is
"white bread and baloney." While he will miss Miami, Schott knows that many of
those moving north to Broward may not.

"Some people are real frank," he said. "They say they want to be with more
people more like us. If they're white Americans, they want white Americans
around them."

For non-Hispanic, non-Spanish-speaking whites to survive in Miami, there is no
choice but to move, or to adapt. "It is our city now," many Cuban Americans say,
and the numbers tell part of the story.

In the 1990s, some 95,000 white non-Hispanics left Miami-Dade County, decreasing
that group's presence by 16 percent, to around 492,000, or about one-fifth of
the county population.

They either moved away or, in the case of elderly residents, particularly in the
Jewish community, died. (The Jewish population in Miami-Dade County has
decreased from about 250,000 to 100,000 in the last two decades. The new
destination for Jewish retirees and younger migrants is Broward and Palm Beach
counties).

As whites left Miami, they poured into Broward. Between 1990 and 1997, the white
non-Hispanic population here increased by about 82,000, or 8 percent, to more
than a million residents.

These dramatic numbers follow an equally large out-migration of whites during
the 1980s. So many non-Hispanic whites left Miami-Dade in the previous decade
that Marvin Dunn, a sociologist at Florida International University, who has
followed the trend, said in 1991, "You get down to the point below which those
who are going to leave have left and the others are committed to stay. I think
we're close to that with whites."

But Dunn was wrong. The whites keep leaving.

"White migration to Miami-Dade has essentially stopped," said William Frey, a
demographer at the University of Michigan, who coined the phrase "demographic
balkanization" to describe the ongoing trend of ethnic and racial groups to
self-segregate -- not only within a city, but from city to city, and from state
to state.

"The two appear almost like mirror images of each other," Frey said of Broward
and Miami-Dade counties. "There is definitely something going on here and we can
only guess what it is. But this 'One America' that Clinton talks about is
clearly not in the numbers. Segregation and non-assimilation continue."

Many times, native whites on the move explain that Miami now feels to them like
"a foreign country," that they feel "overwhelmed" by the presence not just of
some Spanish-speakers, but so many.

"You order a Coke without ice," said an executive and mother of three who moved
to Broward from Miami in 1996 and asked that her name not be used. "And you get
ice. You say no starch and you get starch. You call government offices, and they
can't take a decent message in English. You spell your name letter by letter and
they get it wrong. They keep saying 'Que? Que? Que?' (Spanish for "What?') You
go to the mall, and you watch as the clerks wait on the Spanish speakers before
you. It's like reverse racism. You realize, my God, this is what it is like to
be the minority."

"The white population feels increasingly beleaguered," said George Wilson, a
sociologist at the University of Miami who is studying the phenomenon.

"Their whole domain is changing at the micro-level," Wilson continued. "At the
malls, in the schools. A lot of the whites I talk to say they feel challenged by
the rapid ethnic and cultural change. A whole population of whites has gone from
a clear majority to a clear minority in a very short time . . . and a lot of
them simply say, 'To hell with this,' and move up the road."

This feeling of being the beleaguered minority is creating among some a new
consciousness of "white ethnicity," and for those who see America's future as a
relatively harmonious multicultural state based on shared ideas of capitalism
and freedom, this may not bode well.

For if whites do not want to share power and place, or if they feel increasingly
shoved aside or overwhelmed in the cities and states with high immigration, they
will continue to vote with their feet, by moving away, creating not a rainbow of
citizens, but a more balkanized nation, with jobs, university enrollments,
public spending, schools all seen through ethnic or racial prisms, including
among whites.

Several of those interviewed complain that the politics of Miami-Dade are
dominated by the issues of the newcomers, particularly the Cuban Americans, who
wait for the fall of Fidel Castro; they see in the city hall, where a number of
officials were recently indicted and convicted of taking kickbacks after it was
discovered that the city was broke, a "banana republic" of ethnic cronyism; they
dislike being referred to in Spanish media as "the Americans" by Miami's
Hispanic residents and politicians, as if they were the foreigners.

And many balk at the dominance of Spanish -- on television, in official news
conferences, on the radio, in schools and meetings and in their day-to-day
lives. The movement of so many whites from Miami-Dade to Broward is viewed by
many Hispanics as understandable, even natural, though hardly something to be
encouraged.

"We had a tremendous exodus of Anglos, especially Anglos who did not feel
comfortable with the new demographics of Miami, who were intimidated by the
Spanish language and the influx of different people," said Eduardo Padron, a
Cuban American and president of the Miami Dade Community College. "It is a
natural trend for them to move out. Many of them kept working in Miami, but they
found refuge in Broward."

Padron believes the rapidity of demographic changes, and the creation of a
Hispanic majority, was "intimidating" for many whites, particularly those who
did not speak any Spanish.

Some whites interviewed say they know they may seem like "whiners," as one woman
put it, but they feel they are not being met halfway by the newcomers, and this
is an especially acute feeling in Miami, where Cuban Americans and other
immigrants from Latin America now dominate the political landscape, serving as
city and county mayors and council members. Both of Miami's representatives to
Congress are Cuban Americans.

Recent elections reveal that voters in Miami-Dade select candidates along stark
racial and ethnic lines in classic bloc voting. The 1995 county mayor's race,
pitting Cuban American Alex Penelas against African American Arthur Teele, Jr.,
turned almost entirely on demographic lines, with exit polls showing that the
overwhelming majority of Cuban Americans voted for Penelas, as most blacks voted
for Teele. What did whites do? A lot of them did not vote at all.

Over the years, there has been sporadic, organized resistance by whites in Miami
to hold back the changes. One group, calling itself Citizens of Dade United, was
successful in passing a referendum in 1980 that declared English the "official
language" of county government. But it was overturned in 1993. Enos Schera, who
is a co-founder of the group and who is now 71, is still filled with vinegar,
and says he refuses to move from Miami -- though he says he and his group have
received death threats.

"I'm staying to fight this crazy thing," Schera said. "I'm not a bad guy, but I
don't want to be overrun. They come here and get all the advantages of being in
America and then they insult you right on top of it." He is writing a book about
the changes. "That will tell all," he promises.

But it seems as if Schera is fighting in retreat. He, and his group, have
largely been relegated to the role of stubborn whites whose time is over.

Many of the others, like Weston resident Joanne Smith, have already left.
"There's no room for us in the discussion," said Smith. "It's like we were the
oppressors."

Smith says she likes to eat at Cuban restaurants, has Hispanic neighbors in
Weston and admires the strength and striving of the newcomers. She herself is
the granddaughter of immigrants, from Europe. But Smith feels the immigrants
should try harder to understand the feelings of native Americans. "If they can
survive coming here on a raft," she says. "They can learn to speak English."

Here at Weston, almost all of the communities are closed with security gates,
requiring a visitor to punch a code or be cleared by a guard before entering the
enclaves. In addition to the gates, a private security firm patrols the
neighborhoods.

One researcher on the topic, Edward Blakely of the University of Southern
California in Los Angeles, says that gated communities like Weston's are the
fastest growing new developments around the country. Blakely deplores the trend,
claiming it creates "fortress neighborhoods," dividing citizens, creating walls
between "us" and "them."

But obviously, many home buyers like the concept, and many of the residents of
Weston say one of the things they like most about the neighborhood is its sense
of community, of safety and the ability of their children to ride their bicycles
on the streets.

Yet the gates cannot keep demographic change at bay. Though two of every three
residents in Weston is white, most of them in their thirties, about one in four
are Hispanic. But these are the most assimilated, often second-generation,
solidly middle-class Cuban Americans who come north for the same new schools and
golf courses as the white migrants, allowing almost everyone to continue to live
within their comfort zone.

But not all. As one three-year resident, who declined to give her name,
observed, "I keep hearing more and more Spanish in the grocery store. I don't
know if they live here or are just working here. But I started to see some
Spanish magazines for sale. Maybe I didn't move far enough north."


Special correspondent Catharine Skipp contributed to this report from Miami.


White Flight

As Hispanics immigrate to Dade County, non-Hispanic whites are leaving for
neighboring Broward.

1997 population, estimated

Broward County

Hispanics 151,454

Non-Hispanic whites 1,023,614

Dade County

Hispanics 1,082,989

Non-Hispanic whites 492,397

Population change, 1990-97

Broward County

Hispanics 56,680

Non-Hispanic whites 80,539

Dade County

Hispanics 179,475

Non-Hispanic whites -92,130

Causes of growth, 1990-97

Broward County

Immigration 54,480

Domestic migration 127,612

Dade County

Immigration 158,035

Domestic migration -165,414

SOURCE: William H. Frey, Milken Institute and University of Michigan; U.S.
Census

THE WASHINGTON POST Tim Robbie, who owns "The Sporting Brews" in Weston, Fla.,
and whose family owned the Miami Dolphins, says friends were disappointed by his
move.  Broward County, where Weston is nicknamed "Our Home Town," has swelled
with non-Hispanic whites from Miami to more than a million people.


LOAD-DATE: November 09, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE MYTH OF THE MELTING POT: America's Racial and Ethnic Divides; Pg.
5/OCC.

GRAPHIC: PH,,ANDREW ITKOFF FOR TWP; MAP; IG,,TWP

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              124 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 14, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Seeks to Stem a Wave Of Migration After Mitch; Relief Plan Would Touch
Thousands in D.C. Area

William Branigin; Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1387 words


With four Central American countries reeling from the devastation of Hurricane
Mitch, the Clinton administration is working out the final details of a plan to
offer temporary refuge to hundreds of thousands of their citizens living in the
United States, coupled with a regional aid package designed to prevent a major
immigration crisis.

The administration plans to grant limited immigration status to citizens of the
affected nations in order to avoid further disrupting the Central American
economies by sending people back to places with extensive damage, no jobs and a
mounting threat of disease, according to senior administration officials.

The refuge policy would allow citizens of Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala and El
Salvador who are already here, both legally and illegally, to remain in this
country and work without fear of deportation. At least 30,000 people in the
Washington area would be affected by the policy, according to the estimates of
local Central American activists.

In the past, similar protection has been offered to people from strife-torn
countries in Eastern Europe and Africa, usually for a year and subject to
renewal. But as officials finalize details of the plan, they want to avoid
creating a "magnet" for illegal immigration by giving the impression that the
United States is tacitly welcoming all hurricane victims.

"It would have to be done in a way that it would not be seen as an open
invitation," said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Questions such as how long the temporary refuge would last and whether it would
apply differently to citizens of the various countries are still being resolved.
The most likely vehicle is a provision of law known as "temporary protected
status" enacted in 1990 that allows the attorney general to determine that
foreign nationals can remain in the United States because of dangers in their
home countries due to armed conflict or environmental disaster.

Already as an initial step, the administration has suspended most deportations
for people from the four countries, a measure affecting several thousand people.

Central American advocacy groups say the more extensive temporary protected
status could cover around 400,000 people, including more than 90,000 illegal
immigrants from Honduras. These groups hope the protection will be extended for
at least 18 months, giving them time to lobby Congress for a permanent amnesty.
They say it is also in the U.S. interest to let these people stay and work,
since they collectively send home millions of dollars vital to their countries'
economic recovery.

However, the very concept of temporary protected status is anathema to groups
that advocate reducing immigration. "There is nothing as permanent as a
temporary refugee," said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration
Studies.

The result of extending the status to the Central Americans will be "the
permanent immigration of large numbers of people and the creation or expansion
of immigrant networks which will foster more future immigration," Krikorian
said.

The new policy was lauded by Central American groups in the Washington area,
where large numbers of immigrants from the affected countries have immigrated
over the last two decades.

Granting temporary protection for Central Americans "makes a lot of sense,
because they have nothing to go back to," said Sonia Gutierrez, director of a
Latino charter school in the District that has been collecting relief supplies
for the afflicted countries. "It would be cruel to try to send them back. To
what? Total devastation? What would they do in their countries? It would be
cruel, and the U.S. government is not cruel." She said many of her 1,200
students, mostly Central Americans, would be covered by the policy.

Immigration lawyer Luis Salgado said that if deportations to Central America are
suspended, "there would be a great, great sense of relief to the Hispanic
population in the Washington area."

Although "there aren't that many in deportation proceedings" now, Salgado said,
"there are probably plenty more who could be in the future," and would be helped
by such a policy. He called the proposed policy "a big relief" for the affected
countries and "a big relief" for Hispanics in the Washington area.

Of the Central Americans in the metropolitan area, the vast majority are from El
Salvador, the country that has sent the most immigrants here in recent years. In
total, the four countries affected by the policy account for one in eight
immigrants who have come to the Washington area over the past decade.

Saul Solorzano, a Salvadoran who is executive director of the Central American
Resource Center (CARECEN) in the District's Mount Pleasant neighborhood, said
the proposed policy "will be a right step for thousands of people that, if
deported, will go to suffer extreme hardship."

Wilfredo Rodriguez, a Guatemalan who lives in Washington County, Md., and works
as a gardener in Frederick, said he welcomed the proposed new policy. His
application for legal residency in the United States forbids him to return to
Guatemala, and he said he has not seen his family for five years.

Rodriguez said the proposed new policy "is a very important thing for us," if it
makes it possible for him to live here without restrictions that prevent him
from helping relatives in Guatemala and bringing his children here.

Meanwhile, U.S. officials have begun watching for signs of any large-scale
movements of people across Central American borders. The scope of the
devastation -- as many as 3 million people homeless and more than $ 4 billion
worth of damage from flooding and mudslides -- has raised concerns that unless
aid to the region is massive, immediate and sustained, hundreds of thousands of
Central Americans could try to reach the United States.

So far, about 400 Guatemalans have crossed into Mexico in search of a haven from
the wreckage, Mexican officials estimate. There have been no indications of
larger movements.

While humanitarian concerns have been paramount in launching emergency relief
efforts, administration officials said that preventing a major migration crisis
is also an important consideration. Part of the goal, U.S. officials said, is to
give the Central Americans economic incentives to remain in their homelands
during what promises to be a long, difficult rebuilding process.

This approach is aimed not only at the poorest and most severely affected of
Hurricane Mitch's victims, but at better-off urban residents who might flee as
the economic wreckage spreads to the cities.

In a telephone conversation with President Clinton last week, Mexican President
Ernesto Zedillo expressed concern about a massive northward migration of Central
Americans that would put strains on Mexico as well as the United States. Central
American leaders also have warned of such an outcome.

"They'll walk, they'll swim, they'll run, but they'll go up north," Honduran
President Carlos Flores told the BBC.

"The devastation is so great that in the short term it is hard to see how people
will be able to move, but in the long term it is hard to see how there will not
be a very substantial increase in migration pressure," said B. Lindsay Lowellof
Georgetown University's Institute for the Study of International Migration.

The number of people uprooted by Mitch in Honduras and Nicaragua already far
exceeds the total displaced during the civil strife that wracked Central America
in the 1980s. "If you look back to the 1980s as a guide, you might expect an
even larger outflow," Lowell said.

"The president has made clear he wants a very comprehensive and significant
response to the hurricane," said David C. Leavy, a spokesman for the National
Security Council. A major aim of the administration is to "make sure we
coordinate long-term reconstruction" in Central America, said Maria Echeveste,
deputy White House chief of staff who is overseeing policy discussions.

So far, the United States has pledged more than $ 90 million in emergency aid
and is considering more, officials said. At least 39 military helicopters have
been sent to help in search and rescue efforts.

Staff writers D'Vera Cohn and Martin Weil contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              125 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 15, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Latinos Hope For a Reprieve; After Mitch, Immigrants Want Protected Status

Ruben Castaneda; Peter Slevin, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1011 words



At 10 o'clock this morning, Honduran immigrant Christino Castro will make a
telephone call from his Northwest Washington apartment to a Tegucigalpa number
in hopes of hearing his oldest daughter's voice, confirming that his family is
still alive.

Castro has not spoken with his wife and three children for more than three
weeks, since Hurricane Mitch tore gaping wounds in his country. Telephone lines
are out. The postal service is crippled. News is painfully scarce.

U.S. immigration rules make it risky for the 37-year-old carpenter to trek to
Honduras and return to the United States, but he hopes the Clinton
administration will grant special status to Central Americans after the
catastrophe.

As President Clinton announced a halt yesterday to deportations to Honduras,
Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala until after the Christmas holiday season,
thousands of area residents were calculating how the U.S. policy may benefit
them and their relatives in Central America.

"This is the biggest news for Latinos in the Washington area," said Arnoldo
Ramos, executive director of the Council of Latino Agencies, a group of 33
organizations. It's definitely the talk, he said, of community leaders.

No decision has yet been made to grant more significant relief to illegal
immigrants, including temporary protected status, which would include permission
to work in the United States, a senior White House official said. Nor has it
been decided whether illegal immigrants from all four countries would be treated
the same way.

"The administration is still reviewing what is the appropriate response to the
situation in those four countries," said Maria Echaveste, deputy White House
chief of staff. "Certainly temporary protected status is an option . . . but
there needs to be a very clear understanding that this is not a decision that is
made lightly.

"All the analysis we are receiving from folks on the ground," she continued,
"indicates that there is a difference in the extent and depth of damage between
the four countries."

Storm damage in Honduras and Nicaragua is far greater than the damage in
Guatemala and El Salvador. On the other hand, one administration official said,
"if you grant temporary protected status to just two countries, the other two
countries -- El Salvador and Guatemala -- will be quite incensed."

Clinton also announced yesterday that the United States is expanding its
military rescue efforts by $ 45 million in defense goods and services, bringing
the total U.S. contribution to $ 125 million.

With any amnesty plans as yet unclear and the news still fresh, Latinos
interviewed in Columbia Heights, Logan Circle and Shaw said they had not heard
that the administration is considering offering temporary reprieves.

Over lunch in a 14th Street NW carryout, Salvadoran immigrant Jose Angel, 35,
said Central America's storm-wounded nations would benefit from a decision to
grant temporary status to natives of all four countries.

"People would work and send money home," Angel said when told the news by a
reporter. "I've worked here for eight years, and I send about $ 200 a month
home."

More than 30,000 legal immigrants from the four countries live in the Washington
area, most of them Salvadorans. Thousands more live here illegally.

Worry about the trauma caused by the hurricane dominates talk among the area's
Hondurans and Nicaraguans because most have families and friends in the ravaged
areas. They trade messages and news, and search for compatriots heading home who
may be persuaded to look up otherwise unreachable relatives.

Illegal residents and many who are legal know that if they go home to check on
relatives, they may never get back into the United States.

Temporary protected status was created in 1990, allowing the attorney general to
permit foreign nationals to remain in the United States as refugees from armed
conflicts or environmental disasters at home. The temporary period can range
from six to 18 months.

Extended at times to Salvadorans, Liberians and onetime Yugoslavs, the policy
grants new privileges to undocumented immigrants. They are permitted to work.
They may apply to visit their homelands and return to the United States.

"Getting work authorization means they can get better jobs, which will allow
them to send more money home to help their countries rebuild," said Luis
Salgado, a District immigration lawyer. Without such status, immigrants risk
their chances at permanent residency by traveling abroad.

"They often have to make gut-wrenching decisions," Salgado said. "They might
have a dying relative they want to go visit, but if they do so, they would risk
the investment they've made in becoming legalized."

Walter Tejada, a Latino activist in Northern Virginia, called Clinton's
moratorium on deportations "a step in the right direction."

"But drastic situations call for drastic actions," said Tejada, Virginia state
director of the League of United Latin American Citizens. "It would be
appropriate to grant temporary protected status. It doesn't make sense to send
people back who wouldn't have much means to fend for themselves."

Critics argue that special breaks, even temporary ones, too often lead to
permanent residency for illegal immigrants who should be sent home. Dan Stein,
executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, said last
year, "If we don't enforce the temporariness of amnesties, then no one ever
leaves."

Castro, anxious for news of his family, would like to visit Honduras but is
improvising in the meantime. He asked a friend who flew to Honduras yesterday to
track down his family in the town of Alianza Valle and instruct his 14-year-old
daughter, Belez, to go to her godmother's house in the capital, where the phones
still work.

"I can't wait to hear her voice," Castro, who makes $ 300 a week, said as he
hung out with friends at 11th and M streets NW. "Everything I worked for, my
home, is probably finished. What is lost is lost. I just hope my family's okay."


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              126 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 18, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

POP NOTES

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. D07; POP NOTES

LENGTH: 332 words



Cuban-born jazz trumpeter Arturo Sandoval has been granted U.S. citizenship,
which had been denied to him because he once belonged to the Cuban Communist
Party, the Immigration & Naturalization Service announced yesterday. Sandoval,
49, who has won three Grammy Awards, will be sworn in by INS officials in Miami
next month. Sandoval defected to the United States in May 1990 while on a
concert tour with Dizzy Gillespie. He was granted permanent residence in 1990
and petitioned for citizenship in 1995, but was turned down twice. Sandoval has
always maintained that he agreed to join the Communist Party three months before
defecting from Cuba so he would not draw attention to his departure with his
wife and son . . . Oasis lead singer Liam Gallagher, arrested two weeks ago for
allegedly damaging a photographer's camera, will not be charged, London police
have said. Gallagher was arrested outside a north London pub, but the Crown
Prosecution Service had decided there was insufficient evidence for the case to
proceed. Earlier this year, the 24-year-old Gallagher was charged with assault
on a British backpacker in Australia. In January, Gallagher was quoted in GQ
magazine as saying he was ready to lead a quiet life with actress wife Patsy
Kensit and to have children . . . Canadian pop star Celine Dion is also after a
quiet life: She'll take a couple of years off after the end of next year,
according to her husband and manager. Rene Angelil has told Canadian television
that he and Dion are planning a concert in Montreal for the eve of the
millennium. After that she will call it quits for a while so she can live "a
normal life," Angelil said. Dion has said she is mulling the principal role in a
possible movie biography of famed French songstress Edith Piaf . . . The
Artist--the one formerly known as Prince--is going to have lots of reasons to
party "like it's 1999." His song "1999" is in huge demand from advertising
agencies as that year approaches.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              127 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 16, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

5 Indicted in Alleged Fake ID Factory; INS Says Adams-Morgan Operation Offered
2-Hour Service

Bill Miller, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 548 words


Working from dawn to dusk out of an apartment building in Northwest Washington,
a small group of men used their computer skills to launch a multimillion-dollar
business that manufactured and sold phony immigration documents to hundreds of
eager buyers, federal authorities said yesterday.

The operation grew so large that it attracted the attention of residents in the
Adams-Morgan area, who complained that vendors were openly seeking customers for
the illegal papers on neighborhood streets. A federal investigation followed,
leading to yesterday's indictment of five alleged ring members.

"It was sort of a McDonald's operation, almost like a drive-up window," said
Warren A. Lewis, the Washington district director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, adding that vendors would take orders on Columbia Road
and other streets and provide the fake documents within just two hours.

The business, set up in a location that has been a magnet for immigrants in the
Washington area, wasn't just quick, Lewis said. It also was slick, using
computers, color copiers and scanning devices to put out documents that looked
real.

Illegal immigrants desperate to stay here provided the vendors with snapshots of
themselves and biographical information and, for up to $ 200, received a set of
phony Social Security cards and green cards, he said.

Buyers used the cards as proof of residence when they sought employment or
federal benefits, authorities said. Agents from the INS and Secret Service
seized more than 20,000 blank and bogus green cards and Social Security cards in
a raid at the apartment building last month. Authorities estimated the street
value of the blank documents at more than $ 3.3 million.

"As far as fakes we've seen in this area, these were the highest-quality fakes
we've seen," Lewis said.

Immigration lawyers said there is a ready market for such paperwork in the
Washington area.

"There is a tremendous temptation within the community arising from the fact
that if you are not allowed to work in the United States, you cannot survive
here," said Anya Sikes, a lawyer for Ayuda, an organization based in
Adams-Morgan that helps low-income immigrants throughout the region.

INS officials issued a new green card last spring that has holograms, laser
etchings and other hard-to-reproduce images. However, millions of the older
cards remain in circulation, keeping a counterfeit market alive.

Lewis worked on the D.C. case with his sister, U.S. Attorney Wilma A. Lewis, who
predicted the prosecutions will "significantly curtail" the production and
trafficking of counterfeit documents throughout the area.

Indicted were Omar Hernandez-Garcia, 34, and Jose Antonio Guzman-Sanchez, 32,
who lived in the apartment building in the 3100 block of 16th Street NW. They
were accused of conspiracy and other charges, along with three men described as
vendors: Arturo Flores-Flores, 18, of the 3100 block of Mount Pleasant Street
NW, and Juan Jose Penaloza-Perez, 35, and Mario Martinez-Gonzalez, 32, both of
Reading, Pa.

The five men, described by the INS as Mexican nationals living here illegally,
were arrested and jailed within the last several weeks. INS official Warren A.
Lewis says the ring sold papers to illegal immigrants.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, TOM ALLEN

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              128 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 17, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13; NATION IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 453 words


Cubans Who Fled Are Near Asylum

TAMPA -- Three Cubans who have been in jail since they fled to the United States
in an airplane two years ago were a step closer to freedom yesterday after a
U.S. immigration judge ruled they should be granted political asylum.

But the three men remain in an Immigration and Naturalization Service detention
center in Bradenton, Fla., while the agency decides whether to appeal the ruling
Tuesday by Judge Richard McHugh.

Adel Regalado Ulloa, Leonardo Reyes Ramirez and Jose Roberto Bello Puente were
charged with air piracy after they flew to the United States in a small plane on
Aug. 16, 1996. The plane ran out of fuel and landed in the Gulf of Mexico, but
the men and pilot Adolpho Perez Pantoja were rescued by a passing Russian
freighter.

McHugh rejected a hijacking charge and said the men had a well-founded fear of
persecution if they were returned to Cuba.

Meter Official Allegedly Parked Coins

DARIEN, Conn. -- Chief financial officer Paul Santoro was charged with
embezzling at least $ 10,000 in quarters from parking meter receipts after state
police said they saw him turning in large amounts of change at a casino.

Santoro, 39, faces a charge of first-degree larceny, a felony punishable by up
to 20 years in prison. He was suspended with pay last week. The town
administrator said Santoro would be fired.

Addenda

CASTLE ROCK, Colo. -- An 82-year-old marathon runner jogging along a railroad
track was killed by a train, which he couldn't hear because he was deaf. Charles
McFerron of Salem, Ore., was struck Monday while he was out on his daily
training run while visiting relatives in Colorado, police said.

TAMPA -- Air conditioners given to the poor during a late-summer heat wave have
been turning up at Florida pawn shops now that the weather has eased.
Hillsborough County, which encompasses Tampa, received $ 453,244 from the
federal government to distribute air conditioners to the poor, who were not
required to sign pledges that they would not sell them.

HUNTSVILLE, Tex. -- James Meanes, 42, who killed an armored car driver in a 1981
holdup, was executed by lethal injection Tuesday at a state prison here. He was
the 20th person put to death in Texas this year and the 498th in the United
States since the Supreme Court reinstated capital punishment in 1976. His
execution was the last one scheduled this year in Texas.

MILWAUKEE -- Court clerk Vickie Hines, who worked in the trial of serial killer
Jeffrey L. Dahmer, has been denied a claim for $ 77,000 for psychological damage
she allegedly suffered listening to graphic testimony. Hines had filed a
workman's compensation claim saying she suffered "vicarious trauma."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              129 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 26, 1998, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigrants, Teachers Struggle With Long Vacations; Balance of Culture, Education
Sought

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1084 words


The TACA Airlines flight to San Salvador on Wednesday morning was sold out, and
the line at Dulles International Airport was slow. Rosa Melera, 13, clutched a
teddy bear and slumped on an overstuffed cardboard box. But her brother, Nelson,
12, whipped out his math work sheet, flopped down and began dividing fractions.

Rosa and Nelson have never met their grandparents or cousins in El Salvador,
never seen the cotton country where their father was raised. So this Christmas,
Nelson Melera Sr., a 38-year-old carpenter from Arlington, decided to buy his
family a two-week, round-trip ticket to his homeland -- even if it meant the
children losing a few days of school.

"They've never missed a class before, but we really want them to see where we
came from, to learn the family stories," Melera said. "This is like a beautiful
dream for all of us."

For many Central American immigrants in the area, Christmas holidays can become
a tug of war between competing priorities: the opportunity to be reunited with
relatives and the commitment to their children's education. Most families try to
minimize the number of school days missed, but others take their children abroad
for weeks at a time.

Educators at a number of area schools said they have reluctantly grown
accustomed to losing Latino students for days or weeks, especially around winter
and spring breaks. Some said the problem was far more widespread until the early
1990s. Many Central American families were divided between two countries or the
immigrants had to return home periodically to renew visas or immigration
permits. Today, more Central American families have been reunited and have
become permanent U.S. residents.

School officials said they strongly discourage parents from taking trips outside
vacation times. They worry that prolonged absences may put immigrants' children,
many already struggling to learn English and keep up with their classmates, at
even more of a disadvantage.

"I understand this is family, and there is a big financial outlay, but the
parents must understand there are consequences for youngsters," said Larry
Grove, principal at Thomas Jefferson Middle School in Arlington. "The bar is
getting higher all the time," he added, noting that new year-end standardized
tests are putting greater pressure than ever on foreign-born students.

Oscar and Rosalina Hernandez are planning to spend the entire month of January
in El Salvador with Javier, 10, and Edis, 6. Both children have had problems in
school: Javier is in a special education program, and Edis had to repeat
kindergarten. But the Arlington couple, whose 16-year-old son is staying behind,
won't leave the younger ones at home without their supervision.

"We've been planning this trip for a year. We told the school about it and we
hope they will send some material for the kids to work on," said Rosalina, 33, a
babysitter whose education ended at fourth grade. "My older son, he'll probably
be having parties at the house," she added with a rueful laugh.

Teachers said they find it hard to condemn Central American families who have
been torn apart by war and who may have ailing parents or other children back
home and no arrangements for extended child care if an emergency calls them
away.

"It's hard to figure out if we should be punitive, when their lives are already
so complicated," said Danielle Guryansky, who teaches High Intensity Language
classes to immigrant students at Jefferson.

Paquita Holland, principal at Oyster Elementary School in Northwest Washington,
said she is sympathetic to families who must travel to renew visas but frowns on
affluent parents who request extra time for ski trips or other holiday travel.
"I definitely consider those unexcused absences," she said.

Educators said they try to prepare homework that children can do easily while on
the road, or that fits in with their travel plans. Several children at Dulles
said they had been asked to learn about the animals and plants of El Salvador.
But teachers also said the tumult of holiday visits makes it hard for youngsters
to buckle down.

"If we know in advance, we can give them work. But if they leave suddenly or
decide to extend their stay, there's little we can do," said Robin Mattias,
principal at Rolling Terrace Elementary School in Takoma Park. "It breaks the
continuity of their education, and it can be especially hard on those who are
trying to transition into English."

Many Central American-born parents, including a dozen who were waiting with
their children for flights from Dulles to El Salvador and Guatemala on Tuesday
and Wednesday, said they had timed their vacations to coincide with their
children's school vacations, give or take a few days.

Jose Velasco, 30, a maintenance technician from Herndon, spent $ 2,000 in
savings to take his wife and three young daughters back to El Salvador. It has
been a decade since he spent Christmas with his parents, and he would like to
stay more than two weeks, but the girls' classes definitely come first.

"It is important for them to know the warmth of their grandparents, the customs
of their country," Velasco said. "But their education is primary. We came here
to work, but we want our children to rise above us. So one has to make choices."

Often, parents said they take their children out of school only as a last
resort. Adilia Lemos, 30, a housecleaner in Arlington, just returned from two
weeks in Guatemala with her daughter Evelyn, 8. She had planned the trip for
Christmastime, but her older daughter in Guatemala suddenly needed help with her
immigration papers, so Lemos scooped up Evelyn and left at Thanksgiving.

"I asked the principal for nine days off and she didn't want to do it, but I
told her it wasn't a vacation for pleasure," said Lemos, whose daughter attends
Patrick Henry Elementary School. "I didn't like to have her miss class, but I
had no choice. If I had left her home with my relatives, it would have been a
double worry for me." Nelson Melera Sr., above, is taking his wife, Angela,
right, and his two children to El Salvador. Although the children will miss
school, Melera says he wants them "to see where we came from." Below, the family
heads for the plane at Dulles.  Nelson Melera Jr., 12, does his homework while
waiting to board a plane to El Salvador at Dulles International Airport. Many
children who go abroad for the holidays miss days of school, and educators worry
that they will fall behind.


LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, MICHAEL WILLIAMSON

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              130 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 31, 1998, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S. Lets Central Americans Stay After Floods; Hondurans, Nicaraguans Offered
More Relief Than Guatemalans, Salvadorans

William Branigin; Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 963 words


Citing the ravages of Hurricane Mitch, the Clinton administration yesterday
granted temporary refuge for 18 months to about 150,000 Hondurans and
Nicaraguans who are living in the United States illegally, but offered more
limited relief to half a million Salvadorans and Guatemalans.

The measures, in the works since shortly after the hurricane unleashed
devastating floods and mudslides across Central America last fall, are aimed at
augmenting U.S. aid to the four most affected countries by sparing them from
having to cope with the return of thousands of immigrants here subject to
deportation.

At a news conference, the commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, Doris M. Meissner, announced that Hondurans and Nicaraguans residing in
the United States as of Dec. 30 can apply for "Temporary Protected Status,"
allowing them to stay and work legally for a year and a half. The decision by
Attorney General Janet Reno covers about 90,000 Hondurans and 60,000 Nicaraguans
who have immigrated here illegally. Most of the Nicaraguans, however, already
are eligible to apply for legal permanent residence under a law passed late last
year.

At the same time, the INS will continue to suspend deportations of Salvadorans
and Guatemalans until March 8, Meissner said. That 60-day extension means that
as many as 335,000 illegal immigrants from El Salvador and 165,000 from
Guatemala can avoid deportation during that period, although they may not be
eligible for work permits. Suspensions of deportation were first announced for
all four nationalities in November, but were due to expire Jan. 7.

The measures cover as many as 90,000 illegal immigrants from Central America --
nearly 70 percent of them from El Salvador -- who live in the District, Maryland
and Virginia, according to INS estimates. Tens of thousands more Central
American immigrants reside in the Washington area legally and are not affected
by the actions announced yesterday.

In explaining the different treatment for the two groups of Central Americans,
administration officials cited much greater storm damage in Honduras and
Nicaragua. Of an estimated 3 million Central Americans who had to flee their
homes in the disaster, about 90 percent live in those two countries, Meissner
said.

"There was also significant damage in El Salvador and Guatemala, but it did not
rise to the level that it did in Honduras and Nicaragua," Meissner said. She
said the "vast majority" of displaced Salvadorans and Guatemalans have since
returned to their homes.

Eligible Hondurans and Nicaraguans must apply for the temporary protected status
within six months and present proof that they lived in the United States before
Dec. 30. Application fees for the status and an accompanying work permit come to
$ 175.

Local Central American and immigrants' rights groups generally welcomed the
administration's efforts, but objected to the less generous treatment of the
Salvadorans and Guatemalans.

"This is pure discrimination," said Arnoldo Ramos, a Salvadoran American who
directs the Council of Latino Agencies, a nonprofit group in Adams-Morgan.
"Perhaps El Salvador and Guatemala weren't hit as hard by the hurricane, but
they were hit very, very hard by U.S. policy in the past. We need a measure that
will stabilize people's lives and give them a more hopeful future."

Pedro Aviles, a longtime Salvadoran American activist in the District, called
the administration's move "myopic and short-sighted." He noted that all four
Central American countries depend heavily on the estimated $ 3 billion in
remittances sent home every year by immigrants working in the United States. The
bulk of that money comes from Salvadorans, who make up the largest group of
Latino immigrants in the Washington area.

Honduran and Nicaraguan leaders here, who have pressed the administration for a
reprieve for illegal immigrants from those countries since the hurricane struck,
said the government's action provides a temporary safety valve, but falls far
short of solving their communities' immigration problems.

"It gives breathing room to a portion of our community who had no benefits at
all," said Julio Gagnon, director of Honduran Unity, an immigrant advocacy group
based in Arlington. "But we have many undocumented community members who have
been here over a decade, with children raised here, and they need a permanent
solution."

Saul Solorzano, director of the Central American Resource Center in the
District, said advocacy groups still hope to persuade the new Congress to grant
an amnesty for Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Hondurans like the ones that were
passed by the outgoing Congress for Nicaraguans, Cubans and Haitians, he said.

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who has urged the administration to give
temporary refuge to nationals of all four hurricane-ravaged countries, said he
"cannot see the logic" of merely suspending deportations of Salvadorans and
Guatemalans for two more months. "Two months will not likely result in a
reestablished infrastructure, an end to the spread of disease, growth of new
crops or a solution to economic instability," he said.

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee, expressed cautious support for the measures, but said he remains
concerned by "the potential for fraud" and for "increased illegal immigration."
He said the administration will face a new test in 18 months "when TPS expires
and the inevitable demands for a further extension or permanent amnesty are
made."

Since temporary protected status was created in 1990, few beneficiaries of it
have left the United States when their stays expired, Smith said. "The
'temporary' part of TPS appears to have been forgotten."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              131 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 15, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Immigration: Now and Then

Hank Burchard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. N49

LENGTH: 1072 words



THE GREAT TIDE of immigrants that once poured through New York City has long
since shifted to the West, especially Los Angeles, where Hispanics and Asians
are now experiencing the promise and penalties of being strangers in a strange
land. These old and new gateways to America are the subject of separate but
synchronous photo exhibits at the National Building Museum.

Those who think the historic immigration center at Ellis Island has been saved
are only half right. The main hall and other buildings on the north side of the
27.5-acre island, abandoned in 1954, have been restored, and now are attracting
nostalgic visitors descended from those huddled masses yearning to breathe free.
There's plenty of nostalgia to go around: Two out of five Americans can trace
their ancestry to Ellis Island. The gleaming reception center echoes constantly
with the appreciative murmurs of visitors.

But on the south side of the island, neglect and vandalism have all but
destroyed the clinics, hospitals, nurseries, dormitories and detention wards,
and the offices, kitchens, laundries and steam plant that served them. The ruins
are poignantly portrayed by Larry Racioppo, son of a New York City longshoreman,
who has been photographing the Big Apple's waterfront for 30 years. Ellis Island
has special meaning for him: All four of his grandparents passed through its
portals.

Racioppo's photographs are pointed but fair. There is beauty in ruins, as seen
in his views of tree-shattered courtyards and vine-strangled balconies. There is
even a hint of majesty in the gaping, rusting great boilers, whose cast-iron
facade proudly announces that they were custom-made for the "U.S. Immigration
Station, Ellis Island, New York Harbor" by the Oil City (Pennsylvania) Boiler
Works. Mainly, however, there is shame that the country could so quickly forget
such a key element in its formation.

The Los Angeles photographs of Camilo Jose Vergara also often show handsome old
buildings in ruins, but in this case the cause isn't abandonment but the
opposite: They are crowded with too many people with too little money. "These
are anthills full of people," one Latino worker commented to Vergara. "They
sleep standing up."

Vergara, a professional sociologist, casts a cool but searching and percipient
eye on the mile after mile of vibrant slums that form the largest single
concentration of Spanish-speaking people in the United States, an area roughly
equal to Philadelphia. Hispanics now amount to 41 percent of Los Angeles
County's more than 9.5 million residents; whites run second at 36.9 percent.

Vergara says he came to Southern California looking for "the mosaic of
ethnicities and nationalities that I had read about so often, but it was not
there. I had intended to document the enormous black ghetto of South Central,
the third most important concentration of African Americans after Harlem and
Chicago's South Side. So I was surprised to see signs in Spanish and Latino
people everywhere. Spanish was taking the place of English on the streets."

Congenial climate and historic Hispanic connections aside, Vergara says, a major
reason for the Los Angeles influx is the availability of huge numbers of modest
houses that once housed workers in the tire, steel and aerospace industries.
Those old plants are closed, and the children of their blue-collar workers have
white-collar jobs and live in nicer houses in the hills.

The cultural shock has been of earthquake proportions. Vergara is studiously
neutral in his observations, making the exhibit a true documentary rather than
the sort of diatribe that the term so often is applied to. A viewer who prefers
his neighborhoods neat and orderly is likely to be appalled by the funky-junky
scenes Vergara presents: garish advertising signs, yards overflowing with junk,
murals so amateurish they hurt the eyes, handsome old buildings blighted with
misuse and neglect. The what's-this-country-coming-to reaction is almost
automatic -- as it was in the East to successive waves of Germans, Irish, Jews,
Russians, Poles, and so on.

But on closer inspection, Vergara's photos give evidence of hard work and high
dreams among this Hispanic community. Those intrusive signs and awful murals
advertise entrepreneurial energy; many of the apparent junkyards are in fact
shade-tree auto-body shops and thrift sales; and surely there can be no more
endearing testimony to one's roots and practicality than the widespread practice
of planting corn in the strips of earth between curb and sidewalk.

House-proud workers pose in front of bungalows they have neatly, even
obsessively, cared for and decorated. The carcasses of pit bulls killed in
clandestine dogfights are abandoned in alleys (the losing fighting cocks are
eaten). Families, from grandmothers to toddlers, toil from sun to sun, eking out
an existence buying, selling, fixing, mixing, mending, tending, foraging,
whatever it takes. There is crime, of course, but there is also community. Some
fail, some prosper, most get by. The mosaic Vergara came looking for is there,
within the Hispanic community he depicts. It is America remaking itself, as
always.

FORGOTTEN GATEWAY: The Abandoned Buildings of Ellis Island -- Through May 2.

EL NUEVO MUNDO: The Landscape of Latino Los Angeles -- Through March 28.

Both at the National Building Museum, 401 F St. NW (Metro: Judiciary Square).
202/272-2448. Open 10 to 4 Monday through Saturday, noon to 4 Sundays.
Wheelchair accessible. Web site: www.nbm.org.

Public programs associated with the Latino show include:

Jan. 23 at 2 -- Free screening of Gregory Nava's film "El Norte" (1983), the
story of two Central American siblings' efforts to make it to, and in, Los
Angeles.

Feb. 3 from 6:30 to 9 -- Lectures and panel on "The Latino Cultural Landscape in
the U.S." Admission $ 35.

March 4 from 6 to 7:30 -- Lecture, "The Landscape of Latino L.A." by Camilo Jose
Vergara. Admission $ 13.

March 6 at 1 -- Gallery tour and talk by Vergara. Free.

Larry Racioppo has photographed the ruins on the south side of Ellis Island,
away from the gleaming visitors center on the north side that has been restored.
Here, steps lead from the Measles Ward to the overgrown grounds. Camilo Jose
Vergara's photograph captures some of the Latino community's entrepreneurial
energy in a storefront in Los Angeles's Pico Union area.





LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, larry racioppo; Photo, CAMILO JOSE VERGARA

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              132 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 16, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

West African War Causes Pain in D.C. Area; Sierra Leoneans Pray for Homeland,
Ask U.S. Assistance

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 677 words



Eyes squeezed shut and one hand raised to heaven, Marcella Canara-Macauly
slumped in her seat in a Silver Spring church this week and prayed that her
mother and father in war-torn Sierra Leone are still alive.

"The last time I got a call through was a week ago. My mom had gone off to
church, but she never came back," Canara-Macauly, a 25-year-old teacher,
explained before the prayer service. "Since then, the phone lines have been
down. I don't know if she ever made it to church. Nobody knows who is dead or
alive or hurt."

Around her, in the Bethel Global Outreach Mission, scores of immigrants from
Sierra Leone and other parts of West Africa wept and shouted out their anguish
at the terror and bloodshed that have engulfed Sierra Leone since Jan. 6, when
anti-government rebels overran Freetown, the capital.

Across the Washington region, where an estimated 10,000 to 15,000 Sierra
Leoneans live and work, there was a similar sense of dread and desperation.

More than a dozen immigrants said they have lost all contact with their families
and fear they have been harmed by the insurgents. Many are women who immigrated
alone and send most of their earnings home to support families in one of the
world's poorest countries.

According to news accounts, rebels burned numerous buildings in Freetown, water
and electricity were cut off, and the streets were littered with bodies. In
previous attacks in rural areas, these forces have been accused of such
atrocities as hacking off people's hands and burning them alive.

Yesterday, a group of local Sierra Leoneans demonstrated outside the State
Department, calling on U.S. officials to help stop the bloodshed and provide
emergency relief. The District-based National Organization of Sierra Leoneans in
North America has appealed for international humanitarian aid, warning in a
statement that citizens "are trapped in their homes without access to food,
water, power and medical supplies."

Fighting in the capital tapered off Thursday when a key rebel leader agreed to
negotiations. But communication with relatives is still nearly impossible.

At a home for the elderly in Potomac, manager Humu Ouzuzu, 36, wept and pleaded
for help as she and three other staff members described their frantic attempts
to reach husbands, parents and children.

"We are in big darkness here," she said, rocking in her chair. "I don't know
where my family is. We heard the whole place was on fire."

Mariama Marah, 33, a health aide, said that rebels burned down her family's
house last year, killed her brother and chopped off her uncle's arms. As the
fighting began last week, she spoke with her 6-year-old son, who begged her to
come save him. She hasn't been able to reach him since.

"He was crying and there was a lot of boom-boom in the background. He said
'Mama, come take me out of this place,' " Marah said. "But I am stuck here and I
can't go back. It is too dangerous."

Civil war has raged in Sierra Leone since 1990. After an election in 1996, the
government was overthrown by mutinous soldiers and rural rebels. The elected
government was restored last year by loyal soldiers and a West African
intervention force, but the rebels launched a new offensive.

"This is just about greed. It makes me so angry," said Canara-Macauly,
describing what many Sierra Leoneans here called a power struggle without
purpose. A devout Christian who limps because of childhood polio, she dreams of
returning home to help rehabilitate children handicapped by wartime mutilations.
But occasionally, she confessed, she finds her emotions edging toward revenge.

"It is all so inhuman," she said. "Sometimes it makes me feel like cutting off
their arms, just the way they do to people."

Andrew Ighade, 29, was among a large group of people, many from West Africa, who
prayed for the end of violence in Sierra Leone at the Bethel Global Outreach
Mission in Silver Spring. "Nobody knows who is dead or alive or hurt," said
Marcella Canara-Macauly, 25, of the upheaval in her homeland.



LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, NANCY ANDREWS

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              133 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 06, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

Asian Exclusion

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C14; THE CENTURY IN THE POST

LENGTH: 431 words


* Excerpts from "the first rough draft of history" as reported in The Washington
Post on this date in the 20th century.


The great "melting pot" of the United States did not always welcome immigrants.
Xenophobia was running especially high in 1917, on the eve of the U.S. entry
into the Great War, when Congress passed a law that required adult immigrants to
be literate and that excluded any immigrants who came from the "Asiatic Barred
Zone," which covered most of that continent. An excerpt from The Post's Feb. 6,
1917, report:


Congress has overridden a veto by President Wilson for the first time and
enacted into law the immigration bill with its long-fought literacy test
provision. The Senate voted late yesterday 62 to 19 to pass the measure,
notwithstanding the veto and in spite of the eleventh-hour information that
Japan had protested against the language of the Asiatic exclusion section.

The House overturned the veto last week by a vote of 287 to 106, so the Senate's
action ends the contest of twenty years' standing in which three Presidents have
repudiated similar bills by Congress.

The international situation was brought into the closing debate in the Senate,
Senator Reed calling attention to the Japanese objection and pleading that
nothing be done at this time to disturb or impair the country's relations with a
friendly nation. Senator Smith, of South Carolina, chairman of the immigration
committee, answered with the declaration that the present state of international
affairs emphasized the necessity for a pure homogeneous American people, such as
the bill was intended to protect. ...

"The vote of both House and Senate," declared Chairman Smith, "is a clear-cut
expression of the sentiment of the American people on the two fundamental
principles involved in this bill, namely the economic and political principles;
economic in that it was apparent to all students that resources yet to be
developed should now be regarded as a patrimony of real Americans and not to be
exploited for those who have had no part in the great struggle to bring us to
our present state of wealth and education; political in that the influx of the
adult foreigners without the hereditary influence of the spirit of our
government jeopardizes its stability. The committee of both House and Senate had
but one idea, the working out of but one principle; namely, what was good for
Americans. If an injustice appeared it was more than overbalanced by our
paramount duty to our own people."


This series is available at www.washingtonpost.com


LOAD-DATE: February 06, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              134 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 07, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Law Without Mercy

Fred Hiatt

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 962 words



Rep. Bill McCollum (R-Fla.) does not present himself as a man of self-doubts or
second thoughts. On his Web site, he informs us that he "is considered the House
of Representatives' foremost authority on crime." He has relentlessly pursued
the president as a House impeachment manager. He has pushed resolutely for
tougher crime and immigration laws.

So it's interesting to see McCollum, who represents Orlando and surrounding
territory, pleading the case of a drug-using, check-kiting, parole-busting
immigrant from Canada.

The immigrant was ordered deported under tough legislation McCollum backed in
1995 and 1996 that aimed to deport immigrants as quickly as possible, even for
minor offenses. But this one deserves a break, McCollum says. And the fact that
the immigrant's father is a Republican county treasurer in the congressman's
district has nothing to do with his decision. "I feel great sympathy for his
family's struggles," McCollum said on the House floor last month, introducing a
"private bill" that was first reported on by the St. Petersburg Times.

Now, it would be easy to knock McCollum for hypocrisy, given that hundreds of
immigrants with more compelling cases and fewer resources are being deported
thanks to laws McCollum backed. It would be easy to dig up past statements ("By
removing from our society those aliens who do not respect our laws, we make our
streets safer for citizens and noncitizens alike") and to question why, if
political connections were irrelevant, this is the only such bill McCollum has
filed.

But McCollum told me he believes that the 1996 bill was, in key respects, "too
harsh" -- and that he will submit legislation to correct some of its unfairness.
If that hints at a change of mood in Congress, then a major injustice may be
corrected.

"It was pretty clear in 1996 that there were going to be a lot of terrible, sad
stories -- a lot of American families being torn up by this," says Carol
Wolchok, an immigration expert at the American Bar Association. Those to be
affected were not illegal immigrants but lawful permanent residents of the
United States who in many cases had lived here virtually all their lives.

Congress first widened the definition of deportable crimes from murder, rape and
drug trafficking to encompass minor theft, possession of small quantities of
drugs and other offenses punishable by a year in jail. Then Congress removed
judicial discretion. Whereas before an immigration judge or the attorney general
could weigh many factors, including someone's rehabilitation, now there are no
waivers and no mercy.

Finally, Congress made it all retroactive. The result: People who had been
living peaceably in this country for decades, their long-ago offenses well-known
and honestly disclosed to immigration authorities, suddenly became illegal,
subject to mandatory detention and deportation. Unsuspecting legal immigrants in
some cases showed up to apply for citizenship, only to be carted off to jail.

Gabriella Dee, 34, had tried in 1984 to smuggle her Israeli boyfriend from her
Canada home into the United States. She was caught, fined $ 25 and released. In
subsequent years, she was granted U.S. student visas and work visas, having
disclosed her past arrest. She married an American and became stepmother to his
children. She won prizes and plaudits for her work as a college biology teacher,
as the Morning Call of Allentown, Pa., recounted in a profile last year. But
when she applied for permanent resident status, not knowing the rules had
changed, she was put on the deportation list.

Ralph Richardson's mistake, at age 33, was to visit Haiti for the first time
since he had left that country at age 2. Upon his return, he was detained at the
airport because of a drug conviction nine years ago. He has been in detention
for 16 months, with no right to post bond, according to his lawyer, Ira Kurzban,
though he is married to an American, has three young children and has -- had --
a small office-cleaning business in Atlanta.

Across the country, there are hundreds, probably thousands of such stories. A
Vietnamese immigrant with an American husband and young American children faces
deportation for forging a check nine years ago. A Texas kitchen installer who
won his case in 1993 now faces deportation because the government's appeal was
delayed for four years -- by which time new rules applied. McCollum's
constituent is just one more: a sad story of a kid on drugs, according to the
congressman, who hurt no one but himself and his parents and wants another
chance with his 2-year-old American son.

Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, says
that 90 percent of the 160,000 people deported last year were illegal aliens,
and that many of the rest are serious criminals who don't deserve to stay. But
among the 16,000 legal residents deported, she says, are "some very sympathetic
cases."

It was an insupportable accumulation in past years of "private bills" like
McCollum's that originally prompted Congress to give the executive branch some
discretion. In 1996 the Republicans complained that that discretion had been
abused. Their remedy "went too far," Meissner says.

Now the administration supports "a very limited waiver authority, with very
clear criteria," Meissner says. Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan already has
introduced such a bill.

Will anything pass this year? Meissner says she isn't sure. It may take some
time, she says, for the pendulum to swing back, as private bills again
accumulate, pressures build and evidence of unfairness mounts. "In the
meantime," she says, "a lot of people are being unnecessarily hurt."


The writer is a member of the editorial page staff.




LOAD-DATE: February 07, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              135 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 08, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; THE FEDERAL PAGE; IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 383 words


INS Citizenship Guide Errs

On Selective Service Rules A guidebook aimed at providing easy-to-understand
information for immigrants seeking to become citizens contains a mistake about
when men must register with the Selective Service.

Because the government is being stricter about enforcing Selective Service
rules, would-be citizens who think they are in compliance could be denied
citizenship because of the error.

In December, the Immigration and Naturalization Service began distributing about
700,000 copies of "A Guide to Naturalization," a 47-page booklet that replaces a
lengthy nine-year-old volume.

The booklet explains Selective Service rules for a military draft, requiring all
male immigrants to register with the Selective Service when they are at least 18
but not yet 26. But its glossary summarizes the rules by saying males must
register if they are over 26. The INS acknowledges its error, but there are no
plans to recall the guides.

The mistake will be corrected in the next printing, probably next month.

Park Service Bans Snowmobiles

In Denali; Rep. Young Condemns Rule The National Park Service has banned
snowmobiles from most of the 2 million-acre wilderness area of Alaska's Denali
National Park, a move the agency said formalized an unwritten policy from 1980.

The ban will be in effect for a year while the Park Service studies potential
impacts of snowmobiling on Denali's ecology and considers a winter-use
management plan, the agency said.

The agency ruling followed four public hearings and a review of about 1,500
public comments that ran 7 to 1 against allowing snowmobiles in Denali's
wilderness, said John Quinley, spokesman for the Park Service's Alaska region.

The debate over snowmobile access to Denali--famous for Mount McKinley, North
America's tallest peak, and vast numbers of caribou, bears, wolves and other
wildlife--pitted advocates of motorized recreation against environmentalists and
so-called "quiet-rights" advocates.

Rep. Don Young, the Alaska Republican who chairs the House Resources Committee,
condemned the new rule as an attack on the "access rights of Alaskans" and
called for it to be revoked immediately. He vowed a congressional inquiry into
the Park Service decision, which he called "underhanded."

LOAD-DATE: February 08, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              136 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 11, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 212 words


An article yesterday incorrectly described the fate of Cubans who are stopped by
the U.S. Coast Guard at sea. The Immigration and Naturalization Service conducts
interviews on board. Some refugees are given an asylum hearing at Guantanamo
and, if asylum is granted, are admitted to a country other than the United
States. Those who are not deemed to have a credible claim are returned directly
to Cuba and not taken to Guantanamo.

In yesterday's story about the Academy Awards nominations, the nationality of
actors Geoffrey Rush and Cate Blanchett was incorrectly reported. They are
Australian.

CLARIFICATION

Two researchers involved in a study on sexual dysfunction that was reported
yesterday were paid by Pfizer Inc. as consultants to review data on Viagra
before the impotency drug was submitted for government approval. That
association was not mentioned by the Journal of the American Medical Association
(JAMA), which published the study. A spokesman for the American Medical
Association, which publishes JAMA, said yesterday the omission was an oversight
and would be noted in a subsequent issue. JAMA has a policy of disclosing any
researcher's connection to a drug company because of the potential for a
conflict of interest, the spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              137 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 16, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

'Immigration Divides Families'

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A16; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 252 words


The article "Hands -- and Hopes -- Across the Sea" [front page, Feb. 1] should
have been labeled news analysis. Although the immigration process could benefit
from increased public scrutiny and understanding, articles such as this -- in
which the author's disapproval of the system of quotas established by Congress
in 1952 is obvious -- serve only to muddy the waters.

During my 1994-1995 tenure on the nonimmigrant visa line in Seoul, I saw
countless individuals in Mr. Shin's situation. Refusing their visa applications
was often a heart-wrenching decision, but it was the only possible decision
given our immigration law.

Nearly a million people immigrate legally to the United States each year. If
every person in financial difficulty who wanted to join relatives in the United
States were allowed to do so by simply obtaining a tourist visa, immigration
would increase exponentially each year. Would even the most ardent supporter of
expanded immigration favor allowing 5 million, 10 million or even 15 million new
immigrants each year?

Finally, I would like to point out that "U.S. visa policies" don't divide Asian
families; immigration divides families. From time immemorial, immigrants have
had to decide between pursuing opportunity in a new land and remaining with
their extended families. Those who have come to America were not forced to leave
their families behind; they chose to. Granted the decision is painful, but it is
made freely nonetheless.

DEBORAH MENNUTI

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              138 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 16, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

On the Pulse of Another Century; For Immigrants, Factory Workers And Freedmen, a
Time of Promise

Jacqueline Trescott, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1256 words


In 1869 Sophia Heller Goldsmith and Philip Goldsmith moved to Cincinnati and
opened a "25-cent store." The two immigrants from Central Europe worked their
way up the retail and manufacturing ladder and eventually produced dolls and
baseballs. In time, they became leading citizens of the city.

The Goldsmiths were among the millions of new Americans who put brush strokes on
the emerging American identity. Their story is presented in "Communities in a
Changing Nation: the Promise of 19th-Century America," the first permanent show
installed at the National Museum of American History since 1994. The Goldsmiths
are included in these storyboards of the 1800s because they came to America not
just for economic opportunity but also for intangibles -- notions of promise and
possibility, and hopes for individual and religious freedom.

The heartbeat of the 1800s -- industrialization, immigration and African
Americans' fight for freedom -- helped create shifts that resound today. The
curators at the Smithsonian Institution have chosen to tell these broad stories
without focusing so much on specific dates, such as Robert E. Lee's April 9,
1865, surrender at Appomattox Courthouse, or on famous people, like Andrew
Carnegie, Abraham Lincoln or Frederick Douglass.

Instead, the museum's curators have selected three cities as microcosms of
change. Cincinnati became a hub for Jewish immigration and a place where Reform
Judaism took hold. The history of Charleston, S.C., is filled with stories of
free and enslaved black communities that included artisans as well as plantation
workers. Industrialization is tracked in Bridgeport, Conn., where a sewing
machine factory spawned a community of workers and factory owners.

"They all confront the sense of promise and make a strong contribution to what
makes an American identity," says Spencer R. Crew, the museum's director.

The Smithsonian, of course, illustrates the stories of these three cities with
5,000 square feet of artifacts. The exhibit begins with an overview of the
century in America. Rare objects include a life mask of Lincoln, made by
Augustus St. Gaudens from an 1860 cast; a maquette of the Statue of Liberty
given by sculptor Frederic Auguste Bartholdi to Congress; an Edison light bulb;
an Eli Whitney cotton gin; and the compass used by explorer William Clark.

In past exhibitions, the Museum of American History has often set out a
bewildering array of cases and items. Here project designer Stevan Fisher has
organized the materials so the eye is always moving, from documents to life-size
models, from photographs to jackets, from a formal portrait to a frayed strap
used for beating slaves. In places there is a feeling of being transported back
in time, of bargaining at the peddler's wagon, standing in the produce market of
Charleston, sitting at the sewing machine in the factory worker's house.

Another departure is the complex layering of the materials. We peer into
remarkable lives and learn the broad issues. We get a deeper understanding of
what the 1800s were like in America. We sample different slices of an important
story. The Jewish American story here is not the East Coast saga of Ellis Island
and Hester Street but a look at similar lives in the Midwest. The African
American story looks at plantation life -- not at the typical cotton rows but a
rice plantation named Friendfield. The complexity is welcome and breathtaking at
times as we read the words of a free woman asking to be sold back into slavery.

None of this is presented simplistically, though the overall value lies in how
the complexity is communicated through the use of simple objects. The section on
Bridgeport is introduced with an iron gate, symbolic of the new world of rules,
from work hours to lunch breaks to card playing.

In 1800 few Americans worked in factories, but by 1850 1.3 million workers went
to these places every day. By 1900 more than 6 million were doing so. The
Bridgeport section succinctly looks at one town, one factory and two families.
"The factory changed how people worked. The pace of your work had to be
coordinated with others. It was much different from the pace of the artisan shop
and the farm," says Harry R. Rubenstein, the exhibition curator of this segment.

Nathaniel Wheeler opened his factory in 1856 and it became the largest U.S.
sewing machine producer of the century and was Bridgeport's largest employer by
1870. But class divisions were soon obvious. A picture of the Wheeler mansion, a
sanctuary from the world he was creating, shows the life of an early aristocrat.
His life is contrasted with one of his employees, Henry W. Hayden, whose life is
glimpsed in census records, city directories and factory archives. Hayden made $
675 a year and paid $ 200 a year for his rental house. When he died he left no
estate or property.

Though the exhibition is rooted in what are considered American virtues, the
overall story is not ignorantly rosy. It addresses the nativism movement, an
early wave of anti-immigrant feeling that targeted Irish and German Catholics,
and later Jews and Chinese immigrants. Each of these segments describes a
different kind of violence and hate. It addresses the stereotypical images
attached to the Jewish peddlers. It addresses the campaign of the Know-Nothing
Party and its candidate Millard Fillmore, who wanted strict naturalization laws.

In the section on Charleston, curator Lonnie Bunch III, associate director for
curatorial affairs, took on one of the hardest American stories to tell: how the
emancipated black population and the enslaved population were bound together in
a quest for freedom, and often excluded from the promise. Three-quarters of
Charleston's African American population were slaves. In a slave cabin,
whitewashed and sturdy, two children sit and talk about a friend who has run
away and then sing rhymes. Another approach to the story is told through Richard
Holloway, a leader in the free black community that was called "aristocracy with
calluses." All of them had to wear copper slave tags.

Between 1820 and 1880, 200,000 European Jews came to the States, and 40 percent
of those immigrants took up peddling, a trade that grew and made the new
arrivals a key element in the growing consumer market. Cincinnati appealed to
the immigrants because of its role as a manufacturing hub, its location on the
Ohio River and because it opened a way to another expansion to the West.

This story, researched by Susan H. Myers, the museum's exhibition curator, is
told visually with a loaded peddler's wagon -- already a possession of the
Smithsonian -- trays of costume jewelry, articles of religious and secular
clothing, and such rare items as a stock certificate from the Phoenix Club, a
Jewish private club that sponsored much of the cultural life of the city. The
exhibit also includes an 1857 prayer book for Reform Jews written by Rabbi Isaac
Mayer Wise, an immigrant from Bohemia. Wise's story is also detailed in the
exhibit.

In looking at the 1800s, the American History museum has projected what it can
do in the future with material social history, and this exhibit has stretched
the idea of what a history lesson can be.  Philip and Sophia Goldsmith, who
worked their way up Cincinnati's manufacturing ladder, in 1865. The produce
market of Charleston, S.C., established in 1807, was the city's center of
commerce and a hub of African American slave life. Goldsmith dolls were made in
Cincinnati by European immigrants.


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, smithsonian photo courtesy phyllis goldsmith levinston; Photo,
courtesy smithsonian institution

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              139 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 23, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Rejects U.N. Suggestion on Jailing Refugees

John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 22


The Washington representative of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees called
on the United States today to stop detaining people seeking to enter the United
States as refugees or asylum seekers while their cases are investigated.

"We urge the U.S. government to seriously consider alternatives to detention for
asylum seekers and refugees," Karen AbuZayd said. "Asylum seekers who are not a
threat to society should not be detained and should not be treated like
criminals."

Her comments were rejected by the Immigration and Naturalization Service as
contrary to the facts. Russ Bergeron, the INS spokesman, said that his
organization and U.S. immigration courts consider more than 100,000 refugee and
asylum cases a year and that the great majority of applicants are not detained.

"About 5 percent -- roughly 5,000 -- are detained because they entered the
country illegally without documents or have documents that are suspect,"
Bergeron said. "And even in those circumstances, upward of 40 percent are
released before their cases have been resolved."

The issue arose following UNHCR's adoption on Feb. 10 of liberalized guidelines
that the Geneva-based U.N. body would like to see applied throughout the world
in the treatment of refugees. Today AbuZayd revealed that UNHCR sent a letter
last week to INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner asking the United States to
follow the guidelines and use its discretion to release asylum seekers who
arrive at U.S. entry points.

UNHCR's work with refugees worldwide is widely regarded as among the most
effective of U.N. humanitarian programs, and the high commissioner, Sadako Ogata
of Japan, wins high marks in the United States and elsewhere as an able
international civil servant. For that reason, the critical comments by her
Washington representative sparked both surprise and annoyance among U.S.
officials.

On Capitol Hill, spokesmen for committees dealing with immigration and foreign
policy said they were unaware of the letter to Meissner and thus reluctant to
comment. But at INS headquarters, Bergeron immediately fired back with facts and
figures.

He took special aim at AbuZayd's charge that "detention of asylum seekers and
refugees on the grounds of their illegal entry to the United States is a matter
of major concern and contrary to the principles of international law." To the
contrary, Bergeron said, "international law fully recognizes the right of a
country to detain someone seeking entry when issues of their identity and
credibility are in question."

The exchange between AbuZayd and Bergeron was reminiscent of a parallel
situation last year in which a Senegalese investigator for the U.N. Human Rights
Commission, Bacre Waly Ndiaye, wrote a report charging that the death penalty in
the United States is applied in an unfair, arbitrary and discriminatory way.
That report was denounced by a number of congressional conservatives including
Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Jesse Helms (R-N.C.) as an example
of how the United Nations seeks to interfere in sovereign U.S. affairs. It also
was rejected by the Clinton administration as "severely flawed."


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              140 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  February 24, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

An Icon of Healing And History, in Ruins; Effort Starts Slowly to Save Ellis
Island Hospital

Michael Grunwald, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1173 words

DATELINE: ELLIS ISLAND, N.J.


The operating room is overgrown with poison ivy. The laundry room's roof has
collapsed. The maternity ward where frightened immigrants fresh off the boat
gave birth to full-fledged American citizens is a junkyard of crumbled plaster,
shattered glass and asbestos. In the hospital's long corridors, it rains for
days after storms.

Although the Ellis Island immigration building where 12 million foreigners began
their American experience has been magnificently renovated and converted into a
popular museum, the government hospital that provided free medical care to over
10 percent of them lies in ruins. After nearly a half-century of neglect, many
of its 29 buildings are in danger of collapse. Some of their doors remain open,
but only because they have fallen off their hinges.

Now preservationists are in a race against nature to save the south side of
Ellis Island, to protect the eroding buildings from the elements until a plan is
in place to restore them. They say a vital chapter of American history is
decaying here in the shadow of the Statue of Liberty, brick-and-limestone
vestiges of an era when the U.S. government not only welcomed the world's tired
and poor with open arms, but healed the sick at its own expense.

"There's an important story to tell here, but it's deteriorating before our
eyes," said Richard Wells, a National Park Service official on Ellis Island.
"Just look around. I showed this place to one woman, and she said it made her
feel like she was back in the Balkans."

In the days after Ellis Island opened as a gateway to America in 1892,
immigrants with contagious diseases such as measles and diphtheria were ferried
to Manhattan hospitals to isolate them from the general population. But the
boats were soon overwhelmed, and patients often died during the crossings. In
1903, the federal government began building the hospital complex on a swath of
new land created with fill from construction of the New York subway system.

The 750-bed complex was not used only for public health--it also served as a
detention center for thousands of new immigrants and resident aliens suspected
of disloyalty during the world wars--but it was one of the largest and most
progressive hospitals of its time, with everything from a maternity ward to an
autopsy amphitheater to a psychiatric facility.

The hospital was not immune from xenophobia, but it had a reputation as a
welcoming place where doctors cured Old World diseases so their patients could
enter the New World. The U.S. Public Health Service was born here; pinkeye was
cured here; 350 babies were born here.

In a video titled "Ellis Island: The Forgotten Side," the New York Landmarks
Conservancy chronicled several immigrants' fond memories of the hospital. "The
doctor put his arms around me and said: 'Please, please, don't cry so hard,
we're trying to help you,' " recalled Agnes Dourish Schilling, who arrived at
Ellis Island from Scotland in 1922 at the age of 15.

This has been a good time for the historic preservation movement, with the
Clinton administration and particularly the first lady promoting its importance.
Still, the National Park Service backlog for maintenance and renovation projects
has been estimated at $ 6 billion, and Ellis Island's south side is often
mentioned as a top priority.

The World Monuments Fund and the National Trust for Historic Preservation both
named the hospital complex one of America's most endangered historic landmarks.
It has also been immortalized in a photography exhibit called "Forgotten
Gateway: The Abandoned Buildings of Ellis Island," on display until May at the
National Building Museum in Washington.

"This was a truly proud moment in American history," said Peg Breen, president
of the Landmarks Conservancy, which is leading the preservation effort. "People
really care about this place. It's amazing that the government let it go to
ruin."

The island's Moorish-influenced immigration building reopened as an immigration
museum in 1990 after a $ 162 million restoration, and it receives nearly 2
million visitors a year. But when the visitors look to the left as their ferries
dock, they see the decrepit facade of the hospital complex, which has been
almost untouched since Ellis Island closed in 1954.

The complex is surrounded by a chain-link fence, and the grounds are closed to
the public. Exteriors are lined with broken windows, crumbling ceramic roof
tiles and overgrown gutters. The interiors are even worse; they look the way
buildings look after massive fires. Decades of rainwater have rotted away
stairwells, door frames, sinks and radiators. Steel is flaking off trusses like
bark off trees. The floors are caked with muddy plaster that rain has melted off
the walls and ceilings and then mixed with leaves and debris.

A National Park Service report concluded last year that many hospital buildings
"have reached an accelerating state of deterioration and will likely experience
catastrophic structural failure within the next 5 to 10 years." The Park Service
estimates that it will need $ 6.6 million just to stabilize the buildings for at
least 15 years; in essence, to provide a "raincoat" to prevent further
deterioration.

So far, Congress has pledged $ 2 million, and President Clinton has proposed $ 1
million more. New York never provided money in the past, but now that the
Supreme Court has ruled that most of Ellis Island is part of New Jersey, Gov.
Christine Todd Whitman (R) has offered another $ 2 million. And the Landmarks
Conservancy has already spent $ 39,000, plus thousands of dollars in donated
labor and supplies, to waterproof the first building.

But all those efforts are just to maintain the dilapidated status quo. The real
question is what to do in the future. A controversial proposal to build a hotel
and resort seems to be dead, but the price tag for a restoration effort that
would open the hospital buildings to the public could run to $ 200 million.

A group led by Lee Iacocca raised about $ 400 million in private funds for
renovations at the Statue of Liberty and the Ellis Island museum in the
mid-1980s, but preservationists say whatever happens on the south side of the
island will have to include taxpayer dollars.

"Those decisions will have to be made in the future. But it's clear that the
first thing we have to do is stabilize the buildings," said Lisa Nitse, a
spokeswoman for Whitman's new commission on Ellis Island. "Otherwise, they're
going to fall over."

The Park Service will begin stabilizing the complex within a few months, and
officials hope visitors will be able to tour the grounds within a few years.
They probably won't be able to go inside the buildings, and the gloomy aura of
the area is likely to persist. No matter how much money ultimately is spent, the
hospital may never scrub up as cleanly and cheerfully as the immigration
building just across the old ferry slip.

The Park Service says $ 6.6 million is needed just to stabilize the Ellis Island
hospital.


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,LARRY RACIOPPO

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              141 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 25, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Deporting Criminal Aliens

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 343 words


The Post's Feb. 14 editorial "Immigration Crackdown" correctly identifies the
detention and deportation of criminal aliens as a top priority for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. But it draws precisely the wrong
conclusion by blaming Congress for the INS plan to release more than 1,500
criminal aliens into our communities.

For almost a decade, I have been involved in a battle with the INS to ensure
that it has the resources and, more important, the right strategy for dealing
with criminal aliens. I had thought there was bipartisan consensus on this
issue. However, the INS consistently has thwarted Congress's efforts to ensure
that all criminal aliens, many of whom have been convicted of serious crimes,
are kept off the streets so they cannot victimize more people.

Take one example: Congress has been pushing the INS to implement fully a program
to screen for criminal aliens in local and state prisons. If the INS is able to
identify the alien inmates soon after their arrest or incarceration, deportation
can take place as soon as their sentences are completed. Instead, the INS has
dragged its feet. Criminal aliens, instead of immediately being sent back to
their native countries, take up valuable INS detention space while waiting for
their deportation hearings.

Also, The Post's editorial blames Congress for failing to provide the INS with
enough money for detention facilities. This simply is not the case. In the past
three years alone, the INS budget for detention and deportation has doubled, and
its overall budget has skyrocketed at a time when many other government agencies
have experienced cutbacks. In most years, Congress has provided the INS with
more funds than was requested. This is hardly an example of congressional
neglect.

Indeed, a recent General Accounting Office report determined that the INS has
wasted $ 80 million in detention funding. It is clear that the INS suffers from
mismanagement, not a lack of money or direction.

ELTON GALLEGLY

U.S. Representative (R-Calif.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              142 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 26, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

After Cooperating, a Key Witness Faces Deportation; INS, Prosecutor at Odds Over
Israeli Who Helped Break Organized Crime Ring

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 742 words



Ilan Kashti thought he had made up for his crime. Since his 1996 indictment in
Miami on charges of laundering money for Colombian drug traffickers, the
64-year-old Israeli had helped U.S. prosecutors break up an Israeli organized
crime ring working with the Cali cartel.

He turned over numerous records, flew to Israel to obtain vital evidence that
was beyond the reach of federal attorneys and helped convict the mastermind of a
$ 48 million money-laundering conspiracy. He even provided evidence against his
own son and daughter-in-law. For his cooperation, he received a light sentence
last November at the prosecutors' request: six months of home detention under
electronic monitoring and three years of probation.

But that apparently was irrelevant to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. INS agents arrested Kashti Feb. 9 because his conviction makes him
deportable as a "criminal alien," even though the U.S. Attorney's Office insists
it still needs him as a witness.

Moreover, Kashti's life would be in danger if he were deported to Israel, said
his lawyer, Linda Osberg-Braun. "There is no question that he would be killed."
After his sentencing, Kashti "complied with all his obligations," and he was
"surprised and baffled" when he was arrested by INS agents, she said.

The case of the legal, although felonious, immigrant is among those that have
raised questions about the broad nature of a 1996 immigration law that
significantly tightened requirements for detaining and deporting criminal
aliens. The case also appears to have triggered something of a tug of war
between the INS and U.S. attorneys.

The affair has left lawyers wondering whether the right hand knew what the left
was doing, or whether an interagency rivalry was at work. A hearing before an
immigration judge is scheduled today in Oakdale, La., where Kashti is being held
in a remote INS detention facility pending deportation.

"It appears to me the INS did not communicate well with the U.S. attorney's
office in making the decision to pick him up," Osberg-Braun said carefully. "I
hope this isn't a rivalry situation. That wouldn't make any sense."

The INS and U.S. attorneys have clashed before over deals with aliens facing
deportation. The INS has argued, and courts have confirmed, that federal
prosecutors lack authority to promise immigration benefits, which fall under the
sole jurisdiction of the INS and immigration judges.

In an emergency motion filed this week, Osberg-Braun asked U.S. District Judge
Lenore C. Nesbitt in Miami to order Kashti returned to home detention. She
argued that the INS had no authority to arrest him while he was still serving
his sentence and that he qualifies for release under a provision of immigration
law for the protection of cooperating witnesses.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard D. Gregorie, who prosecuted the money-laundering
case, declined to comment. But letters he sent this month to senior INS
officials stressed Kashti's importance to a continuing investigation and
requested his release.

The cooperation of Kashti and his wife led to the conviction of Eli Tisona, "a
leading Israeli organized crime figure" involved in laundering money for
Colombia's Cali cartel, Gregorie wrote. Tisona is awaiting sentencing in Miami.
Three other defendants jumped bail and fled to Israel, including Kashti's son,
Yehuda Kashti, Gregorie said.

"Ilan Kashti may well face retribution for his testimony from Israeli organized
crime, including his son, if he is returned to Israel," Gregorie wrote. At a
minimum, he added, Kashti should be freed on bond because he is not dangerous or
a flight risk.

The INS, however, "doesn't have an option here" because Kashti is an "aggravated
felon," said Nancy Cohen, an INS spokeswoman. "Mr. Kashti is a mandatory
detention criminal alien, and by statute there is no possibility of release or
relief."

Osberg-Braun, a former INS prosecutor, disputes that assertion. One way to
resolve the situation now, she said, is for the U.S. Attorney's Office to
request an "S visa" for Kashti, which would allow him to get out of jail and
stay in the United States as a cooperating government witness.

Gregorie declined to comment on why he has not yet applied for such a visa for
Kashti, saying it was "an internal matter."

Israeli immigrant Ilan Kashti was serving home detention when he was arrested by
immigration agents earlier this month.


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,BROWARD COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              143 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 03, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

SUPREME COURT CALENDAR

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 92 words


The Supreme Court will hear arguments from 10 a.m. until noon today in the
following cases:

No. 97-1754. Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Aguirre-Aguirre.
Regarding the standard for deporting a refugee who seeks asylum because he fears
persecution in his home country, but who may have committed a serious crime
there that could bar asylum. (One hour.)

No. 98-5864. Strickler v. Greene. Testing a state's duty to disclose evidence
favorable to a defendant, in this case involving a Virginia man convicted of
murder. (One hour.)

LOAD-DATE: March 03, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              144 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 05, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Systems Analyst Daniel P. May Dies at 55; Worked for INS, Computer Sciences
Corp.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06; OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 219 words


Daniel Paul May, 55, a systems analyst who retired from the Department of
Immigration and Naturalization in December, died March 1 in a traffic accident
on Interstate 66 in Fairfax County. Virginia State Police said he was hit by a
tractor-trailer after getting out of his car following a minor accident just
east of Nutley Street. He lived in Fairfax.

Mr. May was born in Des Moines. He moved to Northern Virginia as a child and
graduated from Bishop Denis O'Connell High School in Arlington. He attended the
University of Maryland and served in the Air Force from 1963 to 1969.

During his civilian federal career, he worked for the U.S. Customs Bureau, the
Federal Communications Commission and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Since his federal retirement, he had been employed with Computer Sciences Corp.

Survivors include his wife, Tjinta May of Fairfax; three children, Christopher
May of Columbia, Angela Roberts of Roanoke and Helena May of Bealeton, Va.; four
brothers, James May of Evans, Ga., Thomas May of Springfield, Michael May of
McLean and Dennis May of Gainesville; five sisters, Nancy Conroy of Manassas,
Susan Olah of Russburg, Va., Patricia May of Harrisonburg, Fa., Denise O'Keefe
of Concord, N.C., and Kathleen Herrity of Centreville; and three grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: March 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              145 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 05, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Days of Rage in Little Saigon; Portrait of Ho Chi Minh Incenses Vietnamese
Immigrants

Rene Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1110 words

DATELINE: WESTMINSTER, Calif.


They are gathering by the thousands outside the little shop on Bolsa Avenue, an
unlikely mob of middle-aged Vietnamese carrying protest signs and fresh pain
from a war that ended long ago.

This city 40 miles southeast of Los Angeles is home to the largest Vietnamese
immigrant community in the nation. It is a striving, prosperous place where the
American dream is in full bloom. But ever since a Vietnamese merchant draped a
communist flag and a portrait of the late Vietnamese communist leader Ho Chi
Minh on the wall of his Hi Tek Video store, nothing has been the same.

The streets are filled with rage. Twice in recent days, more than 15,000 people
have swarmed into a strip mall parking lot that houses the video store and held
tumultuous rallies that blocked traffic and lasted well into the night.

Vietnamese exiles are coming from across Southern California and beyond. Old
men, former South Vietnamese soldiers, are coming in full military uniform and
standing stone-faced in the crowd for hours. So are small groups of American
veterans of the Vietnam War. Many refugees who fled Vietnam in rickety boats
after U.S. troops were pulled out of the country in 1975 and who have built
quiet middle-class lives here are raising their voices in protest for the first
time.

"We can never forget," Dieu Phan, 53, a computer programmer for a local school
system, said as he joined others waving a blizzard of yellow Vietnamese flags
during a demonstration last weekend. "Our people died fighting communism in our
country, or died at sea trying to escape from it. These symbols he has in his
store are just too much. People's hearts catch on fire when they see it."

The siege in Westminster's Little Saigon is growing even though the video store
is closed and the merchant, an enigmatic young man named Truong Van Tran,
apparently is in hiding.

Protesters are holding vigils day and night, lighting candles and singing
freedom songs, even sleeping in their cars. Some demonstrators have blanketed
all the windows of the store with Vietnamese and American flags. Others are
hanging stuffed figures of Ho Chi Minh in effigy from a second-story balcony.

Outside a takeout restaurant near the video store, faded newspaper clippings
from a generation ago about hardships and atrocities in Vietnam are tacked to
sheets of plywood. And along the bustling, six-lane Bolsa Avenue, billboards
proclaim, "We together must not lose Little Saigon to Hanoi."

Tran, 37, ignited the fury a few weeks ago when he dared leaders in this
community of more than 100,000 Vietnamese to stop him from displaying the
communist flag and painting. Initially, a judge ordered him to take down the
inflammatory items. But with the help of the American Civil Liberties Union,
Tran appealed, citing his right to free speech, and won.

Since then, Westminster police have been working overtime to contain the
swelling protests outside his store and have made more than three dozen arrests,
mostly for disorderly conduct. Tran was even hospitalized briefly after one
incensed demonstrator smacked him in the face.

His motives are still not clear. In interviews, Tran, who does not speak English
well, has said that he too is a refugee from the war and is not a communist. He
has said that he is only trying to create more open dialogue about improving
relations with Vietnam, which the United States renewed diplomatic and economic
ties with in 1994.

Yet in front of television cameras, with protesters screaming at his back, Tran
also has knelt and bowed in apparent prayer before the bright red communist flag
and the Ho Chi Minh portrait. Some leaders in the Vietnamese community say that
he is merely an attention seeker with a long history of controversy here.

Tran's advocates argue that no matter what his goals are, and even if he lacks
any, he has a right to hang the flag and the portrait inside his shop. "This is
obviously protected speech," said Peter Eliasberg, an attorney working on the
case for the ACLU's Los Angeles chapter.

In the short life of Westminster's Little Saigon, there has never been anything
as large and tense as the drama unfolding outside Hi Tek Video. Work usually
rules the day here, not politics. Many residents arrived two decades ago as
penniless refugees. But now hundreds of businesses owned or operated by
Vietnamese immigrants stretch for miles down Bolsa Avenue. The commercial
corridor is as jammed with shoppers on a weekend as Rockville Pike.

Still, as home to so many exiles and former officers in the South Vietnamese
military, Little Saigon is a community whose spirit is dominated by harsh
memories of war and loss. It does not easily tolerate even whispers of support
for the government in Vietnam.

The area's only Vietnamese elected official, Westminster Councilman Tony Lam, is
under fire for not leading the fight against Tran. Local papers are reporting
that a recall drive is underway and that his wife has even begun threatening him
with divorce. But Lam has said that city attorneys have urged him to steer clear
of the demonstrations.

Lucky Truong, an electronics engineer who lives in the nearby community of
Garden Grove, has been coming here every evening after work for two weeks to
protest. This past weekend, he brought his wife to a demonstration. The two of
them stood arm in arm in the raucous parking lot, praising freedom.

Truong, 49, was among the first wave of Vietnamese refugees to make the long and
harrowing journey by boat to America. "This has brought back all the bad
memories and all the anger from that time," he said. "You cannot just drive by,
even if he has his rights to do this."

At first, most protesters were focused only on pressuring Tran, who is also
fighting an eviction order from the mall's owner, to remove the communist flag
and Ho Chi Minh portrait at once. But in recent days the focus and the tenor of
the demonstrations have changed. They have become more solemn and more peaceful
as they have grown, and have become as much an affirmation of the pride
Vietnamese immigrants have in their new lives as a denunciation of communism.

"This is not just about Tran any more," said Tracy Duong, who is bringing her
teenaged daughter to every protest. "Let him have his First Amendment rights,
and we will keep showing up here with ours. That is why we all came here in the
first place, because we could not do that in our country without getting shot."

Westminister police officer attempts to remove Giang Ho during protest near
video store where Truong Van Tran displays communist flag and painting of Ho Chi
Minh, North Vietnamese leader.


LOAD-DATE: March 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,REUTERS/SAM MIRCOVICH; MAP,,TWP

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              146 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 05, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Missouri Nursing Home Settles EEOC Suit; 65 Allegedly Underpaid Filipino Nurses
to Share $2.1 Million in Back Pay, Damages

Kirstin Downey Grimsley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 794 words


A Missouri nursing home has agreed to settle allegations of illegal
discrimination by paying $ 2.1 million to 65 registered nurses recruited from
the Philippines, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission announced this
week.

The commission said the Woodbine Health Care Center in Gladstone, Mo., used a
now-discontinued Immigration and Naturalization Service visa program designed to
find nurses amid a labor shortage, promising to pay the prevailing wage to the
immigrants, as the program required. But when the Filipino nurses arrived in the
United States, they were paid less than half of what they had been promised,
treated unfairly and threatened with deportation if they complained, EEOC
officials said.

"It's not unusual for nursing homes to make use of foreign nurses, especially
Filipino nurses, because they speak English and are trained in the same way as
nurses here," said EEOC regional lawyer Robert Johnson. "They're seen as being
able to be pushed around and paid less without them complaining about it."

The owners of the nursing home, Woodbine Healthcare Limited Partners, declined
through their lawyer, Karen Glickstein, to comment on the settlement.

Glickstein said her clients "continue to deny any liability" in the case, but
have since sold the nursing home and are no longer in the nursing-care business.

Alaine Villanueva, 29, is a registered nurse from the Philippines who filed a
discrimination lawsuit that was later joined by the EEOC on behalf of the 65
workers.

Villanueva said her mother took out a $ 5,000 loan in the Philippines to pay
employment agency fees and transportation costs for her to come to the United
States in 1994 to work in what they were told would be a high-paying nursing
job.

Instead, Villanueva alleged, she and other Filipino nurses were forced to work
as nurses' aides, were paid $ 7 an hour while American-born registered nurses
were paid $ 13 to $ 15 an hour. She also said the Filipino nurses were not
permitted to sit down while at work, were assigned to do the dirtiest jobs and
the heaviest work, and were required to work mandatory overtime shifts for which
they were not paid.

"They continually exploited us," Villanueva said.

"If we didn't do mandatory overtime, they'd say 'You'll get in trouble and
they'll send you home.' "

The Filipino nurses will receive settlements of $ 3,000 to $ 53,000 each in back
pay, interest and compensatory damages, depending on how long they worked at
Woodbine and their roles in the litigation.

In addition, Woodbine officials agreed to send each nurse a letter of apology,
expressing their "deep regret for any offensive conduct by Woodbine's managers,
supervisors and administrators."

Last year, the nurses won a $ 700,000 settlement in back pay and penalties
obtained by the Labor Department for prevailing-wage violations at Woodbine.

The INS program was created in 1989 to help address a serious nursing shortage.
The Labor Department's Wage and Hour Division was charged with monitoring the
program, which was allowed to fade out of existence in 1995 after consolidations
in the health-care industry created a glut of nurses.

But the program left behind a chain of controversies. In January 1998, a Texas
nursing home operator and four nursing recruiters in California and New Jersey
pleaded guilty to participating in schemes to bring to the United States
hundreds of Filipino and Korean nurses who were paid $ 5 an hour and farmed out
to health-care facilities in 35 states. In 1997, a retirement community near
Chicago was forced to pay $ 176,323 in back wages and civil penalties after the
Labor Department charged it had paid Filipino nurses only 58 percent of the
prevailing wage for nurses.

In 1996, the Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago agreed to pay $ 50,000 in fines and
$ 384,700 in back wages to 99 Filipino nurses who allegedly were underpaid at a
church-operated nursing home.

Church officials at the time said they did not violate the law.

"This has happened more times than we care to count," said Cheryl Peterson,
senior policy fellow at the American Nurses Association in Washington.

Peterson said few cases make it into the courts or are pursued by government
agencies because the immigrants fear deportation. "There are so many threats
against these nurses that they are afraid to complain," she said.

Villanueva said she hoped the success of her case would encourage other
immigrants to come forward with claims if they are treated unfairly.

"We don't have to be submissive," she said. "I would like all immigrants to be
aware of the law.

"In the United States, everyone is treated equally. We have the same rights as
the rich people even if we come from a poor country."

LOAD-DATE: March 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              147 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 08, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

Search Ends for 40 Haitians Missing Off Florida Coast; 3 Survivors Tell of Panic
as Boats Sank

Sue Anne Pressley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 901 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 7


They had no life jackets, certainly no life rafts, not even strips of plastic or
wood to cling to when their two boats sank early Saturday and they slipped into
the cool, dark sea off the coast of south Florida. Once in the water, the 43
Haitian immigrants who sought refuge in the United States scarcely had a chance,
and only three survived.

U.S. Coast Guard officers, who spent most of Saturday combing 2,600 square miles
of the Atlantic Ocean from Palm Beach to Cape Canaveral, called off their search
for more survivors early today. There was no point in looking further, they
said. Authorities described the tragedy as the worst ever involving the
smuggling of Caribbean immigrants to south Florida.

"There's nothing there, no debris, nothing to see," said Coast Guard Petty
Officer Jeff Hall.

Even to a world that has grown accustomed to stories of Haitian and Cuban
immigrants--nameless, faceless and desperate--risking their lives and sometimes
meeting their deaths as they pursued dreams of escape, Saturday's tragedy held a
terrible poignancy.

Although Coast Guard and U.S. Border Patrol officials have not released many
details, the spare account was chilling enough, and raised anew cries from some
Haitian American residents of Florida that the United States does not seem to
care what happens to them or their country.

Two small boats set out from West End, Grand Bahama Island, a common smuggling
route, under cover of darkness into calm seas. The 17-footer carried 16 men and
two women; the 20-foot vessel held 20 men and five women, survivors told Border
Patrol investigators. After the first boat began taking on water about 24 miles
east of West Palm Beach, the second drew near to retrieve the panicked
passengers. As they scrambled aboard, it too sank.

Most of the Haitians apparently were swept under immediately. Authorities were
alerted to the tragedy after sailors on a passing freighter radioed that they
had heard screams for help about 2 a.m. Saturday. Although two men clung to a
barrel for hours, one lost his grip and disappeared under the surface as Coast
Guard officers moved in to rescue the other. At 8:30 a.m., two more men were
plucked alive from the water.

For the past year, more and more illegal immigrants from Haiti and Cuba have
been braving the dangerous crossing in an attempt to reach a new life on U.S.
shores.

"I guess people feel like they've got to do what they've got to do, and it's
worth whatever risk," said Darlene Mitchell, 18, of Miami, who said she left her
native Haiti by plane when she was 3 and remembers nothing about the trip or her
earlier life. "It's just so sad."

Political uncertainties and economic hardships have driven most of the would-be
immigrants from their homelands, but getting here sometimes has proven just as
perilous as they have entrusted their lives to paid smugglers in overcrowded,
ill-equipped boats. But never before have so many been lost at one time.

In another recent tragedy, 13 Cubans drowned on Dec. 17 when their boat sank off
Elliott Key near Miami, and last week, one of the survivors pleaded guilty to
charges of alien smuggling.

Hall said there seemed little doubt that Saturday's accident involved smugglers.
No one would confirm today if one of the survivors was suspected of being a
smuggler, as early news reports indicated.

One of the men, Louis Pierre, 42, remained at a West Palm Beach hospital today;
the other two were released to immigration officials and taken to the Krome
detention center, where captured immigrants are held and processed. Pierre, who
told the Associated Press through a translator that the group left St. Marc,
Haiti, last Monday night, and stopped Thursday to rest in the Bahamas, denied
that the trip was organized by smugglers. He said he contributed $ 50 for gas
and food and hoped to gain political asylum.

His wife and four children remain in Haiti. "I would love for them to come, but
not in the boat," he said.

After 30,000 Cubans and 25,000 Haitians illegally immigrated to the United
States in 1994, the federal government changed its policy in 1996, at least
toward Cubans. Before, any Cubans detected heading here by sea might have had a
chance of remaining in America; now, they must touch U.S. soil before they are
given that opportunity, making sea crossings more of a gamble and giving brazen
smugglers even greater influence.

Through the years, the policy toward Haitians, however, has been to return them
promptly to Haiti, regardless of whether they were caught at sea or on land,
generating resentment in the large Haitian American community here as conditions
in that country continue to deteriorate. But even those feelings seemed
overwhelmed today by a profound sense of sorrow.

"Everyone feels bad," said Gerard Darbouze, pastor at the Notre-Dame d'Haiti
Catholic Church in Miami, where special prayers were said today for the 40 lost
at sea. "But not only do we feel bad, we want to know how to remedy this
problem. We would like the help of the U.S. government--in the right direction.
All these people are doing is looking for a better place."

"Everyone feels bad," said Gerard Darbouze, pastor of Notre-Dame d'Haiti
Catholic Church in Miami, where the largely Haitian congregation prayed for the
40 immigrants lost at sea. "But not only do we feel bad, we want to know how to
remedy this problem."


LOAD-DATE: March 08, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,MIAMI HERALD/CARL JUSTE

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              148 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 08, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

Italian Americans Accuse INS of Bias; 'Ethnic Slurs' Against Employees Cited

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 704 words


Over the years, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has been the first
point of contact for millions of Italians who, like other immigrants, came to
the United States. It ushered them into the country en route to new lives in
cities across America and processed them for U.S. citizenship.

Now the service stands accused of bias against its Italian American employees in
connection with equal employment opportunity complaints, according to a series
of letters dating back to January 1997.

One charge that the INS is guilty of "systemic and institutional discrimination"
was leveled in an Aug. 3, 1998, letter to Attorney General Janet Reno from the
National Italian American Foundation. It is based on an independent
investigation that the group says resulted from several EEO complaints, notably
those of two senior INS field managers of Italian heritage.

The two are among at least seven serving or former INS district directors who
have filed EEO complaints alleging bias against them by the INS. The complaints
have contributed to friction between senior field managers and headquarters,
magnifying differences over such matters as internal reorganization and
detention of deportable aliens.

The foundation, a self-described "umbrella organization" for 25 million Italian
Americans, said it has not received a response to its latest letter, the Aug. 3
letter to Reno, which was written by its vice chairman, Frank Guarini, a retired
Democratic congressman from New Jersey. But in replies to previous letters, the
INS suggested that the complaints stemmed from a single incident and said its
own investigation did not turn up any pattern of discrimination against its
Italian American employees.

Guarini rejected that argument, saying the inquiry "established very disturbing
evidence of widespread, anti-Italian-American prejudice at the highest levels of
INS."

His letter said sworn testimony identified at least four current or former top
executives "who have . . . regularly engaged in ethnic slurs about subordinate
Italian-American employees of INS."

The letter said a report by a private investigative firm, hired by the Justice
Department to check into the complaints independently, "includes numerous
allegations of reprisals" against the plaintiffs. It added, "Even more shocking
is the disclosure in that same investigation of the alleged existence of a 'hit
list' . . . containing the names of every high-ranking Italian-American employed
by INS in the Washington, D.C., area and targeting them for discriminatory
personnel actions based on national origin."

Guarini wrote to Reno that she was "not being well served or informed on what
are grave problems at INS."

An INS spokesman said the agency "does not discuss specifics of pending EEO
complaints." A spokeswoman for the Justice Department said she could not comment
on the charges because they are the subject of "an ongoing investigation." She
said the INS replied to Guarini last August but would not reveal what the letter
said.

In reply to an earlier letter from Guarini, the INS wrote on Feb. 24, 1997, that
it had investigated "alleged ethnic slurs" made by William S. Slattery, then the
INS's executive associate commissioner for field operations. "Mr. Slattery
admitted to referring to INS Baltimore District Director Benedict Ferro as 'Don
Benjamin,' " but said he did not mean this to be derogatory, the letter said.

"Regarding his alleged use" of derogatory terms for Italian Americans, "Mr.
Slattery stated that although he did not recall using these terms, if he had he
would have only done so on limited occasions, and would not have intended his
words to defame any particular INS employee or ethnic group," the letter said.
It said the investigation "did not uncover any indication that ethnic comments
against Italian American employees are a systemic occurrence at INS
headquarters."

Slattery left the INS in April 1997, two months before his scheduled retirement.
He could not be reached for comment.

Ferro said the "prohibited personnel practices" involved far more than one
incident or person and stated that he turned to the EEO process because his
agency did not act to end the slurs.

LOAD-DATE: March 08, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              149 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 09, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

'Chilling Effects' Seen From Welfare Reform; Caseload Drop Sharper Among
Immigrants

William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 677 words


The use of public benefits has declined more sharply among immigrants than U.S.
citizens, largely because welfare reform legislation has had "chilling effects"
on many noncitizens who were actually eligible to apply for such assistance,
according to a new study.

In an analysis of Census Bureau survey data, Urban Institute researchers Michael
Fix and Jeffrey S. Passel concluded that "noncitizens accounted for a
disproportionately large share of the overall decline in welfare caseloads that
occurred between 1994 and 1997." The use of cash welfare benefits by noncitizen
households fell 35 percent during that period, compared with a 15 percent
decline among citizen households, they said. The same patterns held true for
food stamps and Medicaid.

But the study showed that, although their welfare usage rates dropped faster, a
larger percentage of immigrants received cash assistance, food stamps and
Medicaid than citizens -- both before and after the 1996 welfare reform law was
passed. In 1997, for example, 9 percent of noncitizens used cash welfare and
10.8 percent used food stamps, while citizens had usage rates of 6.7 percent and
6.8 percent, respectively, in the same categories.

The 1996 law imposed restrictions on legal immigrants' access to welfare, set
time limits on the eligibility of refugees and placed bars on access to services
by "unqualified immigrants." The study said that the law's "chilling effects" on
applicants might have been more consequential by discouraging "immigrants from
using health, nutrition or other types of benefits, despite the fact that many
remain eligible." The study attributed these effects in part to confusion among
immigrants and providers about who remains eligible and to fears that receiving
welfare could lead to deportation or other penalties under laws intended to bar
immigrants from becoming "public charges."

The Clinton administration is likely to use the study to buttress arguments for
budget requests aimed at further restoring health, nutrition and cash benefits
to vulnerable legal immigrants, including children, pregnant women and newcomers
who are disabled, researchers said.

The Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington think tank that supports
reducing immigration, said it does not dispute that fewer immigrants are seeking
benefits for which they are eligible. But the problem is that, in tinkering with
welfare eligibility, Congress failed to limit the admission of those likely to
need welfare in the first place, said Steven Camarota, a resident scholar at the
center.

"Instead of fixing immigration policy, [Congress] tried to micromanage immigrant
policy, with perhaps some unintended effects," he said.

Fix, the Urban Institute's director of immigration studies, said the reform
law's unintended effects have included discouraging welfare usage by refugees
and the U.S.-born children of immigrants, as well as slowing enrollment in new
health insurance programs for the working poor.

Refugees had substantially higher usage rates of cash welfare, food stamps and
Medicaid than noncitizens in general, the study showed. In 1997, nearly a
quarter used welfare -- down from a third in 1994, but still far above the 9
percent figure for all noncitizens.

The higher usage rates among noncitizens generally "are due to the fact that
immigrant households are poorer and more likely to contain children, not because
noncitizens have a greater disposition toward receiving benefits," the study
said. When the researchers compared only poor households with children, they
found that the welfare usage rates of noncitizens fell below those of citizens.

Fix said it was impossible to tell how much of the decline in welfare use among
noncitizens was attributable to the law's effects in weeding out illegal
immigrants who had been receiving benefits improperly. The institute received
suggestions that this was one of the factors behind an earlier finding of a 71
percent drop in noncitizens' welfare use in Los Angeles from 1995 to 1998, Fix
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 09, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              150 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 14, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Justice for Some

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 604 words


ONE OF THE SHABBIER stories of the past several years has been the government's
whittling away of the rights of foreigners living legally in this country. This
campaign has been led by Republicans in Congress, notably Texas Rep. Lamar
Smith, but the Clinton administration has been complicit. The rhetoric has been
aimed at illegal immigrants -- criminal aliens, in the preferred phrase -- but
the victims in too many cases have been permanent residents and their American
relatives, who have found themselves deprived of the most basic elements of due
process and fair treatment. The administration, courageous in its defense of
airline passengers and other such oppressed minorities, has risked little
political capital on behalf of this particular group.

Congress opened the assault in 1996 with legislation aimed at accelerating the
deportation especially of illegal immigrants who commit criminal offenses. Fair
enough; people who enter this country illegally have no claim to remain, and if
they break U.S. laws while here there is all the more reason to evict them. The
new laws, along with more resources for and greater commitment by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, led to a doubling of the deportation
rate.

But in seeking more rigorous enforcement, the legislation gratuitously took a
swipe at innocent parties as well. The laws greatly expanded the range of
offenses for which even legal residents can be deported, to include minor theft
and drug possession. Then they made the changes retroactive, so that people who
had served their sentences and returned to law-abiding lives suddenly found
themselves in danger of eviction. Finally, the laws removed practically all
discretion, so that neither judges nor executive branch officials could make
exceptions.

Attorney General Janet Reno took this poisonous mixture and made it worse,
opting for the harshest possible interpretation whenever the laws' intent was in
doubt. She ruled, for example, that even waivers submitted before the laws went
into effect could no longer be considered, though nothing in the legislation
dictated such an interpretation.

The results have been harsh indeed. Legal permanent residents who have been
supporting families for a decade or more suddenly found themselves in detention,
with no possibility of bail or appeal. Children adopted from foreign countries
as toddlers have been shipped back to those countries as adults, though in
culture and language they are as American as can be. Even long-ago offenses that
courts have legally expunged from the record have now been ruled deportable.

The Supreme Court has now waded into this mess with a bit of help, but only a
bit. The court let stand two lower-court rulings that allowed immigrants at
least to appeal to a judge if they believe their rights have been violated,
something the administration sought to prevent. But because the Supreme Court
made no comment, contradictory rulings by other circuit courts also can still be
valid. A non-citizen's rights now depend in part on where in the country he or
she lives.

The administration should take its cue from this partial judgment and stop
trying to block resident aliens from exercising their most fundamental rights.
It should stop trying to block judicial review of its decisions. And it should
take the lead in urging Congress this year to restore some balance and
proportion to its laws. Without interfering with the merited deportation of
criminal aliens, it could return to all residents something this country once
was known for -- a fair hearing and a shot at even-handed justice.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              151 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 17, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10; NATION IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 513 words


27 Arrested in Iranian Visa Scam

Federal agents yesterday arrested 27 people in connection with a Los
Angeles-based ring that allegedly produced fake visa and asylum applications for
Iranians, including members of a terrorist group opposed to Iran's ruling
ayatollahs.

Culminating a nearly three-year investigation, the agents picked up 15 alleged
ring members in Southern California and Nevada. Also detained were 12 other
people who allegedly entered the United States or applied for political asylum
fraudulently with the ring's help. Most of those arrested were Iranians.

Among them was the alleged ringleader, Bahram Tabatabai, a businessman in
Encino. A federal indictment unsealed yesterday accused him of helping hundreds
of Iranian illegal immigrants obtain U.S. immigration benefits, including asylum
based on fictitious accounts of persecution in Iran.

U.S. officials said some of the ring's "clients" have been identified as members
of the Mujaheddin-e-Khalq, a group that assassinated Americans in Iran in the
1970s and later turned against the Muslim clerics who took power in 1979. The
State Department has declared the group a foreign terrorist organization.

Freemen Leader Draws 22 1/2 Years

BILLINGS, Mont. -- The leader of the Montana Freemen was sentenced to 22 1/2
years in prison for trying to undermine the nation's banking system.

LeRoy Schweitzer's lawyer said the punishment amounted to a life sentence for
the 61-year-old man. He could have gotten 32 years. Four of Schweitzer's
followers received sentences ranging from probation to 15 years behind bars.

Nine Freemen were convicted in two trials last year. They and their followers
were accused of issuing thousands of bogus checks totaling billions of dollars.

About two dozen members of the anti-government group, living on a farm on the
plains of Montana, held FBI agents at bay for 81 days in 1995 before
surrendering without a shot being fired.

Schweitzer and five other Freemen -- including some scheduled to be sentenced
today -- watched and listened by television from a holding cell in the
courthouse after refusing to enter the courtroom.

U.S. District Judge John Coughenour said he decided not to have marshals
forcibly bring them into the courtroom out of concern for the safety of the
defendants and the marshals.

Skinhead Guilty in Denver Murder

DENVER -- A skinhead was convicted of murder and attempted murder in the 1997
shooting death of a West African immigrant and the wounding of a bystander who
came to the victim's aid.

The jury reached the verdict against Jeremiah Barnum, 25, on Monday. He faces a
mandatory sentence of life in prison without parole. The jury also found Barnum
guilty of ethnic intimidation.

Barnum is one of two white men accused in a shooting at a Denver bus stop that
killed Oumar Dia, an immigrant from Senegal who is black, and left paralyzed
Jeannie VanVelkinburgh, a white woman who came to Dia's aid. The other
defendant, Nathan Thill, 21, is accused of pulling the trigger and will stand
trial next month.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              152 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 18, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

THE DISTRICT IN BRIEF

SECTION: WEEKLY - DC; Pg. J05; THE DISTRICT IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 605 words


Forum on Race Relations

A forum called "Race Dialogue: Where Do We Go From Here?" will be held at All
Souls Unitarian Church, 16th and Harvard streets NW, at 7:30 p.m. Saturday. It
is sponsored by The Multicultural Community Service--a collaborative of
individuals who live and work in the Adams-Morgan, Columbia Heights, Mount
Pleasant and Shaw communities--together with the Mayor's Office on Latino
Affairs and the Mayor's Office on Asian and Pacific Islander Affairs.

The event will feature Angela E. Oh, who served on the President's Advisory
Board on Race and is currently a lawyer and member of the Los Angeles City Human
Relations Commission. After her presentation, a select panel of D.C. residents
who are concerned about race, diversity and other issues causing tension in D.C.
neighborhoods will reflect and respond.

Admission is free, and interpretation will be provided in Spanish and
Vietnamese.

Naturalization Workshop

Several organizations are sponsoring a naturalization workshop Saturday to offer
eligible U.S. permanent residents the opportunity to initiate the naturalization
process. Those who begin now are more likely to become citizens in time to vote
in the November 2000 presidential election.

Trained volunteers will be available to help fill out naturalization
applications and submit information to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, as well as take photographs, make photocopies and assist with
registration. Immigration lawyers and INS officials will also be present to
answer naturalization-related questions.

The workshop, sponsored by the Latino Civil Rights Center, Central American
Resource Center and Latin-American Youth Center, will be held at the Gavan
Center, located in the basement of Sacred Heart Church, 16th Street and Park
Road NW.

Appointments are available at 10 a.m., 11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. Potential
applicants must first preregister by calling the Latino Civil Rights Center at
202-332-1053 before 6 p.m. tomorrow. The cost for the workshop is $ 10 to cover
the costs of photocopies, photos and other fees associated with completing the
naturalization form.

Hearing on Antennas

A public meeting, conducted by the National Park Service, will be held on
Wednesday to discuss the construction of wireless telecommunication antennas in
Rock Creek Park, to be put up Bell Atlantic Mobile. The meeting will be held at
7 p.m. at the Rock Creek Park Nature Center, 5200 Glover Rd. NW.

A group of community organizations opposed to the antennas will attend. They
include the Ward 3 and Ward 4 Cellular Towers Task Force, Advisory Neighborhood
Commission members from across the city, local civic associations and D.C.
Council members. The meeting is part of a public review period.

The Park Service recently completed an environmental impact statement on the
project that indicated it would not have a significant impact.

The Park Service reports on the towers are available on Rock Creek Park's Web
site at www.nps.gov/rocr. Those who want a copy of the reports or are unable to
attend the meeting and wish to submit written comments may write to Adrienne
Coleman, Superintendent of Rock Creek Park, 3545 Williamsburg Lane NW,
Washington, D.C. 20008. All correspondence must be completed by March 31.

Commemorating a Move

Former astronaut Gene Cernan, the last man to walk on the moon, has donated
signed copies of his Apollo-era memoir, "Last Man on the Moon," to all 24 D.C.
public high schools and all 26 D.C. public libraries to celebrate the relocation
of SPACEHAB Inc., a company he is affiliated with, to downtown Washington.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              153 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 20, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

METRO IN BRIEF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03; METRO IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 1131 words


THE REGION

Metro Probe Leads to More Precautions

Metro is taking additional precautions during the next several weeks while
technicians continue to check the 94-mile system for faulty electronic equipment
that controls train speed and keeps trains a safe distance apart, transit
officials said yesterday.

In addition to having operators run trains manually instead of letting computers
control them, Metro also is cutting train speeds to 25 mph on curves or in hilly
areas, where visibility is poor. As electronic equipment is checked in those
areas, trains will be allowed to go faster, according to a Metro spokeswoman.

The new measures, in force since Wednesday, should not add more time to the 10
extra minutes Metro officials have warned riders to expect on trips because of
the steps announced earlier.

Recently, Metro announced that three electronic switches had failed during the
last three months, a number officials find alarming given that the switches,
called relays, are designed to last 70 to 80 years. Experts are checking about
21,000 relays throughout the system to make sure all are performing correctly.

Immigrants' Achievements Honored

Eight immigrants, including a former welfare mother from Sierra Leone who owns a
$ 1.8 million-a-year cleaning business in St. Mary's County and an Arlington
entrepreneur who owns multimillion-dollar Spanish-language radio and television
companies, were honored last night for their achievements by the American
Immigration Law Foundation.

The Fourth Annual Immigrant Achievement Awards, recognizing "the significant and
continuing contributions of America's immigrants," were held at Meridian House
in the District.

Those recognized include Sarian Bouma, originally of Sierra Leone, owner of
Capitol Hill Building Maintenance Inc.; Ronald Gordon, a native of Peru and
president and chief executive officer of ZGS Communications and ZGS Broadcasting
Inc.; Jeong Kim, a refugee from Korea and high-tech entrepreneur who is
president of Lucent Technologies' Carrier Networks division in Landover; and
political cartoonist Patrick Oliphant, a native of Australia.

Other honorees are Eva Plaza, who emigrated from Mexico as a child and is
assistant secretary for fair housing and equal opportunity at the Department of
Housing and Urban Development; Jhoon Rhee, a native of Korea who lives in McLean
and is considered the "father" of American tae kwon do; Flora Singer, a
Holocaust survivor from Belgium who is a scholar and a retired Montgomery County
schoolteacher; and Roman Totenberg, a Boston-based internationally acclaimed
violinist born in Poland.

THE DISTRICT

Body of Man Found in SW Is Identified

D.C. police have identified a man whose decomposed body was found Monday inside
a steamer trunk at an apartment building in Southwest Washington.

The man was identified as Ananalias Carl Bacon, 51, of the 1300 block of
Delaware Avenue SW. Police called to Bacon's apartment to investigate a foul
odor about 11:30 p.m. traced the smell to a bedroom, where they found the trunk.
After an autopsy earlier in the week,

Secret Service Officer Dragged by Car

An unidentified uniformed Secret Service officer suffered minor injuries last
night when he was dragged behind a car that had run a roadblock in Northwest
Washington, police said.

D.C. police were conducting a roadblock about 8 p.m. at 14th and Clifton streets
NW when they asked the Secret Service to help them transport a suspect. When the
Secret Service officer arrived, he saw another man speed through the roadblock
and chased him.

A few blocks away on 15th Street NW, the man crashed the car and the officer
approached the vehicle. As the officer tried to take him into custody, the man
gunned the engine, dragging the officer "less than a half mile" in circles,
Secret Service spokesman Jim Macklin said. The officer fired several rounds from
his department-issued 9mm handgun, which struck the back of the car. The suspect
at one point tried to back up and run over the officer as he lay injured on the
ground, Macklin said.

The man was apprehended nearby a short time later. The officer was taken to a
hospital, and was expected to be released last night.

Charter School Fair to Be Held Today

Representatives from 19 operating charter schools in the District and 10 schools
opening in September 1999 will be part of a Charter School Fair from 8:30 a.m.
to 5 p.m. today at Catholic University's Caldwell Hall. Charter schools, which
are open to D.C. students, are independent public schools created by teachers,
parents or other community members.

From 8:30 a.m. until noon, there will be a job fair sponsored by the D.C. Public
Charter School Resource Center. Charter schools will interview candidates for
teaching and staff support positions. Candidates are asked to bring 21 copies of
their re[prime]sume[prime]s.

From 1:30 p.m. to 5 p.m., a parent fair, sponsored by Friends of Choice in Urban
Schools and the D.C. Parents for School Choice Inc., will allow parents to speak
to representatives, get more information on each school and obtain application
forms.

MARYLAND

District Heights Boy, 9, Killed A 9-year-old District Heights boy was killed
last night after he ran into traffic on busy Central Avenue in Prince George's
County.

The child was struck by a car at the intersection of Hill Road about 7:30 p.m.
apparently as he ran from someone. A relative of the child saw the accident,
police said. The child, whose name was not released, was taken to Prince
George's Hospital Center, where he was pronounced dead a short time later,
police said.

The car was driven by a 63-year-old Upper Marlboro man.

Resort Study Is Flawed, EPA Says

The Environmental Protection Agency has identified "significant deficiencies"
with a study of the environmental impact of the proposed National Harbor resort
on the Potomac River shoreline in Oxon Hill. In a letter last month to the
National Capital Planning Commission, which commissioned the study as part of
its review of the project, the EPA asked for additional information on such
impacts as air quality and transportation.

The EPA also asked that other alternatives to the resort be studied. Ralph
Spagnolo, an EPA scientist who coordinated the review, said the agency plans to
work with the developer and the NCPC to mitigate environmental concerns. Andre
Gingles, a spokesman for the Peterson Cos., which is developing National Harbor,
said the EPA's concerns "will be addressed."

QUOTE OF THE DAY: "There's potentially a long-term, systemic failure that needs
to be investigated and it's alarming." -- Cheryl C. Kagan (D-Montgomery) on an
audit showing that problems with gun-buyer background checks in Maryland date to
1997.--Page A1

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              154 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 20, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

The World Comes to the American Workplace; Tight Labor Market and a Surge in
Immigration Brings New Diversity

Kirstin Downey Grimsley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2634 words


Upstairs, in the Washington Hilton's grand ballroom, hundreds of lobbyists,
publicists and journalists were converging for a gala awards dinner one recent
evening. Downstairs, in the hotel's labyrinthine underground kitchen, hundreds
of workers were getting ready, including eight gathered around a metal table
preparing salads for the banquet.

Working together in a brisk assembly line, placing vegetables on the plates and
moving them onto rolling metal racks were Grace Appiah, of Ghana; Carl
Jorgensen, of Bolivia; Ayad Al-Said, of Iraq; Robert Evans, an African American
born in Atlanta; and Keooudone Xaynhamad, of Laos. Austrian Herman Mueller,
assistant executive chef, monitored their progress.

Vietnamese immigrant Kim Nguyen used hand signals to show Sonia Vargas, a recent
arrival from Bolivia who speaks no English, how to artistically splay slices of
red and yellow pepper, tomato slices and California greens across the plate,
leaving an open space for the dish's centerpiece, a phyllo dough basket filled
with Gorgonzola cheese, caramelized onions and spinach.

Nguyen, 40, shook her head as she wordlessly showed Vargas, 22, how to arrange
the salad greens on the plates. "Sometimes it's difficult because they don't
speak much English," Nguyen said, speaking with her own heavy accent.

A tight labor market and a recent surge in immigration have created rapid
changes in many workplaces here and around the country. For while people often
find ways to cluster with others like themselves at home, in their
neighborhoods, at worship and at school, the need to make a living forces people
from widely varied backgrounds to get along day after day.

The result is an American workplace that in some cases resembles a modern-day
Tower of Babel, presenting multiple opportunities for miscommunication and
misunderstanding, as people seek to work together across steep barriers of
language, culture, gender and economic class, and racial, educational and
religious differences. Female managers supervise men who come from countries
where women's activities are restricted; high school dropouts instruct former
college professors; immigrants who speak only Spanish work alongside those who
speak only Vietnamese; Bosnians work alongside Serbs.

Along with the inevitable conflicts, many managers and workers interviewed
described how this new diversity also yields occasions of laughter, learning and
creativity among people from different worlds.

"It's surprising how well things work," said Tom Meyer, vice president of
restaurant development for Clyde's Restaurant Group, which employs about 1,400
people, more than a third of whom are immigrants. "The level of tolerance is
quite remarkable. . . . There's a real spirit of helping. People have a common
goal."

New Ways of Managing

The change has been particularly dramatic in the hotel and restaurant business,
which relies on a steady stream of able-bodied, low-wage workers. William
Edwards, general manager at the Hilton, recalled that when he was hired there as
a dishwasher in 1971 after a stint in the military, there were three main groups
-- white, black and Hispanics. Almost all the managers were white men, with
names like "Jones, Edwards and Smith," he recalled, and there were only two
languages at work, English and Spanish.

Now, the workers at the Hilton speak at least 36 languages, and some speak no
English at all. To communicate with the staff, Edwards has memos translated into
five languages and read aloud to workers who are illiterate. It's a different
world for supervisors, he said, and requires them to manage in entirely new
ways.

"Just set aside what business schools teach -- the MBA in finance or computer
literacy," said Edwards, whose staff is 65 percent foreign-born. "If you don't
have empathy and aren't able to communicate in diversity, or are uncomfortable
around a multicultural work force, or if you are not confident enough to give an
opportunity to someone who has a heavy accent or is different, you'll be a
miserable failure as a manager."

Workers describe much bigger personal challenges as they cope with the shock of
a new culture.

"I told my wife that when we came here it was like we had to be born anew," said
Hilton steward coordinator Emilio Paulino, who moved to the United States from
the Dominican Republic five years ago. "We had to learn to walk, to speak and to
eat" in the American way, he said.

Each day brings new dilemmas, such as how to handle religious differences. At
the Hilton, for example, a growing contingent are Moslem women. Celene
Castellucci, the hotel's assistant director of housekeeping, said the Moslem
workers complained that it was very difficult to take their normal lunch break
in the employee cafeteria, surrounded by food smells, during the Islamic holy
month of Ramadan, when Moslems fast from sunup to sundown. They asked her if
during Ramadan they could instead work through lunch and leave earlier.

Castellucci agreed, and the women were pleased. But, Castellucci said, she later
caught some flak for her decision from fellow managers who said other workers
would try to take advantage of the situation.

"Any time you do something in a union house, there's a danger of setting a
precedent," she said.

Other hotels have found creative solutions to different workers' needs. At Host
Marriott Services Corp. headquarters in Bethesda, for example, a separate room
has been set aside for Moslem employees who need a private setting to place
their prayer rugs when they pray to Mecca several times each day. At other
times, the space doubles as a lactation room for working mothers who breast-feed
their infants and need a place to privately express milk.

"It's a dual-purpose room," said Donna Klein, vice president of work force
effectiveness at Marriott, explaining how co-workers post a schedule to let
people know when it is breast-pumping time and when it is prayer time.

Communication Barriers

Language, of course, is the biggest potential barrier. Many workers cross the
hurdle in ingenious ways. Some rely on guesswork. Hilton seamstress Lenora Ward,
an African American from North Carolina, for example, dispenses and alters
uniforms for employees, But many of the workers come from countries where
measurements are taken differently and they can't tell her what size they wear.
So Ward looks them up and down and tries to gauge it on her own. "I can usually
guess," she said.

Sometimes workers rely on the sense of touch. The Hilton's Castellucci recalled
trying to express her condolences to an employee from Bosnia whose son had just
been killed in the fighting there.

"I tried to say I was sorry," Castellucci said. "She grabbed my arms. She had
tears in her eyes. We understood each other, although she didn't speak a word of
English."

Gesturing is common, often accompanied by a single word or two of broken
English, many workers and supervisors said. "Our supervisor doesn't know much
English, but when he points at a can and says 'trash,' they know what he wants
them to do," Paulino said.

Harri On, a Vietnamese waiter at the Hilton, relies on the written word. He
speaks with such a heavy accent that he often cannot be understood when he
speaks in English. So instead, when asked a question, he responds in writing, in
careful, elegant script.

Informal channels of communication, outside the normal chains of command,
usually emerge. In the Hilton's pastry department, for example, Concepcion
Carrillo is the conduit who explains to the other Hispanic workers what needs to
be done. In housekeeping, it's Evelyn Marshall, an African American woman who
speaks only English. Co-workers say she has an uncanny ability to communicate by
tone of voice that allows her to convey even complex thoughts to non-English
speakers.

Ethiopian-born Atlabachew Aklilu, assistant food and beverage director at the
Hilton, whose father was once vice mayor of Addis Ababa but whose family fled
political unrest there, plays the role of mentor to the approximately 100
Ethiopian workers in the hotel, even those who don't report to him. "They feel
comfortable coming to me," Aklilu said.

Some companies hire multiple translators. For example, Marriott's nationwide
employee assistance program hot line offers counseling services in 15 languages.

Many job seekers who do not speak English bring their own translators -- usually
an English-speaking friend or relative -- to help them fill out job applications
or answer interview questions, managers said.

But usually it's the workers themselves who find ways around seemingly
insurmountable communication barriers. At the Hilton, for example, the former
head of the landscaping department is deaf and mute and reads lips in English.
His two co-workers were a Central American man who spoke little English and a
hard-of-hearing Turkish man who spoke little English and no Spanish.

"I'm deaf and he's deaf too, so it's perfect," said Oktay Guney, from Istanbul,
laughing as he explained how they relied on lip-reading, hand gestures and a
shared knowledge of what needed to be done each day to keep up the Hilton's
lawns.

Sometimes there are even language barriers between people who appear to share a
language. Jorgensen, who works in the chef's department, was born in Bolivia and
speaks Spanish, but said he is frequently stumped by the unfamiliar accents and
vocabularies of other Hispanic immigrants. "Sometimes I don't understand them
because there are a lot of kinds of Spanish," he said.

Accents can raise hackles, too. Eloy Blanco, the Hilton's executive steward, was
born in Spain, and he speaks with a lisping Castilian accent that is associated
with the Spanish nobility. But Castilian Spanish carries a negative connotation
for Mexican workers because of centuries of oppressive rule by Spain. "It can be
offensive to some Mexicans," Blanco said, adding that he intentionally tones
down his accent at work.

Then there's a steady stream of small misunderstandings, like when one employee
says "30" and a co-worker who speaks another language hears it as "13."

"You need to take time and repeat things," said Hilton pastry chef Phillip
Samuel, an immigrant from the Caribbean nation of Trinidad and Tobago. "You need
to say 3-0. We have little problems like that."

Or there was the time an Hispanic waiter at the Hilton, serving a late-night
diner, asked if the guest wanted a beverage with "gas" or "without gas," which
in Spanish means carbonation.

Some miscommunications are tragic. At a Marriott hotel in Los Angeles, a
well-liked and diligent Spanish-speaking housekeeper retired after 25 years,
Klein said. On her last day, she asked the manager when she would receive her
first pension check. But it had never been adequately explained to her in
Spanish that the chain's retirement system required her to voluntarily invest in
the company's profit-sharing plan, Klein said.

"They were heartbroken," Klein said.

Meetings can be particularly difficult, as when workers who speak only one
language are unable to understand workers who only speak another language.

At a recent meeting of the Hilton's steward's department, for example, hotel
executives surprised the workers with a buffet luncheon to thank them for their
hard work during the National Prayer Breakfast, one of the hotel's most
prestigious annual events. The group, including Hispanics, Vietnamese, Middle
Easterners and Bosnians, filed into the room for the meeting. Only about four of
the 70 workers were born in the United States. Although the workers smiled,
joked and nodded to each other as they entered the room, most chose to sit at
tables with others of their same ethnic group.

Blanco thanked the workers for their hard work in English and Spanish, but
conducted much of the meeting that followed in Spanish. At several points,
English speakers interrupted, sometimes in irritated tones, with requests for
the information to be repeated in English, or asked him to explain something
they had missed after he had moved on to another topic. A Hispanic woman asked
pointedly in Spanish about vacation hours to be paid during a holiday week, but
ignored the explanation by the union steward in the room, who answered her
questions in English. An Arabic-speaking employee demanded to know why the
Spanish-speaking employees weren't made to speak English.

Meanwhile, the Vietnamese workers, sitting together at one side of the room,
began chatting among themselves, ignoring the meeting still underway. The
discussion dragged on, as questions and answers were repeated in multiple
languages.

Blanco urged the workers to continue cooperating with each other. "We are a
family," he told them. "A family helps one another, or we will be destroyed."

Overcoming Animosities

Sometimes deep animosities prove too deep for some workers to overcome. At a
Marriott hotel in Atlanta, for example, a Vietnamese-speaking Cambodian
supervisor appeared to be capably managing a staff composed mainly of Vietnamese
immigrants -- until another Cambodian on the staff told top managers about
problems in the department.

"We found out the supervisor was purposefully misinterpreting personnel
policies" to a Vietnamese employee to force her out of her job, said Marriott's
Klein. "We learned this supervisor had no forgiveness in her heart for
Vietnamese based on her history. Vietnamese had killed her entire family."

Klein said Marriott transferred the Cambodian supervisor to another department
where she would have no control over Vietnamese employees.

Cultural differences even force managers to find different ways to thank workers
for a job well done, said Brendan M. Keegan, executive vice president of human
resources for Marriott International Inc. Eastern Europeans, they've found, are
sometimes put off by plaques and photographs billing people as "Employee of the
Month," because they say it reminds them of the meaningless propaganda
techniques employed by Communist regimes in the past. And Marriott has found
that some workers from Asian and Latin American countries don't like to be
singled out for praise or acknowledgment in front of an assembled group because
they come from a cultural tradition where standing out is seen as boastful.

Some of the immigrant workers need to be given specific instruction about things
that seem ordinary or self-explanatory to native-born Americans, managers say.
For example, at the Old Ebbitt Grill, a waiter from Ghana, unfamiliar with
American condiments, was asked to bring mayonnaise for a customer's sandwich --
so he brought out a gallon tub and placed it on the table in front of her.

These are among the challenges resulting from a surge in immigration over the
last decades. A recent study of 1998 census data found that the number of
immigrants living in the United States had almost tripled since 1970 to 26.3
million -- accounting for nearly one in 10 residents, the highest proportion in
seven decades.

And for all the potential pitfalls, several managers and workers interviewed
said they learn to get along because they have to. Or as Francisco Peralta, 56,
a banquet waiter from Nicaragua who works at the Hilton, explained, "It's like
my wife and me," he said. "We're fighting every day, and then at night we sleep
in the same bed." The new diversity in the workplace has been particularly
dramatic in the hotel and restaurant business. These waiters at the Washington
Hilton represent many countries and cultures. Austrian Herman Mueller, right,
leads a group of workers from many countries in preparing the food for a banquet
at the Washington Hilton. Waiter Tam Duong, like many others working at the
Hilton, is an immigrant. He is originally from Vietnam.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, dayna smith; Photo, dayna smith

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              155 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 22, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

Labor Pact Reached At Townsend Culinary; Immigrants a Major Part of Work Force

Frank Swoboda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F19

LENGTH: 527 words


After years of litigation, including a rare class action sexual harassment suit
by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the largely immigrant work force
at Townsend Culinary Inc. in Laurel has won agreement on its first union
contract.

The agreement negotiated earlier this month by Local 400 of the United Food and
Commercial Workers union provides wage increases, improved health benefits and
union protections even if the company is sold.

The contract agreement also represents a major trend in unionizing efforts by
organized labor that has, in effect, returned to its roots by once again
targeting poor, immigrant workers at the bottom of the nation's economic ladder.

Approximately 85 percent of the company's 200 hourly employees are noncitizens
and, as a group, speak six different languages. More than half the workers are
female.

"They are who we used to be," said Local 400 President Jim Lowthers, referring
to the immigrant past of many in the labor movement. Local 400, with 40,000
members in Maryland, Virginia and bits of North Carolina and West Virginia, now
has nine full-time organizers who speak Spanish, French, Vietnamese and Korean.

The breakthrough in contract talks came late last year when the federal courts
upheld an injunction by the National Labor Relations Board and ordered the
company to recognize the union and bargain for a contract. Soon after, in late
November, an administrative law judge at the NLRB added to the pressure on
Townsend with a ruling that the company had violated federal labor law on a
number of fronts.

At that point, said David Majors, vice president for human resources at
Townsend, the company decided to settle the case and negotiation a contract. "We
were in negotiations once we got the ruling from the NLRB judge," Major said.

Once the two sides sat down at the table the talks went quickly. Majors said
agreement was reached after four bargaining sessions. "It was very amicable," he
said.

The new contract provides wage rates ranging from $ 6.25 to $ 8.40 an hour
depending upon skill levels and bonus payments for workers with the lowest
skills, and vacation benefits of up to five weeks after 25 years compared with
two weeks maximum after six years of service. In the event the company is sold,
the contract has a successorship clause, which means the new owner must
recognize the union and the contract.

The EEOC sexual harassment suit is still unsettled, but Townsend attorney Barry
Willoughby said there have been discussions about a possible settlement. The
problem is who should pay more, Townsend or the W.R. Grace Co., which sold the
food preparation company to Townsend in March 1996. Townsend maintains that the
sexual harassment alleged by the EEOC occurred under Grace.

A separate complaint by the Justice Department against Townsend also is pending.
The government said Townsend violated the rights of two legal immigrants who
were fired after failing to immediately produce certain immigration documents.
Both Willoughby and the union agree that the NLRB settlement effectively
remedies the Justice Department complaint making that action moot.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              156 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 27, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

Loudoun Alters Rule On Students' Visa Status

Liz Seymour, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 369 words


Loudoun County's school system will stop asking families about their visa status
before allowing them to enroll their children in school, because of an opinion
from Virginia's attorney general.

Attorney General Mark L. Earley cited a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court decision that
guarantees children, regardless of immigration status, the right to attend
public schools.

A Loudoun school official said yesterday that the 26,091-student district has
changed its policy since it received Earley's opinion last week.

"We're no longer going to be asking about citizenship or visa requirements,"
said Assistant Superintendent Ned D. Waterhouse. He said he has sent a letter to
all 42 public schools in the county informing them of the change.

For many years, Loudoun school administrators routinely asked parents whether
their children were U.S. citizens and, if they were not, inquired about their
visa status. Illegal immigrants were required to sign a statement that they did
not have a tourist visa before they could enroll their children in school.

School officials said they required the written statement as evidence that the
child was not living in the United States on a tourist visa. The district
imposed a tuition fee on students with tourist visas, just as it would for any
student who was not a Loudoun resident.

Immigrant advocacy groups complained about the policy, saying that it was
unconstitutional and that it discouraged illegal immigrants from sending their
children to school because they feared that the written statement could lead to
deportation. In response to the complaints, Loudoun officials last fall sought
an opinion from Earley's office.

In his 2 1/2-page letter to Loudoun officials, Earley said that residency for
school purposes is determined by where a child's parent or legal guardian lives
and not by citizenship.

"Inquiring into a student's citizenship or his . . . visa status for the purpose
of determining residency . . . is unwarranted," Earley wrote.

Loudoun appears to be the only Washington area school system that had such a
policy.

Waterhouse said the district will continue to require evidence of residency,
such as a piece of mail or a lease.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              157 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 04, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

'Home Is What It's All About'; Kosovo Refugees Seek Haven, Not Asylum, in the
United States

Anne Swardson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 860 words

DATELINE: BRAZDA, Macedonia, May 3


U.S. officials interviewing the first Kosovo refugees eligible for transfer to
the United States made an unexpected discovery: Almost none of them wants to
move to America permanently.

Refugees told immigration officials and reporters here today that they are
delighted at the chance to escape the heat and monotony of this extremely
crowded camp of 30,000 people, and they said they are grateful to be offered
temporary shelter across the ocean.

If accepted, many said, they would like to be aboard the first chartered 747 jet
from here to the Fort Dix, N.J., processing center, a flight planned for
Wednesday. But moving to America for good was an unwelcome idea.

"My home was burned, but I would live in a tent in my own land rather than live
somewhere else," said Sinan Aliu, 47, a chemistry professor from Pristina, the
Kosovo capital, who with his family of 12 was waiting in line for an initial
interview. "We would like to be in a country that is so helpful to us, but we
will go back as soon as Kosovo is free."

The United States has agreed to take 20,000 of the nearly 200,000 Kosovo
Albanians who have fled their homes for Macedonia in the six weeks since the
commencement of NATO bombing of Yugoslavia and the start of a brutal campaign by
Yugoslav and Serbian security forces to expel them from the region. Kosovo is a
province of Serbia, Yugoslavia's dominant republic.

Even as refugees lined up for a chance to leave Macedonia, more continued to
stream into the country. An unexpected night train brought 2,000 to the border
crossing at Blace north of here early this morning, followed by another 4,000 on
a regularly scheduled train and 2,000 more on a third this evening. Others
arrived in buses, cars and farm carts.

Some of those people will be taken by bus to a new camp at Cegrane, 60 miles
south of here, but that camp, open less than a week, is already bursting with
more than 18,000 refugees, forcing some to live and sleep in the open. Others
will remain at the transit camp in Blace, a ravine at the border filled with
tents designed to hold 1,500 people but now housing 9,000.

There was some good news today for the Kosovo Albanians crammed into camps here.
During a visit to the Brazda camp, British Prime Minister Tony Blair announced
that Britain will double its refugee aid contributions to $ 64 million and take
in more Kosovo Albanians. He did not specify how many. German Interior Minister
Otto Schily said his country would double the number of refugees it had agreed
to accept, to 20,000.

At the same time, NATO forces in Albania said they would build new camps there
to take 60,000 refugees out of Macedonia, where the crisis is raising political
tensions. But British Lt. Gen. John Reith, commander of NATO's Albania Force for
Humanitarian Assistance, cautioned that the new sites would not be ready
quickly, according to the Reuters news service.

Many refugees waiting in line here today to apply for transfer to third
countries chose nations other other than the United States, particularly Germany
and Switzerland. Initially, most of the slots for those countries were taken
quickly.

When the United States agreed to accept refugees, the initial plan was to
shelter them at the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. There, they would
have had no opportunity to apply to remain in the United States permanently.
After human rights groups protested, the Clinton administration changed course,
and last week Vice President Gore announced that the refugees would be accepted
on the U.S. mainland.

Like refugees from other countries, the Kosovo Albanians will be eligible to
apply for permanent asylum. They will be required to spend two to three weeks at
Fort Dix, where they will be given medical exams and documentation allowing them
to work and study. Then they will be assigned to sponsors around the country.
The sponsoring organizations will help with housing, school enrollment, job
searches, health care and applications for benefits.

"All 20,000 will be offered the opportunity for refugee status and integration
into American society if that's what they choose," said Kathleen Thompson,
director of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, who was here to
begin the registration process. "They are being treated like any other refugee."

Although many of the refugees are educated and have employable skills in their
own country, few speak English or have visited the United States. Wearing a
scarf on her head and another around her neck, a large T-shirt, a long flowered
skirt and sandals, Selime Pllana, 50, said she hopes her family group of 14 is
accepted for transfer, but only because "I just want to get out of here. I just
saw America on TV, I never was there, I don't know anything about it."

But to turn away from home and toward the United States would be to abandon
their dream of living in an independent Kosovo, refugees said.

"Home is what it's all about," said one official who talked with the U.S.-bound
refugees today. Ethnic Albanian children who fled the violence in Kosovo play
and wash in a river at Macedonia's Stankovic refugee camp.


LOAD-DATE: May 04, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PH,,REUTER/OLEG POPOV

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              158 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 20, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

The Other Dominican Americans

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A28; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 222 words


The May 14 news story "Dominicans Face Assimilation in Black and White" makes
quite a leap from the "Islanders in New York" to "Guillermo Linares, the
country's first elected official born in the Dominican Republic." Immigration to
the United States does not begin and end in New York City for any group, and
certainly not for Dominicans.

Norfolk, Va., was an earlier stopping point in the 1840s and 1850s for
immigrants from the Dominican Republic; their descendants are still there. They
were distinctly black, Spanish-speaking and Catholic; some married into
established (as well as other immigrant -- French, Irish, English) families.
They, along with the other Catholics, became targets there of the nativists
running rampant during that time.

The first Catholic church in Virginia, St. Patrick's -- with a black-and-white,
immigrant and less-immigrant congregation -- was burned to the ground in the
mid-1850s. It was rebuilt as St. Mary's, and is still standing, now the largest
African American Catholic church in Virginia.

The article was otherwise a fine piece about Dominicans in New York City in the
past decade or two. Now it would be good if the attention could shift from that
island up there to the rest of us who did not come through Ellis Island or
Kennedy Airport.

KATIE HOLLAND

Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              159 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 26, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 490 words


SENATE

Meets at 9:30 a.m.

Committees:

Agriculture, Nutrition & Forestry -- 9 a.m. Livestock issues. 216 Hart Office
Bldg.

Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs -- 10 a.m. Securities subc. Transparency for
corporate bond prices. 538 Dirksen Office Bldg.

Commerce, Science & Transportation -- 2 p.m. Oversight hearing, FCC. 253 Russell
Office Bldg.

Energy & Natural Resources -- 2:30 p.m. Forests & public land management subc.
Lands legislation. 366 DOB.

Environment & Public Works -- 9:30 a.m. Reauth. of Superfund. 406 DOB.

Finance -- 10 a.m. Changes to Medicare system. 215 DOB.

Foreign Relations -- 10:15 a.m. Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty ratification. 562
DOB.

Governmental Affairs -- 2 p.m. International security, proliferation & federal
services subc. U.S.-China relations. 342 DOB.

Health, Education, Labor & Pensions -- 9:30 a.m. Employment, safety & training
subc. Mine safety. 628 DOB.

Indian Affairs -- 9:30 a.m. Native American youth activities & initiatives. 485
ROB.

Intelligence -- 2 p.m. Closed. Intelligence issues. H-405 Capitol.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Immigration subc. Immigrant contributions to armed forces.
226 DOB.

Judiciary -- 2 p.m. Constitution, federalism & property rights subc. Mark up.
226 DOB.

HOUSE

Meets at 10 a.m.

Committees:

Agriculture -- 10 a.m. General farm commodities, resource conservation & credit
subc. Effects of electric deregulation on rural areas; legislative proposals.
1300 Longworth House Office Bldg.

Banking & Financial Services -- 10 a.m. Pending legislation. Mark up session.
2128 Rayburn House Office Bldg.

Commerce -- 9:30 a.m. Oversight & investigations subc. Environmental cleanup
technologies. 2322 RHOB.

Commerce -- 10 a.m. Energy & power subc. State restructuring & consumer
protection. 2123 RHOB.

Commerce -- 2 p.m. Health & the environment subc. Chemical Safety Information &
Site Security Act of '99. 2322 RHOB.

Government Reform -- 10 a.m. National security, veterans affairs & international
relations subc. Domestic terrorism preparedness. 2154 RHOB.

International Relations -- 10 a.m. Asia & the Pacific subc. Select committee
report on alleged Chinese espionage. 2172 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 10:15 a.m. Mark up legislation. 2141 RHOB.

Resources -- 10 a.m. Use of land & money litigation requirements in ESA
enforcement. 1324 LHOB.

Rules -- 10 a.m. Consideration of rules; National Defense Auth. Act for FY 2000.
H-313 Cap.

Science -- 2 p.m. Mark up legislation. 2318 RHOB.

Small Business -- 10 a.m. Benefits & pitfalls of conducting business over
Internet. 2360 RHOB.

Transportation & Infrastructure -- 10 a.m. Ground transportation subc.
Oversight, Office of Motor Carriers; oversight on bus safety. 2167 RHOB.

Transportation & Infrastructure -- 2 p.m. Water resources & environment subc.
Harbor services fee. 2167 RHOB.

Ways & Means -- 1:30 p.m. Mark up Foster Care Independence Act of '99. 1100
LHOB.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              160 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 26, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

Serving Up a Medley of Cultures; Immigrants Transform Older Malls in D.C.
Suburbs Into International Bazaars

Kenneth Bredemeier, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1580 words


Joe Nguyen, a 38-year-old immigrant from Vietnam, knew just where to find the
Asian noodles, rice and meat -- especially the pork legs sliced in half-inch
segments -- favored by his family.

His destination was the Eden Center, a bustling enclave of 83 Vietnamese and 17
Chinese stores and restaurants that make up what its owner calls the nation's
largest Asian-oriented shopping center, carved out of the aging Plaza 7 shopping
center in the Seven Corners area of Falls Church.

The Vietnamese market, with its instant natural seaweed, sweet taro buns and a
host of other Asian delicacies, is such an attraction that twice a month Nguyen
drives nearly four hours each way from his home in Clarksburg, W.Va., to
stockpile his freezer.

"We come to eat and shop," the manicurist said. "There's so much here."

As the inner suburbs of Washington attract increasingly diverse pockets of
ethnic cultures, some of its older strip shopping centers have been transformed
into veritable international bazaars of goods, services and restaurants.

Walk into the Eden Center and one can easily remember the vibrance and commotion
of Saigon that so many Americans remember from the Vietnam War. Drive through
Annandale and Korean becomes the language of commerce in many shopping areas.
Stop in Langley Park in Prince George's County and the Latino presence becomes
obvious. One short stretch of Rockville Pike in Montgomery County has Greek,
Brazilian, Indian, Japanese, Chinese and Mexican markets and restaurants.

At the Culmore Shopping Center between Baileys Crossroads and Seven Corners near
the Fairfax-Arlington border, a mixture of cultures has taken hold. There's a
Vietnamese physician with a family practice, a Honduran pediatrician, a photo
shop operated by a Chinese immigrant and a vacuum-cleaner shop run by a native
of India. Elsewhere in the shopping center there's an Iranian market, a Thai
restaurant, a Chinese and Vietnamese grocery store, and a Vietnamese toy and
curio shop. Nearby is a Salvadoran international-courier business, a Vietnamese
restaurant and an Afghan-run dry cleaners.

Though Koreans operate many corner grocery stores in the District and other
ethnic businesses have long been located in the city, it is in the inner suburbs
-- Arlington, Fairfax, Montgomery and Prince George's counties -- where most
immigrant shopkeepers have settled. Immigration experts say this phenomenon is
common to other areas of the country but more pronounced in this region.

It is also a trend that's likely to continue, according to those who have
studied local immigration patterns. Once established, immigrant enclaves tend to
attract more immigrants from the same country. Start-up businesses are often
financed through a rotating credit system that is self-contained within the
ethnic enclave. High-quality suburban schools are also an attraction for parents
hoping to give their children a boost in their new land.

Washington, as the national capital and home to international agencies and a
burgeoning high-tech industry, also attracts highly educated immigrants, many of
whom start their own businesses after having amassed some capital working for
others.

Susan Martin, director of the Institute for the Study of International Migration
at Georgetown University, said many immigrants "see small-business ownership as
a means of economic mobility, as a way of moving up the economic ladder. The
Washington area is a major destination for immigrants. And once they're here,
it's self-perpetuating, with more immigrants wanting to come."

She said the pattern of suburbanization in the Washington area has helped foster
the growth of immigrant retailing. The shopkeepers who owned inner suburban
stores, and even some first-wave immigrant store owners, have often moved to
outer suburban frontiers, leaving older shopping areas to newer immigrants to
start retail ventures in search of an economic toehold.

"Their starting a small business becomes a very attractive way of starting a new
life," Martin said.

Such is the story of Ben Phan, 30, who emigrated from Vietnam when he was 9.
Now, along with his mother, Hien Kim Van, he operates the 88 Market grocery at
the Culmore Shopping Center. The name, he said, comes from the fact that 88 is a
lucky number in Chinese culture.

"The latest wave of immigrants are no different than the Irish, Italians and
Germans" who came to the United States in the last century, said Phan, who has a
history degree from George Mason University. "It's just a matter of
assimilation."

The 1990 census showed that more than seven times as many immigrants live in
Washington area suburbs (425,562) as in the District (58,887), according to
Robert D. Manning, a visiting sociology professor at Georgetown who has studied
the multicultural composition of the region.

More recent estimates indicate that the influx of immigrants into the Washington
suburbs has continued unabated during this decade as well, but that won't be
fully documented until next year's census. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service said more than 91,000 immigrants settled in the area from 1995 to 1997,
the most recent period for which statistics are available.

While California, New York, Texas and Florida typically draw the most
immigrants, Virginia and Maryland rank among the top 10 states, with Virginia
usually attracting more. It also appears that more immigrants have established
stores and restaurants in Northern Virginia than in suburban Maryland.

Immigrant store owners say they can, with long hours of work, make a living in
their adopted land, a conclusion that Manning said his research has shown as
well. In addition, he and others said that some ethnic groups have come to be
identified with certain trades, such as Koreans with dry cleaning, Indians with
doughnut shops, Vietnamese with cosmetology, and Latinos with construction and
landscaping. Each group has its own set of restaurants.

Manning said some Korean store owners, who tend to be highly educated when they
arrive in this country, have advanced up the economic ladder, from perhaps
operating a wig shop, then, in order, a manicure business, a small grocery or
retail shop, a restaurant and finally a liquor store. But Manning said the
American-educated offspring of the store owners typically take up occupations
other than running the family-owned shops.

In the meantime, he said, "As long as immigration increases, you're going to see
more ethnic stores that survive catering to their own ethnic group."

That's the case of Shakil Ahmad, a 27-year-old Pakistani who since 1994 has
operated the Super Halal Meat store at Brookfield Plaza in Springfield.

He said his customers, with the exception of a few Americans, are Pakistanis,
Afghans and Indians.

"We're doing good," he said. "Halal means meat specially killed for Muslims --
beef, chicken, veal."

Across the parking lot at Brookfield, Vinod Mahajan operates Nataraj Books,
where he says he has 5,000 books stacked along crowded aisles, all of them from
India. He said about half of his walk-in customers are Indian with the other
half Americans and people from other countries, but that the majority of his
business is mail-order, serving American universities and public libraries.

At the Culmore center, Farid Nawab and his wife, Samireh, said 80 percent of the
customers at their Iran Sara grocery are Iranians.

Samireh Nawab recounted a process that occurs at many older strip centers in the
suburbs: "When an American closes another store, Vietnamese, Korean, Chinese,
Arabs, Pakistanis, foreign people take over and make businesses.

"But it's hard work," she said. "You have to work maybe 70, 80, 90 hours a
week.."

A short distance away at the Eden Center, Ly Lai, 30, one of four sisters who
help run the Huong Que Vietnamese restaurant with their father and mother, Kim
Lai and Thanh Tran, said about 60 percent of their customers are Asians.

She recalled that in 1982, when she first came to the United States, if one "saw
a Vietnamese grocery you were so happy," which is why the Eden Center is
flourishing, particularly after Falls Church stationed police at the center a
couple years ago to curb gang crime.

But Lai, like numerous other immigrant entrepreneurs, cited the long hours it
takes to run a successful business.

Her father had a bicycle parts store in Bien Hoa and the family had no
experience in running a restaurant. But now, she said, "We're here 12 hours a
day. . . . You have to work harder here because you come over with nothing. But
if you're willing to work, you will be successful." At left, Ly Lai, who helps
run the Huong Que Vietnamese restaurant at the Eden Center in Falls Church,
serves lunch. Shakil Ahmad, below left, a Pakistani, works at the Super Halal
Meat store at Brookfield Plaza in Springfield.

Salvadorans make up the largest population of new immigrants in both the
District and Virginia; in Maryland, the largest is Indian.

Number of new immigrants

District: 3,784 (0.7% total pop.)

Salvadoran

557

Vietnamese

350

Chinese

209

Nigerian

194

Virginia: 21,375 (0.3% total pop.)

Salvadoran

1,689

Filipino

1,446

Vietnamese

1,437

Indian

1,208

Maryland: 20,732 (0.4% total pop.)

Indian

1,421

Nigerian

1,209

Salvadoran

1,173

Chinese

1,095

NOTE: Figures are for 1996, latest available.

SOURCE: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, craig herndon; Illustration, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              161 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 27, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

How It Works: The INSPASS Kiosk

Mark Leibovich

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E04; TECH THURSDAY

LENGTH: 363 words


Starting last week, select travelers flying into Dulles International Airport
have avoided the long lines that can build up at the immigration booths. They've
used one of two newly installed ATM-like machines called "INSPASS" (INS
Passenger Accelerated Service System) kiosks, which let frequent "low-risk"
travelers pass through using a special electronic card and a handprint.

The kiosks, designed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
Electronic Data Systems Corp.'s Herndon-based government industry group, use
"hand geometry" technology to check identities. The kiosks were introduced in
other key U.S. airports starting in late 1995 and are to be installed in
international hubs all over the country.

1. Getting an INSPASS card. The system is intended for U.S. citizens who travel
abroad frequently. People who want cards must go to an INS office and undergo an
FBI background check. If the traveler is deemed "low-risk," that is, unlikely to
be involved in criminal activity, an INSPASS is issued.

2. Using the INSPASS card. The system is intended for U.S. citizens who travel
abroad frequently. People who want cards must go to an INS office and undergo an
FBI background check. If the traveler is deemed "low-risk," that is, unlikely to
be involved in criminal activity, an INSPASS is issued.

3. Clearance. Having confirmed that the person presenting the card is in fact
the cardholder, the INSPASS machine uses a computer network to check the name
with a Customs Service database in Newington. If, for example, a warrant was
issued for the traveler's arrest, an alert would be issued and INS agents would
intervene.

4. Passage. If there are no problems, the traveler enters on a touchscreen the
flight number and airline used. The kiosk spits out a printed record of the
traveler's return to the country, a locked gate opens and the passenger proceeds
to the customs station. The entire process takes approximately 30 seconds.

INPASS holders -- there are currently about 30,000 -- still need passports,
however, for entry into foreign countries and to show customs agents on their
return to the United States.

The INSPASS kiosk.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post; Photo

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              162 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 03, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

The Struggles Of Immigrant Moms

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 176 words


The Organization of Chinese Americans, a national Asian Pacific American civil
rights organization, would like to commend Philip Pan's refreshing article about
immigrant mothers in the greater Washington area [Metro, May 9]. The article,
"The Apron Strings of Sacrifice," which ran on Mother's Day, reveals the
struggles that these women have been through and their determination to survive
in a country that seems bent upon removing them. What a wonderful article to
honor all mothers, regardless of their immigration status.

Immigrants to this country increasingly have been on the receiving end of
immigrant-bashing sentiments. The article showed how immigrants are trying to
assimilate and adapt to the United States and its customs. These women must
leave their loved ones behind with only hope to guide them -- hope that their
children will grow up in the land of opportunity and have a better future than
that envisioned in their homelands.

GEORGE M. ONG

National President

Organization of Chinese Americans Inc.

Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 03, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              163 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 07, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

Blurring the Welcome to Immigrants

Audrey Singer; Greta Gilbertson

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 702 words


The plans announced recently by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for
reducing the backlog in processing applications couldn't have come at a better
time. Whether the steps outlined -- more hiring and better automation, greater
flexibility in adjudicating cases -- are enough to make a difference will be
seen. What the steps will not immediately address are the frustration and dismay
that immigrants are feeling.

Nearly 2 million immigrants have citizenship applications tied up in a backlog.
The average waiting time for completion is 27 months, which the INS would like
to pare to 12 months by the end of September. Immigrants who want to become U.S.
citizens are getting mixed messages from the INS and the media -- making the
acquisition of citizenship a process of fear instead of celebration.

Message 1: Your green card is worth less now than when you got it -- you had
better become a citizen.

The 1996 Welfare Act put the government seal of approval on the tide of
anti-immigrant sentiment that had been growing for several years. Ironically,
this created a rush for citizenship by legal permanent residents. Historically
there had been few legal distinctions between legal permanent residents and
citizens, except for voting and political participation. Most immigrants lead
lives that are nearly identical to those of citizens: working to support
families, paying taxes, enrolling children in public schools and participating
in religious and social organizations.

However, when Congress passed the Welfare Act, millions of legal permanent
resident immigrants were suddenly vulnerable. They immediately became ineligible
for most social welfare benefits. Many immigrants, regardless of whether they
received public benefits, recognized that this signaled a change in the way
legal immigrants were viewed. They responded predictably by naturalizing in
large numbers. Not all of them are in it for the access to benefits -- many are
naturalizing for more reasons than one, not the least of them for the conferral
of equal footing with U.S.-born citizens.

The government's shift forced many immigrants to seek naturalization only to get
the next message.

Message 2: You are becoming a citizen for the wrong reason.

Motivations for citizenship are different for these immigrants than they have
been in the past. While it's unclear whether it is myth, reality or a mix,
becoming a citizen has been idealized as a profoundly patriotic act. Current
studies of citizenship acquisition show that immigrants are aware of the
changing legislative conditions and political climate and are fearful of future
implications. Most immigrants who are becoming citizens do so for a mix of
practical reasons and not simply for access to welfare benefits. For example, no
fewer than three federal programs dating back to 1992 have encouraged more
immigrants to seek citizenship.

Forced or encouraged to become citizens, then questioned about motivations,
immigrants get the next message.

Message 3: Hurry up and wait.

The hurry-up-and-wait situation sends the message that the U.S. government is
not taking immigrants' quest for citizenship seriously. It also serves to
discourage other would-be citizens from applying. The long waiting times --
often with no interim communication from the INS -- are especially high in
immigrant-heavy cities such as Los Angeles, New York and San Francisco. The
recent announcement of the hiring of 300 new staff and conversion of 300
temporary positions to permanent ones will help expedite applications.

Naturalization is voluntary on the part of immigrants but involves a mutual
obligation on the part of both the new citizens and the host society to work
together on settlement and incorporation. Instead of mixed messages, the INS
needs to send a clear signal that the United States welcomes immigrants as full
members of U.S. society and on the path to citizenship, that we will treat them
with the same respect as other U.S. citizens.

Audrey Singer is an associate with the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace. Greta Gilbertson is an associate professor at Fordham University. Both
writers were Open Society Fellows in 1998.

LOAD-DATE: June 07, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              164 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 13, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

English Lessons

Jacqueline L. Salmon

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. W11

LENGTH: 820 words


Imagine that you are new to this country. You've learned enough English to buy
groceries, do your banking, understand rudimentary instructions from your boss.
You can get by just fine.

Until your children start school.

Now imagine trying to understand: The PTA meets on the second Tuesday of every
month. Virginia Literacy Passport Test. Parent-teacher conference. Geometry.
Field trip. Magnet program. CD-ROM. Disk drive.

The parlance of the U.S. school system is confusing enough for American parents.
But for the growing number of non-English-speaking immigrants, it can be
incomprehensible. One in six residents in the Washington area is foreign-born,
and officials say that an increasing number are arriving in this country with
weak or no English skills.

The challenge for schools is not only to teach the children but also to help
their parents understand the perplexing customs and language that permeate
American schools, because, research shows, if parents are bewildered and
intimidated by the education system, then their children have a far greater
likelihood of dropping out or performing poorly.

Schools like Sleepy Hollow Elementary in Fairfax County are on the frontier in
this regard. Largely because Sleepy Hollow's boundary lines were redrawn in
1997, the English as a Second Language enrollment at the school near Seven
Corners has almost doubled in the past three years to 117 students, most of them
the sons and daughters of Hispanic and Vietnamese immigrants. Meanwhile, it is
difficult for these parents -- who typically have young children and work long
hours as hotel housekeepers, cabdrivers, waiters and waitresses -- to improve
their own English skills. The large ESL classes offered by local governments are
impractical because they meet several evenings a week, take several months to
complete and have long waiting lists.

Knowing this, ESL teachers Maggie Rosen and Karen DeMattos last December
obtained funding from the county to start a family literacy night at Sleepy
Hollow. It's a program that provides English classes, computer instruction and
child care all at once one evening a week. Seven Fairfax County schools now
offer family literacy night, and "everybody wants one," says Elaine Baush, the
county's coordinator of adult ESL programs.

One evening, while volunteers are helping the children with their homework in
one room, technology aide Susan Carlson is working with the beginning-English
parents in the computer lab, and county ESL instructor Diane Prosack is working
in a room down the hall with parents who understand slightly more English. The
parents' classes switch places after 45 minutes.

A short lesson once a week isn't going to make anyone fluent in English, says
Prosack. But that's not the goal. The objective is to teach words like
"backpack," "scissors," "pencil sharpener"; the days of the week; how to call in
when a child is sick; how to tell someone what time your child leaves for school
and returns home.

This evening, Prosack is helping her class identify pictures of a car, a bus, a
taxi -- methods by which children may be arriving at school. "Isabelle," says
Prosack to Isa-belle Garcia, 29, an at-home mom with three children whose
husband works as a waiter. Prosack's voice is slow and deliberate. "How does
your son get to school?"

Squinting and pursing her lips, Garcia struggles to find the words.

"He work to school," she says at last. "He walk to school."

Over the winter, the ritual of snow days, a burden to Washingtonians in any
language, mystified the class. Teachers and other parents who serve as volunteer
child-care providers while the ESL parents are in class printed out such phrases
as "closed," "delayed two hours," "late opening." They even called in a couple
of Vietnamese school custodians to help out, and eventually everyone understood
the crucial directives.

The county doesn't have a concrete formula for assessing the program, but Rosen
sees anecdotal evidence that it's succeeding: Participants now regularly
volunteer in their children's classrooms. They attend new Spanish-speaking PTA
meetings. A recent Fiesta Night party, put together by Spanish-speaking parents,
attracted a healthy crowd.

And the experience of Vilma Herrera, the star pupil of family literacy night, is
promising. A nurse's assistant who came to the United States from El Salvador in
1980, she got by with a smattering of English for years. But now her children's
schoolwork is getting more complicated. Her daughter is 12, and her son is 9.

"Their homework is too hard," says Herrera, 40. "They say, 'Oh, Mom, I need
help,' and I can't." Encouraged by her progress at Sleepy Hollow, Herrera
recently signed up for a larger county ESL class, which she'll start shortly.

"I want to learn English," she says. "I want my kids to become something."

Jacqueline L. Salmon covers family life for The Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              165 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 4, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

A LOOK AT . . . ASSIMILATION; It Only Takes a Generation or Three

Gregory Rodriguez

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1779 words


Anyone who has followed America's culture wars of the past few decades can be
excused for thinking that the process of assimilation is a thing of the past.
Right-wing nativists have been chanting their mantra that contemporary
immigrants are actively resisting mainstream culture and will never integrate.
Left-wing multiculturalists and ethnic nationalists have been insisting that
today's immigrants should not be expected to adopt the practices of their host
country at the expense of their native culture. But the people who come to the
United States to build new lives do not live according to the prescriptions of
activists or political pundits. In fact, today's immigrants are embracing U.S.
life much the way previous newcomers have always done.

Throughout U.S. history, each new wave of immigration has inspired debate.
Although earlier immigrants were ultimately absorbed into the mainstream, each
new generation of nativists found some characteristic or other that they claimed
would prevent the contemporary newcomers from ever fully fitting in.

In the 18th century, Benjamin Franklin had misgivings about German clannishness
and unwillingness to mix with outsiders. A century later, some worried that
Irish Catholics would not only resist becoming part of a predominantly
Protestant society, but also would serve as agents for the papacy. In the late
19th and early 20th centuries, the presumed "racial" foreignness of eastern and
southern European immigrants, as well as newcomers from East Asia, heightened
concerns about their prospects for integrating into American life. Following
that era's rage for "scientific" cultural stereotyping, many of these
immigrants, including Jews, were seen as intellectually and morally incapable of
ever properly assimilating. With their severe disadvantages of limited education
and high levels of poverty, they seemed destined to become permanent denizens of
ethnically segregated communities.

Contemporary arguments about today's immigrants tend to be a motley blend of
these assertions and misconceptions. The ugliest brand comes from racialists who
argue that nonwhite immigrants can never assimilate into what is at core a
"white country." The more common complaint, though, focuses on the tendency of
many immigrants to congregate with each other after arriving in the United
States.

Latin American immigrants, who have forged sizable enclaves in several U.S.
cities, are of particular concern to modern-day nativists. Their continued use
of Spanish and the rising popularity of Spanish-language media have evoked
pessimistic assessments of the future of American linguistic unity.

Indeed, for many native-born Americans, a drive through some neighborhoods in
Los Angeles or Miami seems "exotic," with restaurants that serve unfamiliar
foods, stores emblazoned with strange words and clubs that play foreign music.
To many onlookers, these sights, sounds and smells are evidence of active
resistance to American culture and society; to some alarmists, such street
scenes even contain the seeds of ethnic secessionist movements.

But there's nothing new about this pattern of gathering together. Throughout
American history, newly arrived immigrants have clustered in specific cities and
states. During the first two decades of this century, immigrants composed
absolute majorities of the country's urban population. Italian and Irish
immigrants clustered in the northeastern corridor. Norwegians, Finns, Danes and
Germans created their own enclaves in the Midwest. Polish immigrants transformed
Chicago into the second-largest Polish city in the world. Japanese gathered in
Los Angeles and Honolulu, while Jewish immigrants were once overwhelmingly
located in New York.

The newcomers who settled together rarely discarded the language, symbols and
tastes of their countries of birth upon arriving in the United States. Now, as
then, these communities help immigrants adapt by mitigating the cultural shock
of migration and providing crucial networks of jobs and information. Rather than
being a harbinger of permanent self-segregation, these enclaves represent way
stations where newcomers can gain a foothold in their new country.

For too long now, assimilation has been mischaracterized as a process of
subtraction: An immigrant would be considered "Americanized" only when he had
stripped himself of the past. But culture or knowledge is not a zero-sum
quantity that requires an individual to forget something old in order to learn
something new.

Immigrants often retain some characteristics and loyalties from the old
country--whether in the form of worship, food, or holidays--for generations to
come. Indeed, even as they enter the mainstream, larger immigrant groups have
always put their imprints on American culture. U.S. culture is constantly
changing and adapting to immigrants just as immigrants adapt to it. Customs or
foods that were once foreign became part and parcel of local tradition--bagels
and Yiddish phrases in New York, bratwurst and beer in Milwaukee, and everything
green in Boston. Immigration patterns are also what make the typical Minnesotan
(of Swedish origin) look and speak differently from the typical Pennsylvanian
(whose roots are German). In places like California, Texas and Florida, today's
immigrants are weaving many of their customs and traits into the mainstream.

One of the main reasons so many commentators misread today's immigration
patterns is that assimilation is a long-term process, sometimes taking several
generations, and it does not readily lend itself to journalistic snapshots. A
Salvadoran immigrant's taste for Spanish-language radio is not a reliable
indicator of the linguistic preferences of his children or grandchildren.
Indeed, it is not even an indicator of his own desire to learn English. An
immigrant may continue to speak with friends or family or watch television in
his native tongue, but this does not prevent him from simultaneously acquiring
English in order to communicate with people outside his immediate community.

Indeed, census data continue to prove unequivocally what common sense dictates:
that the longer immigrants remain in the United States, the more likely they are
to acquire English. In 1990, almost half of immigrants from non-English-speaking
countries reported that they did not speak English proficiently within two years
of arriving in the United States. Yet among those immigrants from
non-English-speaking countries who had been in the country for 30 years or more,
88 percent said they spoke English well.

The idea that non-English-speaking clusters remain over generations is simply
untrue. In 1990, more than 90 percent of second-generation Asian and Latino
children reported speaking English proficiently or exclusively. Indeed, by the
third generation, 85 percent of Asian children spoke only English. While there
is evidence that Spanish remains a resilient second language among many Latinos
in heavily Hispanic regions of the country, this clearly does not delay their
thorough acquisition of the nation's primary language. In most families, after
three generations in the United States, Spanish begins to disappear altogether.
In 1990, fully two-thirds of third-generation U.S. Latino children spoke no
Spanish at all.

If immigration is the story of uprooting oneself, then assimilation is the story
of putting down roots in one's country of choice, and there is probably no more
durable indicator of attachment to American life than homeownership. For most
Americans--native or foreign-born--buying a home is a principal means of
accumulating wealth. A powerful symbol of stability and faith in the future,
owning a home signifies that an immigrant family has attached its well-being to
the fate of the country.

And immigrants are home buyers. Those who have lived in the United States for at
least 25 years actually buy their own homes at a higher rate than the
native-born population. Despite their typically low socioeconomic status upon
entering the United States, 60 percent of Mexican immigrants who came here in
the late 1960s owned their own homes by the 1990s. Last year in California, six
of the 10 most common names of home buyers were Spanish surnames.

Over the past few years, the political climate that inspired the greatest rush
to citizenship in U.S. history also has ratcheted up Mexican immigrants'
traditionally low naturalization rate. The anti-immigrant campaigns in
California and in Congress pushed immigrants off the proverbial fence and
inspired them to renounce loyalty to their country of origin and pledge
allegiance to the United States. In 1996, Mexico was the leading country of
origin among naturalizing citizens, accounting for a quarter of total new
citizens. And while naturalization rates continue to vary from group to group,
the majority of immigrants do become U.S. citizens within 25 years of their
residence in the United States.

For all the symbolic value that citizenship carries, there is no more profound
indicator of social integration than intermarriage. It is not only a sign that a
person has transcended the ethnic self-segregation of the first years of
immigration, it illustrates the extent to which ethnicity no longer serves to
separate one American from another.

After a generation or two of living in the United States, both Asians and
Latinos, the two ethnic groups that make up the lion's share of contemporary
immigrants, choose spouses of other ethnicities at extraordinarily high rates.
As the census data show, fully one third of third-generation Hispanic women
marry non-Hispanics, and the rate is even higher (42 percent) for Asian American
women.

The vast majority of contemporary writing on immigration has focused on how
newcomers affect the United States, particularly in economic terms. But
immigrants do not live as financial aggregates in economic models and do not
arrive in the United States as self-conscious standard-bearers of their race or
ethnicity. Rather, they are a collection of uprooted individuals trying to
adjust to what are often radically different conditions in their new country.
They are drawn by the promise of the economically most dominant nation in
history, whose culture and influence permeate the globe. It is absurd to think
that immigrant families living within this country's borders somehow remain
immune to its assimilative power.

Gregory Rodriguez is a fellow at the New America Foundation and a research
scholar at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. He has just completed a
study on immigrant assimilation for the National Immigration Forum.


LOAD-DATE: July 04, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, edel rodriguez for The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              166 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                July 8, 1999, Thursday, Saturday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 607 words


2 Dozen Cubans Reach Fla. Island

MIAMI -- About two dozen Cuban migrants landed on an uninhabited island off
Miami yesterday and were turned over to U.S. Border Patrol agents to pursue
asylum claims, the Coast Guard said.

The group maneuvered a homemade boat to Sands Key, an islet about 15 miles
southeast of Miami in Biscayne National Park, Coast Guard Petty Officer Stephen
Baker said.

Under U.S. immigration policy, Cuban migrants who reach shore are allowed to
stay. But those intercepted at sea generally are returned to their
communist-ruled homeland.

Fifty-four Cubans have been halted at sea in the last five days. Four were
brought ashore for humanitarian reasons and allowed to stay -- a woman in her
eighth month of pregnancy and her husband and son, and a woman believed to be
suffering from meningitis. The others were aboard Coast Guard vessels undergoing
interviews by immigration agents.

On Monday, Cuba said it had arrested two suspected U.S.-based migrant smugglers
after their speedboat carrying 14 Cubans to the United States capsized, drowning
one of the passengers. A Cuban Coast Guard patrol vessel rescued the surviving
13 passengers and detained the two crew members.

Addenda

SACRAMENTO -- A group of neighbors formed a human shield to try to stop a
suspect in a fatal hit-and-run, then chased him in their cars and held him until
police arrived. Authorities said the car driven by Gerald Weirton, 36, allegedly
struck 13-year-old Gabriel Allen Swenor as he was playing Sunday with friends on
a dead-end street. The boy was thrown 20 to 30 feet and died.

ORLANDO -- The man found dead, nude and draped across the back of a SeaWorld
killer whale was identified as Daniel P. Dukes, 27, a drifter who lived briefly
at the Hare Krishna temple in Miami. The Orange County medical examiner's office
ruled that Dukes drowned in the SeaWorld tank inhabited by Tillikum, an
11,000-pound killer whale. There was one bite mark on his body -- in his groin
area -- that occurred sometime after death, the medical examiner said, when the
whale used its razor-sharp teeth to rip off Dukes's green shorts.

LINCOLN PARK, Mich. -- Two 13-year-old boys were charged with making a bomb in a
pop bottle from a recipe they said they found on the Internet. The bottle
exploded Friday, injuring 5-year-old twin girls.

ALBANY, N.Y. -- In the case of a child beaten to death, New York's highest court
has ruled that a stepparent is responsible for protecting stepchildren even
against biological parents. The Court of Appeals said Lisa Carroll can be
charged in the 1996 death of Shanaya Jones, 3, because she was aware of abuse by
the girl's father and did nothing to stop it.

TOPSHAM, Maine -- A Missouri man who came to Maine to pursue a relationship with
a woman he had met over the Internet died after cutting his neck with a chain
saw on her front lawn to prove his love. James Dinardi, 44, of Columbia, Mo.,
died at a hospital Monday.

PORTLAND, Ore. -- The Lane County sheriff's office taped jailhouse conversations
between a school-shooting suspect and his pastor, despite having been found in
violation of the Constitution in a similar case three years ago. Prosecutors
said the tapes of three conversations between pastor Albert Gaines and Kip
Kinkel, 16, who is charged with shooting to death his parents and then opening
fire at his high school -- killing two and wounding two dozen other people --
will not be used against Kinkel.

Buddy Meekins, left, and Ralph Lane remove pipe in path of the Cape Hatteras
lighthouse in Buxton, N.C. It is being moved 2,900 feet from the advancing
ocean.


LOAD-DATE: July 08, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, ap/BOB JORDAN

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              167 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  July 9, 1999, Friday, Sunday, Final Edition

They've Arrived; Forced to Learn in English, Many Immigrants Excel in U.S.
Schools

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2313 words



Karla Caraballo left her home in the Dominican Republic clinging to a word of
advice from her grandfather: If someone speaks to you in English, just shake
your head. So when a flight attendant asked her that night if she wanted
something to eat, the shy teenager said no -- and arrived in America so hungry
it hurt.

Caraballo laughs when she tells the story now. Only three years later, she is
the valedictorian of one of the District's best high schools, a student of
Shakespeare on her way to Emory University with a full scholarship. In her free
time, she reads medical school brochures.

Ask her how she managed to learn English so quickly while keeping up with -- and
pulling ahead of -- her American peers, and she smiles. "People ask me that all
the time, and I really don't know how to answer."

Caraballo's success is echoed by scores of immigrant students who graduated with
honors last month, just a few years after they arrived in the Washington area
knowing little or no English.

Some were named valedictorians, including My-Le Nguyen, whose first days in a
Rockville middle school were so difficult she often hid in a stairwell and cried
over her Vietnamese-English dictionary. Some, such as Jasenka Drincic, had to
overcome the trauma of war. The young Bosnian refugee lived in so many places
before settling in Fairfax County that English was actually her fourth language.
Many will be going to college, among them Wubshet Ayalew, an Ethiopian student
in Prince George's County who pumps gas on weekends but dreams of becoming an
astronaut.

Together, their stories offer clues to the mysteries of language and learning.
Although educators have spent years studying how best to teach the large numbers
of children entering elementary school without English, much less is known about
how to help immigrant teenagers going straight to secondary schools. There, they
must catch up with peers who have been reading and writing in English much
longer, and they must master more complex academic material -- while the clock
ticks toward graduation.


'Challenge Yourself'


Caraballo and the others are products of school systems that, for practical and
philosophical reasons, are developing a new approach to teaching
"language-minority" teenagers. It's not bilingual education, which is rare in
secondary schools, nor is it the sink-or-swim system that greeted young
immigrants a century ago. Yet the emphasis is unmistakably on teaching
everything in English.

"I'd sit there, and I didn't know what they were talking about," Caraballo, 18,
said of her first few months at the District's Bell Multicultural High School.
"I spent more time in the dictionary than reading."

She and her brother, Hugo, 19, who immigrated a few months after his sister,
took English as a Second Language classes. Their other classes at Bell were
taught by teachers trained to work with students with limited English. The
approach, known as "sheltered content" instruction, is based on the theory that
students learn English best when it is taught in the context of academic
material they have to learn anyway.

Most Washington area high schools use the strategy, though the number of
"sheltered" courses varies. In these classes, teachers try to identify grammar
patterns and words that might give students trouble. They also use diagrams,
pictures, maps, labs -- anything to get material across without relying on
language.

"Sometimes, when you wouldn't have a clue, they'd explain it in a simple way,
and you could understand," Karla Caraballo said. "In history class, every time
somebody didn't understand a word, we'd define it and put it on the board."

The unique environment at Bell, where four in five students are foreign-born,
also helped her succeed. "Nobody laughs at you, because everyone has the same
problem," she said. "Everyone's trying to learn English."

Both Hugo and Karla spent long hours studying, waking each other at 4 a.m. to
hit the books before school. They also benefited from the support of their
parents, who immigrated five years earlier. Their father works at a golf course
and cleans offices, their mother is a Spanish teacher and day-care provider, and
both speak less English than their children.

Despite the difficulties of English immersion, Hugo and Karla said classes
taught in Spanish only would have slowed them down. "If you take Spanish
classes, you'd never learn English," she said. "You've got to challenge yourself
and try to understand. What you don't, you ask somebody or look it up."

Maria Tukeva, Bell's principal, said forcing students to take classes in English
helps prepare them for college -- where everything will be in English. "If you
don't give them enough exposure in English, they're going to be at a
disadvantage in taking SATs, writing application essays and when they're in
college," she said. "They've got to learn to adjust, and they only have a few
years to do it."

Tukeva said the approach works best for students with strong prior schooling in
their native languages, and the Caraballo siblings said their Spanish education
in the Dominican schools made it easier for them to learn English. "You know
grammar; you know how to structure a sentence," Hugo said. "When a teacher
talked about adjectives, subjects, verbs, I knew what that was."

Researchers agree that schooling in a student's native language is the single
best predictor of academic success for immigrant teenagers -- more than family
income, previous English study or the type of support schools provide.

The prospects for newcomers who arrive with little education are much less
certain. That group includes students with schooling interrupted by war and
others who came from rural areas where there were no schools. Many can't read in
their native languages or do so only at an elementary school level. It's
difficult to say how many there are, because some never enroll in school here.

In a recent Washington Post poll of the region's public high school teachers, 11
percent of those surveyed said that in at least half their classes, they had
encountered students who could not read or speak English well enough to keep up
with the class. Forty-four percent of those polled reported a similar situation
in a few of their classes, and 41 percent said it was not a serious problem in
any of their classes.

Several area school systems are experimenting with new programs for those
"under-schooled" immigrants, including evening and summer classes; intensive
courses in basic math, grammar and study skills; and literacy classes in their
native languages. But it's unclear whether any of them work. Community activists
say the public schools continue to fail those children.

Karla and Hugo Caraballo can name classmates who dropped out, girls who became
pregnant and boys who joined gangs or went to work to support themselves or
their families.

"There's a guy who came to school the same day I did, and afterwards he just
quit," said Hugo, who will attend Colby College. "I saw him on the street one
day. . . . It was painful, because we both started school together with the same
hopes."


'It Was Scary'


If the Caraballos felt at home among their diverse classmates at Bell, My-Le
Nguyen encountered a more trying -- and more typical -- environment at her
middle school in Rockville.

She was 14 and in the eighth grade. After 11 years of waiting, her family
finally had received visas to immigrate to the United States. "I started school
one week after I arrived," she said. "It was scary. . . . Everything was so
different from the school in Vietnam."

Every day that first week, Nguyen skipped lunch, hid in a stairwell and cried.
She struggled to learn to use a locker, got lost in the hallways and worried
constantly about missing the school bus. Classmates teased her. And she wondered
whether she would ever learn enough English to graduate.

There were no classes in Vietnamese. Students in the Washington area speak more
than 130 languages, and such diversity has made it difficult for school systems
to offer native-language instruction even in Spanish, the most common language.
There also is political resistance to bilingual programs in many communities.

Nguyen was placed in an ESL class and in other classes taught in English,
including a U.S. history class that was "sheltered" for English learners. In
math and science, she sat with regular students.

"In math, it was just numbers, so that was easy. But in science class, I had to
look up everything in the dictionary," she said. "I could understand maybe 20
percent of what was going on."

But Nguyen worked closely with her ESL teacher, who helped her after school once
a week. She continued with ESL over the summer and the next year at Rockville
High School. By her sophomore year, she was in a regular English class. By her
senior year, she was in Advanced Placement English.

Now 18 and on her way to the University of Maryland-Baltimore County, Nguyen
attributes her success to patient teachers who spent more time with her. Her
teachers say it also helped that she studied every day after school until 10:30
p.m., usually doing homework while eating dinner.

Nguyen's education in Vietnam was critical not only because it provided a basic
knowledge of grammar and math but also because it gave her strong study skills.

"Over there, when you learn something, you would have to memorize the whole
lecture and the teacher would call on you. That's just a lot different from the
American way," she said. "But it was like training, and it helped."


'I Was So Frustrated'


Jasenka Drincic had just finished the fourth grade when she had to leave her
home in Sarajevo. Shortly after a sniper's bullet grazed her little brother's
leg, her parents decided it would be best if the children left.

"It was supposed to be like a vacation for two weeks. Nobody in Sarajevo wanted
a war, and nobody thought it could happen," she said. "For our safety, we left
with our mother for Belgrade."

But the vacation turned into an odyssey. During the next two years, she moved
from Belgrade to Macedonia to Belgrade to Montenegro to Belgrade to a mountain
village near Bosnia and back to Belgrade again. Only occasionally would she hear
from her father, who was trapped in Sarajevo.

Drincic was able to attend school regularly again in the seventh grade, when a
refugee agency moved the family to a town near Barcelona. She took English and
Spanish, but her classes were taught in Catalan.

Then, in 1995, as Spain began pressuring the refugees to leave, the family moved
to Fairfax County. Drincic had to start over again with another language.

"I was so frustrated. . . . I thought I would never learn English," she said.
She survived initially because Latino classmates would translate English to
Spanish for her.

Sitting in class, she also would worry about her father, who didn't make it to
America until later. "Sometimes we didn't know if he was alive or not, so it was
very hard to concentrate," she said.

Drincic took ESL in middle school, summer school and then at Mount Vernon High
School. During her freshman year, she took two classes -- world civilization and
biology -- in which an ESL teacher helped the regular teacher.

Researchers say such "team teaching" can be very effective for students with
limited English. But it is costly, and a shortage of trained ESL teachers means
it isn't very common.

Drincic, now 17 and headed for James Madison University, said it made a big
difference. "Without the extra teacher," she said, "I would have been lost."


'I Have a Chance'


Wubshet Ayalew had already studied English for a few years in Addis Ababa when
he came to America three years ago. But like many young immigrants, he was
surprised by how bad his English was.

"I guess we learned the grammar and everything, but we never spoke it," he said.
"We'd write in English, but we when we talked, we'd change to Amharic."

Still, the grounding helped him move out of the ESL program quickly. After one
ESL class and one "sheltered" government class for students with limited
English, he was taking courses with everybody else at Northwestern High in
Hyattsville. He worked weekends at a gas station, studying vocabulary lists
behind the register. He never went out with friends, because he had none.

"But that's okay," he said. "I like to be alone so I can concentrate on my
education."

Ayalew cruised through most of his classes, but sometimes his weaker English
skills haunted him.

"When I was taking AP physics, I couldn't understand some of the problems," he
said. "I could do the math. That was easy. But you had to understand the words,
and some of them I had never seen before."

Sometimes, he asked the teacher to explain. Other times, he was too embarrassed.
"I didn't ask him, because the other students didn't ask," he said.

Students who finish ESL often struggle several more years before they truly
catch up to their peers, researchers say. But Ayalew said more ESL classes
wouldn't have helped him: "At some point, I have to do it by myself."

He graduated this year near the top of his class, with nearly all A's. The
18-year-old plans to attend the University of Maryland-Eastern Shore to study
aviation and hopes to become an astronaut.

"In Ethiopia, I'd have no chance," he said. "Here, I have a chance, so I'm going
to try."

Hugo Caraballo, left, and his valedictorian sister, Karla, center, are hugged by
mother Julia Monk, father Hugo Sr. and brother Victor. Jasenka Drincic, center,
a refugee from Bosnia, studies with Yin Wu, of Fairfax, left, and Susan Desta,
of Richmond. Dominican immigrants Julia Monk and her daughter, Karla Caraballo,
fix lunch at their home in Washington. Karla won a full scholarship to Emory
University.



LOAD-DATE: July 09, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, RICK BOWMER; Photo, STEPHANIE GROSS FOR The Washington Post;
Photo, RICK BOWMER

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              168 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                 July 11, 1999, Sunday, Tuesday, Final Edition

Cuban Waved Machete Before Fatal Collision, Coast Guard Says

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 638 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 10



Cuban migrants in a fatal clash with the U.S. Coast Guard threatened the
Americans with a machete before a collision Friday night that sank their boat
and drowned a Cuban woman, the Coast Guard said today.

The death provoked anger in Miami's large Cuban community, already furious over
an incident last month involving the Coast Guard's efforts to prevent illegal
immigration from communist-run Cuba to the United States.

"If they don't want the people in this country, take them back, but don't kill
them," one group of protesters at the Miami Beach Coast Guard station told
reporters today.

The Cuban woman drowned and 11 others were rescued in a suspected illegal
immigrant smuggling incident 10 miles off Florida's coast, northeast of Fort
Lauderdale.

In Washington, the State Department said the U.S. government was "deeply
saddened" by the drowning.

At the same time, the administration is determined to enforce immigration laws
and "vigorously prosecute" any "unscrupulous" people who smuggle Cubans into the
United States, spokesman James B. Foley said in a statement.

The Coast Guard learned the 25-foot wooden motorboat was heading for Florida
from the Bahamas at about 7 p.m. EDT Friday, and a cutter intercepted it about
three hours later.

Life jackets offered by the Coast Guard were refused, and a man on board waved a
machete at crew members on a small boat from the cutter that neared the Cubans'
vessel.

"He was waving it at the small boat's crew. I would call that threatening,"
Coast Guard Petty Officer Stephen Baker said.

The incident escalated as the Cubans threw life jackets back at the Coast Guard
and used the machete to cut a line when the Coast Guard attempted to foul their
boat's propeller, the Coast Guard said. The Coast Guard tried to stall the boat
with water from a fire hose but failed. The boat crossed in front of the cutter,
which struck the 25-foot vessel. The Cubans' boat sank within minutes.

The woman's body was found this morning after an all-night search.

Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R) swiftly blamed Cuban President Fidel Castro for the
incident, saying in a statement that his "40-year dictatorial grip over the
Cuban people causes them to throw themselves to the sea in search of the freedom
we take for granted."

The sinking came just a day after eight Coast Guard crewmen were suspended from
law enforcement duties after a June 29 incident in which they used fire hoses
and pepper spray to try to stop six Cubans from making it to shore just north of
Miami Beach.

That clash, seen live on local television, sparked fury and road-blocking
demonstrations by Cubans in Miami.

Under the controversial U.S. "wet feet" immigration policy for Cuba, Cubans
picked up at sea are returned home, but those who reach shore are almost
invariably allowed to stay. The policy has prompted desperate rushes toward land
by groups of Cubans who come close to Florida.

Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, a Republican from a heavily Cuban American Florida
district, said today he would press Congress to end the policy. "The bottom line
is that the Clinton policy of interdicting refugees and failing to go to the
source of the problem, which is the Castro dictatorship, is at fault for
tragedies such as these," he said.

Coast Guard Petty Officer Jeff Murphy said there had been "a few" incidents this
year in which Cubans threatened crews with machetes.

The dead woman's body and the 10 men and one woman picked up from the vessel
were being taken to the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. The migrants
will be interviewed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In a statement, the INS said those with credible fear of persecution in Cuba
might be sent to countries other than the United States and that the others
would be repatriated.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              169 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 20, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 930 words


ASIA

North Korea to Deport Detained American

SEOUL -- North Korea today will deport an American businesswoman it detained a
month ago, the nation's official news agency said yesterday.

Karen Han, a Korean American with homes in California and New Jersey, was
arrested June 17 for a "gross violation" of a North Korean legal order, the
Korea Central News Agency said. But the news agency said North Korea decided to
"leniently pardon and deport her in consideration of her frank admission of her
misconduct."

State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said last month that Han was in North
Korea on a trip related to an effort to build a hospital and a garment
manufacturing plant.

Hong Kong Rounds Up Residency Claimants

HONG KONG -- Hong Kong rounded up more than a dozen Chinese claiming residency
rights and threatened to deport thousands more under tightened immigration laws
approved by Beijing. The move came after the territory amended immigration laws
to reflect Beijing's controversial interpretation of the territory's
post-colonial constitution and reduced the number of Chinese from the mainland
eligible to live to Hong Kong.

Indonesia's Military Backs No Party

SINGAPORE -- The Indonesian military will support the presidential candidate who
can do the most for the nation, armed forces chief Gen. Wiranto said after
receiving a medal from the Singapore government.

"In the current situation [the armed forces] don't support any political party,"
Wiranto said after receiving a Distinguished Service Medal from President Ong
Teng Cheong. "We want to support the candidate [for] the next president [who] .
. . can do everything for the nation and the people."

The role of the armed forces may prove crucial in picking the new president.

THE AMERICAS

American Medic Killed in Honduras

TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras -- An American military medic participating in a relief
program has been killed in northern Honduras, a U.S. Embassy spokeswoman said.

Sgt. Francisco J. Morales, 36, was found shot Saturday morning in Trujillo, 155
miles north of the capital, embassy spokeswoman Marti Stell said. The embassy
had no further information on the killing of Morales, who served in the
Louisiana National Guard as a medic and lab technician. "The case is being
investigated by Honduran police and U.S. military officials," Stell said.

Sandinistas Celebrate Their Revolution

MANAGUA, Nicaragua -- Thousands of Sandinistas set aside internal party
differences to celebrate the 20th anniversary of a revolution that overthrew a
U.S.-backed dictator and lit a beacon for leftists worldwide.

Hours before party chief and former president Daniel Ortega took the stage, at
least 20,000 supporters wearing the party's red-and-black packed Managua's
central plaza, where 20 years ago Sandinista guerrillas declared Nicaragua free
from 50 years of Somoza family tyranny.

THE MIDDLE EAST

Turkey Denies Bombing Attack on Iran

ANKARA, Turkey -- Turkey's defense minister denied Iranian reports that Turkish
warplanes had bombed targets in Iran, killing five people and injuring 10.

"The claims have nothing to do with the truth," Defense Minister Sabahattin
Cakmakoglu said in a statement. "It is out of the question for Turkish planes to
cross the Iranian border and hit some targets."

Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit said Turkey is willing to conduct a joint inquiry
at the scene of the reported airstrike.

Israel to End Administrative Detentions

JERUSALEM -- Israel new justice minister, Yossi Beilin, said he plans to cancel
the legal basis for holding Lebanese detainees in Israel for years without
charges, raising the possibility they might be freed within months.

Norway Drops Charges on Mossad Agent

OSLO -- Norwegian prosecutors have dropped charges against a retired Israeli
intelligence agent suspected of masterminding an assassination mission that
killed the wrong man. The case was dismissed Sunday because it would probably be
impossible to convict the former top Mossad agent, Mike Harari, because of lack
of evidence and the amount of time that has passed since the 1973 killing of
Moroccan waiter Ahmed Bouchikhi in the town of Lillehammer, prosecutor Henry
John Maeland said.

EUROPE

China Plans to Rebuild Belgrade Embassy

BELGRADE -- China plans to rebuild its embassy in Belgrade and help repair the
Serbian Television building, both badly damaged during NATO's 11-week bombing
campaign against Yugoslavia, Serbian media said. The Tanjug news agency quoted
the charge d'affaires of the Chinese Embassy as saying he had discussed the
rebuilding of the mission at a new site with Belgrade municipal officials.

Shevardnadze Plans to Run for Reelection

TBILISI, Georgia -- After dropping hints in recent weeks, President Eduard
Shevardnadze said he will run for reelection next year. "I confirm my decision
to run for president in the year 2000," Shevardnadze said in his weekly radio
address.

AFRICA

Panel Acquits Warden in Tourist Killing

NAIROBI -- A Kenyan game warden accused of murdering British tourist Julie Ward
in 1988 was found not guilty by three members of the public appointed to advise
a judge overseeing the case. The verdict by the "assessors" does not clear
49-year-old Simon Ole Makallah. Judge Daniel Aganyanya is to deliver another
ruling on Sept. 17.

QUOTE OF THE DAY

"You can argue about the numbers, but the fact is, the population has been
decimated."

Dan Murphy, an American physician working in East Timor, on the situation in the
western part of the territory

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              170 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 07, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Salvadoran Sagas; Area Writer's Works Describe Painful Realities of His Native
Land

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - DC; Pg. J01

LENGTH: 1417 words


There's a passage in Mario Bencastro's new novel that would mean little to most
Americans, but thousands of Salvadoran immigrants in the Washington area would
recognize it instantly. The scene is set in a bus station in Mexico, where
several Salvadoran refugees are waiting nervously for the next leg of their
illegal journey to the United States.

"The walls and benches of the terminal witnessed so much sadness, despair and
fear. They listened to countless dramatic stories of the great Latin American
exodus, stories of millions of human beings who were fleeing from the misery and
violence in their countries, in search of the promised land. Each traveler left
a drop of suffering etched on the floor of that labyrinth . . . "

There are other scenes in "Odyssey to the North" that Salvadoran refugees here
might relate to just as quickly. Much of the action takes place in a hotel
kitchen in the District, where two Salvadorans named Juancho and Calixto wash
dishes until 3 a.m. while reminiscing about their homeland, worrying about
immigration raids and commenting on their friends' peccadilloes. The men share a
foul-smelling one-bedroom apartment with 20 people, sleeping in shifts.

The book also follows actual events, including the 1992 unrest in Mount
Pleasant, when thousands of Latinos in the District took to the streets after a
police officer shot and wounded a Salvadoran man who was drinking in a park.
Bencastro alternates between official police accounts of the disturbances and
differing versions described by Latino witnesses.

But the passage about the Mexican bus station also seems an apt description of
Bencastro's literary vision and purpose. The 49-year-old Salvadoran American
author, who works as a computer analyst in the District and lives in Falls
Church, has devoted the last 25 years to writing novels, plays and short stories
that bear personal witness to the painful reality of his native land.

El Salvador, a country of rural poverty and oligarchic wealth, erupted into
civil war in 1980. For a decade, rightist military forces supported by the
United States battled leftist guerrillas. The violence and disruption of war
drove more than a million Salvadorans to flee. Many entered the United States
illegally, and tens of thousands found their way to Washington.

"I started out as an abstract painter, but as the war went on I realized that
the reality was too overwhelming for painting to suffice," said Bencastro, who
was born and raised in El Salvador and immigrated to the United States during
the civil war. "I became obsessed with telling people's stories. Even fiction
seemed pallid compared to what was really happening."

His best-known work is a 1993 novel about the assassination of Archbishop Oscar
Romero in San Salvador in 1980, a pivotal event in the country's political
struggle.

The plot interweaves two threads: quotations from Romero's homilies calling for
justice, and the fictional account of a young Salvadoran journalist trying to
survive in a climate of repression and paranoia.

The prize-winning book, "A Shot in the Cathedral," has been published in both
Spanish and English and is taught at numerous area schools and colleges,
including Georgetown and American universities. Teachers say many of their
American students are shocked and moved by it.

Bencastro enjoys expanding their awareness by giving classroom talks and
readings.

"So many of my students have no idea of American intervention" in Central
America, said Arlette Clayton, who teaches at the National Cathedral School.
"Then they read his book, and he comes and has conversations with them, and he
is so approachable and friendly, and they say, 'My God, you really opened up our
eyes.' "

Barbara Mujica, a professor of Spanish at Georgetown who is a good friend of
Bencastro's and often assigns his works, said that much contemporary writing
about El Salvador has tended to be political, with a dry or polemic style.
Bencastro, she said, is one of the few Salvadoran writers to give a human
dimension to the conflict he chronicles.

"He really gets to the anguish and uncertainty people feel living in a war-torn
society; it transcends the partisan aspects of his books," she said. "Yes, he is
taking a stand, but you never feel you are reading a diatribe."

Bencastro also reaches out to nonacademic audiences, including Salvadoran
American teenagers who may not understand the forces that drove their parents to
flee their homeland and who often feel they do not belong in either society.
Recently, the writer has been giving talks to the Buckingham Youth Brigade, a
gang-prevention and leadership group for young Latinos in Arlington.

"Here there is a rapidly growing Salvadoran community that knows almost nothing
about its history," said Bencastro, a slight man who speaks with a soft voice
and an unhurried manner. "I start way back with Mayan civilization. I talk about
patron saint festivals. I emphasize all the customs people may have forgotten."

At one meeting of the youth group last month, Bencastro broke the ice by passing
out copies of his dictionary of Salvadoran slang, called "Vato Guanaco Loco"--a
slang term for "Crazy Salvadoran Guy," that includes a section written in
rap-style Spanish.

Soon, several students began talking about themselves and their problems.

"We always felt this tension of being in the middle. We were called gringos, but
we felt like guanacos. I had a lot of rage, and I always wanted to fight," said
Julio Cesar Hernandez, 22, a Salvadoran American who survived a troubled
adolescence and recently graduated from Eastern College in Philadelphia. "We
have one foot here and one foot in our homeland, and we have to live with that."

With "Odyssey," Bencastro has brought the Salvadoran saga up to date and
directly home to Salvadoran immigrants living in the Washington area. The novel,
scheduled for publication next month by the University of Houston, traces the
tortuous path of several fictional refugees from El Salvador to Washington.

The scenes of daily immigrant life in Washington are both gritty and humorous.
In one, the Salvadoran buddies set out looking for fruit one night and end up in
their first topless bar. In another, a Salvadoran window washer falls to his
death and the others scatter, afraid of being deported if they talk to the
police. Juancho, trying to attract American girls, takes to calling himself
Johnnie.

But the tales from the immigrants' travels are unrelentingly harrowing. A small
group of refugees stumbles through the Mexican desert, lost in the dark.

Families are corralled in a Texas detention camp, preyed upon by criminals. And
there is a chilling verbatim transcript of a bewildered young woman's
deportation hearing, followed by a news clipping from El Salvador that suggests
she was slain after being forced to return home.

"Mario is doing something no one else has. He is reproducing our culture as our
community evolves on a day-to-day basis," said Arnoldo Ramos, a Salvadoran
American who is director of the Council of Latino Agencies, a nonprofit advocacy
group in Adams-Morgan. "He is giving form to the aspirations and conditions in
which people live. For me, he is a cultural hero."

Although Bencastro's work is known and admired in circles of well-educated Latin
American immigrants here, it is less clear whether "Odyssey" will reach the real
people who resemble its characters: ordinary Salvadoran Americans with limited
educations, who may have difficulty with English, work at menial jobs and tend
to watch Spanish-language television rather than pick up a book.

But the writer, who has made a point of having his books published in
inexpensive, large-print Spanish editions back home, said he hopes the relevance
of his writing will inspire Salvadoran immigrants of all backgrounds to read.

"It's my goal to promote reading, not just to write," Bencastro said. "A lot of
people in my country leaped straight from the fields to the television set.
There is a certain cultural delay. But when people say our community doesn't
read, it's because they have nothing to relate to. When they find it, believe
me, they read."

Salvadoran American writer Mario Bencastro said, "I became obsessed with telling
people's stories." Mario Bencastro talks to a youth group at Lubber Run Center
in Arlington. He reaches out to Salvadoran American teenagers who may not
understand why their parents fled their homeland.


NAME: MARIO BENCASTRO

LOAD-DATE: January 07, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHC,,CHRIS TYREE FOR TWP

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              171 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 14, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Novel Tells the Tale of Immigrants' Travails; Author Depicts Painful Realities
Of El Salvador

Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - VA; Pg. V07

LENGTH: 1393 words


There's a passage in Mario Bencastro's new novel that would mean little to most
Americans, but thousands of Salvadoran immigrants in the Washington area would
recognize it instantly. The scene is set in a bus station in Mexico, where
several Salvadoran refugees are waiting nervously for the next leg of their
illegal journey to the United States.

"The walls and benches of the terminal witnessed so much sadness, despair and
fear. They listened to countless dramatic stories of the great Latin American
exodus, stories of millions of human beings who were fleeing from the misery and
violence in their countries, in search of the promised land. Each traveler left
a drop of suffering etched on the floor of that labyrinth . . . "

There are other scenes in "Odyssey to the North" that Salvadoran refugees here
might relate to just as quickly. Much of the action takes place in a hotel
kitchen in the District, where two Salvadorans named Juancho and Calixto wash
dishes until 3 a.m. while reminiscing about their homeland, worrying about
immigration raids and commenting on their friends' peccadilloes. The men share a
foul-smelling one-bedroom apartment with 20 people, sleeping in shifts.

The book also follows actual events, including the 1992 unrest in Mount
Pleasant, when thousands of Latinos in the District took to the streets after a
police officer shot and wounded a Salvadoran man who was drinking in a park.
Bencastro, who lives in Falls Church, alternates between official police
accounts of the disturbances and differing versions described by Latino
witnesses.

But the passage about the Mexican bus station also seems an apt description of
Bencastro's literary vision and purpose. The 49-year-old Salvadoran American
author, who works as a computer analyst in the District, has devoted the last 25
years to writing novels, plays and short stories that bear personal witness to
the painful reality of his native land.

El Salvador, a country of rural poverty and oligarchic wealth, erupted into
civil war in 1980. For a decade, rightist military forces supported by the
United States battled leftist guerrillas. The violence and disruption of war
drove more than a million Salvadorans to flee. Many entered the United States
illegally, and tens of thousands found their way to Washington.

"I started out as an abstract painter, but as the war went on I realized that
the reality was too overwhelming for painting to suffice," said Bencastro, who
was born and raised in El Salvador and immigrated to the United States during
the civil war. "I became obsessed with telling people's stories. Even fiction
seemed pallid compared to what was really happening."

His best-known work is a 1993 novel about the assassination of Archbishop Oscar
Romero in San Salvador in 1980, a pivotal event in the country's political
struggle.

The plot interweaves two threads: quotations from Romero's homilies calling for
justice, and the fictional account of a young Salvadoran journalist trying to
survive in a climate of repression and paranoia.

The prize-winning book, "A Shot in the Cathedral," has been published in Spanish
and English and is taught at numerous area schools and colleges, including
Georgetown and American universities. Teachers say many of their American
students are shocked and moved by it.

Bencastro enjoys expanding their awareness by giving classroom talks and
readings.

"So many of my students have no idea of American intervention" in Central
America, said Arlette Clayton, who teaches at the National Cathedral School.
"Then they read his book, and he comes and has conversations with them, and he
is so approachable and friendly, and they say, 'My God, you really opened up our
eyes.' "

Barbara Mujica, a professor of Spanish at Georgetown who is a good friend of
Bencastro's and often assigns his works, said that much contemporary writing
about El Salvador has tended to be political, with a dry or polemic style.
Bencastro, she said, is one of the few Salvadoran writers to give a human
dimension to the conflict he chronicles.

"He really gets to the anguish and uncertainty people feel living in a war-torn
society; it transcends the partisan aspects of his books," she said. "Yes, he is
taking a stand, but you never feel you are reading a diatribe."

Bencastro also reaches out to nonacademic audiences, including Salvadoran
American teenagers who may not understand the forces that drove their parents to
flee their homeland and who often feel they do not belong in either society.
Recently, the writer has been giving talks to the Buckingham Youth Brigade, a
gang-prevention and leadership group for young Latinos in Arlington.

"Here there is a rapidly growing Salvadoran community that knows almost nothing
about its history," said Bencastro, a slight man who speaks with a soft voice.
"I start way back with Mayan civilization. I talk about patron saint festivals.
I emphasize all the customs people may have forgotten."

At one meeting of the youth group last month, Bencastro broke the ice by passing
out copies of his dictionary of Salvadoran slang, called "Vato Guanaco Loco" --
a slang term for "Crazy Salvadoran Guy," that includes a section written in
rap-style Spanish.

Soon, students began talking about themselves and their problems.

"We always felt this tension of being in the middle. We were called gringos, but
we felt like guanacos. I had a lot of rage, and I always wanted to fight," said
Julio Cesar Hernandez, 22, a Salvadoran American who survived a troubled
adolescence and recently graduated from Eastern College in Philadelphia. "We
have one foot here and one foot in our homeland, and we have to live with that."

With "Odyssey," Bencastro has brought the Salvadoran saga up to date and
directly home to Salvadoran immigrants living in the Washington area. The novel,
scheduled for publication next month by the University of Houston, traces the
tortuous path of several fictional refugees from El Salvador to Washington.

The scenes of daily immigrant life in Washington are both gritty and humorous.
In one, the Salvadoran buddies set out looking for fruit one night and end up in
their first topless bar. In another, a Salvadoran window washer falls to his
death and the others scatter, afraid of being deported if they talk to the
police. Juancho, trying to attract American girls, takes to calling himself
Johnnie.

But the tales from the immigrants' travels are unrelentingly harrowing. A small
group of refugees stumbles through the Mexican desert, lost in the dark.

Families are corralled in a Texas detention camp, preyed upon by criminals. And
there is a chilling verbatim transcript of a bewildered young woman's
deportation hearing, followed by a news clipping from El Salvador that suggests
she was slain after being forced to return home.

"Mario is doing something no one else has. He is reproducing our culture as our
community evolves on a day-to-day basis," said Arnoldo Ramos, a Salvadoran
American who is director of the Council of Latino Agencies, a nonprofit advocacy
group in Adams-Morgan. "He is giving form to the aspirations and conditions in
which people live. For me, he is a cultural hero."

Although Bencastro's work is known and admired in circles of well-educated Latin
American immigrants here, it is less clear whether "Odyssey" will reach the real
people who resemble its characters: ordinary Salvadoran Americans with limited
educations, who may have difficulty with English, work at menial jobs and tend
to watch Spanish-language TV rather than pick up a book.

But the writer, who has made a point of having his books published in
inexpensive, large-print Spanish editions back home, said he hopes the relevance
of his writing will inspire Salvadoran immigrants of all backgrounds to read.

"It's my goal to promote reading, not just to write," Bencastro said. "A lot of
people in my country leaped straight from the fields to the television set.
There is a certain cultural delay. But when people say our community doesn't
read, it's because they have nothing to relate to. When they find it, believe
me, they read." Mario Bencastro talks to a youth group at Lubber Run Center in
Arlington. He reaches out to Salvadoran American teenagers who may not
understand why their parents fled their homeland.


NAME: MARIO BENCASTRO

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, CHRIS TYREE FOR TWP

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              172 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 21, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Ukraine Asks U.S. to Return Its Ex-Leader

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 247 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Feb. 20


Ukraine wants the United States to return former prime minister Pavlo Lazarenko,
who it says is trying to escape prosecution for allegedly stealing $ 2.1 million
from his own government.

Yurii Schkuremko, vice consul of the Ukrainian mission to the United Nations,
said Lazarenko was being detained by immigration officials after trying to enter
the country with an invalid visa on Friday. U.S. immigration officials would
neither confirm nor deny that Lazarenko was in New York.

An arrest warrant was issued last week for Lazarenko by Ukraine's chief
prosecutor.

He refused to meet with Ukrainian diplomats here, Schkuremko said.

An embassy official in Washington said the Ukrainian government was appealing to
the State Department for Lazarenko's return. The State Department could not
immediately confirm the request.

On Wednesday, parliament stripped Lazarenko of immunity, clearing the way for
his arrest. Lazarenko, 45, is suspected of stealing $ 2.1 million of government
money and illegally stashing about $ 4 million in a Swiss bank. He was prime
minister in 1996-97.

He left Ukraine two days before the parliament vote and said in a letter to
parliament that he was in a Greek hospital recuperating from a "sudden heart
attack."

However, the Ukrainian Embassy in Greece later said it had no information about
Lazarenko's whereabouts. Mykhailo Potebenko, the chief prosecutor in Ukraine,
said Friday that Lazarenko's family is in the United States.

NAME: PAVLO LAZARENKO; YURII SCHKUREMKO

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              173 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 16, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Replaces Eastern Region Director

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 346 words


Michael Devine, the acting director for the Eastern Region of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, has been replaced because citizenship application
processing goals have not been met, agency sources said.

At the same time, the New York and Miami district directors have been called to
Washington for talks with high-level agency officials because of the poor
showing in reducing the citizenship backlog in those cities, officials said.

J. Scott Blackman, the Philadelphia district director, is replacing Devine, who
will return to his former position as deputy director of the region, said INS
spokeswoman Maria T. Cardona. She said it is not unusual for people to rotate in
and out of acting positions.

But sources say Devine was demoted in hopes that a new director would improve
the citizenship numbers. The backlog peaked in the fall at 1.9 million
nationwide and in December was 1.8 million.

For more than a year, INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner, under pressure from
Congress and immigrant advocates to reduce the backlog, has made it known that
her foremost concern is naturalization. To that end, Meissner set a goal last
fall to complete 1.5 million applications this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.

Although Meissner later lowered the target to 1.2 million completions,
high-ranking INS officers in the Eastern Region have criticized her, saying her
goals are nearly impossible to meet with available resources. In the first
quarter of the fiscal year, which ended Dec. 31, 238,000 applications were
completed nationwide, an annual rate of 950,000.

"For something to be valid, it must be attainable and relevant," said one top
officer in the region.

Devine headed the Eastern Region for about six months and has been with the INS
for 30 years.

William R. Yates, the acting deputy executive associate commissioner for
immigration services, confirmed that the Miami and New York district directors
have been called to Washington. He said the meetings were called to develop a
plan for reducing the backlog in the two districts.

NAME: MICHAEL DEVINE; J. SCOTT BLACKMAN

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              174 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 27, 1998, Sunday, Final Edition

Customs to Get Bigger Picture of Smuggling

Ken Ellingwood, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 930 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


It can't sniff drugs or rifle luggage. But the newest weapon against smuggling
boasts blink-of-an-eye speed that border officials hope will be just as useful.

The weapon is a high-tech camera that feeds the license plate numbers of passing
cars into a computer that can tell if the vehicle is stolen or tied to a crime,
and how often it crosses the border and when.

U.S. Customs Service officials in the California-Mexico border city of San
Ysidro have installed a bank of the devices, called license plate readers, in
freeway lanes leading into Mexico and plan to activate them within a month.

Part of a nationwide push by customs officials to stanch the flow of drug
proceeds and firearms south to Mexico, the new system is but one example of how
officials along the U.S. border are increasingly relying on emerging technology
to cope with challenges ranging from smuggling and illegal immigration to
chronic traffic snarls.

Customs inspectors already have gizmos that peer down gas tanks and spot drug
stashes inside tires. They may also soon be scanning the payloads of big trucks
with deep-penetrating gamma rays and searching all types of vehicles for drugs
with hand-held sniffing machines. In addition, the hunt is on for high-tech ways
to disable cars whose drivers elude border inspections.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service uses electronic fingerprinting and
computer-stored photographs to track more than 1 million immigrants who have
previously been caught entering without documents. And a sophisticated new green
card for resident aliens employs holograms and laser-etched data to deter fakes.

Soon to open at the San Ysidro crossing are two special commuter lanes that will
allow many regular commuters to avoid 20- to 30-minute waits with the swipe of a
card. A similar program is in place in Otay Mesa, where officials also are
testing a remote voice-recognition system that someday could allow U.S.-bound
cars to clear the border without stopping.

"What we see now is just the beginning of the trend," said Raymond D. Mintz,
director of applied technology for the U.S. Customs Service in Washington. "In
another year or two, the whole face of the way things are done at the border is
going to change."

The newly installed license plate readers in San Ysidro offer one such change:
Vehicles, always scrutinized upon entering the United States, will for the first
time be recorded as they head into Mexico. The readers take an electronic
snapshot and send the digitized data into a computer bank. That information pops
up when the car reenters the country.

Officials say a log of departing cars may help establish the patterns of
drug-cartel couriers and make it easier to crack criminal rings that operate
across the border.

"You don't fight the drug war unless you get the complete picture. The complete
picture is what's going outbound as well as what's coming inbound," said Ruben
Carrasco, U.S. Customs traffic manager at the San Ysidro port.

The installation of the license plate readers, also in place at crossings in
Calexico and Otay Mesa, coincides with a heightened effort by customs to search
outbound vehicles for contraband.

In San Ysidro, a special team combining nine inspectors and a cash-sniffing
black Labrador was formed in February to set up impromptu checkpoints for
southbound vehicles at the border almost every day. The operations are often
done in conjunction with local police seeking stolen cars or fugitives.

Customs administrators say the southbound operations are fruitful. Inspectors
turned up $ 1.2 million in bundles of undeclared cash in searching a
Mexico-bound van at a checkpoint last March. Other seizures have involved tens
of thousands of dollars each.

"Years ago we were losing all that," said Oscar Preciado, port director at San
Ysidro.

The license plate readers, mounted on concrete barriers a few hundred feet north
of the border, will tell inspectors whether a car nearing a checkpoint is sought
by police and log all cars leaving.

Similar readers have been in place in U.S.-bound lanes at San Ysidro for about
eight months. Data is checked against a customs computer and a separate national
crime database to see if a vehicle warrants special attention. By the time the
car pulls up to the booth, the information is on the inspector's computer
screen. Officials say the advanced notice can prove an important warning for
inspectors.

"It's one area where we have no pre-notification of who's coming. It can be
anyone from grandma from Billings, Mont., with three kids, to three terrorists,"
said Dave Quainton, a customs inspector overseeing the license plate reader
project.

Mintz said the reader system could one day be combined with scales embedded in
the road to show if a vehicle is carrying a load as it reenters the United
States.

Information technology may also play a role in speeding cargo. One idea is to
create detailed profiles with scores of facts about commercial trucks -- where
they've been, what they're carrying and for whom. Computers could instantly sift
through the checklist to help inspectors pick which loads warrant a closer look.

"Fewer things will escape without some sort of action on our part," Mintz said.

The commuter lanes being prepared at San Ysidro promise shorter waits for
frequent crossers who pay a $ 129 enrollment, and are fingerprinted, checked for
a criminal past and deemed to be low-risk. An INS spokeswoman said the lanes
should be running early next year. Officials expect about 10,000 people to sign
up.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              175 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 13, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

INS Set to Raise Application Fee For Citizenship; Wait Is Shrinking, Officials
Say

Michelle Mittelstadt, Associated Press Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 376 words


Citizenship is becoming more expensive.

Effective Friday, the fee for filing a citizenship application is more than
doubling, to $ 225 from $ 95.

The increase comes even as the Immigration and Naturalization Service struggles
with huge backlogs that have some aspiring Americans waiting more than two years
for their paperwork to clear.

In proposing the increase last year, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner promised
that it wouldn't take effect until her agency had made progress in speeding the
processing of applications and reducing the backlog.

Although the backlog remains at 1.8 million cases, near its record high of 1.9
million, INS officials said they are making progress. The national average wait
stood at 23 months as of December, down from the 27-month average at the start
of 1998.

"While we are certainly not pleased, we are happy that we are heading in the
right direction in bringing that down," Bill Yates, the acting head of INS's
immigration services division, said yesterday.

But some immigrant advocates say the progress is not fast enough.

"There's certainly a lot of frustration in immigrant communities that services
appear not to have gotten substantially better and the fee is going up
dramatically," said Cecilia Munoz, vice president of the National Council of La
Raza.

Yates said the INS hopes to reduce the citizenship processing average to 12
months by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 31 and to Meissner's goal of six
months by the end of next fiscal year.

The INS, which processed 1.6 million citizenship applications in 1997, saw the
number dip dramatically last year to 771,000, said INS spokeswoman Elaine Komis.
This year, the agency estimates 700,000 people will seek to become naturalized
citizens.

The surge in citizenship requests in 1996 and 1997 was driven in large measure
by changes in federal law denying welfare and other benefits to noncitizens.

People seeking to beat the citizenship fee increase must act quickly. The INS
must receive mailed applications by Thursday, Komis said.

The agency has experienced a surge in applications in recent weeks, receiving
95,000 applications last month. Typically, 58,000 to 60,000 applications are
received monthly, Yates said.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post
