
                               1 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 25, 2008 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Expedited Trials of Illegal Immigrants Are Questioned

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 523 words


Criminal defense and immigration lawyers yesterday challenged the government's
use of expedited trials to convict 306 illegal immigrant workers at a meat
processing plant in Iowa in May, arguing that fast-tracked group trials violated
defendants' rights.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's
immigration panel, said after a day-long hearing that she found the Justice
Department's actions against workers at the Agriprocessors Inc. plant in
Postville, Iowa, "to be unusual and provocative, and I do have questions about
whether they meet the requirements of due process that is guaranteed in our
Constitution."

A Justice Department official, Deborah J. Rhodes, said all defendants were
provided with criminal defense lawyers and interpreters, as well as access to
immigration lawyers and consular officials. Federal judges also asked them and
their lawyers if they understood and voluntarily agreed to the terms, she said.

"While the scope of the case presented unusual challenges, defendants'
constitutional rights were carefully protected and exercised," Rhodes said.

The hearings focused attention on the aftermath of the Agriprocessors raid, the
largest immigration sweep at a single worksite, and on the Bush administration's
expanding use of criminal charges against illegal immigrants. Previously,
illegal workers were generally held on administrative grounds and deported.

Erik Camayd-Freixas, one of 12 court interpreters who participated in the
two-week Iowa proceedings, called them a dangerous pilot effort that subjected
defendants to unfounded charges, denied them access to bail because of their
immigration status, gave lawyers too little time to advise their clients and
deprived judges of a meaningful role in plea deals or sentencing.

The government convicted and sentenced most defendants in four days at temporary
court and detention facilities set up at nearby cattle show fairgrounds.

Defendants, most from Guatemala, were processed in groups of 10. Most were
charged with aggravated identity theft with the promise of at least a six-month
stay in jail until trial, a mandatory two-year prison sentence if found guilty
and deportation whether they were found guilty or not. Or they could plead
guilty to a lesser charge of document fraud, serve five months in prison and be
deported.

Most agreed to the latter, even though six U.S. circuit courts of appeal have
split evenly over the question of whether aggravated identity theft requires
that the government prove a defendant knows the person whose identity or Social
Security number he has taken.

"If our honorable judges had known how this dubious experiment would have turned
out, they never would have allowed it," Camayd-Freixas said.

Homeland Security and Justice Department officials credit the new aggressive
tactics with deterring border crossings. Republicans on the Judiciary Committee
accused Democrats of caring more about illegal immigrants than the American
workers whose jobs they take. "The more the administration tries to do its job .
. . the more they are criticized for enforcing the law," said Rep. Lamar Smith
(R-Tex.).

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 15, 2008 Friday
                                Regional Edition

A Misguided Crackdown;
Treating the symptoms, but not the cause, of illegal immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 523 words


CONGRESS'S FAILURE to enact a workable immigration system last year prompted the
Bush administration to redouble its previously lethargic efforts at enforcing
existing immigration laws. The get-tough campaign -- more workplace raids and
arrests along the Mexican border, plus a smattering of criminal cases against
employers -- has two goals. One is to show a doubting public that the feds mean
business. The other is to make things so miserable for businesses that corporate
lobbyists join in the fight for meaningful immigration reform.

The results of this enforcement-only strategy have meant that undocumented
workers are suffering the brunt of the misery even as businesses continue to
employ millions of them. A new study by the Center for Immigration Studies,
which opposes illegal immigration, suggests this strategy has helped prompt
hundreds of thousands of undocumented workers to leave the country; the economic
slowdown has added to the pressure by depriving them of jobs. Still, the
administration's strategy of emphasizing punishment rather than prevention
underscores the need for a more durable solution.

Seen as raw data, the numbers of illegal workers taken into custody in raids at
meatpacking plants and other workplaces are striking. Agents of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement made some 5,000 workplace arrests last year, 10 times as
many as in 2002. Some recent sweeps have been dramatic, including a raid in May
on Agriprocessors, a huge meatpacking plant in Iowa where 390 undocumented
workers were arrested; many of them were charged with document fraud and
received prison terms before their likely deportations.

But compare the arrests -- as well as 90-odd criminal cases brought against
various employers -- against the ongoing reality of some 8 million undocumented
workers, and the feds' efforts look modest. No doubt, some employers have felt
the heat (partly from tougher state laws) and are checking prospective workers'
documents more closely. Hiring more immigration agents has certainly increased
the peril, and the cost, of sneaking across the southern border.

But the basic legal and economic dynamics that created the nation's
dysfunctional immigration system remain largely unchanged. Despite the economic
dip, there is still demand for unskilled labor that native-born Americans cannot
supply. That demand will perk up when the economy does. The number of visas
available for unskilled workers -- 66,000 per year -- is laughably inadequate.
Many thousands of workers continue to enter the country illegally or enter
legally and then overstay their visas.  A practical approach would acknowledge
both the demand for unskilled labor and the fact that 5 percent of the American
workforce consists of undocumented workers. It would raise the quota of
temporary employment visas, establish a better system for employers to verify
the legal status of job applicants and offer undocumented workers a way to
register themselves and eventually earn citizenship. Critics will howl about an
amnesty, but realists will see it is the way to address the reality of
immigration and labor in a globalized marketplace.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      May 28, 2008 Wednesday 11:00 AM EST

PBS Frontline/World: 'Crimes at the Border'

BYLINE: Oriana Zill de Granados, Producer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2760 words



HIGHLIGHT: PBS Frontline/World producer Oriana Zill de Granados was online
Wednesday, May 28 to discuss her film "Crimes at the Border," which investigates
the booming business of smuggling immigrants into the U.S. from Mexico -- and
the corrupting influence it has had on some customs and border patrol officials.



PBS Frontline/World producer Oriana Zill de Granados was online Wednesday, May
28 to discuss her film "Crimes at the Border," which investigates the booming
business of smuggling immigrants into the U.S. from Mexico -- and the corrupting
influence it has had on some customs and border patrol officials.

" Crimes at the Border" aired Tuesday, May 27 at 9 p.m. on PBS (check local
listings for repeat presentations, or watch the show online).

A transcript follows.

____________________

Oriana Zill de Granados: Hello everyone, I am Oriana Zill de Granados, producer
of Crimes at the Border for PBS Frontline World.

_______________________

Detroit, Michigan: Were you surprised by anything when making this story?

Oriana Zill de Granados: I have to say that many things surprised me about this
story. I had spent a lot of time in Tijuana reporting about the war on drugs,
but I had not done a story about human smuggling before.

I was shocked that migrants now fly to Tijuana on airplanes because it is often
cheaper than taking the bus.

I was surprised by the migrants themselves. It is easy to group people together
and think of them as a mass, but these are human beings, driven by the same
desires and goals that we all have. It was good to get to know some of them and
hear their side of the story.

I was especially surprised that so many people still get across despite the
growing fence and border build-up. People who work and live along the border
know this, but I don't think the rest of the country really does.

_______________________

Philadelphia, Pa.: About how much of the smuggling is drugs, how much is human
traffic, and what are some of the other things being smuggled across the border?

Oriana Zill de Granados: We were very surprised to learn that the US government
does not have estimates or research studies about how many people or drugs are
actually being smuggled across the border. The UC San Diego study we referred to
in the piece estimates that slightly less than 50 percent of the people who
cross get apprehended and there were about 800,000 people apprehended last year
along the southern border.

In terms of drugs, there is no way to know how much is getting across, but it's
a large amount.

Guns are one thing that are actually smuggled from the US INTO Mexico because it
is illegal to sell guns in Mexico. Money (from drugs) is also smuggled back the
other way from US into Mexico.

_______________________

Philadelphia, Pa.: The introduction states that the smuggling has a corrupting
influence on guards. Yet, are these payoffs creating the corruption, or might
some of these guards have been corrupt to begin with and perhaps that is why
some sought to become guards?

Oriana Zill de Granados: We learned that some smuggling organizations ARE
actively trying to recruit guards. And some use tactics like offers of sex and
money to do that.

Obviously, if a guard takes the bait, he is corrupt, but what we found
interesting was that in the old days, the smuggling business did not have enough
money to really tempt these guards to throw away their careers. Now, the money
is plentiful and it presents a temptation that some people find hard to resist.

Most border agents are not corrupt and do not succumb to that temptation.

_______________________

D.C.: A lot of Chinese have taken this route via snakeheads and Mexican gangs to
get into this country. If you visit NYC Chinatown, almost all of the people
there are illegal immigrants from the Fujian Province in China. Why isn't there
any legislation like in Prince William County, Virginia to crack down on this
blatant situation? These illegals are a huge burden for government services.

If you note flights back to China from NY, there are a lot of newborns being
sent back to China as US Citizens because their illegal parents are staying in
the US to work. People are actually being paid to take flights to escort these
babies back because they can always return. Many babies on flights to China, no
babies on flights back to the US.

Oriana Zill de Granados: We did find that many Chinese people go through Mexico,
especially through Mexicali, which has a large resident Chinese population.
Chinese people will pay as much as $25,000 to $40,000 to be smuggled all the way
from China to the US.

The smugglers and other immigration experts told us that Chinese people are
called the "invisible" pollos (a word for the people being smuggled) because
they are rarely seen out in public. I think they must be smuggling the Chinese
through tunnels or other such hidden method because they are rarely caught.

_______________________

Miami, Florida: Do you believe "good" law enforcement is doing their part to
stop the "bad" law enforcement who take bribes?

Oriana Zill de Granados: We found that there are many agencies in the US
government that are striving to fight corruption along the border. The problem
is not being ignored.

We did find complaints from various law enforcement officials about the
structure of the agencies, that there was an alphabet soup of different agencies
fighting corruption and it was hard to know exactly who was in charge. This
leads to some confusion. Some of this was inadvertently created by the
reorganization after 9-11...

_______________________

Winlow, Ariz.: Do you think guys like Gilliland find that it pays to be corrupt?
5 years in prison?

Oriana Zill de Granados: What surprised me the most about the Gilliland case was
that no one knows exactly how much money he really made. He is a smart person
and probably found ways to hide the money. But there is no way to know for sure.

The penalties for corruption by guards are light compared to drugs, but similar
to many other white collar crimes, which tend to have lesser sentences. Many law
enforcement officials complained about this to us.

_______________________

Cupertino, Calif.: What can we do to wake up the American people, to the fact
that corruption on the Mexico side of border, in regard to drug, and human
smuggling, is mirrored by an equal, if not greater, amount of graft and
corruption, on the American side.

Most Americans seem to feel that these are Mexico's problems, when nothing could
be further from the truth.

Americans need to realize that it is all about the money, and organizations,
such as the Texas Border Coalition, fighting against the construction of the
legislated border fence, are indirectly tied to the tens of millions of dollars
in illicit trade that take place every day along the border with Mexico.

Oriana Zill de Granados: Corruption is a major problem for Mexico, one that many
Mexican officials are devoting their lives and careers to try to stop.

When I did the reporting eight years ago about drugs, I realized that Mexican
corruption is really endemic and difficult to stop. Plata or Plomo, (Silver or
Lead) is a difficult thing to fight.

But American officials also have problems with corruption and the more money
available to corrupt people, the larger the problem will grow. We need to be
aware of this and work to stop it as well.

_______________________

Richmond: I read "The Devil's Highway" by Luis Urrea and was struck by the harsh
environment. Many die making the trip.

Oriana Zill de Granados: Yes, it is a harsh environment and many more people
have died trying to cross in the last ten years than previously.

This is one of the reasons that more people are now trying to cross in cars,
because there is less chance of dying.

It is a sad situation and I hope the debate around this issue will come up with
solutions so that less people will die.

_______________________

San Diego: If I know a Border officer who is corrupt who should I report it to?

Oriana Zill de Granados: The FBI in San Diego has a border corruption task force
that takes these tips.

_______________________

Seattle, Wash.: So, the better fix to the problems would be better screening as
opposed to better pay/promotions? How do you screen for a willingness to take
bribes?

Oriana Zill de Granados: Many law enforcement agencies use lie detector tests
and regular financial screening to weed out corruption.

According to the New York Times story yesterday, the Department of Homeland
Security may implement some of these methods in the future.

But with all the rapid hiring, it is expensive to implement these screening
methods.

_______________________

Escondido, Calif.: That birthday phone call in the story was hilarious! Sounded
like they were BEST FRIENDS! Was that really a smuggler calling a border agent?

Oriana Zill de Granados: Yes, that was an actual phone call (from a tapped
phone) of a smuggler calling a border agent, Michael Gilliland. We also heard
other calls between the two that were more graphic, but we felt it was
inappropriate to publish those.

_______________________

GOPland: When a President McCain gets an amnesty bill passed and we have open
borders, will all this criminal activity end at the border?

Oriana Zill de Granados: I don't think that it is likely that anyone will pass a
bill to create open borders. There will always be restrictions on the border.

The experts we talked to suggested that one of the only ways to stop people from
crossing is to create good jobs inside Mexico. And to crack down on employers
here in the US who hire people who do not have legal papers.

It is difficult to do this, because illegal migrants are important to many
industries in the US, such as the picking of our lettuce, our strawberries, our
tomatoes, our grapes, etc...

If the US cracked down, these items would become much more expensive to the
average consumer.

_______________________

Ames, Iowa: Your video ended on a "down" note and implied that securing the
border is futile. Do you really believe this?

Oriana Zill de Granados: Our intention was to show people the debate, and to
educate people about the various points of view on this issue.

If you travel to the border regions and talk to the people who live and work
there, many do feel it is incredibly difficult to truly secure the border.
People who want to get across will eventually get across, we were told by most
of the folks we interviewed, including US officials.

_______________________

Dallas, Tex.: Your show sounds very interesting, but apparently I will have to
catch it online. My local PBS station preempted this Frontline episode for a
repeat of another show. Do you know why a major city in a state that would seem
to be directly affected by the subject of your show would refuse to show it?

Sadly, I only knew it even existed because of this chat on the WP.

washingtonpost.com: The show and other online extras are available at the
Frontline website.

Oriana Zill de Granados: Please watch the show on-line and let us know what you
thought!!

http://www.pbs.org/frontlineworld.

PBS stations are independent and sometimes do not show the national series at
the same time. They will likely run it another time in the near future.

_______________________

San Diego: Ok, ok. I get it. The first act in your story... the players are
presented (smugglers, corrupt guy, good law enforcement). Now you need a second
act... the good guys win and Mike G. is deported. Will there be a part II?

Oriana Zill de Granados: This was a difficult story to tell in 25 minutes
because there are so many interesting and important aspects to this debate. I
think it is critical for the American people to understand this issue and be
educated about the various players.

Immigration was and always will be a part of the American story.

_______________________

Austin: FBI agents are hot! What's that guy's phone number?

Oriana Zill de Granados: I'll tell him you said so....

_______________________

Tempe, Ariz.: Oriana, what's your PERSONAL point of view about this situation?
Do you believe we should let everyone into the country and that U.S. law
enforcement is just as corrupt as Mexico? Kinda get the impression you do!

Oriana Zill de Granados: I believe that this is a complicated and interesting
dilemma.

We strive to show people all the sides of any problem and let them decide for
themselves.

_______________________

Albuquerque, N.M.: It's sad that someone could betray our country the way the
officer in your story portrays. A former Marine!!!!!! I am sick. Why did he do
this?

Oriana Zill de Granados: He did it for money, I assume.

_______________________

Richmond: I talk to a lot of people in the construction industry. They're long
time good ole boys, pretty conservative, but are forced to admit they can't get
their projects done without the hard working illegal immigrants. Most say they
can't find many hard workers who are American. (Not a converse statement.
American construction workers ARE hard workers, but they're so rare, they're
already working. The ones looking for work whine at any hard work. The Mexicans
do not, they hunker down and do the work, grateful for the job.)

So we also won't stop illegal immigration til we provide some industries with
hard working staff to fill the jobs.

Oriana Zill de Granados: Some suggest that a possible solution is to have a
guest worker program where Mexican workers could travel to the US legally to
work for a limited period of time and then return to Mexico when they are done.

I am sure both American and Mexican workers are hard workers, but Mexicans will
generally work for less money because they come from a place where you make $5
dollars a day versus $5 dollars an hour. It is really an issue about economics.

_______________________

River City: I'll make the bold statement that illegal immigration is a boon to
our economy. I'm more worried about jobs crossing our border in the opposite
direction. Outsourcing jobs will devastate our economy. Now it's not just
customer service, but engineering, medical (reading X-rays), even animation!

Oriana Zill de Granados: Globalization is changing many things...

_______________________

Los Angeles: You missed the point, Oriana! These people are not just strawberry
pickers! As you reported, many are criminals. This is a problem! Don't you see
it that way?

Oriana Zill de Granados: Our reporting found that most illegal immigrants are
simply looking for jobs. As in any society, a small percentage are criminals.

_______________________

Cleveland: Thanks for your story. I had no idea this stuff goes on! Very
interesting. I hope that officer is the exception, not the rule.

Oriana Zill de Granados: He is the exception, not the rule. Still, our reporting
found that the problem has increased in recent years.

_______________________

Wokingham, UK: Could there be idealistic as well as mercenary reasons for
immigration officials to enter into financial relationships with people
smugglers? That they are in their own way, seeing that the policy of total
exclusion is manifestly failing, issuing licenses to smugglers who act more
responsibly, with some care for the safety of the people trafficked and with
less interest in drugs and guns?

Oriana Zill de Granados: Many people who work as border guards are frustrated by
their job, our reporting found. But we also found that money was the most
powerful motivator for corruption.

_______________________

Immigration was and always will be a part of the American story.: What a good
point. I'm descended from immigrants, as are most of my friends, neighbors and
coworkers, much less most of the people who complain about immigration. The only
folks who aren't descended from immigrants are Native Americans and African
Americans (who were forced here, not immigrated). I wonder why so many people
think their family had the right to immigrate, but no others should.

Oriana Zill de Granados: I think people worry about the loss of jobs to them and
their families. Its a difficult issue in areas where jobs are already
evaporating.

_______________________

Seattle, Wash.: Submitted in advance:

So basically, the government underpays its employees to stop millions to
billions of dollars of contraband from entering the country, and the government
is then surprised when some of them take bribes?

Oriana Zill de Granados: Being a border agent is a very difficult job.

_______________________

Oriana Zill de Granados: I have to sign off now, thanks very much for all the
questions. Please check our website to continue to comment and get more
information about the story. Best, ORIANA

http://www.pbs.org/frontlineworld

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Immigration Raid Jars a Small Town;
Critics Say Employers Should Be Targeted

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1672 words

DATELINE: POSTVILLE, Iowa


Antonio Escobedo ran to get his wife Monday when he saw a helicopter circling
overhead and immigration agents approaching the meatpacking plant where they
both work. The couple hid for hours inside the plant before obtaining refuge in
the pews and hall at St. Bridget's Catholic Church, where hundreds of other
Guatemalan and Mexican families gathered, hoping to avoid arrest.

"I like my job. I like my work. I like it here in Iowa," said Escobedo, 38, an
illegal immigrant from Yescas, Mexico, who has raised his three children for 11
years in Postville. "Are they mad because I'm working?"

Monday's raid on the Agriprocessors plant, in which 389 immigrants were arrested
and many held at a cattle exhibit hall, was the Bush administration's largest
crackdown on illegal workers at a single site. It has upended this tree-lined
community, which calls itself "Hometown to the World." Half of the school
system's 600 students were absent Tuesday, including 90 percent of Hispanic
children, because their parents

were arrested or in hiding.

Current and former officials of the Department of Homeland Security say its raid
on the largest employer in northeast Iowa reflects the administration's decision
to put pressure on  companies with large numbers of illegal immigrant workers,
particularly in the meat industry. But its disruptive impact on the nation's
largest supplier of kosher beef and on the surrounding community has provoked
renewed criticism that the administration is disproportionately targeting
workers instead of employers, and that the resulting turmoil is worse than the
underlying crimes.

"They don't go after employers. They don't put CEOs in jail," complained the
Postville Community Schools superintendent, David Strudthoff, 51, who said the
sudden incarceration of more than 10 percent of the town's population of 2,300
"is like a natural disaster -- only this one is manmade."

He added, "In the end, it is the greater population that will suffer and the
workforce that will be held accountable."

Congressman Bruce Braley (D-Iowa) said enforcement efforts against corporations
that commit immigration violations have "plummeted" under the Bush
administration. "Until we enforce our immigration laws equally against both
employers and employees who break the law, we will continue to have a problem,"
he said.

Julie L. Myers, assistant homeland security secretary for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (ICE), said that to the contrary, the agency has seldom been
so aggressive, including opening criminal investigations of company officials.
While cases have netted only a handful of sentences for low-level managers so
far, Myers said, such white-collar crime investigations typically take years to
develop.

"Can we really execute a search warrant without taking any action against
[illegal employment] that we know is taking place?" she asked. "Or will just
taking business records through a search warrant cause illegal aliens to leave,
and then we're not fulfilling that part of the mission, as well?"

Lobbyists and former officials say that in unleashing ICE, the administration is
trying to "turn up the pain" to motivate businesses and Congress to support the
comprehensive immigration changes sought by President Bush, such as a
temporary-worker program and earned legalization. If the existing legal tools
are too blunt, they said, Congress should create a fairer system.

But the pressure on employers -- whose wages and hiring practices have lured
illegal workers to both large cities and small towns -- has mostly been indirect
and economic: While workplace arrests have risen tenfold since 2002, from 510 to
4,940, only 90 criminal arrests have involved company personnel officials.

So far, no officials at Agriprocessors have been charged. The company, founded
by Aaron Rubashkin, has a storybook history whose recent chapters have turned
murky. After some of Rubashkin's Lubavitch Hasidic family moved here from
Brooklyn in 1987, the firm became the nation's largest processor of glatt kosher
beef, the strictest kosher standard. It produces kosher and non-kosher beef,
veal, lamb, turkey and chicken products under brands such as Iowa Best Beef,
Aaron's Best and Rubashkin's.

According to an affidavit filed by an ICE agent in conjunction with this week's
arrests, 76 percent of the 968 employees on the company's payroll over the last
three months of 2007 used false or suspect Social Security numbers. The
affidavit cited unnamed sources who alleged that some company supervisors
employed 15-year-olds, helped cash checks for workers with fake documents, and
pressured workers without documents to purchase vehicles and register them in
other names.

In addition, the affidavit alleged that company supervisors ignored a report of
a methamphetamine drug lab operating in the plant. It also cited a case in which
a supervisor blindfolded a Guatemalan worker and allegedly struck him with a
meat hook, without serious injury.

Agriprocessors has faced other troubles, as well. In 2006, it paid a $600,000
settlement to the Environmental Protection Agency to resolve wastewater
pollution problems, and this March it was assessed $182,000 in fines for 39
state health, safety and labor violations. In 2004, the U.S. Agriculture
Department's inspector general accused the company of "acts of inhumane
slaughter" after animal rights advocates publicized an unauthorized video of a
stumbling, dying cow, and some Jewish groups attacked its worker practices.

And last month, the company lost a federal appellate court battle over whether
it could ignore a vote by workers at its Brooklyn distribution center to
unionize, on grounds that those in favor were illegal immigrants and not
entitled to federal labor protections.

"This employer has a long history of violating every law that's out there --
labor laws, environmental laws, now immigration laws," said Mark Lauritsen,
international vice president of the United Food and Commercial Workers union,
which has waged a bitter battle to organize the Postville plant. The union
charged that the immigration raid disrupted a separate U.S. Labor Department
investigation into alleged child labor law violations and other infractions.

ICE may be "deporting 390 witnesses" to the labor investigation, Lauritsen said,
adding, "This administration seems to place a larger value on big, splashy shows
in this immigration raid than in vigorously enforcing other labor laws."

In November, Sholom Rubashkin, company vice president and the founder's son,
wrote a letter to customers decrying "a slanderous and patently false campaign"
by the union, and defending the company's record and its products as "safe and
wholesome." After this week's raid, the family released brief statements
expressing its sympathies to workers, commitment to customers and cooperation
with authorities.

Chaim Abrahams, a company representative, said Agriprocessors is working to
"bolster our compliance efforts to employ only properly documented employees"
and has launched an independent investigation into the circumstances that led to
the raid.

The blitz, which occurred after a 16-month investigation, began with
helicopters, buses and vans encircling the western edge of town at 10 a.m.
Witnesses said hundreds of agents surrounded the plant in 10 minutes, began
interviewing workers and seized company records.

By early afternoon, illegal immigrants began arriving by bus at the National
Cattle Congress grounds in Waterloo, Iowa, about 75 miles from Postville. ICE
held 313 male suspects at an exhibit hall and 76 female suspects in local jails
for administrative violations of immigration law.

Those arrested include 290 Guatemalans, 93 Mexicans, 2 Israelis and 4
Ukrainians, according to the U.S. attorney's office for the Northern District of
Iowa.

Eighteen were juveniles who have been released or turned over for refugee
resettlement, and the prosecutor's office would not say if there were underage
workers at the plant. Of the adults, 306 face criminal charges for aggravated
identity theft and other crimes related to the use of false documents. A lawsuit
filed on behalf of the workers on Thursday, meanwhile, accused the government of
violating their constitutional rights through arbitrary and indefinite
detention.

For now, Postville residents -- immigrants and native-born -- are holding their
breath. On Greene Street, where the Hall Roberts' Son Inc. feed store, Kosher
Community Grocery and Restaurante Rinconcito Guatemalteco sit side by side,
workers fear a chain of empty apartments, falling home prices and business
downturns. The main street, punctuated by a single blinking traffic signal, has
been quiet; a Guatemalan restaurant temporarily closed; and the storekeeper next
door reported a steady trickle of families quietly booking flights to Central
America via Chicago.

"Postville will be a ghost town," said Lili, a Ukrainian store clerk who spoke
on the condition that her last name be withheld.

But Cesar Jochol, 48, a native of Patzun, Guatemala, and owner of a market
called Tonita's Express, questioned whether the raid will be a deterrent. People
who can afford to eat meat only once or twice a week in Guatemala, while earning
$4 a day, can earn $60 a day in Iowa, enough to eat beef or chicken three times
a day, he said. "You take away a hundred people. A couple hundred more will come
tomorrow;  they'll just go  to L.A., New York, New Jersey and Miami," said
Jochol, a 21-year U.S. resident.

At St. Bridget's Catholic Church, Eduardo Santos, 27, who came from Guatemala
and lost two of his fingers working at the factory, said the raid was "fair . .
. but it's bad for everybody. There's no work." He plans to go home.

"The problem is, who is going to do the work?" said Stephen G. Bloom, a
University of Iowa journalism professor who wrote a 2000 book on the clash of
cultures in Postville as Agriprocessors' Lubavitch Jewish leaders gained
influence in the mostly Lutheran town. "This is a no-win situation."

Staff researcher Madonna Lebling contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Matthew Putney -- Waterloo Courier Via Associated Press;
Detainees head to a court at the National Cattle Congress grounds on Wednesday.
The raid led to criminal charges for 306 of the workers.
IMAGE; By Spencer S. Hsu -- The Washington Post; Buses brought arrested workers
from Postville to the National Cattle Congress grounds in Waterloo, Iowa, last
week.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 31, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Former CEO of Iowa Kosher Meatpacking Plant Is Arrested

BYLINE: Kari Lydersen; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 514 words


The former chief executive of the Iowa kosher meatpacking plant that was the
site of a large immigration raid in May was arrested yesterday on federal
conspiracy charges involving harboring illegal immigrants for financial gain and
aiding and abetting document fraud and aggravated identity theft.

Federal officials allege that Sholom Rubashkin, son of Agriprocessors founder
Abraham Aaron Rubashkin, intentionally helped illegal workers obtain false
documentation. The new charges come one day after the Iowa labor commissioner
fined the company $10 million for wage violations.

The Rubashkins and other company officials were charged Sept. 9 with more than
9,000 misdemeanor violations of state child labor laws over an eight-month
period ending with the May 12 raid. The charges involved 32 minors, some younger
than 16, who allegedly were exposed to dangerous chemicals and were operating
meat grinders, circular saws and other heavy machinery.

During the raid at the Postville plant, among the country's largest suppliers of
kosher meat, agents detained 389 undocumented workers. About 300 have pleaded
guilty to federal charges of identity theft. Most of those received five months
in prison and were ordered deported.

The raid and ensuing group trials became a rallying point for immigrants' rights
groups, who decried that no charges had been filed against company owners or top
managers. This week, a human resources employee pleaded guilty to aggravated
identity theft and conspiracy charges, and two meatpacking supervisors and
another human resources employee are facing criminal charges. Agriprocessors did
not return calls.

"For years, Agriprocessors used a broken immigration system to exploit workers
and to drive down working conditions, and it appears it's finally caught up,"
said Scott Frotman, spokesman for the United Food and Commercial Workers union,
which had been organizing at the plant since 2005. "It really does appear the
Rubashkins developed their business plan directly from Upton Sinclair's 'The
Jungle.' I think this shows this behavior was systemic throughout the company's
operation."

Since the raid, elected officials, rabbis and labor leaders have visited
Postville to gather testimony about unpaid overtime, dangerous working
conditions and floor supervisors' taking bribes for jobs.

"Today, we are seeing concrete accountability in Postville, though it should not
have taken the destruction of a town and cost more than 5 million taxpayer
dollars to get here," said U.S. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.).

Robert Teig, assistant U.S. attorney for the northern district of Iowa, said the
investigation, which started more than a year ago, is ongoing.

According to a federal affidavit, Rubashkin, 49, lent a supervisor $4,500 to pay
for fake documents for about 40 employees. A worker told federal officials that
on May 11, the day before the raid, Rubashkin was present while a large number
of new job applications were processed. The source thought that the applications
were for workers who were supposed to have been fired for lacking legal
documentation.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Sholom Rubashkin of Agriprocessors.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 5, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

ICE Slow to Deport Detained;
Illegal Immigrants From Va. Victims Of 'Broken' System

BYLINE: Nick Miroff and Josh White; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1556 words


Illegal immigrants detained as part of the stepped-up enforcement effort in
Virginia stay in the country far longer than they should because of a detention
and deportation system beset by waste and dysfunction, according to lawyers,
detainee accounts and observations of courtroom proceedings.

Detainees are often held by Immigration and Customs Enforcement for weeks, if
not months, after they have consented to deportation. Federal officials
regularly misplace files or fail to bring detainees to court hearings, resulting
in needless additional jail time at taxpayer expense. In some cases, detainees
are transported round trip between Arlington County and jails in central
Virginia to appear for a few minutes before an immigration judge via
videoconference, even though the immigration court is just down the street in
Arlington.

During recent court proceedings before an immigration judge, in more than half
the cases the government was missing detainee files, did not know where
detainees were being held or failed to bring a detainee to a facility with
proper videoconferencing equipment. In one instance, the government lost track
of a nursing mother who had been separated from her newborn, thinking she was in
a Hampton Roads jail; she was sitting in court a few feet away and wearing an
electronic monitoring bracelet. In another case, Judge Wayne R. Iskra grew so
frustrated over a detainee's missing file that he berated the government
prosecutor in open court, asking her, "How would you like to sit in jail for two
more weeks?"

"The system is broken!" the judge said.

ICE officials reject claims that their operations are strained, saying the
agency has made "significant strides."

"The process is working well," said Marc Moore, assistant director for field
operations with ICE's detention and removal program. "We'll continue to make
changes and use our staff and resources to identify and arrest the greatest
numbers of individuals."

For ICE's Washington field office, which includes the District and Virginia, the
average amount of time a detainee is held has decreased from 75 days to 62 days
in the past two years, but one reason is that the agency is moving detainees to
larger detention facilities in Texas, Georgia and other states when bed space is
lacking.

Legal advocates say the system is rife with errors as it grows more clogged. In
records gathered this summer by the District-based CAIR Coalition, which
provides legal services to immigrants in Virginia jails, government prosecutors
came to court without detainees' files in 60 of 162 cases. In 81 cases, ICE
failed to bring the detainee to his or her mandatory court hearing.

Handwritten letters from detainees seeking help from immigrant advocacy groups,
obtained by The Washington Post, relate tales of lost and inaccurate records and
detainees' inability to get even the simplest information about their case
status. One desperate inmate wrote that he has been waiting for eight months
while his requests to be deported go unanswered; another, also jailed for eight
months, said he wants to be deported but that his name had been entered
incorrectly into a police database and that he could not get anyone to fix it.

"It's a very frustrating process for everybody," said Ofelia Calderon, an
Arlington immigration lawyer. "I had three cases last month where ICE didn't
even know my client was in their custody."

The Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration Review notes whenever
a detainee or detainee's file does not make it to the scheduled court hearing,
but the agency does not perform a regular audit of those numbers or publish them
in reports, spokeswoman Elaine Komis said.

Nationwide, ICE deported or obtained voluntary departures for 338,000 immigrants
from October 2007 to August, up from 206,000 from October 2005 to September
2006, when the agency did not include voluntary departures in its totals. A new
ICE program known as 287(g) partly accounts for the increase in detainees, as it
essentially deputizes local police and jail officers to assist the agency.

From Prince William and Loudoun counties, Herndon and other Virginia
jurisdictions that have adopted 287(g), an additional 1,134 illegal immigrants
were transferred into federal custody in the past year, a 540 percent increase
over the same period in 2007. The vast majority were turned over to ICE by the
jail in Prince William. That led to severe crowding at the jail, which was eased
after jail officials and Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) protested to ICE directors.

Under federal law, illegal immigrants who commit crimes must complete their
criminal sentences in county jails or state prisons before they are transferred
to ICE custody.

Court hearings to determine detainees' eligibility for bail, deportation or
legal release are then conducted through the Arlington court by videoconference.
But because only four of the nine county facilities that contract with ICE have
the equipment, detainees are shuffled across the state, often missing their
court appointments. The Arlington Detention Center doesn't have
videoconferencing equipment, so ICE detainees are sometimes driven hundreds of
miles to one of the four jail facilities downstate that do have the cameras,
even though the immigration court is less than two miles away.

"We gain in efficiency by having one set of judges serving multiple areas," said
Moore, who also praised the videoconferencing system's "flexibility" to serve
scattered facilities efficiently and said ICE is planning to add new equipment
next year at three of the five Virginia facilities that lack it.

On any given day in Virginia, 900 to 1,100 immigrant detainees are in ICE
custody, and the logistical challenges are considerable, ranging from language
barriers to limited bed space to outside political pressure. As local jails and
police departments take a greater enforcement role in response to growing calls
for more deportations, the agency must coordinate its operations with hundreds
of police jurisdictions and detention facilities.

For detainees, hiring a lawyer is the best way to avoid falling through the
cracks. But for those who cannot afford one, ICE is not obligated to provide
legal counsel. With little chance of contacting an ICE case officer, advocates
say, detainees are often left in jail for months, awaiting a flight or bus ride
to their native countries.

"It's a waiting game with no foreseeable end," said Brittney Nystrom, an
immigration advocate and lawyer with National Immigration Forum. "No one knows
when they'll be deported. . . . The system is simply overwhelmed."

Recently, at the Arlington immigration court, on the top floor of an office
tower high above the Ballston Metro station, Norma Portales arrived with her
2-month-old son, Jeffrey, in one hand, her 4-year-old son, Ivan, in another, and
an electronic monitoring device on one of her ankles. Framed posters of Abraham
Lincoln, the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island crowded the walls. The blurry
faces of detainees appeared via videoconference on an old television, piped in
from jails elsewhere.

Portales, who speaks little English, remained quiet when the judge read her name
and turned to the video monitor. When she didn't appear on the video link, the
jail guard on the other end in Hampton Roads told the court that Portales had
been transferred to Fairfax County.

No one -- not the judge, the prosecutor, the jailers or her defense attorney
(whom she'd never met) -- knew where Portales was, even though she was sitting
right next to them and wearing the electronic ankle bracelet that tracked her
whereabouts.

Portales, 26, had been arrested two weeks earlier, accused of making an illegal
U-turn in Reston.

Portales said she was jailed in Fairfax for six days, moved to the ICE
processing center in Merrifield, then driven in handcuffs to the jail in Hampton
Roads in the middle of the night. With her unable to breast-feed, her infant
fell ill and ended up in the emergency room. "My kids were asking for me and
crying," said Portales, a Honduran native who crossed the border illegally in
2001. Now back with her children, she charges the ankle bracelet like a cell
phone each night as she waits for a new immigration hearing.

She was more fortunate than Chester resident Eugenio Silva. Silva, 63, had been
living legally in the United States since 1978, when he and his wife came from
Paraguay. He started an auto-repair business and put two daughters through
college. But when he went to renew his residency card in August, he was whisked
away to the Virginia Beach Jail, accused of lying about a two-decade-old
criminal violation by federal agents who then misplaced his file.

After several weeks, Silva's attorney, Jim Tom Haynes, went looking for the
file. It had been sitting on a shelf in Merrifield.

"This happens constantly," Haynes said.

Silva said he befriended some of the 26 immigrants in his Virginia Beach
cellblock and found that several had been there for five, even 10 months.

"I think people don't care about these cases," he said in a telephone interview
from his home a day after his release. "I sat there for 30 days with no one to
run my business. Right now, with the economic situation what it is, this was
very hard. I didn't know what time or what day I was going to court, or even if
I was going to court. I just worried."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Norma Portales, 26,
an illegal immigrant accused of an illegal U-turn, wears a monitoring device.
Multiple transfers across Virginia left court officials confused. With her are
her children, Ivan, 4, Jeffrey, 2 months, and Christopher, 8.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Loudoun To Check Residency In Arrests

BYLINE: Bill Brubaker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 743 words


Loudoun County law enforcement officials said yesterday they will start
routinely checking the immigration status of all people arrested in the county
if deputies suspect they are in the United States illegally, implementing a
policy similar to one that set off controversy in neighboring Prince William
County.

Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson (I) told the Loudoun County Board of Supervisors that
he had reached agreement with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency to participate in a program that ultimately seeks to deport illegal
immigrants convicted of serious felonies.

Although federal agents are interested only in deporting certain felons, Loudoun
will use a computerized ICE program to check even those charged with minor
offenses if there's reason to believe they are illegal immigrants, Simpson said
in an interview.

ICE will take custody only of those who have been convicted of certain felonies,
including violent crimes, or who have returned to the United States illegally
after being deported, he said.

The ICE program, also used in Manassas, Manassas Park and Herndon, will begin in
Loudoun this summer, Simpson said.

In Prince William, the immigration status of those arrested is checked when they
are booked, a police spokeswoman said yesterday. Some officials said this spring
that federal agents took weeks to pick up suspected illegal immigrants from the
county's overcrowded jail.

In Loudoun, Simpson said ICE officials rejected his request to allow jail
officials access to immigration data. The program will be administered instead
by three members of the sheriff's gang unit who will largely work at night, he
said.

Simpson called the partnership with ICE a "big tool for us," especially in
dealing with gangs operating in Loudoun.

"I know when we work with gang members, a lot of times we got through a number
of different identifications and different names and different aliases and that
type of thing before you get to actually who they are," Simpson said. "And if
you don't have a way of getting into this system to find out if they have ever
been arrested in California, you may never know that information."

Last year, as illegal immigration became a key issue in local elections, Simpson
initially opposed participating in the ICE program, saying federal authorities
wanted a burdensome guarantee that they could rent space in the overcrowded
Loudoun jail to house detainees awaiting deportation hearings. Simpson began
supporting the program after one of his opponents in the election campaign
repeatedly accused him of being soft on illegal immigrants.

"It took him a while to get to this point, and I'm happy that he's there," said
Supervisor Eugene A. Delgaudio (R-Sterling), who had been the board's strongest
proponent of a hard line against illegal immigrants.

In November, voters ousted several supervisors who supported Delgaudio's
hard-line attitude. The board is now dominated by Democrats who have said
immigration enforcement is not one of their priorities.

Several board members said yesterday that they support the sheriff's new
authority but expressed concerns about racial profiling.

"If you commit a crime, I have no problems getting rid of you," said Kelly Burk
(D-Leesburg), one of the new supervisors. "But I don't want it to be something
that just goes after immigrants with Spanish names."

Responding to a question about racial profiling, Simpson told supervisors that
his deputies will not check based solely on a suspect's ethnicity.

"I can assure you that that's not what this is all about," he said. "Racial
profiling has not been condoned in the department. It never has. It never will
be, as far as my administration goes. I'm very sensitive to the issue."

Under the terms of the program in Loudoun, ICE must pick up illegal immigrants
from the Loudoun jail within 72 hours after they have completed their sentences,
Simpson said. ICE will then make arrangements for them to be deported, he said.
Some county officials, including Simpson, have expressed concerns that Loudoun's
overcrowded jail cannot accommodate ICE inmates while they await deportation
proceedings.

Three Loudoun deputies began training Monday in a one-month ICE program in South
Carolina. They will be responsible for making the immigration checks.

The program will be run at minimal cost to the county, beyond the three
deputies' salaries, Simpson said.

Staff writers Sandhya Somashekhar and Theresa Vargas contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 21, 2008 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

In Immigration Cases, Employers Feel the Pressure;
But Critics Fault Laws as Ineffective

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1525 words


A three-year-old enforcement campaign against employers who knowingly hire
illegal immigrants is increasingly resulting in arrests and criminal
convictions, using evidence gathered by phone taps, undercover agents and
prisoners who agree to serve as government witnesses.

But the crackdown's relatively high costs and limited results  are also fueling
criticism. In an economy with more than  6 million companies and  8 million
unauthorized workers, the corporate enforcement effort is still dwarfed by the
high-profile raids that have sentenced thousands of illegal immigrants to prison
time and deportation.

Stewart A. Baker, assistant secretary for policy at  the Homeland Security
Department, recently told immigration experts  the disparity can be traced to
ineffective policies that need to be addressed by Congress.

"Companies tell me, 'We have an immigration system that allows us to hire
illegal workers, legally,' " Baker said. Asked to defend President Bush's track
record, he said, "Why are employers not punished more often? Because the laws we
have don't really authorize that."

In the first nine months of this fiscal year, U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) made 937 criminal arrests at U.S. workplaces, more than 10
times as many as the 72 it arrested five years ago. Of those arrested this year,
99 were company supervisors, compared with  93 in 2007.

The arrests have led to several convictions, including a union official at a
Swift meatpacking plant; three executives of a Florida janitorial services
company; a temporary-staffing agency manager for a Del Monte Fresh Produce plant
in Oregon; two supervisors of a Cargill pork plant cleaning contractor in
Illinois; and seven managers of IFCO Systems North America, a pallet services
company, among others.

But Baker's comments acknowledged criticism by labor union leaders, immigrant
rights' groups and Democrats about the limits of employer enforcement.  His
remarks also illuminate why the White House, Congress and some states have
scrambled recently to adopt new steps to compel companies to identify illegal
workers, and why such efforts  will probably remain ineffective.

Political opposition from big business, labor and immigrant and civil rights
interests has diluted immigration law for two decades, according to analysts in
both parties.

"If you want law enforcement, you have to have laws that are enforceable," said
Doris M. Meissner, who headed the former Immigration and Naturalization Service
under the Clinton administration. The 1986 law banning  the hiring of illegal
immigrants, she said, "has just been chronically flawed from the time it was
passed."

Raids against Swift packinghouses  in six states in December 2006 highlight the
administration's strategy to seek criminal indictments and felony convictions
against corporate violators. An earlier approach that relied on administrative
fines and forfeitures was increasingly dismissed by executives as a cost of
doing business.

The tactics used now are similar to law enforcement techniques honed in
developing cases against mobsters and drug lords. In June 2007,  federal agents
wired a Mexican slaughterhouse worker who had been arrested on immigration
charges and sent him to call at the home of his former boss at a meatpacking
plant in Marshalltown, Iowa.

The informant, nicknamed "Memo," carried a false ID. He  told Christopher Lamb,
now the plant's human resources manager, that he was free pending a hearing and
wanted to return to work.

Lamb, 38, coached Memo but seemed to realize he was walking into a trap, court
records show. "Where's the migra?" he asked later, using the Spanish term for
immigration agents.

The informant's tapes led Lamb to plead guilty in March to one charge of
harboring an illegal immigrant. In a deal with prosecutors, he agreed to serve a
year's probation, pay $300 in fines and cooperate against others targeted after
immigration raids in 2006 against meatpacker Swift, now JBS Swift.

An undercover agent taped union official Braulio Pereyra advising new employees
at an orientation speech on how to protect false identities.

"You can lie to your boss or whomever, but not to the police," Pereyra was
recorded as saying. "That's a federal offense."

He was convicted in May on one charge of harboring illegal immigrants, and faces
as much as five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Pereyra's lawyer, Keith
Rigg, said his client  committed no crime and had a First Amendment right to
give the speech. He is seeking a retrial.

Enforcement disparities were displayed vividly May 12 when ICE agents swept into
an Agriprocessors Inc. kosher meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa. They
arrested 389 illegal workers;  270 were convicted within days in expedited court
proceedings at a cattle fairgrounds;  and  many were sentenced to five months in
prison, mostly on criminal document-fraud charges.

By contrast, ICE agents arrested two supervisors and issued an arrest warrant
for a third man on July 3. The firm remains in operation.

Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, a newly formed group that
promotes citizenship for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, said the
raid shows the misdirected policy of criminalizing illegal immigration for
workers while not shutting  down the jobs "magnet" that lures them. Several
critics, including a federal court interpreter who participated in the
Agriprocessors hearings, said the government's legal tactics are coercive and
threaten defendants' due process rights.

"There's no question this administration is coddling unscrupulous employers
while arresting undocumented immigrants in order to make their statistics look
good," Sharry said.

But he echoed Baker's frustration at politicians who seek to look tough on
immigration and yet do not  provide effective law enforcement tools or address
the nation's labor needs and underground population. "The dysfunctional
immigration system really is the fault of Congress, for failing to lead," Sharry
said.

Piecemeal measures to combat illegal hiring are under way this year, but the
moves remain controversial and their effects uncertain.

In March, the White House attempted to jump-start a campaign to notify 140,000
employers about workers' use of suspicious Social Security numbers, seeking to
force businesses to resolve questions or fire workers within 90 days.

If companies do not respond to "no-match" letters, ICE could use that failure as
evidence of illegal hiring. But the plan remains stalled by a federal lawsuit
filed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the AFL-CIO and the American Civil
Liberties Union, which allege that it will disrupt businesses and discriminate
against legal U.S. workers.

Also in dispute is another effort to expand use of a voluntary online system
that checks whether new hires are eligible to work in the United States. The
Bush administration on June 9 ordered 60,000 federal contractors to use the
government's E-Verify system, which checks workers' information against Social
Security and immigration-status databases.

Still, 12 years after Congress mandated that such a tool be piloted in 1996, the
change will enroll about 2  percent of U.S. companies.

Critics warn that the system has a high error rate that will exclude legal
workers, cannot detect the fraudulent use of stolen Social Security numbers, and
will permit some employers to harass workers.

Frustrated by the stalemate, Arizona, Missouri and South Carolina since January
have passed laws or have begun requiring businesses to use E-Verify under
certain conditions. But Illinois has gone the opposite direction, barring
companies from participating until the government proves that E-Verify is 99
percent error-free.

The conflicting moves show how opposition has frustrated enforcement of the ban
on hiring illegal immigrants. In 1986, Congress  required law enforcement
agencies to show that an employer knowingly violated the law, but provided few
tools, agents or dollars to do so.

Under the law, employers need only to verify that a new hire present at least
one "facially valid" form of identification.  The overhaul simply created a huge
fake-ID industry, while granting unscrupulous employers a ready defense since
the government had no system to validate a document's authenticity. At the same
time, employers face discrimination complaints if they unduly scrutinize new
hires.

Few expect the situation to change soon with this fall's elections looming. Some
GOP congressional campaigns are talking tough, but the party is wary of further
alienating its traditional business base. Democrats in turn rely on labor and
immigrant support, leading the House to propose a $40 billion DHS budget bill
that would require ICE to prioritize $800 million in enforcement funding next
year to deporting illegal immigrants with criminal records, not workers.

At a Georgetown Law School conference in May, Baker of DHS described a sense
among voters that "both parties owed their base a kind of collusion of pretend
enforcement of the immigration laws." He added, "I can't say that was completely
misplaced skepticism."

Staff researcher Madonna Lebling contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 2, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Policing Immigration Locally

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 391 words


Prince William County Police Chief Charlie T. Deane [Metro, July 24] faces the
same internal struggle over illegal immigration that many law-supporting
Americans do. The way the extremely complicated federal immigration laws are
being enforced by local police creates a difficult situation for those who
respect both the law and the dignity of every human being.

Racial profiling, raids, inhumane treatment in detention facilities, children
separated from parents and the accepted hatred of immigrants would dig at
anyone's conscience. No wonder a man who describes his job as "dealing with
people and getting them to trust police" felt unsure about checking someone's
legal status if there was "reason to think " he or she might be undocumented.
Does that mean anyone who is Hispanic? Anyone who doesn't speak perfect English?
This is no  way to reinforce trust in the police system and make people feel
safe enough to report a crime.

Since when did we become a nation that forces public servants with integrity to
swallow hard to follow inhumane orders? Police officers such as Chief Deane
should be applauded for feeling  pangs of conscience. The rest of us should work
with them to find a better solution for our communities -- one that reforms our
immigration system to treat all people with dignity. Maybe then Chief Deane can
sleep a little better.

JENIFER SUSAN SMYERS

Associate for Immigration and Refugee Policy

Church World Service

Washington

Â·

Maricopa County, Ariz., Sheriff Joe Arpaio is not trying to "make life
miserable" for illegal immigrants [editorial, July 28]. He is trying to get them
out of Maricopa County. He is serving the taxpaying citizens and enforcing the
law of the land.

He's not perfect:  Some legal residents get caught up in these efforts. But not
enough to justify another class action lawsuit for something perceived as
racism.

Sheriff Arpaio's efforts have been successful and have saved the taxpayers
money; that  is why he was reelected with 83 percent  of the vote.

Frankly, I don't care if prisoners are humiliated by having to wear pink
underwear. And while they're sweltering in their tent city prison, they can
think about our soldiers in Iraq living in full battle gear in 120-degree heat,
not having committed any crime.

A "travesty of justice in Arizona"? I call it "justice in Arizona."

JILL GERSHEN

Darnestown

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Self-Deportation Has Few Takers;
Program Reflects Problems in Immigration Enforcement Efforts, Experts Say

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Kari Lydersen; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1081 words

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE


With a fanfare of news conferences and Spanish-language television and newspaper
ads, U.S. authorities last week started giving 457,000 illegal immigrants a
chance to turn themselves in without the usual threat of arrest and detention.

Three accepted.

The cold reception given to the rollout of the three-week pilot self-deportation
program, called Scheduled Departure, presents an apt metaphor for the state of
relations between U.S. enforcement officials and immigrant advocates in the year
since Congress killed President Bush's proposed overhaul.

Since lawmakers rejected Bush's plan to combine tougher enforcement with a path
to citizenship for illegal immigrants and more guest workers for industry, U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials have stepped up raids at
workplaces, in neighborhoods and in homes. That has triggered a fierce backlash
from immigrant advocates, labor and religious leaders, and Hispanic and civil
rights groups, who say the Bush administration is coddling employers while
brutalizing families and abusing immigrant communities.

Meanwhile, key members of Congress charge that the raids are shifting ICE's
focus away from its stated priority of targeting illegal immigrants with
criminal records. And even though its funding has grown, the agency is finding
it more difficult to keep up its increasing pace of arrests of such illegal
immigrants, having already snared those who are easy to apprehend and
encountering limits in detention space.

These problems, immigration experts say, help explain why officials turned to
Scheduled Departure -- despite little evidence that it will much reduce the
nation's estimated illegal immigrant population of 12 million.

"Perhaps it's trying to make them [ICE] look more humane," said Joshua Hoyt,
executive director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights.
"It's not designed to work."

Scheduled Departure is aimed at illegal immigrants who are living here in
violation of deportation orders -- people the government calls "fugitive
aliens." Those with no criminal record and who pose no threat to national
security or to the community may get as much as 90 days to put their affairs in
order, avoid the risk of arrest or jail time, and, in some cases, leave with
some family members.

About 457,000 of 570,000 fugitive aliens may qualify, ICE said, although the
pilot is set to run only until Aug. 22 in Charlotte, Chicago, Phoenix, San Diego
and Santa Ana, Calif.

As Raymond A. Simonse, the ICE Atlanta field office director who oversaw
operations in Charlotte last week, put it, "We need to establish the integrity
of the immigration system, and this is how we can do it."

Outside ICE offices in this Sun Belt city, however, the task was easier said
than done.

"I don't think most of the people will take this chance," said Rafael, a
17-year-old illegal immigrant from Raleigh, N.C., who asked not to give his last
name because he was arrested while driving without a license and may face
deportation after he turns 18. The young carpet installer said that he came to
the United States as an infant and that his girlfriend is expecting the couple's
own baby soon. "I think people like living in this country," he said.

Nearby, Elisabeth Soto, 54, of Seven Springs, N.C., explained how two decades of
lax enforcement have made self-deportation unattractive for illegal immigrants
who have set down roots in this country, such as her oldest daughter, 32, whose
case was separated from her family's when she got married.

Soto said her daughter works for pork processor Smithfield Foods, is married to
a U.S. citizen and has three children who are citizens by birth. However, she
was misled by an adviser to apply for asylum, even though she was not eligible,
and now faces deportation after having lived in the United States since 1987.

"We don't have any family in Mexico. If she goes, where is she going to live?
What is she going to do?" asked Soto, a grandmother of seven and an 18-year
employee of Butterball.

The nation's backlog of immigrant fugitives nearly doubled between 2001 and
2006, before dipping to 572,000 mainly because of an administrative effort to
reconcile government records of people who had died, left the country or
obtained legal status. Each year, ICE estimated in 2004, 40,000 illegal
immigrants join the list of fugitives, ignoring orders to leave the country.

In response, Congress has boosted spending on fugitive arrest operations 20-fold
since 2003, and the number of apprehensions each year has climbed from 1,900 to
about 30,000. However, even though ICE has increased the number of its fugitive
enforcement teams from  eight to 75, arrests have fallen far short of the goal
of 1,000  per team, making it hard for ICE to keep up with the growing backlog.

Critical lawmakers note that ICE's stated priorities are to first remove
fugitives who pose a national security threat, then those with criminal records
and then those without criminal records. But deportations of noncriminals grew
91 percent from 2003 to 2007, while those of criminals climbed 16 percent.

ICE agents acknowledge that the pool of criminal fugitives whose court
appearances are recent enough to yield good clues about their whereabouts is
thinning, making it harder to find fugitives.

Though it has spent more than $1 billion to add detention beds, ICE also faces
limits on how many fugitives it can lock up, making initiatives such as
Scheduled Departure -- that don't require jail beds -- more attractive.

ICE officials say that the program will cost only $100,000 or so -- the price of
advertisements -- and that agents waiting for takers will continue working on
other investigations.

They also questioned the motives of enforcement critics who do not urge illegal
immigrants to turn themselves in under Scheduled Departure, while criticizing
ICE for enforcement raids.

"We are going to find out if people are opposed to methods of enforcement or if
they are against any enforcement of the law," said James T. Hayes Jr., acting
director of detention and removal operations for ICE.

Charles Kuck, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, called
such rhetoric a public relations ploy. Still, he understands, he said, why ICE
is conducting raids that anger people and adopting an ineffective policy such as
Scheduled Departure to deflect criticism.

"The administration is so desperate to force Congress to act that it will try
anything," Kuck said.

Lydersen reported from Chicago.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Many Officials Reluctant to Help Arrest Immigrants

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 791 words


Although law enforcement agencies in Prince William and Frederick counties have
agreed to help federal authorities enforce immigration laws, officials in many
other parts of the country remain reluctant to do so, saying they fear losing
the trust of immigrant communities and worry about being accused of racial
profiling.

Despite a nationwide clamor against illegal immigration, only 55 of more than
18,000 police and law enforcement agencies across the country have signed
agreements to coordinate with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Although they face public and political pressure to crack down on illegal
immigrants, officials say such efforts can backfire by making immigrants
reluctant to report crimes, exposing departments to lawsuits, and putting local
police officers in confusing and  dangerous situations that can lead to mistakes
and abuse.

El Paso's mayor, John Cook, described his mostly Hispanic city on the Mexican
border as "the second-safest city in America," in part because it stresses
community police involvement. While recognizing that illegal immigration is a
crime, he said he is also worried about a growing public perception that
immigrants are criminals.

"There is a danger," he said. "Once people don't trust a police officer in
immigrant communities, they become communities that foster crime, where people
won't report domestic violence or the theft of a TV. If people feel they are
under threat of being deported, they become silent. There has to be a delicate
balance."

Houston's police chief, Harold Hurtt, said that the city has been labeled a
"sanctuary" for illegal immigrants by some conservative commentators but that
his department  has focused on catching those who commit other crimes. He said
it is extremely difficult to track down illegal immigrants without infringing on
the rights of others, especially in minority and ethnic communities with many
legal immigrants.

Hurtt posed a hypothetical case in which "your wife runs a red light on her way
to the store" and has forgotten her driver's license. She is detained and
booked, and her immigration status is checked. "Can you imagine doing that to
every resident?" Hurtt asked an audience of several hundred police and local
officials at a conference on immigration policing and civil liberties this week
in the District. "There is a moral issue here. We are here to provide not only
law enforcement, but justice."

Most of the agencies that have agreed to work with ICE are in the Southeast,
including North Carolina, Georgia and Arkansas, where mostly non-Hispanic
communities have been dramatically changed by influxes of immigrants, many of
them illegal Mexicans and Central Americans, seeking work at farms, mills and
slaughterhouses.

Many of the local cooperating agencies are  overseen by county sheriffs, who are
elected and run regional jails, rather than city police departments with
appointed chiefs.

The Police Foundation, a private national group that sponsored the conference,
held four focus groups with law enforcement and other officials in Kansas, Texas
and Florida. Anita Khashu, a foundation consultant, said three of the four
groups decided that immigration enforcement should remain "solely a federal
responsibility."

James Pendergraph, director of the office of state and local coordination for
ICE, told conference participants that his agency is eager to form more local
partnerships. He said that ICE does not seek to intimidate immigrants and that
only those involved in criminal activity are likely to face arrest.

"Some people talk of fears of terrorizing immigrant communities, but if you're
not involved in criminal activity, you'll probably never come in contact with
these programs," Pendergraph said. "The media make it seem like if you are out
mowing your grass, we'll snatch you from your yard and arrest and deport you.
That is just not the case."

Several scholars at the meeting expressed concerns about public perceptions that
illegal immigrants are linked with high crime. RubÃ©n Rumbaut of the University
of California at Irvine said crime rates across the country have steadily
declined as immigration rates have increased. His research showed that the
percentage of foreign-born men in U.S. jails and prisons is far lower than that
of African Americans and in some cases close to the level of native-born whites.

Other legal experts and advocates at the meeting said that immigration law is
increasingly being "criminalized" to prosecute people who have crossed the
border to find work, especially by charging them with identity fraud, and that
civil immigration warrants are being used like criminal warrants, even though
they do not carry the same powers, such as the right to enter a home without
permission.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Karen Warren -- Associated Press; "We are here to provide not
only law enforcement, but justice," Houston Police Chief Harold Hurtt said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 2, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Raid's Outcome May Signal a Retreat In Immigration Strategy, Critics Say

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 949 words


The federal government's handling of a massive immigration raid at a Mississippi
manufacturing plant last week has led critics to suggest that the Bush
administration is backpedaling from its aggressive use of criminal charges and
fast-tracked trials against illegal immigrants caught at workplaces.

U.S. officials reject any suggestion of a retreat or a shift in strategy in the
Aug. 25 raid at a Howard Industries transformer plant in Laurel, Miss. In the
nation's largest immigration enforcement operation at a single work site,
federal agents arrested nearly 600 illegal immigrants there but charged only
eight criminally, turning over the rest for civil deportation proceedings, as
they have in the past.

The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency "continues to target
egregious employers . . . to identify individuals engaging in identity theft,
and we seek criminal charges where appropriate," spokeswoman Kelly A. Nantel
said.

Nonetheless, it was a stark departure from the way authorities conducted the
previous record-setting sweep 15 weeks earlier.

On May 12, immigration agents apprehended 389 illegal immigrants at an
Agriprocessors meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa. Nearly 300 were charged,
convicted and sentenced within 10 days in group trials in temporary courts set
up at a fairground. Most pleaded guilty to document fraud, receiving five-month
prison sentences.

Criminal defense and immigration lawyers led criticism of the proceedings,
saying the extraordinary speed with which pleas were obtained raised the risk of
error. A federal court interpreter reported that many defendants were poor,
uneducated Spanish speakers who did not understand the charges.

The American Civil Liberties Union said close coordination before the raid
between the prosecutor and the chief judge to structure plea agreements that
hastened the process was highly irregular, raising due-process concerns.

"I think Postville left a bitter taste for a lot of people," said Robert R.
Rigg, director of the criminal defense program at Drake University Law School in
Des Moines, who has criticized the case. "It paints a pretty bleak picture of
American criminal justice, and I don't think it's the type of thing the
judiciary or main Justice wants to replicate."

Charles H. Kuck, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
agreed, saying he thinks the Justice Department is changing course.

"They clearly did not enjoy the press they got after Postville. . . . It may be
a shift in strategy from how bad Postville made them look as they eviscerated
the Constitution, doing everything in one fell swoop with the involvement of the
federal court."

But Nantel rejected such speculation. "It certainly is not an indication of a
change in strategies," she said.

Investigators are working with prosecutors to determine if there is enough
evidence to pursue additional criminal charges related to both raids, Nantel
said. Prosecutors have not made public an affidavit or other documents laying
out the case against suspects in the Mississippi raids, she added.

She acknowledged, however, that "prosecutorial discretion is certainly a key
issue." Individual U.S. attorneys are free to set "different thresholds and
different bars based on different . . . priorities or degrees of interest in
pursuing those sorts of cases."

Carrie Nelson, a spokeswoman  for Stan Harris, the acting U.S. attorney for the
Southern District of Mississippi in the Howard Industries case, said that the
Justice Department "has not changed policies or procedures regarding immigration
enforcement actions." Decisions in Iowa and Mississippi "were made by
prosecutors in the field based on the facts and circumstances of each case," she
said.

But several people familiar with interactions between the Justice Department and
Immigration and Customs Enforcement cite interagency disagreements over what one
side views as overaggressive investigators and the other regards as balky
prosecutors.

"There are some districts where they do not want to do these cases," one U.S.
official said.

Lawyers who have worked closely with Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey's
office said federal prosecutors are generally very cautious about immigration
raids. They have raised humanitarian concerns about rounding up hundreds of
illegal immigrants and splitting families.

"Processing hundreds of illegals in the criminal court system like that in a
cattle-call arena creates a huge burden on the system, and things tend to slip,"
said one former Justice Department official familiar with deliberations between
ICE and the domestic security section of Justice's criminal division. "That's
where they get criticism."

Whether illegal immigrants are charged criminally obviously means a great deal
to the individuals involved. It raises the prospect of prison sentences and
criminal records, as well as much harsher penalties if they are caught inside
the United States again.

But for  employers, the public and the immigration debate in general, any shift
by immigration authorities may have relatively little impact. The same tough
message can be sent whether illegal immigrants are simply caught and deported,
or instead caught, criminally sentenced, imprisoned and then deported.

The roundup strategy is limited by resources and the United States' vast
population of illegal immigrants, estimated at 12 million.

"I don't think it's a shift away from what they ultimately want to do, which is
to punish and deter people from using fraudulent identities to obtain work. It's
a different path to the same goal," Kuck said.

But he added: "They could do one of these raids a day for the next six years and
still not deter people from doing it."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Matt Bush -- Hattiesburg American Via Ap; Most illegal
immigrants netted in a raid in Mississippi were turned over for civil
deportation, not arrested.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 13, 2008 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Frederick's Uneasy Crackdown;
Enforcement Policy For Illegal Immigration Raises Ethics Questions

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1283 words


In the six months since the Frederick County Sheriff's Office began working
closely with federal immigration authorities, 183 illegal immigrants have been
identified, detained and put on track for deportation, a crackdown that has
spooked the area's Latino community and provoked accusations by rights groups of
ethnic profiling.

Sheriff Chuck Jenkins, the first law enforcement official in Maryland to sign a
cooperative agreement with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that since
April, about 9 percent of all people arrested and taken to the county detention
center have proven to be illegal immigrants. He called those results a success
and said he has been flooded with calls from officials in other counties and
states who want to follow suit.

"The word is out on the street: If you are in this country illegally and you
plan to commit a crime, don't do it in Frederick County," Jenkins said last
week. "We're at the forefront of things. We are finding gang members and people
with criminal histories. I'm very pleased, and I believe 90 percent of the
people in this county support this."

Jenkins's opponents, however, said the crackdown has done little but panic the
local immigrant population. Hispanic and civil rights groups in Frederick said
that county officers have used questionable pretexts to stop cars driven by
Latinos and check their identities and that most of those arrested have been
working people whose only serious crime was to have entered the United States
without permission.

"Is the sheriff's mandate to catch illegal immigrants or to make sure the
community is safe?" asked Guy Djoken, who heads the county's NAACP chapter. "The
problem of illegal immigration has to be addressed at a national level. We are
all against crime, but we cannot stand by while the police are profiling and
arresting people who have done nothing."

Under the program, local law enforcement agencies can sign a formal agreement
with ICE, which provides training for police and correctional officers in
enforcing immigration laws. ICE agents are placed in local detention centers to
question and process detained immigrants for deportation. Before April, the
county detention center did not have the resources to verify the identities of
detained immigrants.

Residents of Frederick, a diverse and fast-growing area that includes dairy
farmers and high-tech professionals, rifle clubs and artsy boutiques, expressed
a mixture of approval and unease about the program. Several complained that the
influx of poor Latino immigrants, whose number has tripled to 15,000 since 1990,
has led to unkempt, overcrowded neighborhoods and burdens on public schools.

Others said they viewed illegal immigration as a pressing national problem but
did not see it as harming their area. Steve Coffin, 52, a medical assistant,
said that the Hispanics in his neighborhood "seem like nice people and hard
workers" but that illegal immigration must be stopped. "There has to be some
equity," he said. "If we give the illegals amnesty, it will just encourage
others to come."

In several Latino enclaves along Route 40, residents said this summer's arrests
have spawned a variety of related problems. Hispanic leaders said immigrants
have reported being afraid to drive, have been threatened with eviction or
robbed of earnings they were reluctant to put in the bank, or been afraid to
call police after traffic accidents.

Also, rumors have been circulating that public schools may identify and expel
children whose families are in the country illegally. The reports stem from the
revival of a proposal to count the number of illegal-immigrant schoolchildren as
a way to measure their education costs. That proposal was voted down by the
county commissioners in June, but its original sponsors, backed by Jenkins, are
seeking to have it introduced in the state legislature.

"We hear they want to do a census of illegal children. That is unfair, and it
makes people very worried," said Iris Sanabria, 35, who manages a Latino food
store. "They don't know if the police will stop them on the street or take their
children out of school. A lot of Latinos came here because no one bothered them,
but now that has changed."

An especially contentious issue is whether police are engaging in ethnic
profiling, such as by singling out Latino drivers for minor infractions and then
asking for identification. Lawyers at CASA of Maryland, an advocacy group, said
they had spoken with 49 illegal immigrants detained in Frederick since April and
a majority reported being stopped by police for such offenses as not properly
displaying their license plates.

"They keep saying this is about crime prevention, but we suspect it is really
about ridding the community of undocumented immigrants," said Kerry O'Brien, a
CASA lawyer. "If they are locking up people and separating families for driving
without a license, what is the point of all this?"

Jenkins insisted that his officers stop cars only if they suspect that the
driver has committed a crime, such as driving while intoxicated or speeding, and
that if an immigrant shows valid identification, the person is given a ticket
and let go. Otherwise, the person is arrested and checked for immigration
status.

"We are not pulling people over because they look Latino," said the sheriff, a
native of Frederick who has become a crusader against illegal immigration since
he was elected in late 2006. "We need probable cause to make a traffic stop or
an arrest, and we have gotten no complaints. If people are here legally, they
have nothing to fear."

In the city of Frederick, the county seat, Police Chief Kim C. Dine has a
different approach. Although most recent arrests of illegal immigrants have been
carried out by his officers, Dine said it is crucial to build trust with the
immigrant community as a way to combat crime. "When the pot is stirred, it can
lead to animosity and hate," he said. "Over the long run, this can have a
chilling effect on community relations with the government."

Dennis Rodriguez, 23, an illegal immigrant from Honduras, was arrested in
Frederick three months ago. He said he had just started his car when he saw
police lights flashing. An officer approached and said he had been stopped for
not wearing a seat belt and not having his infant son in a car seat. Unable to
produce a driver's license or ID, Rodriguez was handcuffed and taken away while
his wife, a U.S. citizen, fumed in the passenger seat.

"I did not have any criminal record, but they took me prisoner," said Rodriguez,
a construction worker who was in custody for about three months and then
unexpectedly released on personal recognizance three weeks ago. He is now home,
awaiting a court hearing. "I am free, but we still don't know if I will get
deported and our family will be broken up," he said.

The aggressive effort to remove people like Rodriguez from Frederick has left
the area's smaller established community of legal immigrants in an uncomfortable
position. Although they sympathize with the newer, struggling Latinos in their
midst, they also fear being unfairly cast in the same light.

Carlos Delgado, 36, a Salvadoran immigrant who co-owns a stylish restaurant in
the city's historic district, said he was troubled both by the recent surge of
impoverished, sometimes illegal immigrants and by the law enforcement program to
pursue them.

"I have always believed that wherever you go, you need to learn the rules and
culture and language," Delgado said. "Everyone deserves a second chance, but too
many people want to do things the easy way, and some on the other side are going
to extremes. The American dream is for everyone, but it comes with duties and
responsibilities, too."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post; "A lot of
Latinos came here because no one bothered them, but now that has changed," said
Iris Sanabria, manager of Hillcrest Latino Market.
IMAGE; Steve Coffin of Frederick, left, is against amnesty for illegal
immigrants. "There has to be some equity," he said. Frederick activist Guy
Djoken, right, said no one wants criminal activity, "but we cannot stand by
while the police are profiling and arresting people who have done nothing."
IMAGE
IMAGE; By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post; Dennis Rodriguez, an illegal
immigrant, was arrested in Frederick and jailed. "I did not have any criminal
record, but they took me prisoner," he said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 19, 2008 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Justices May Take Immigration Cases

BYLINE: Jerry Markon; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 909 words


As hundreds of immigration agents raided a kosher meatpacking plant in rural
Iowa in May, prosecutors summoned defense lawyers to the federal courthouse in
Cedar Rapids.

Their message was blunt: The illegal immigrants arrested must plead guilty to
lesser counts or face indictment on charges of aggravated identity theft and
possible mandatory two-year prison terms.

"It was a hammer over everyone's head," said Dan Vondra, a lawyer who
represented several of the 302 immigrants who quickly took the deal. "For these
people, two years in federal prison was unbearable."

The raid highlighted the Bush administration's increasing use of the tough new
charge in its crackdown on illegal immigrants at work sites, part of the
escalating campaign against undocumented immigrants nationwide. But the tactic
is under attack from critics, and federal appellate courts are divided over the
government's burden of proof in aggravated identity theft cases, a dispute that
reached the Supreme Court on Friday.

The justices debated whether to take two cases that could determine whether
prosecutors can continue to bring the charge in federal courts, where
immigration prosecutions are at record levels. The court could announce its
decision as soon as tomorrow.

At issue is whether prosecutors must prove that defendants knew that fraudulent
Social Security numbers or other documents they used belonged to a real person
as opposed to being fabricated. The Justice Department argues that prosecutors
do not have to prove knowledge, and three appellate courts have rendered
decisions backing that position. Three others, however, have ruled otherwise.

An adverse Supreme Court ruling likely would not affect the government's ability
to charge aggravation in non-immigration identity theft cases. A criminal who,
for example, steals someone's Social Security number and empties his or her bank
account clearly knows he is victimizing a real person.

But experts said a loss for the Justice Department would devastate its ability
to bring aggravated identity theft cases against immigrants because most of them
do not know whether their fake IDs belong to someone else.

"It would effectively gut a provision clearly designed to crack down on
immigration-related identity theft," said Dan Stein, president of Federation for
American Immigration Reform, which favors tough immigration enforcement.

Critics of the administration's approach say that the charge is not needed and
that deporting illegal immigrants should be enough. "They're just piling on,"
said Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

But federal officials say the charge is a key part of their arsenal because its
penalties are substantially tougher than those of other immigration counts.
Officials point out that terrorists use false identities, a sensitive issue
since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. "Post 9/11, we also recognize that identity
theft poses a security risk to all of us," Deborah J. Rhodes, senior associate
deputy attorney general, said in July at a congressional hearing on the Iowa
raid on an Agriprocessors plant in Postville. The raid was the largest criminal
work-site enforcement operation in U.S. history.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which led the raid, declined to
comment on the pending Supreme Court cases. Pat A. Reilly, an ICE spokeswoman,
said the agency "is going to seek the highest-level charges it can get on anyone
it encounters in a work-site operation or any other kind of illegal activity."

Congress created the aggravated identity theft charge as part of a 2004 law
targeting identity theft broadly. The felony charge is defined as knowingly
transferring, possessing or using "without lawful authority, a means of
identification of another person."

The cases the court is considering, also in Iowa, involve Mexican immigrants --
Ignacio Flores-Figueroa and Nicasio Mendoza-Gonzalez -- who used false
identification to get jobs at a steel plant and a pork-processing plant. Both
said the government failed to prove that they knew the fraudulent documents
belonged to real people. Federal judges ruled that the government did not have
to prove that, and both were convicted of aggravated identity theft.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 8th Circuit upheld both convictions, prompting
the Supreme Court review. It is unclear which of the cases the court may take.

"Someone who intends to steal another's identity is worthy of greater punishment
than one who unintentionally picks an identification number out of thin air that
happens to match one already issued to someone else," attorneys for
Flores-Figueroa argued.

The Justice Department's solicitor general's office contends that the
convictions should be upheld but is asking the court to take up the matter
because "there is now a clear and entrenched conflict among the courts of
appeals."

Prosecutors also defend their actions in the Postville raid, in which 389
illegal immigrants were detained. About two-thirds of them were initially
charged by criminal complaint with aggravated identity theft, but those charges
were dropped. Most of the 302 immigrants who pleaded guilty to lesser felony
immigration charges were sentenced to five months in prison.

"We had evidence that supported the more severe charge," said Bob Teig, a
spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's office in Cedar Rapids. "I suppose it depends
on what side you're on whether that's a carrot or a stick.''

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Charlie Neibergall -- Associated Press; An Agriprocessors
meatpacking plant was raided in May, and 389 illegal immigrants were detained.
More than 300 pleaded guilty to lesser counts.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 24, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Renewed Crackdown On Illegal Immigrants;
U.S. Plans to Target 140,000 Employers

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 503 words


The Bush administration in its final weeks will revive a stalled crackdown on
U.S. companies that hire illegal immigrants, issuing a new regulation and asking
a federal judge to lift a ban on the measure, Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff announced yesterday.

If the court agrees, the government could begin mailing notices to 140,000
employers regarding suspect Social Security numbers used by an estimated 8.7
million workers, pressuring businesses to either resolve discrepancies or fire
workers within 90 days.

Critics said the move would probably set off a new round of litigation that
could outlast the president's waning term and leave the thorny issue of
immigration enforcement to President Bush's successor to manage amid an economic
downturn.

Bush unveiled the Social Security "no-match" letter initiative in August 2007
after the Senate failed to pass an immigration overhaul measure. However, the
program was stayed by U.S. District Judge Charles R. Breyer of San Francisco,
who wrote last year that the plan could have "staggering" and "severe" effects
on workers and businesses.

The plan had been challenged in a lawsuit filed by the AFL-CIO and other unions,
the American Civil Liberties Union and a cross-section of industry led by the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

Business groups say the administration failed to consider the cost of the plan
to small businesses and to justify subjecting employers to possible criminal
liability for the first time. Labor leaders and civil libertarians said the plan
would lead to discrimination against many legal workers, including native-born
Americans, because of errors in the government's Social Security database and in
the program's structure.

Randel K. Johnson, a vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said his
group was disappointed the government made virtually no changes in its revised
final rule as it prepared to go back before Breyer.

"We are looking at our litigation options," Johnson said.

John Sweeney, president of the AFL-CIO, accused the Bush administration of
"leaving a disastrous parting gift to our new leadership."

Lucas Guttentag, director of the ACLU's Immigrants Rights Project, said,
"Instead of fixing the database, the Bush administration has turned a blind eye
to reality and is intent on punishing American workers in the middle of an
economic meltdown."

Also yesterday, Chertoff delayed once more the Department of Homeland Security's
estimate of when 670 miles of pedestrian and vehicle fencing on the U.S.-Mexico
border will be completed. He said he expected "90 to 95 percent" of the fence to
be built or underway by Jan. 20, when Bush leaves office.

Last month, Chertoff said the border fence, which Congress ordered done by
year-end, would be fully completed or underway by that time.

Still Chertoff said the government was "turning the tide on illegal
immigration," citing decreasing border arrests, immigrants' remittances to their
home countries and estimates of the number of illegal immigrants in the United
States.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Kevin Lamarque -- Reuters; Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff also delayed an estimate of when 670 miles of fencing on the
U.S.-Mexico border will be completed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 2, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Manassas to Check Arrestees' Immigration Status;
Policy Mirrors Prince William's

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW03

LENGTH: 900 words


A new immigration policy will take effect in Manassas next month as officials
try to curb the number of illegal immigrants who commit crimes in the community.

Beginning Dec. 1, Manassas police will check the immigration status of anyone
arrested in the city, Manassas Police Chief John J. Skinner told the City
Council on Monday. The new "Immigration Enforcement General Order" policy is in
line with Prince William County's plan and will be applicable to all sworn
officers.

"Some of us are supportive of a very aggressive stance on illegal alien control
and have been pushing for a long time to do whatever is realistic," Manassas
City Council member Jonathan L. Way (R) said. "Some ideas that have come out go
a little too far, but in my opinion, what the chief has done and what [Prince
William] Chief [Charlie T.] Deane has done is balance two conflicting pressures:
protect the constitutional rights of citizens but have an effective policy."

Skinner has spent several months crafting the policy, which has been approved by
the city attorney's office.

This is the city's fourth initiative meant to tackle illegal immigration, he
said. The city joined the Northern Virginia Regional Gang Task Force three years
ago and signed a memorandum of agreement with the Prince William-Manassas
Regional Adult Detention Center last year to work together on immigration
enforcement. In March, the city also signed an agreement with U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement.

"With our four efforts, we are among those communities with the most stringent
policies in place," Skinner said. "But our response to illegal immigration needs
to be carefully integrated into our mission and is not intended to alter our
mission," which is to enforce state and local laws.

Under the ICE agreement, participating jurisdictions can deputize local law
enforcement officials to receive training and assist ICE in processing illegal
immigrants.

Manassas had trained two officers with ICE, but because of budget cuts, those
positions were eliminated, Skinner said. The two trained officers instead became
patrol officers, filling positions that opened through attrition.

Cutting those positions saved the city $130,000 in fiscal 2009 and, through the
attrition, will save an additional $100,000 next year, according to officials in
the city's finance department.

Under the new policy, all police officers will check into the immigration status
of any person who is under custodial arrest for a violation of a state or local
law, Skinner said.

If someone arrested is found to be in the country illegally, police will notify
the jail during booking, Skinner said. An 11-member ICE team at the regional
facility will then take over.

Under the policy, police officers may also "inquire" into the citizenship status
of any individual who is "lawfully detained" for a violation of a city or state
law, Skinner said, noting applicable situations could include people who speed,
shoplift or are involved in an auto accident.

Officers can inquire only if there is "probable cause" that the individual is in
the United States illegally and if it does not extend the duration of the
detention, Skinner said. They will not conduct routine immigration checkpoints
or arrest people solely for being in the country illegally, he said, and racial
profiling will not be allowed.

Victims and potential witnesses will not be subjected to immigration inquiries
as a matter of routine, he said.

"The police department is committed to enforcing immigration violations within
the boundaries of its authorities," Skinner said. "Federal immigration law is
extremely complex and is primarily a federal function and responsibility."

The new Manassas policy is in line with Prince William's newly revised plan,
Skinner said. Last October, the Prince William Board of County Supervisors
ordered officers to check legal status when there was probable cause to believe
a suspect was in the country illegally. Supervisors, however, revised the policy
because of fears of racial profiling.

Since July, the name of everyone arrested in the county has been run through a
federal database to determine residency status.

"It is enormously sensible to make sure the policies are harmonized across all
the jurisdictions that share services," said Greg Letiecq, the leader of Help
Save Manassas, an anti-illegal immigrant group. "This is a good, smart public
policy."

Although Letiecq is in favor of both the city and the county's actions, Nancy
Lyall of the immigrant advocacy group Mexicans Without Borders, said this policy
is just another action that will cause people to flee the area.

"This is an unnecessary policy that costs the taxpayers a lot of money and could
drive people out of the city," Lyall said. "It seems ridiculous in these
difficult economic times. I just think this is legislation that is unnecessary."

Skinner said he is in the midst of training about 110 police department
personnel to make sure every staff member is aware of what they may and may not
do under the policy.

He said he is also making an effort to alert the community. Brochures in Spanish
and English are available at the department, and a hotline, 703-257-8488, is in
place for anyone with questions.

Skinner said that before the policy takes effect, he will also brief
organizations including Help Save Manassas and Unity in the Community, which
works to promote cross-cultural understanding.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 6, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigrants Feel Less Welcome in Frederick

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1351 words


In just over a decade, Frederick County has been transformed from a bucolic,
timeless community of dairy farms and strawberry festivals to a fast-paced
mosaic of high-tech firms and housing developments, Pilates classes and exotic
eateries, mega-stores and McDonald's.

The changes have also brought thousands of Hispanics, some legal immigrants and
others not, who have migrated up Interstate 270 to meet the demand for
construction and service jobs. Until now, the county has handled the influx with
outreach classes in schools and community policing programs. Chic Hispanic
restaurants flourish in downtown Frederick, and working-class Latinos have
remained relatively invisible.

Suddenly, however, their presence is igniting a controversy that some fear could
escalate into the kind of war over illegal immigration that has torn apart
Prince William County. In the past month, the Frederick County sheriff has
joined with federal authorities to identify and deport illegal immigrants, and
county commissioners have proposed legislation to ban free translation of county
business and require public schools to track down students who are in the United
States illegally.

"The single biggest threat to our country is the immigration problem. We cannot
continue to absorb this population or we will end up in collapse like a Third
World country," said Sheriff Chuck Jenkins, whose officers have identified 18
illegal immigrants in the past two weeks after traffic stops or other incidents.
"We are not going out in a white van with a big net, but we are getting the
criminal element of the illegal population out of Frederick County."

Local opponents of the measures, including black, white and Hispanic residents,
say the crackdown and other proposed actions smack of racism and political
grandstanding. They say Latinos have been welcomed by Frederick's businesses as
a source of cheap labor. Since 1990, the county's Hispanic population has more
than tripled, from fewer than 5,000 to more than 15,000, growing to about 5
percent of the county's inhabitants.

"This is nothing but scapegoating," said Lydia Espinoza, a community mediator of
Mexican American descent. "The immigrant community has been growing here for
years, but now people are seeing more Latinos in public, speaking Spanish in
stores. They hear about overcrowded houses or issues that can be resolved by the
community. Instead, some people are stoking these emotional fires to create
group feelings against immigrants."

Regional organizations on each side have joined the fray. CASA of Maryland, a
nonprofit group that lobbies for immigrant rights, plans to present a report
today that accuses Jenkins and his department of racial profiling, imprisoning
"alarmingly high" numbers of Latinos and using crime fighting as a "subterfuge
to deport immigrants."

Help Save Maryland, a rapidly growing citizens group that opposes illegal
immigration, has supported the crackdown in group e-mails, radio interviews and
newspaper columns. The coordinator of the Frederick chapter has accused
opponents of "playing the race card."

In the Hillcrest neighborhood, where many of Frederick's Latinos live (often in
households that include legal and illegal immigrants), residents describe
growing anxiety. Priests say parishioners have stopped driving to church for
fear of run-ins with the police. Check-cashing stores say people are closing
their bank accounts. And everyone is asking whether Frederick will become the
next Prince William.

"I used to love Frederick, but now I don't feel comfortable here anymore," said
Concepcion Ramirez, 20, a Mexican-born waitress. "I went to high school here,
and everyone was so caring and nice. But people are scared of the police now.
Every time you get in your car, you are thinking every single moment of what to
do if they stop you."

Despite the contretemps, residents say there is little chance that Frederick
will become as bitterly divided as Prince William, where officials approved a
number of policies last year to drive out illegal immigrants. In Frederick, the
recent proposals to halt public translation services and count illegal pupils
are unlikely to become law, in part because they may conflict with state and
federal statutes.

One reason for the difference is Frederick's diverse character, a blend of rural
courtliness and urban worldliness. The county's economic mainstays include
military research, dairy farms, high-tech industry and tourism. Its populace
includes seventh-generation German Americans, a black middle class and young
professionals who commute to Rockville or Washington. It has an active NAACP
chapter and an annual Latino Festival.

Last month, at a meeting organized by the NAACP, several black pastors spoke
emotionally of what their community had endured in the days when the Ku Klux
Klan operated openly in Frederick and black children were banned from public
playgrounds. They vowed not to let Hispanic immigrants be victimized by a new
wave of discrimination and called for better communication among all local
ethnic groups.

Another moderating factor is the practical approach taken by many officials in
Frederick. At a county commission meeting last month, several members pointed
out that if translation was barred for county documents and events, it would
prevent non-English-speaking residents from learning about health hazards, new
laws or even English literacy classes.

Frederick Police Chief Kim Dine, who is white, spent years in Washington's
Latino neighborhoods and is an advocate of police outreach in the community.
County Board of Education Chairman Daryl Boffman, who is black, has worked to
promote the kind of educational boosts for immigrant students that once helped
him get ahead.

"When I first came to Frederick, the Klan was still putting leaflets on
windshields, but we've come a long way since then," said Boffman, 45. "Some
people still want to keep Frederick the way it once was, but we can't let these
issues pull the county apart. We have to break down barriers, not build them."

One example is the Even Start class at Hillcrest Elementary School, a federally
funded program in which mothers from Mexico and Central America and their
preschool children learn English together. They sing songs, read and do art
projects in an atmosphere designed to help the mothers become more comfortable
with the school system and better prepared to help their children.

Outside institutional settings, interactions between longtime residents and
Hispanic newcomers seem to be mostly friction-free. One local radio host has
complained that the county spent $2,000 to paint signs in Spanish on school
buses, but many businesses and churches advertise in Spanish, and several of
Frederick's most popular restaurants are owned by Hispanics who have developed
loyal clients and good community relations.

"I like the people here. They are conservative but friendly," said Jose
Hernandez, an immigrant from El Salvador who co-owns the Mexicali Cantina in
downtown Frederick. Hernandez, who said 95 percent of his customers are
non-Hispanic, paused to greet two women finishing a birthday lunch.

"I just love the chimichangas," one of them said. "And I love this place. They
treat you like they expect you."

Some leaders of Frederick's new movement against illegal immigration defy
stereotyping. County Commissioner John L. "Lennie" Thompson Jr., who proposed
the measure to identify all illegal students, comes from a long line of dairy
farmers and holds degrees in law and business. He said he hated to see his
beloved pastures being carved up by developers but had no problem with legal
immigrants coming to Frederick to participate in the boom.

"We are all immigrants here, one way or another. My concern is strictly with the
people who are not in the country lawfully," Thompson said. "We need to get a
better handle on the size of the problem; we need to do something about people
who drive without licenses and overcrowd houses. But eventually there will be a
grand compromise in Congress, the borders will be secured and the problem will
solve itself. We will all survive."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post; "People are scared of
the police now," said restaurant worker Concepcion Ramirez, 20, who came to
Frederick from Mexico in 2003.
IMAGE; County Commissioner John L. "Lennie" Thompson Jr.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 7, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

CANADA

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 800 words

CANADA

Border Agency Faulted On Tracking of Risks

Canadian authorities cannot find 41,000 people who were classified as security
risks or illegal immigrants and ordered to leave the country, an official
watchdog agency reported Tuesday.

Auditor General Sheila Fraser said that in some cases, the failure of the Canada
Border Services Agency to keep track of potential security threats could "result
in undue risk to the public."

She also said that a police database of individuals told to leave Canada is
riddled with errors and that computer problems mean authorities have only a
limited ability to track offenders.

The disclosure could embarrass the Conservative government, which won power in
January 2006 on a pledge to boost law and order.

Critics, particularly some in the United States, have long complained that
Canada is lax about cracking down on illegal immigrants and others who could
pose a security risk.

ZIMBABWE

Monitors Question Official Vote Count

An independent Zimbabwean election monitoring group expressed doubt Tuesday
about the credibility of reported presidential election results and accused the
ruling ZANU-PF party of attacking observers.

The Zimbabwe Election Support Network was the first observer group to publicly
question the results, announced Friday, showing that opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai had failed to beat President Robert Mugabe by enough to avoid a
runoff.

The network also said the delay in announcing results of the March 29 vote
"undermined the impartiality, credibility and transparency" of the country's
electoral commission.

The observers said they could not substantiate the commission's figures because
they were "not aware of the chain of custody of the ballot materials during the
aforementioned period."

The opposition says Tsvangirai won the election outright.

POLAND

Envoy's Son Charged

Polish authorities charged the Kuwaiti ambassador's son with briefly abducting
three Jewish teenagers at a hotel and claiming he had a bomb, police said
Tuesday.

The 23-year-old son of Ambassador Khaled al-Shaibani, identified only as
Mohammad A., was charged with holding the teenagers against their will, Warsaw
police said, adding that the suspect has confessed and faces a suspended
sentence of 10 months to three years. There was no bomb.

The Kuwaiti Embassy confirmed that the suspect was the ambassador's son, but
declined to comment further.

The teenagers were among about 10,000 people who took part last Thursday in the
annual March of the Living at the former Nazi death camp of Auschwitz-Birkenau.

JAPAN

Chinese President Visits

The leaders of Japan and China held their first summit in Tokyo in a decade on
Wednesday, a feel-good bid to improve relations amid territorial disputes and
spats over food safety and history.

Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda and Chinese President Hu Jintao sat down
for talks expected to touch on issues including a feud over maritime gas
deposits and Beijing's handling of protests in Tibet.

BRAZIL

Acquittal in Nun's Death

An Amazon rancher convicted of ordering the killing of American nun Dorothy
Stang has been acquitted in a retrial.

Vitalmiro Moura is one of two ranchers who allegedly ordered the killing of the
73-year-old rain forest defender three years ago. He had been convicted and
sentenced to 30 years for the crime, but Brazil requires retrials for first
offenders sentenced to more than 20 years.

Canadian Killed in Afghanistan

 Taliban insurgents killed a Canadian soldier in a clash in the southern Afghan
province of Kandahar, bringing the total number of Canadian troops killed in
Afghanistan since 2001 to 83.

Senior Taiwanese Officials Quit

 Taiwan's foreign minister, deputy premier and vice defense minister resigned
over the loss of almost $30 million in a failed attempt to lure Papua New Guinea
to officially recognize Taiwan. The entire government will step down May 20 when
a new president takes office.

12 Dead in Darfur Airstrikes

The African Union-U.N. peacekeeping force in northern Darfur said it was still
trying to evacuate people wounded in airstrikes Sunday that an aid group says
killed 12 people, including six children. About 35 people were wounded in the
strikes, which residents attributed to the Sudanese government.

More Food Riots in Mogadishu

Hundreds of youths in Somalia's capital hurled stones and blocked roads with
burning tires in a second day of protests over soaring food prices, but the
violence was not as widespread as on Monday, when two people died as troops
fired into crowds of thousands.

Viral Disease Spreads in China

 New outbreaks in three Chinese provinces and in Beijing put the number of
children infected with hand, foot and mouth disease at 15,799, and the death
toll has risen to at least 27, the official New China News Agency reported.

From News Services

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; La Tercera Via Associated Press; A vast cloud of smoke and ash
rises above the Chaiten volcano in southern Chile. The snow-capped 3,550-foot
mountain, which became active last Thursday night, erupted with renewed vigor
yesterday, raining ash and spewing lava over surrounding areas and forcing a
total evacuation within a 20-mile radius. Meteorologists said ash was likely to
spread soon as far as populous Buenos Aires province in neighboring Argentina.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 21, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 718 words

MANASSAS

Illegal Immigrant Charged in Rape of Girl

A Salvadoran man who was in the United States illegally and was to be deported
this month has been charged with  sexually assaulting a 10-year-old Manassas
girl after lab tests linked his DNA to evidence in the case, Prince William
County police said.

JosÂ¿ Abel Zelaya Ascencio, 32, formerly of Manassas, is charged with breaking
into the girl's house in October and raping her in her bedroom, police said.

He was being held in Lumpkin, Ga., on an immigration violation and was to have
been deported May 9. But on May 6, lab results linked his DNA to the crime and
he was returned to Virginia on Sunday, police said.

Ascencio, who is being held at the jail in Manassas, will have a hearing July 2
in Juvenile and Domestic Relations District Court.

-- Jonathan Mummolo

LOUDOUN COUNTY SCHOOLS

Parent Faces Felony Charge in Gun Incident

A western Loudoun County woman was charged yesterday with bringing three loaded
pistols into her child's elementary school May 13, authorities said.

Kim M. Fritz, 45, was taken into custody that day after she went to Round Hill
Elementary for a conference with an administrator and was found to have a
.38-caliber pistol and two .22-caliber pistols in her purse, the Loudoun
Sheriff's Office said. She did not remove the weapons from her purse and did not
threaten anyone at the school, officials said.

Fritz had been held on a temporary detention order while being evaluated in a
hospital psychiatric unit. She was charged with possession of a firearm on
school property, a felony. She was released on a personal recognizance bond.

-- Bill Brubaker

FEDERAL APPEALS COURT

Senate Confirms Nomination of Va. Justice

A Virginia Supreme Court justice will fill an open seat on the  U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 4th Circuit in Richmond.

G. Steven Agee was unanimously confirmed yesterday by the U.S. Senate. The 4th
Circuit, which handles cases from federal courts in Maryland, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia, has handled some of the country's
biggest terrorism cases. Agee will fill the seat of J. Michael Luttig, who
resigned in 2006.

President Bush nominated Agee in March and asked the Senate to consider his
nomination swiftly because of the court's heavy caseloads and because five of
the 15 seats are vacant.

Agee has served as a Virginia Supreme Court justice since 2003. He served as a
judge on the state Court of Appeals from 2001 to 2003.

-- Associated Press

PRESIDENTIAL POLITICS

Poll Finds McCain Leading Democrats in Va.

Sen. John McCain, the presumptive GOP presidential nominee, leads both of his
potential Democratic rivals in Virginia, according to a poll by Virginia
Commonwealth University that was released yesterday.

The survey, conducted by the school's Center for Public Policy, found that
McCain (Ariz.) would beat Sen. Barack Obama (Ill.) by eight points if the
election were held today. McCain would get 44 percent of the Virginia vote,
compared with Obama's 36 percent.

McCain would expand his lead slightly if Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (N.Y.)
were the Democratic nominee, the survey found, with McCain getting 47 percent of
the vote to Clinton's 38 percent.

The Commonwealth Poll surveyed 1003 adults between May 12 and Sunday.

-- Tim Craig

PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY

Stewart Wants to Step Up Immigrant Checks

Prince William Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart said
yesterday that he will consider tweaking the county's illegal immigration
enforcement, less than a month after the board modified the procedures.

Stewart (R-At Large) wants to reduce to "reasonable suspicion" the standard that
officers need to check an individual's residency status. He said he hopes that
would lead to more people being checked.

"When we implement the standard, a person's immigration status will very likely
be checked if there is any question about the person's identity or legal
status," Stewart said of the potential change.

Last month, the supervisors directed police to question criminal suspects about
their immigration status after an arrest is made. The policy the board approved
in October ordered officers to check the legal status of all suspects, no matter
how minor the offense, if they had probable cause to believe the person was in
the country unlawfully.

-- Kristen Mack

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart said checks should be done "if
there is any question" about identity.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 23, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

At Hearing, State Panel Is Urged to Push for Integration and Access

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 710 words


A state commission studying the costs and benefits of immigration to Virginia
heard mainly about benefits yesterday at its first public hearing, where most
speakers exhorted panelists to pursue efforts to integrate immigrants and shun
policies intended to drive out illegal immigrants.

"In a nation that can afford to be generous to the least of these, too many
people live in fear of a knock on the door because they are of Latino descent,"
Front Royal resident Tom Howarth told the 20-member panel. Echoing others at the
forum, he said he was "embarrassed by the treatment of immigrants in Prince
William County."

About 200 people attended the hearing at George Mason University. It was the
first of five hearings to be held across the state by the Virginia Commission on
Immigration, which grew out of a bill passed by the General Assembly last year.
The panel will eventually offer recommendations on immigration-related policies
to state and federal lawmakers, said state Sen. John C. Watkins
(R-Chesterfield), chairman of the commission.

It is one of a handful of state groups formed to study a topic that has seized
the attention of local officials nationwide as they grapple with increasingly
diverse communities and public angst over illegal immigration. Some localities,
such as Prince William, have responded with controversial crackdowns on illegal
immigrants.

The topic of yesterday's hearing was the effect of immigration, legal as well as
illegal, on Northern Virginia. But most speakers, including several
representatives of nonprofit organizations that serve immigrants, focused on a
larger landscape, calling for federal solutions to tensions over illegal
immigration and expanded access to higher education for those in the country
illegally.

"Immigrants are really good-hearted people who are assets to our community,"
said Alexandria resident Pat Rizzuto. "You've got to distinguish between those
concerns that Congress must address, comprehensive immigration reform, and those
that Virginia can already address through its existing laws."

Other speakers encouraged stricter local crackdowns on illegal immigration,
which they said drains tax dollars, contributes to sprawl and encourages
lawlessness.

"This country is supposed to be a country of laws. If we all obeyed the laws,
we'd get along better. But immigration laws have gone by the wayside," said
Elmer Savilla, 82, a retired journalist and electrician from Burke. "Respect the
laws."

The commission is made up of 11 state lawmakers and nine citizen representatives
appointed by Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), including an Alexandria police captain,
an Arlington County priest and a Virginia Beach physician.

States and localities have passed record numbers of immigration-related measures
in recent years, an approach that critics call piecemeal and divisive but
proponents deem a necessary reaction to Congress's stalled overhaul of
immigration laws.

Last year, the Virginia State Crime Commission formed a task force on illegal
immigration. Separately, three Virginia congressional representatives started an
Alien Criminal Enforcement task force to study federal, state and local law
enforcement agencies' responses to illegal immigrants who commit crimes.

Over five meetings since the fall, the immigration commission has studied topics
such as federal immigration laws, employment services for immigrants, driver's
licenses and Hispanic demographics. Immigrants make up about 10 percent of
Virginia's population, according to 2006 Census data. The number of illegal
immigrants is unknown, but reports by the Pew Hispanic Center and the Center for
Immigration Studies estimate it at 3 percent of Virginia's population.

At yesterday's hearing, several speakers told personal stories of illegal
immigrants -- themselves, in some cases, or people they knew. Among them was
Noelia Olivera, a George Mason graduate student who said she recently was asked
by her young cousin why his father had been deported.

"How do I explain that to a 5-year-old and to his daughter, a 3-year-old that
walks around and every guy she sees she's like, 'Daddy, Daddy, Daddy?' " said
Olivera, 25, tearing up as she spoke. "People like you can come up and make a
difference and change the laws that have been broken."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 5, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Tipping Point For Outrage;
In Hampton Roads Area, '07 Deaths Fuel Policies On Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1373 words

DATELINE: VIRGINIA BEACH


There have been no major flaps over day-labor sites here, or boiling
controversies over immigrant boardinghouses or schools crowded with children who
don't speak English.

But a group has formed to fight illegal immigration. Calls about the issue to
the area's congresswoman have swelled. And Ray and Colette Tranchant want to sue
the government over what they call its failure to enforce immigration laws.

The catalyst was a tragedy that roiled the Hampton Roads area and triggered
stiffer local policies on illegal immigrants. In March 2007, the Tranchants'
daughter Tessa, 16, and her best friend, Alison Kunhardt, 17, were killed in a
car crash caused by a drunk driver who had a police record and was in the
country illegally.

"What happened in Virginia Beach is they woke up Saturday morning and realized
not only do illegal immigrants work in your town, live in your town, but they
also kill people in your town," then-Del. John J. Welch III (R-Virginia Beach)
told reporters at the time.

As national immigration politics increasingly becomes local and police reveal
the legal status of more suspects, high-profile deaths caused by illegal
immigrants are serving as powerful tipping points for community outrage. The
tragedies often live on nationally as talking points for opponents of illegal
immigration and as symbols on Web sites that list victims as if they were fallen
soldiers in an invisible war.

To those activists, the cases are stark reminders of a broken immigration
system. It's simple, they say: The victims would be alive if the borders were
sealed.

"The people who are committing these crimes . . . they are here because the
government failed to do what it was supposed to do to protect the American
people," said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which promotes restrictions on immigration.

Immigrant advocates counter that focusing on legal status brands all immigrants,
illegal and those who might be assumed to be illegal, as villains, stoking
misdirected tensions out of grief. In Hampton Roads, advocates say they are
fielding calls from immigrants worried about deportation and discrimination.

"Each of those individual circumstances are tragic. But the effect that some of
these groups are trying to achieve is to demonize," said Clarissa Martinez of
the National Council of La Raza. "They're very clearly manipulating these
individual cases to try to smear a whole community."

Because policies on checking the legal status of suspects vary among law
enforcement agencies and Census Bureau questionnaires do not ask about it, there
are no solid national statistics on crime rates among illegal immigrants.

In recent months, fatal car crashes alleged to have been caused by illegal
immigrants have sparked ire in small towns in Minnesota and Iowa. Two years ago,
the deaths of a Maryland Marine and his girlfriend in a collision caused by an
illegal immigrant ignited debate in Annapolis over driver's licenses for
unauthorized immigrants. In Pennsylvania, the mayor of Hazleton has said a 2006
slaying attributed to an illegal immigrant led to a controversial immigration
ordinance. Charges against the suspect were later dropped, and the measure was
struck down by a federal judge.

The stories of such victims are immortalized on Web sites such as
http://immigrationshumancost.org, run by Brenda Walker, a Berkeley, Calif.,
writer who initially took up the immigration issue out of concern over the
environmental impact of population growth.

"I was seeing all these articles in the press about 'Oh, poor Juan, he comes
here and he's struggling for a better life,' " said Walker, adding that she
favors limits on immigration. "But illegal immigration is not a victimless
crime. That's my big headline."

The FIRE Coalition, a national group formed to combat what it calls "the largest
invasion in the history of the world," goes further. As part of a project called
Operation Body Count, it distributes posters featuring photos of people it says
were killed by illegal immigrants.

Ray Tranchant has seen his daughter's picture on such sites. He said groups that
call for measures such as mass deportations "muck up the real solution," which
he said involves building a border fence, deporting criminals and giving
noncriminals an earned path to legalization. But he knows the power of cases
such as that of Tessa and Alison. It turned him into an activist.

"Tessa shouldn't have died," said Tranchant, 53, a Tidewater Community College
administrator. "The bottom line is someone ended up in a place that caused
deaths. How did he get here? Track it back: Lax here, lax there."

Tranchant, who is a member of a state task force on "alien criminals," said he
is angry only at authorities. He wants to sue the city, state and national
governments for wrongful death, saying their negligence led to the crash that
killed Tessa. Tranchant said he does not want money but change, so that criminal
illegal immigrants are kept out of the country.

In recent years, the Hampton Roads area's construction, tourism and farming
industries have drawn a growing immigrant population, many from Mexico. Still,
immigrants make up less than 6 percent of the area's 1.65 million residents.

Tranchant, a former Navy pilot, said he used to worry about illegal immigration
mostly as a terrorism issue.

That changed March 30, 2007. Alison and Tessa were waiting at the light when
Alfredo Ramos, drunk and speeding, slammed into their car, killing both. Soon
police revealed that Ramos, 22, had been convicted of drunken driving in
neighboring Chesapeake and public intoxication in Virginia Beach but never
questioned about his immigration status.

Virginia Beach police were prohibited from asking suspects charged with
misdemeanors about their status; Chesapeake had no policy. Ramos was sentenced
to serve 24 years in prison.

Fox News's Bill O'Reilly seized upon the crash. He accused Virginia Beach
officials of operating a "sanctuary city." Local newspapers and online chats
filled with furious exchanges.

The uproar led Virginia Beach to require that police check the immigration
status of all arrested and that companies doing business with the cities pledge
not to hire illegal immigrants.

The state task force was formed by three congressional representatives,
including Thelma Drake (R), who said the crash brought her constituents'
numerous calls over illegal immigration "to another level."

Help Save Hampton Roads, an offshoot of Northern Virginia groups fighting
illegal immigration, formed after Tessa and Alison's deaths.

"Nobody knew this situation was out there until this catalyzed it," said Brian
Kirwin, a Virginia Beach representative for the statewide group Save the Old
Dominion, which counts the Hampton Roads area as its second-largest base after
Northern Virginia. "It didn't have a name and a face."

But the turmoil and policy changes also sparked "instantaneous" fright among the
region's Latino immigrants, said Dan Curran, a real estate agent and immigrant
advocate who said he and his wife were quickly besieged by calls from people
expecting widespread raids.

Beatriz Amberman, a Virginia Beach resident who is vice chairman of the Virginia
Coalition of Latino Organizations, has indefinitely called off a fall Hispanic
festival she has hosted for six years. She said Latinos have felt "scapegoated"
and were too wary to attend.

At a Hispanic grocery, a mother and daughter from Mexico nodded knowingly when
asked about the crash, which they said had caused legal and illegal Latinos to
walk rather than drive and to avoid beachfront discos because police patrol
them.

"For one person, everyone pays," said Josefina, 50, an illegal immigrant who
spoke on condition that her surname not be published.

"It bothers us, too," said Paula, 25, of the crash. "How did he dare to drive
like that?" She also spoke on condition that her last name not be published.

On a recent sunny afternoon, as Colette Tranchant, 49, drove to the cemetery
where the graves of her daughter and Alison lie under the watchful gaze of a
statue of an angel, she said the spotlight the crash cast on illegal immigration
was a good thing.

"This was so preventable," she said. "If my daughter died, at least it wasn't in
vain."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Family Photo; Tessa Tranchant, 16, left, and Alison Kunhardt,
17, died in a crash.
IMAGE; Photos By Bill Tiernan -- The Virginian-pilot; Ray Tranchant, above,
visits the grave of daughter Tessa in Virginia Beach. She and her best friend
were killed when a drunk driver, Alfredo Ramos, left, slammed into their car in
March 2007. Ramos, 22, was in the country illegally.
IMAGE
IMAGE; Photo By Genevieve Ross -- The Virginian-pilot; Britney McIntyre, left,
Emily Renvyle, Tiffany Cynar, Nicole Page and Lauren Cash, all students at Floyd
E. Kellam High, console one another March 31, 2007, at the scene of the
collision that killed their friend and classmate Tessa Tranchant and First
Colonial High student Alison Kunhardt a day earlier.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 14, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Loudoun Activists Find New Campaign;
Unkempt Yards The Next Enemy

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 884 words


A Loudoun County community that had been a target of last year's regional effort
to cut down on illegal immigration is again the center of a county cleanup
campaign.

But this time, instead of focusing on immigration status, county leaders are
embarking on a months-long effort to tackle the unkempt lawns, crowded homes and
truck-jammed curbs they say have eroded the quality of life in Sterling Park, a
working-class neighborhood on Loudoun's eastern edge that has lost some of its
suburban luster since its founding in the 1960s.

"I want to deal with fixing up the neighborhood: the high-grass complaints, the
incidents of tagging, the complaints of rat infestations," said Supervisor Susan
Klimek Buckley (D-Sugarland Run), who represents an area just north of Sterling
Park. "I'm not going to get bogged down by illegal versus legal right now. I
want to clean up my neighborhood."

Last year, frustration over the community's deteriorating conditions erupted
when it became the epicenter of the county's debate over illegal immigration.
Members of an activist group in Sterling Park and some candidates for local
office blamed conditions on an influx of illegal immigrants who they said
crowded into single-family homes and cared little for the community.

But the fervor against illegal immigrants has died down somewhat, especially now
that a slate of lawmakers critical of some crackdowns has taken control of the
county's Board of Supervisors.

This spring, officials held meetings in the Sterling area. They will use
residents' testimony to help create a community improvement program. On Tuesday,
officials will consider regulations that would ban the parking of cars in yards
and allow volunteers to mow untended lawns. Many residents also have called for
stepped-up zoning enforcement to crack down on overcrowded homes, an ongoing
issue that supervisors are likely to take up again this fall.

By Washington area standards, Sterling Park is still a suburban haven, with low
crime and modest, tree-shaded homes that a grocery store clerk can afford. But
in affluent Loudoun, better known for its cathedral ceilings and 100-year-old
farmhouses, it is an anomaly.

Although the neighborhood is largely well maintained, sprinkled among the
landscaped yards and freshly painted front porches are overgrown lawns, cars
parked in yards and peeling facades. The problem has been exacerbated by the
recent spate of foreclosures, which has helped send housing values in Loudoun
plummeting, especially in Sterling and Sterling Park.

"When I came here seven years ago, it was very nice," said Maria S. Escobar, 44,
a resident from Bolivia who works at a nearby deli counter, as she stood on the
edge of her neatly cropped lawn on a recent afternoon. "Now, oh my God, it is
not like that anymore."

Many longtime Sterling Park neighbors who kept their homes tidy were gone, she
said, replaced by newcomers who leave cars -- and sometimes garbage -- in their
front yards. Two foreclosed homes sat empty on her cul-de-sac. Cars come and go
at all hours, she said.

Buckley and others say the problems in the Sterling area stem primarily from
years of inattention by county officials who were more focused on fast-growing
areas. Loudoun's population has more than tripled since 1990, with most of the
newcomers settling in fresh housing developments in communities such as Ashburn
and South Riding.

"The county got so caught up because of the tremendous growth that we've had for
the last nearly 17 years," said board Chairman Scott K. York (I). "What happened
through that period of time is there wasn't necessarily that focus on Sterling
and other eastern communities."

The renewed focus on Sterling has won praise from some of the staunchest
illegal-immigrant opponents.

"I think it's a different approach to the same problem," said Joe Budzinski, a
spokesman for Help Save Loudoun, a group that has blamed much of the problems in
Sterling on illegal immigrants. "It's a perfectly valid approach, because if it
weren't for the fact of people not caring for their homes, no one is going to
care if they are illegal or not."

Stricter zoning enforcement might even have the unintended consequence of
driving out illegal immigrants who cannot comply, Budzinski added.

Not everyone thinks such new rules are necessary. Walter Mundt, 62, a Sterling
Park resident, said he understands the concerns but believes that "the county
should stay out of it." Sulma Molina, 25, said the neighborhood could use some
sprucing up but that it was a pleasant neighborhood that didn't need drastic
changes.

"I like that it is so quiet," she said. "A child can play outside and not worry
about anything."

Molina, an immigrant from El Salvador here on a work permit, moved into her home
two weeks ago with her husband, her two children, a brother and a cousin. On a
recent morning, two vehicles sat on the property, one in the driveway and
another to the side on the grass. The lawn parking is necessary, she said, so
she can go to her housekeeping job in the morning without moving her husband's
truck.

Children's toys, boxes and recycling items sat on the front yard. "We like to be
clean, but it is just not possible right now" because the family moved in two
weeks ago, she said. She added that she expected the recycling to be picked up
in a few days.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 1, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Authorities Detain 45 in Immigration Raid at Painting Company

BYLINE: William Wan; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 617 words


Authorities raided the offices of an Annapolis painting company yesterday and
detained 45 suspected illegal immigrants, who officials say were hired and
housed by the company in private homes.

The raids, executed simultaneously at the offices of Annapolis Painting Services
and 10 private homes that authorities said were owned by the company, were
conducted by a force of 75 federal immigration agents and 50 Anne Arundel County
police officers.

The immigrants are being held by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials in Baltimore while their status is reviewed, said Scot Rittenberg, an
assistant special agent in charge in Baltimore.

No charges have been filed yet against the owner of the painting company, Robert
Bontempo Jr., because the investigation has not been completed, Rittenberg said.
But Police Chief James Teare Sr. said Bontempo could face federal felony
charges.

The 45 immigrants detained -- 35 men and 10 women -- came from El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Panama and Nigeria, federal investigators said.

There were five additional workers whose cases also have been entered into the
illegal immigration removal process, but ICE agents did not take them into
custody for humanitarian reasons. Some had children, one was dependent on
medication and another was pregnant.

Bontempo did not return calls to his office and home. According to his company's
Web site, he started painting homes in the 1970s to pay his way through college.

The Web site calls his company one of the largest painting contractors in the
region and boasts of its work at several local institutions: the Maryland State
House, the Annapolis Visitors and Convention Bureau, the U.S. Naval Academy and
Anne Arundel Community College.

The company has more than 100 employees, county police said. The 10 sites raided
yesterday morning housed large groups of immigrants living in single-family
homes owned by the company, authorities said. ICE agents also conducted
interviews with workers at five other sites.

At a news conference yesterday across the street from the company's offices,
County Executive John R. Leopold (R) touted the raid as the most significant
operation against illegal immigration in his administration.

He has come out strongly against illegal immigration in the county and made a
series of policy changes in the past year to deter it.

"It's unfair to those companies operating legally to be undercut by those who
hire illegal immigrants," Leopold said. "This sends a clear message that it's
not going to be tolerated in Anne Arundel County."

ICE officials said they appreciated the assistance of county police in the raids
but said their investigation was unrelated to the county's new policies.

ICE officials received the tip about Annapolis Painting Services 18 months ago,
just as Leopold was taking office and months before he had announced his
policies.

"We receive leads like this all the time, and we prioritize them to focus on the
most egregious violators," Rittenberg said. "In this case it was in Anne Arundel
County."

In August, Leopold issued an executive order declaring that the county would
sever contracts with any business employing illegal immigrants. The order was
largely symbolic, as it included no enforcement measures.

He also cut county grants to nonprofit agencies that offered social services to
Spanish-speaking residents.

In addition, Leopold assigned a full-time county detective to a federal task
force cracking down on counterfeit documents used by illegal immigrants.

And he instituted a policy that county jails must notify ICE immediately when
foreign-born inmates are processed in county detention centers so that their
immigration status can be checked.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 3, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

San Francisco to Halt 'Sanctuary' Policy

BYLINE: Karl Vick; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 2


San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom announced Wednesday that the city would begin
handing over for deportation juvenile illegal immigrants with drug convictions,
reversing a controversial policy of flying the youths back to their home
countries at the city's expense.

The flights, rooted in a 1989 ordinance declaring the city a "sanctuary" for
undocumented immigrants, ceased this spring after the U.S. attorney threatened
to prosecute officials for harboring criminals.

About the same time, Immigration and Customs Enforcement detained a city
probation official in the Houston airport along with two Honduran juveniles the
official was putting on a plane to Tegucigalpa, the capital.

"Which means that San Francisco for all intents and purposes is running its own
department of immigration," said Joseph Russoniello, the U.S. attorney for San
Francisco. "It's had its own foreign policy, so having its own immigration
policy is the next step."

Newsome took responsibility for the embarrassment Wednesday, a day after the
controversy overshadowed the popular Democrat's announcement that he's
considering running for the governor's seat when Republican Arnold
Schwarzenegger's term expires in 2010.

"We're going to fix this," Newsom said.

The controversy, coming in a presidential election campaign in which polls show
immigration ranks high as an incendiary issue, highlighted starkly different
perspectives both on immigration and on notions of victimhood.

City probation officials described the juvenile offenders in achingly
sympathetic terms, emphasizing the chain of circumstances that led to them
selling crack cocaine on the streets of San Francisco's Tenderloin district.

"These kids have really been victimized, most of our clients," said Patricia
Lee, who manages the public defender office for juvenile court. "They come from
incredibly dire circumstances. Their families are starving."

Lee said drug lords sometimes promise the youths construction jobs in
California, then force them into "slave labor" retailing drugs. "They're not
murderers, they're not rapists," she said. "They're trying to survive and their
families live under threat of harm.

"We have a duty to defend these kids, zealously."

A similar emphasis on compassion underpins the sanctuary ordinance, which bars
San Francisco officials from cooperating with federal immigration officials to
deport undocumented immigrants.

But the lengths the city went to on behalf of the convicted Central American
youths provoked intense and embarrassing national interest after being reported
by the San Francisco Chronicle on Sunday.

"I don't think it's an appropriate practice, and we rightly ended it. Period,"
Newsom said Tuesday, when he initially put responsibility on "the courts," the
district attorney and the probation commission, whose members the mayor
appoints.

Compounding the embarrassment was the city's fallback position: sending
convicted Honduran juveniles to a group home in Southern California. Within 10
days of arriving at the unguarded facility, all eight had run away.

"These unfortunate escapes are unacceptable and are producing no intended
results and creating unintended consequences," Newsom said. "And so that
practice has also stopped. We did this two days ago."

Still, there was sharp criticism from officials in San Bernardino County, to
which the youths escaped.

"We simply don't want them dumped into our community," said Arden Wiltshire, a
sheriff's department spokeswoman. "And to top it all off, they're sent away from
their probation officers, who they're supposed to report to."

Newsom, who said the city spent $2.3 million housing convicted youths, gave up
trying to reconcile the famously liberal city's sanctuary ordinance with its
obligations under state and federal law. "Adults who commit felonies are already
turned over to the federal authorities for deportation," he said, noting that
the sanctuary policy was "designed to protect our residents" and "is not a
shield for criminal behavior."

U.S. Attorney Russoniello pointed out that the federal system is not heartless.
He said three "very robust" federal task forces on human trafficking exist to
help exploited youths brought into the country for criminal enterprises.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 15, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

More Illegal Immigrants Putting Affairs in Order;
Deportation Risk Prompts Preparation

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1049 words


A 30-year-old single mother from Manassas recently visited a notary public to
formally arrange custody for her toddler son after she's gone.

It's deportation, not death, that has her worried.

With federal authorities stepping up raids and local police joining enforcement
efforts, illegal immigrants and their advocates say that preparing for possible
deportation is becoming a common feature of life in their underground world.

They are designating who should take custody of their children, indicating what
should be done with cars and homes, ensuring that relatives have power of
attorney to access bank accounts and key documents, and memorizing phone numbers
they might need to call from jail. Some are sending their U.S.-born children for
visits to their home countries so they could adapt more easily if the family is
suddenly forced to move back.

For Catalina, being prepared meant a trip to the notary so her best friend would
have appropriate paperwork to take custody of her year-old son and deliver him
to Mexico if she were deported.

"I'm still nervous [about getting caught]," said Catalina, who, like other
illegal immigrants interviewed, spoke on condition that her last name not be
published. "But I feel a lot calmer knowing that whatever happens, I'll never
lose my son to foster care."

In most cases, the planning is done informally through conversations like the
one Cathy Lorena, a 21-year-old from El Salvador, had recently with her brother
in the dining room of the colonial house they share in Herndon.

Although Cathy Lorena and her husband have been living illegally in the United
States for three years, she said she started feeling insecure only a few months
ago, after her husband was fired as an office cleaner when the company started
checking workers' identity documents.

"You start to worry that someone at the company will call immigration on you,"
said Lorena, who works for a similar office cleaning firm and has a year-old
son. "Every day you leave your baby to go to work, and you wonder if you're
going to return."

Although Lorena had always assumed that her brother, who is a legal permanent
resident, would take care of the child if she and her husband were detained, she
suddenly felt it necessary to sit down with her brother and spell that out.

"I wanted to make sure he knows things like who my son's doctor is, where the
babysitter lives, and that he's the person we would want to be in charge," she
said.

Although Lorena did not sign any legal forms, illegal immigrants in the area are
increasingly making their precautions official. Jay Marks, a Silver Spring-based
immigration lawyer who has become well known in the Washington Latino community
through his appearances on Spanish-language radio, said he gets two or three
calls a week from illegal immigrants seeking advice on how to give their
arrangements legal force.

"They'll say, for example, 'My house, I'd want to transfer it to someone else,'
or, 'My car, I'd want to ship it home, but how can I make sure someone could do
that for me if I were locked up?' "

Similarly, workers at Union Hispana Multiservices, the notary public office in
Prince William County where Catalina filled out the power-of-attorney forms for
her son, said they never saw such requests until late last year, when county
supervisors passed a resolution requiring police to check the immigration status
of people stopped for other offenses.

Months later, the company is still seeing about three clients a week who want to
sign power-of-attorney forms designating custody of their children in the event
of deportation, said Claudia Rivera, the notary who helped Catalina.

Meanwhile, at the Salvadoran consulate in Northern Virginia, the number of
immigrants registering their U.S.-born children for Salvadoran citizenship
jumped from 57 between January and May last year to 219 during the same period
this year. Consul Mirian Vargas said she thinks the increase is due to
immigrants' growing anxiety rather than a spike in births, because "they tell us
so. They say that they are worried they will be arrested and deported, and they
want to make sure their children will be able to get a passport and join them
back in El Salvador quickly."

Saul, a Honduran living in Annandale, has already sent his 4-year-old son ahead
for a trial run. A few days ago, the 28-year-old auto mechanic and his wife, who
is also in the country illegally, put the U.S.-born boy on a plane to Honduras
so he can spend the next two months with his grandparents.

"It was very hard to do it. . . . He's honestly too young to be traveling, and I
miss him already," Saul said a day later. "But we're doing this out of
necessity. . . . From one day to the next, anything can happen, and I want him
to know our culture, so that if we suddenly get sent back there, he'll be able
to get used to it quickly."

The chance that an illegal immigrant will be detained and deported after making
it past the U.S. border remains quite low. The vast majority of the hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants who are detained each year are caught trying to
sneak in. And although workplace arrests have risen tenfold since 2002, from 510
to nearly 5,000, that still accounts for a fraction of the nation's estimated 8
million illegal immigrant workers.

Nonetheless, each new raid, including one that scooped up 45 employees of an
Annapolis painting company two weeks ago, sends another ripple of anxiety
through the community and adds to immigrants' sense that they must prepare
themselves for the worst.

Immigrant advocates also are hammering home the message in training sessions.
The Manassas-based Immigration and Human Rights Law Group has mounted one of the
most extensive outreach efforts, conducting about 30 three-hour seminars during
which it has provided about 3,000 immigrants with sample power-of-attorney forms
and detailed advice on more sophisticated strategies, such as retaining an
attorney in advance or checking on the exact nature of their immigration
violation in case they can attempt to resolve it before it becomes a problem.

"The deportation of a relative, particularly if they're the main bread-winner,
is almost like a death in the family," said the group's Lisa Johnson-Firth. "And
just as for a death, families need to be prepared to handle it."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Cathy Lorena, a
21-year-old illegal immigrant, has discussed with her brother how to care for
her year-old son in case she is deported.
IMAGE; Photos By Gerald Martineau -- The Washington Post; Claudia Rivera, a
notary at Union Hispana Multiservices in Prince William County, says the office
sees about three people a week who want to sign power-of-attorney forms, which
designate custody of children in the event of their parents' deportation.
IMAGE; The office began getting such requests from illegal immigrants after the
county began its crackdown.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Letters To the Editor

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ04

LENGTH: 354 words

Keeping Sterling Safe

Since my friends and neighbors first gave me the privilege of representing them
on the Loudoun Board of Supervisors, I have been hard at work keeping Sterling
Park a wonderful place to live for all of us.

I created an ordinance limiting the number of people in a home and sought to
toughen it. I have fought to better enforce zoning rules against overgrown grass
and solid waste. I have fought for a sheriff's substation to help Sterling
combat gang crime, graffiti and other ills that are spilling over from Fairfax
County. My public agenda items on the 287(g) program led the sheriff's
department to adopt measures that will soon deport illegal alien criminals who
threaten Sterling.

These are just a few of the many ideas, proposals and legislation I have offered
in defense of Sterling.

I've been virtually the only member of the board to offer solutions to a problem
that is sweeping across all of Northern Virginia: illegal immigration. The
blight problems that have spilled over from Fairfax and are spreading across
Loudoun will not be solved until we toughen our zoning rules and enforce our
immigration laws.

But as we have seen recently, there are those in Loudoun who react viciously
when an elected official speaks frankly about illegal immigration's effects on
our community. I'm sure I'm not the only one who has noticed that not only do my
critics tend to be liberal activists or candidates rejected by Sterling voters,
but not one of them has offered any solution of their own -- other than to force
Sterling residents to offer their neighborhoods as illegal-alien sanctuaries.

If anyone should make an apology, it is those who criticize my ongoing fight to
keep Sterling Park a wonderful place to live who should apologize to the people
of Sterling for eight years of criticism and opposition.

Meanwhile, I will continue to fight to toughen and enforce our zoning and
immigration laws. Sterling Park is too wonderful a place to live to leave in the
hands of those who refuse to speak out against illegal immigration's effects on
our community.

Eugene A. Delgaudio

Sterling District supervisor (R)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 24, 2008 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Pr. William Chief In Uneasy Position;
Crackdown on Illegal Immigrants Tests Deane's Skills as Law Enforcement Leader

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1539 words


Prince William County Police Chief Charlie T. Deane spent many sleepless nights
in a spare bedroom last fall. He would lie awake, churning over the county's
crackdown on illegal immigrants, not wishing to disturb his wife.

Occasionally, he would call home from work on a Friday morning and tell Cathy to
pack for the weekend. The pressure of enforcing the policy was too great. He
needed to leave town, head to the family farm near Charlottesville, catch a
bluegrass show.

When Deane joined the force 38 years ago, Prince William was a rural, white,
farming community that considered itself part of central Virginia. But as Deane
rose through the ranks, Prince William rose too. Swept into Northern Virginia
against the will of many old-timers, it has become one of the fastest-growing
counties in the country, with a vibrant biotechnology corridor and a diverse,
upwardly mobile population. It was here that Barack Obama held his first
campaign rally after sealing the Democratic presidential nomination, seeing in
Prince William a symbol of Virginia's political progress.

The changes that are unfolding in Prince William, including tensions over
immigration, were unimaginable when Deane began his career. Now 62 and eligible
for retirement, he is struggling to maintain the simple, honored traditions of
police work even as he contemplates an uncertain future.

"Police work is about getting the right person to say the right thing," said
Deane, who, after 20 years, is the longest-serving chief in the region. "It's
about dealing with people and getting them to trust police."

Trust was foremost on Deane's mind in October when the Board of County
Supervisors directed police officers to check the legal status of any criminal
suspect, whether arrested or not, if there was reason to think the person was in
the country unlawfully. Deane wondered: Would the county's Hispanics, who make
up 19 percent of the population, feel threatened? Would the police force be
accused of racial profiling?

Although he cautioned supervisors that residency checks would work better if
handled by corrections officers at the jail, Deane carried out the crackdown
without public criticism of those who crafted it. Even today, he refuses to
characterize the plan as good or bad. "I don't debate the policy," Deane said.
"I enforce it."

His wife, Cathy, however, saw a side of him that most of the public did not --
the reluctant enforcer who had deep reservations about the way the policy was
being presented. "We talk," she said, noting that her husband is "unlike some
police officers who hold everything inside. He'd be working through an issue and
use me as a sounding board, pitting one side against the other until he reached
a happy medium that protected everybody."

Prince William's crackdown on illegal immigrants last fall thrust the county
into the national spotlight. But some on the board worried that having officers
check the status of all suspects, no matter how minor the offense, could result
in lawsuits and long-term damage to the county's reputation. So this past
spring, the board amended the policy. The latest version, which went into effect
July 1, requires officers to make residency checks after suspects are arrested,
leaving the county less vulnerable to allegations of racial profiling, officials
believe.

It is a change that makes Deane  a little more comfortable, those close to him
say.

But it has not silenced his critics.

Greg Letiecq, a local blogger and president of Help Save Manassas, a group that
advocated for the original policy, has been calling for Deane's ouster for
months. "His poor performance, insubordination and coddling of lawbreakers are
all good reasons to demand he be replaced," Letiecq wrote recently on his blog,
Black Velvet Bruce Li.

Nancy Lyall, a coordinator of the immigrant advocacy group Mexicans Without
Borders, said Deane has been put in an untenable position. "He's being forced to
do something I believe he believes is bad public policy," she said. "I don't
think that from his public statements, anyone can say he is a person who
believes in this policy. But he's the type of person who takes orders."

Having his credibility challenged is a new experience for the chief, friends
say.

"This immigration issue has tested him in ways I don't know he has ever been
tested," said Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research
Forum, a Washington think tank. He credits Deane with skillfully navigating
opposing viewpoints without compromising his principles. "He's had to balance
these competing interests and do it in a low-key and respectful way."

Deane, a  man of few words,  often speaks in a low mumble, never letting on how
much he knows in an effort to get others to reveal themselves. As a result,  he
has been discounted by those who don't know better.

"Some have described him as a simple, country guy," said Maj. Steve Hudson,
Prince William's assistant chief for operations. "I've seen people underestimate
his intelligence and the depth of his professionalism."

The country part, they have right. Deane grew up in the mountains of central
Virginia, in the town of Standardsville: population 300.

His daddy was Greene County Sheriff Wilbur D. "Hooks" Deane, who had one deputy.

The sheriff's phone rang in the Deane household, and his mother, Janie, often
served as the dispatcher. Criminal suspects showed up at the house in the middle
of the night, yelling things like: "Joe's in the back of the car. He's been
shot."

In his teens, Charlie Deane often accompanied his father to serve court papers,
make arrests and occasionally take pictures at crime scenes. One of the first
dead bodies he saw was a man he helped his father drag out of a stream.

Deane was always interested in piecing the puzzle together to solve a criminal
case. That's why he became a detective. He and his brothers followed their dad
into law enforcement. And Deane's two sons followed him into the profession.

"Something's wrong with us all," Deane joked of his family's law enforcement
DNA. "We can't learn, can we? My father never encouraged or discouraged me from
becoming an officer. But he was proud I did."

Although he always wanted to go back to the mountains as a criminal
investigator, Deane joined the Virginia State Police in 1966 and was assigned to
Prince William. He saw more highways than homicides.

When the Prince William Police Department was created in 1970,  Deane joined. In
15 years, leapfrogging captains and majors, he became deputy police chief, a job
Chief George T. Owens created for him.

"I told him I wasn't interested," Deane said. "I was sure others were more
qualified."

Owens recommended that the county board name Deane his successor, and it did in
1988.

As chief, Deane has tried to keep pace with the demographic changes in the
county. The 500-plus-member force has 36 Hispanic officers. The department has
hired a staff linguist and tried to increase the number of Spanish-speaking
officers by offering them a stipend of $1,500 a year. Deane also prides himself
on maintaining Prince William's record of low crime rates. This year, he
reported a drop in the crime rate to the lowest level in five years. Still,
Deane will never forget one crime.

On Thanksgiving in 1990, Prince William officer Philip "Mike" Pennington became
the first and only county officer killed by gunfire in the department's history.
He had been part of a SWAT team that got into a shootout with a man suspected of
wounding an Arlington County sheriff's deputy earlier in the day.

"As chief, when you lose an officer, you feel like you failed in some way,"
Deane said. "That's every chief's nightmare. I equate it to what it must be like
to lose a child."

Every year since then, Deane has driven Pennington's mother, Doris, to the
National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund candlelight vigil in Washington.
The event draws police officials from across the country and features a roll
call by state of every officer who died in the line of duty that year. Mike
Pennington's name is engraved in a granite wall honoring slain officers at
Judiciary Square, and Deane and Doris Pennington always visit that, too.

"This is sort of a tradition he started," said Pennington, who said she isn't
sure that she would make it every year if Deane didn't extend an invitation.
"He's a thoughtful chief."

Officers from across the region patted Deane on the back and told him to "keep
at it." Others whispered in his ear that they liked the way he was handling
illegal immigration enforcement.

"Charlie knew the policies were going to create problems," said Montgomery
County Chief J. Thomas Manger. "He knew what the consequences were going to be.
Charlie could have said: 'I don't need this crap. I don't agree with this
philosophy or position. I'm not doing it.' But he stayed. He managed it."

Deane won't say how much longer he will remain chief. It is certainly not the
job he walked into 20 years ago when Prince William was a sleepier place, with
less consternation. He never wanted his standing to depend on political
popularity, but he is learning to live with the times.

"I've successfully not satisfied elements on both sides," Deane said of the
immigration squabbles. "Maybe that's the right place to be."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Kevin Clark -- The Washington Post; Chief Charlie Deane, in
his office in Woodbridge, above, has been a member of the Prince William County
police force for 38 years and chief for 20 years. During his time as a county
officer, Prince William has been transformed, including a major increase in the
immigrant population. Below, Dean is shown on the day he graduated from the
Virginia State Police Academy in 1967.
IMAGE; Family Photo
IMAGE; By Giuliana Nakashima -- The Washington Post; Police Chief Charlie Deane
is interviewed about enforcement of the Prince William County policy on illegal
immigrants before a community meeting.
IMAGE; Family Photo; Deane followed his father, Wilbur D. Deane, above, a county
sheriff, into law enforcement. Deane's sons followed him.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 28, 2008 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Va. Jails to Report Foreign Inmates;
New Law Targets Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Bill Brubaker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1357 words


A year after Prince William County launched a crackdown on illegal immigrants,
Virginia has implemented a law that requires something similar for every
jurisdiction in the state. Jail officials are now required to notify federal
authorities of all foreign-born inmates regardless of their immigration status.

The little-noticed law went into effect July 1 and aims to make every corner of
the state as unwelcoming as Prince William for illegal immigrants charged with
crimes.

"With our new law, these people who are here illegally should be afraid of
living anywhere in Virginia right now," said Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax), who
helped write the law and chairs the state's crime commission. "If you're here
illegally, it's not any scarier to live in Prince William than in any other
county."

Prince William and about 60 other jurisdictions nationwide had previously joined
in a separate partnership with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials to identify immigrants who have committed crimes. But now, under the
Virginia law, officials across the state have begun routinely filing similar
reports to the same federal authorities that Prince William does. Under the
state law, local jails probably will spend a fraction of the $10.5 million
Prince Willliam has budgeted over the next five years for the ICE partnership.

ICE cannot say how many illegal immigrants from a particular jurisdiction are
being deported, only that it cannot remove as many as it would like because of
budget limitations. So there are no statistics about what ultimately happens to
the illegal immigrants who are reported to ICE -- either by way of the new state
law or through the federal program, which trains local officers to identify and
detain undocumented suspects charged with crimes.

ICE has $42 million for the partnership program this year, but officials at the
agency say they need a lot more money to do the job. "We'd like to detain
everyone. But that is a fantasy world," said James Pendergraph, who oversees
ICE's partnerships with state and local agencies.

Together, the federal program and the state law, passed in the aftermath of
Congress's failure last summer to reform the immigration system, underscore how
dissimilar enforcement policies are in the Washington region.

While Virginia jails have begun expediting reports to ICE on their foreign-born
inmates, even if there is no evidence that they are undocumented, the Montgomery
County jail sends federal authorities a weekly list of its immigrant inmates.

"We do no investigation for ICE," said Montgomery Department of Correction and
Rehabilitation Director Arthur M. Wallenstein. "We are not agents of the ICE. We
are a local branch of government."

And while Prince William's police and sheriff's departments will spend about
$1.5 million this fiscal year to employ 16 ICE-trained officers and deputies for
the program known as 287(g), Alexandria and Arlington County are leaving most of
the immigration work to the federal agency.

"It's a federal responsibility," Arlington Sheriff Beth Arthur said. "I mean, in
essence what is happening is, these 287(g) localities are taking on the
responsibility of ICE, doing its job. And these localities are paying for it."
The 287(g) program got its name from the section of the federal Immigration and
Nationality Act that authorized it.

But Prince William officials are confident that they will identify more illegal
immigrants through their partnership with ICE than they would under the state
law.

Only 60 of the thousands of law enforcement agencies nationwide have joined the
five-year-old ICE program. Many localities don't have the resources, Pendergraph
said. Politics have also come into play: Some agencies got involved only after
government leaders ordered them to do so.

Other local participants in the federal program are Herndon, Manassas, Manassas
Park and, since early this month, Loudoun County. In Maryland, only Frederick
County participates. The District has not signed on.

Fairfax County has applied to join the program, but Sheriff Stan Barry said last
week that he might reconsider after he assesses the impact of the Virginia law.

"It may be that 287(g) is moot for us," he said. "One of the reasons we applied
was to expedite identifying and processing illegal immigrants. But if we're
going to end up with the very same results just by reporting [under the new law]
and having ICE do the work, obviously there would be no reason to participate."

Under 287(g), a local officer is authorized to access an ICE database that
contains fingerprints of known illegal immigrants. If the suspect is identified
as undocumented, the officer is deputized to hold the inmate under a federal
detainer.

In jails not in the federal program, officers typically have access to a
separate ICE database that does not match fingerprints. These officers can
follow up with ICE, which can investigate further. The most serious offenders
are in jail anyway, so there is no rush to identify them. But many illegal
immigrants charged with misdemeanors probably would be released on bond before
being identified. ICE has not shown a willingness to deport many people charged
with lesser crimes, experts said.

Prince William made national headlines last summer when it directed police
officers to check the immigration status of all suspects, even before they were
arrested. The policy left the county open to accusations of racial profiling,
and many Hispanics, including legal residents, fled to jurisdictions they
considered less hostile. In March, the Board of County Supervisors amended the
policy to require immigration checks only after an arrest.

"Based on our interaction with ICE, I am pretty confident that our program is
more intensive than what will evolve in those other jurisdictions," Prince
William County Executive Craig S. Gerhart said.

Statistics the ICE provided to the Virginia State Crime Commission show that in
fiscal 2007, law enforcement agencies in the state made 12,073 reports to the
federal agency, which resulted in 694 detainers.

"I think that comes to about 5 percent," said the commission's executive
director, James O. Towey. "Some of those people may not have been illegal
aliens. But this stat shows you they do not have the resources" to detain many
of the immigrants they identify.

The effectiveness of the Virginia law will depend largely on ICE, Towey said.
"Whether ICE comes and gets them and ultimately deports them is a matter that is
beyond our control," he said.

Prince William Police Chief Charlie T. Deane is frustrated that ICE cannot tell
him what has happened to the 800 suspected illegal immigrants his county has
identified to the agency.

"We just want to know how the system works," he said. "We're spending resources
to provide this information [to ICE], and we need to know what the results are."

Through various enforcement programs, ICE says it identified 164,296 illegal
immigrants who served time in local jails in fiscal 2007, including 2,738 in the
District, Virginia, Maryland and Delaware.

ICE officials said recently that they had no data on how many were deported, how
many were released from custody and given summonses to appear before immigration
judges and, of those, how many failed to show for hearings and simply
disappeared.

ICE spokesman Richard Rocha said gathering those statistics will require "manual
tabulation" that will take "some time."

Recognizing the unpopularity of 287(g), the agency is preparing to roll out what
it calls a "sweeping new plan," dubbed Secure Communities, that will give all
local agencies direct access to a database that contains information collected
by ICE and the Department of Justice.

However, the multibillion-dollar program has not been fully funded by Congress,
and even if it is, ICE still might not have enough money to detain all of the
illegal immigrants it identifies, Pendergraph said.

"You know something? We're playing catch-up," he said. "Five years ago,
immigration enforcement for state and local law enforcement [agencies] wasn't
even on the radar scope. We didn't get in this mess overnight. And we're not
going to get out of it overnight."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 31, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Report Credits Drop in Illegal Immigrants to Enforcement;
Study Was Based on Census Data That Indicate Number of Less-Educated Hispanics
Has Declined

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 1259 words


A report released yesterday by a Washington think tank that advocates stricter
limits on immigration says the number of illegal immigrants in the country
appears to have declined significantly over the past year, at least partly
because of the chilling effect of stepped-up enforcement.

The study by the Center for Immigration Studies based its findings on census
data that indicate that the number of less-educated, working-age Hispanic
immigrants, defined as 18-to-40-year-olds with a high school diploma or less,
has dropped by more than 10 percent, or about 830,000 people, since last August.

Previous research suggests that a large share of less-educated foreigners is in
the country illegally and that it makes up the bulk of the illegal immigrant
population. Furthermore, although earlier declines in the number of these
Hispanic immigrants have been linked to a rise in their unemployment rate, the
current drop-off began last year almost immediately after Congress abandoned
legislation to legalize undocumented immigrants and six months before any
significant rise in their unemployment rate had occurred.

During the same period, the number of foreigners who were more educated or
non-Hispanic, and therefore far less likely to be illegal immigrants, continued
to rise or hold steady.

"The evidence is consistent with the idea that at least initially, more robust
enforcement caused the number of illegal immigrants to decline significantly,"
said Steven A. Camarota, one of the study's authors. "Some people seem to think
illegals are so permanently anchored in the United States that there is no
possibility of them leaving. . . . This suggests they're not correct. Some
significant share might respond to changing incentives and leave."

Several demographers who specialize in estimating the illegal immigrant
population expressed concern about the limits of the study's methodology but
said they found the possibility that the illegal immigrant population is
decreasing plausible. Determining the actual amount of that decline, however, is
far more controversial.

The census does not ask about immigration status. Instead, government and
independent researchers use a variety of techniques to estimate the number of
immigrants in the country illegally. One way is to subtract the number of visas,
permanent residency permits and naturalizations granted each year from the total
number of foreigners counted by the census. The difference between the number of
foreigners who can be accounted for through such records and the total number
tallied by the census is considered to be the size of the illegal immigrant
population.

Camarota and co-author Karen Jensenius took a different approach, calculating
the previous ratio between the number of less-educated Hispanic immigrants
counted by the census and the total illegal immigrant population estimated by
government researchers, and then applying that ratio to the new, lower number of
less-educated, working-age Hispanic immigrants to come up with a new estimate
for the total illegal immigrant population. According to their calculations,
from August of last year to May, the illegal immigrant population declined by
about 11 percent, to about 11.17 million from a high of 12.49 million.

One drawback of Camarota's and Jensenius's method, noted the Pew Hispanic
Center's Jeffrey S. Passel, a widely regarded expert on estimating the illegal
immigrant population, is that "it tracks something that correlates with the
number of illegal immigrants rather than the actual number of illegal
immigrants, and it assumes the correlation remains the same."

"If the ratio [between the number of less-educated Hispanic adults and the total
number of illegal immigrants] has changed, then the trend could be very
different," Passel said.

Even more contentious is the question of what, if anything, the study's findings
indicate about the impact that recent national and local immigration policies
might have had on the size of the illegal immigrant population. Since December,
the unemployment rate of less-educated, working-age Hispanics has risen to 7.06
percent from 4.93 percent, making it that much more difficult to determine
whether the continued decline in their population during this period was the
result of anything beyond basic economics.

But Camarota and Jensenius suggest that the six-month decline that occurred
after the failure of the legalization legislation and before the rise of these
workers' unemployment rate is one of several examples of a link between
immigration policy and immigrant choices. They note, for instance, that starting
in May of last year, when Congress's consideration of the legalization plan
began receiving widespread media attention, the number of less-educated,
working-age Hispanics began to rise.

"I call it the amnesty hump," Camarota said. He noted that the population
increase during this period might not have been statistically significant, but
"it seems that what was happening was that fewer illegal immigrants left than
might otherwise have done so because they were hoping to qualify for
legalization."

Also up for interpretation is the degree to which the drop in the number of
less-educated Hispanic adults (and, by inference, illegal immigrants) was the
result of fewer foreigners entering the country or more of them leaving. The
U.S. Border Patrol reported a 20 percent decline in apprehensions along the
southern border over fiscal 2007, a possible indication that fewer illegal
immigrants attempted to enter the country.

Camarota and Jensenius note that census data do not answer the question. But the
authors suggest that if less-educated Hispanic adults were not leaving in
greater numbers than before, their total population would merely grow more
slowly, not decline steeply.

Among those who are leaving, the vast majority are probably doing so on their
own. Despite a surge in work site raids and other enforcement measures, as well
as decisions by various state and local governments to train their police to
identify illegal immigrants, only 285,000 immigrants were removed from the
United States last year, and many of those were formerly legal immigrants who
lost their status after committing a crime.

Camarota and Jensenius said they take this as possible evidence that tougher
enforcement can have a multiplier effect, scaring many more illegal immigrants
into leaving of their own accord than authorities can pick up. And the authors
suggest that if the trends they identify are sustained, "it would cut the
illegal population in half within just five years."

However, Randolph Capps, a researcher with the Urban Institute who has studied
the number of U.S. children born to illegal immigrants, cautioned against such
reasoning.

Even if all the findings in the study by Camarota and Jensenius prove correct,
he said, it is probable that the first million illegal immigrants to leave were
those who had arrived more recently and had the weakest ties to the United
States.

The remainder, including the more than half of illegal immigrant adults who have
children in the United States, Capps said, are less likely to leave unless they
are removed by the government.

"Having a kid in school provides a really strong incentive to stay," he said. In
addition, "People who are more settled in the United States have more options.
They can move to another [state or county] where enforcement is not as strict.
If they lose a job, they can find another. If one member of the family is
arrested and deported, they can find other relatives to stay with."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 31, 2008 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Illegal Immigrants Have Chance to Self-Deport

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 315 words


Federal authorities yesterday urged illegal immigrants living in the United
States in violation of deportation orders to turn themselves in under a pilot
program planned for five U.S. cities next month.

The self-deportation program, called "Operation Scheduled Departure," gives
immigrants a chance to avoid the risk of being caught and jailed, have up to 90
days to put their affairs in order and in some cases leave with some family
members, said James T. Hayes Jr., acting director of detention and removal
operations with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. It runs Aug. 5 to 26
in San Diego and Santa Ana, Calif.; Phoenix; Chicago; and Charlotte.

The program is limited to illegal immigrants with no criminal record who pose no
threat to their community or the country. Hayes estimated as many as 500,000 of
the 572,000 illegal immigrants recorded as living in the country in violation of
court orders -- deemed "fugitive aliens" -- could be eligible.

Immigrant advocates called the plan a gimmick that is unlikely to reduce the
estimated U.S. illegal immigrant population of 12 million people. While federal
raids at workplaces and neighborhoods have spread fear, there is little
incentive for illegal immigrants to go into "permanent exile," or to check in
with ICE first if they wish to leave, said Ali Noorani, executive director of
the National Immigration Forum.

Noorani called the offer a "harebrained scheme," adding: "This is nothing more
than a modern-day Trail of Tears."

Hayes said the program was inspired by critics who accuse ICE of using punitive
tactics and say that fugitives would surrender themselves.

"This is a great opportunity for those advocacy and faith-based organizations
who have asked us to look at other ways to conduct fugitive operations to really
step up to the table and bring their clients to us and work with us to schedule
their departure," Hayes said.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Every Edition

Stigma Remains an Obstacle to Treatment;
Counselors Say Fears Are Common Among Recent Latino Immigrants

BYLINE: Brittney Johnson; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. HE04

LENGTH: 888 words


Many patients still duck around the corner and wait for Metrobuses to pass so
they can run unseen into one of the Whitman-Walker clinics -- the  area's
largest nongovernmental providers of HIV/AIDS services, according to Justin
Goforth, director of Whitman-Walker's medical adherence unit.

More than 20 years into the HIV/AIDS epidemic, stigma is still a major barrier
to getting tested and treated, Goforth said.

"If we could freely talk about  [HIV] like we freely talk about someone with
diabetes or cancer, people would get the support that is so important to health
care," he said.

Perhaps nowhere is the shame greater and the support more lacking, disease
counselors say, than among recent Latino immigrants. Deep cultural beliefs (for
example, that women who insist on condom use are promiscuous, and that men who
are sick are weak or not manly) and religious values (that sex outside marriage
is wrong) discourage open talk about sexually transmitted diseases, they
explain. Now, they say, the public health challenge posed by such beliefs is
compounded by anti-immigrant sentiment and local legislation targeting those
living in the country illegally.

Fearful area residents are putting off testing longer and traveling farther from
home to get it following widely publicized campaigns in some Virginia counties
to deport undocumented immigrants.

Undocumented Latinos "know that if [government officials] find out they are
[HIV-]positive, their chance of changing their immigration status is almost
zero," said Miguel Mejia, Whitman-Walker's Latino care coordinator. Last week
President Bush approved a measure that could allow HIV-positive persons to enter
the country or obtain legal residency; current law prohibits this. The decision
now rests with the Department of Health and Human Services.

Public health workers in Virginia are not permitted to ask patients about their
immigration status. But patients' fears to the contrary have been fueled by new
laws in Loudoun and Prince William counties that allow police to ask anyone for
immigration papers and direct jail officials to report all foreign-born inmates
to federal immigration authorities.

"We have to get the word out through the grapevine that what's going on at the
local level for immigration enforcement does not impact your access to HIV
services," said Sue Rowland, executive director of Virginia Organizations
Responding to AIDS, a nonprofit umbrella group that advocates for people living
with HIV/AIDS.

Last year Rowland and other members of the Northern Virginia HIV Consortium
compiled a question-and-answer sheet to help people understand their right to
access HIV services, regardless of local measures that bar illegal immigrants
from receiving other social services. But last week the document was still not
available in Spanish or online.

According to the Virginia Department of Health, "Citizenship and immigration
status shall not be included as a factor in VDH eligibility requirements."

Spokesmen for the Loudoun and Prince William health departments said they can't
tell whether fewer undocumented people are seeking HIV/AIDS services.

At Whitman-Walker's Northern Virginia clinic, however, Goforth said, he has
noticed an increase in undocumented residents who say they feel safer there than
at government clinics. Dilcia Molina, a psychologist at La Clinica del Pueblo, a
District clinic that primarily serves Latinos, said she sees about three
patients a week from Virginia seeking HIV services in the District for the same
reason.

District health officials, meanwhile, are trying to reassure Latino patients.

"In D.C. we try to send the message that those fears [of arrest for seeking
health services] are unfounded. Our health response has nothing to do with
immigration," said Shannon Hader, director of HIV/AIDS Administration for the
D.C. Department of Health.

But health experts say fear perpetuates a dangerous culture of silence.

According to the D.C. health department, Latinos make up 8 percent of the
District's population and 5 percent of all diagnosed AIDS cases -- a rate Hader
suspects would be higher if more Latinos were tested. Nationwide, Latinos make
up 15 percent of the population and 19 percent of diagnosed AIDS cases,
according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.

Goforth said the taboo against discussing STDs is also costly.

"I have seen clients die from full-blown AIDS in a house full of their entire
family and no one knew they were positive," Goforth said.

His job is to incorporate patients' treatment plans into their daily lives,
which can be a challenge. Many who test positive are unlikely to take their
medicine as prescribed or keep doctors' appointments because they are trying to
hide their HIV from their families, he said. Many immigrants, he said, still
consider HIV/AIDS a death sentence. Without medication, it can be.

"They don't know about modern treatment," Goforth said. "If you don't know that,
you're back to the beginning of the epidemic when people thought, 'Why should we
get tested if we are just going to get sick and die?' "

To give hope to his most vulnerable clients, Goforth tells his story.

"I tell them I have been HIV-positive for 16 years," he said. "They look at me
and say, 'He looks like a normal healthy guy. He's got a good job and is just
living a life.' "

Comments: health@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: District-Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. Halts Self-Deportation Project;
In 3-Week Test, Just 8 Illegal Immigrants Volunteered to Leave

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 468 words


Despite drawing only eight volunteers, a three-week pilot program that urged
some illegal immigrants to turn themselves in for deportation was not a failure,
U.S. authorities declared yesterday.

Under the scrapped self-deportation program, called Operation Scheduled
Departure, illegal immigrants in five cities who ignored court orders to leave
the United States were offered as many as 90 days to put their affairs in order
and to leave with family members in some cases, without the usual risk of arrest
and detention.

The government estimates there are about 550,000 "fugitive aliens" nationwide,
but the program was limited to individuals who have no criminal record and pose
no threat to their communities or to national security. It was also limited to
the estimated 30,000 eligible illegal immigrants living in Charlotte, Chicago,
Phoenix, San Diego and Santa Ana, Calif.

Those who did turn themselves in included two Guatemalan immigrants, a couple
from India and one person each from El Salvador, Estonia, Lebanon and Mexico.

James T. Hayes Jr., acting director of detention and removal operations for U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said despite the results, the program
taught ICE valuable lessons, mainly that it should continue raids and sweeps for
illegal immigrants. He criticized immigrant advocates who object to such
tactics, yet refused to urge eligible immigrants to participate in the program.

"This does show us that what advocacy groups . . . don't like is enforcement of
the law," Hayes said. "I think we learned that the most effective means of
restoring integrity to the nation's immigration system and to make this country
safe from vulnerabilities is enforcement of immigration laws."

Charles H. Kuck, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said
Hayes's comment showed that ICE is not interested in conducting effective and
humane enforcement, such as improving abusive detention conditions, backlogged
immigration courts or treatment of families with children.

"To call the effort halfhearted would give ICE half a heart too much credit,"
Kuck said. "It was never anything more than a public relations ploy so that ICE
could say in the end: 'Gosh, we tried, but no one turned up. Now we can go back
to doing enforcement our way.' "

Hayes said ICE spent about $41,000 on the pilot, including advertising costs,
and averted the $54,000 it spends on average to catch, jail and remove eight
fugitive immigrants, for a value to taxpayers of $13,000.

The agency is spending $218 million this year to remove fugitive immigrants and
has caught 29,000, on pace to meet or exceed the 30,000 detained in the last
fiscal year ending Sept. 30.

ICE estimated in 2004 that the fugitive backlog grows each year by 40,000
illegal immigrants who ignore new deportation orders.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 27, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

The Nation

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 69 words

IMMIGRATION RAID

Federal officials say nearly 600 suspected illegal immigrants were detained in a
raid Monday on a manufacturing plant in Mississippi, the largest such sweep ever
in the United States. Most were transferred to an Immigration and Customs
Enforcement facility in Jena, La.

SOURCE: Associated Press

IN FACT The Mississippi raid was one in a series of recent high-profile
crackdowns on illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Rogelio V. Solis -- Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 28, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Similar Impacts Found in Study Of Immigration Crackdowns

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 594 words


Prince William County may have one of the nation's toughest enforcement laws
against illegal immigration, but a recent examination of largely less stringent
measures across the country found that their impact on communities is often the
same.

Five years ago, immigration enforcement wasn't on the radar of most local law
enforcement agencies, according to James Pendergraph, director of state and
local coordination for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The 287(g) program, which is named for the section of the law authorizing it and
allows local law enforcement officials to assist ICE in processing illegal
immigrants, was first authorized in 1996. Yet the law sat unused for most of a
decade. In 2003 Alabama became the first state to implement an agreement.

Only six more agreements were made from 2004 to 2006. The number has jumped
since, with 55 state and local law enforcement agencies entering into
agreements. An additional 80 are in the pipeline.

Prince William signed on last summer. Part of what distinguishes it from other
jurisdictions is that it works with ICE in its jails and through a special task
force of police officers on the street. But as in other communities, its law has
divided the community and raised fears among immigrants.

"Prince William has been the catalyst for the expansion of the 287(g) program
across the U.S.," said Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart
(R-At Large).

"There were just a handful doing it before us. The pioneering jurisdictions,
Prince William principally among them, have been the impetus for this
proliferation."

Randy Capps, a senior research associate with the Urban Institute, studied the
evolution of the program and its potential effects  on communities.

"It coincides with the concerted effort, by a well-coordinated group of
like-minded people, to put pressure on authorities to get involved in
immigration enforcement," he said of the agreements.

Most of the participating 287(g) jurisdictions are in the Southeast; Virginia
had the most, with nine, followed by North Carolina, with eight.

More than 60,000 suspected illegal immigrants have been identified through the
program in the past two years, Capps found. Statistics ICE provided to the
Virginia State Crime Commission show that in fiscal 2007, law enforcement
agencies in the state made 12,073 reports to the federal agency, which resulted
in 694 detentions.

The Urban Institute also conducted a case study on how the program was
implemented in four jurisdictions in northwestern Arkansas. It found a steady
but moderate number of arrests, about 15 per week. Yet the fear level increased
among immigrants. Many were scared to drive or leave their homes.

All of that should sound familiar to Prince William residents.

"If you are an illegal immigrant, you should be anxious and concerned about
driving," Stewart said. "To the extent that we have caused anxiety among the
illegal community, I think that's a good thing, because we don't want them here
in the first place."

Among the potential effects of arrests on communities, Capps cited increasing
distrust between the community and police and a decrease in the number of
immigrants reporting crime. Capps made his presentation last week to several
hundred police and local officials at a conference on immigration policing and
civil liberties in the District. The conference was sponsored by the Police
Foundation, a private national group.

At its Sept. 9 meeting, the first after a month-long recess, the county board is
expected to get an update on illegal immigration enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 5, 2008 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Facing a Court Hearing, Man Begins Removing Pro-Immigrant Billboard

BYLINE: Nick Miroff and Jennifer Buske; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 495 words


With sledgehammers, shovels and a brief ceremony, the owner of a pro-immigrant
billboard in Old Town Manassas began removing his 12-by-40-foot sign last night,
before a court hearing scheduled today with city officials in Prince William
County General District Court.

Gaudencio Fernandez, a Manassas contractor who moved to the United States from
Mexico in 1979, built the sign more than a year ago to protest what he called
"racist" policies that target illegal immigrants in Manassas and Prince William
County.

Painted in crude red and blue letters and posted in view of commuters at the
adjacent train station, it stirred controversy and became a flash point in the
area's debate over illegal immigration.

Fernandez, 48, declined to speak at length with reporters last night, citing the
court appearance. "We can't make any statement at this point," he said, looking
emotional while posing for pictures in front of the sign with his wife and
children.

Several of Fernandez's friends and supporters who gathered last night at the
sign said they were there to help him remove it.

"We came to help give him a hand taking it down and to support him," said Barry
Carter, a friend of Fernandez's who drove up from Buffalo Junction, near the
North Carolina border.

Fernandez's backers have treated the billboard as an icon, calling it "the
liberty wall" because of its location at 9500 Liberty St., and have said the
city has pressured Fernandez in an effort to silence his political views. To the
sign's detractors, many of whom said they were offended by the evocations of
slavery and genocide in Fernandez's messages, the sign was an eyesore.

City zoning inspectors have taken a more technical view of the property, where a
house bought in 2003 by Fernandez and his wife, Delia Alvarez, was mostly
destroyed in a fire in 2006. As the structure was being demolished, Fernandez
left one wall intact and reinforced the base to create the billboard.

Manassas officials have repeatedly cited him for failing to obtain a proper
permit for the sign. Billboards don't belong in neighborhoods zoned for
residential use, they said. They have also accused him of allowing trash, snakes
and rodents to accumulate at the site; for parking cars on the grass; and for
allowing sympathizers to use the lot as a campsite.

"One of the things we hold dear in this country is freedom of speech," said
Mayor Harry J. "Hal" Parrish II (R). "He's had a great opportunity to take
advantage of that freedom. But I suspect not many people living in Manassas or
anywhere in America would look at a big billboard next to their home as a
positive thing, regardless of what it said."

Even with the sign removed, Fernandez's attorney, Mark Voss, said his client and
Alvarez will have to appear in court today. Voss said he expects the city
attorney will ask to delay the case for a week to see whether the property gets
cleaned up. At that point, he said, he would expect the case against Fernandez
to be dropped.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; Supporters of
Gaudencio Fernandez help to dismantle the sign he made more than a year ago to
protest what he called "racist" policies against illegal immigrants. Manassas
officials have cited him for failing to obtain a permit.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 14, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
Sept. 7-13

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 667 words

Memorial Unveiled in Tears, Triumph Pentagon Site Unveiling Draws Thousands

The Pentagon Memorial to victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks was dedicated
Thursday. The two-acre site is the nation's first major permanent Sept. 11
memorial, its 184 benches honoring each of the victims. The site aims to tell
the story of what happened Sept. 11 in symbolism, not words. Its benches are
aligned along the path of Flight 77 and organized along a timeline.

They span from the youngest victim, 3-year-old Dana Falkenberg, to John D.
Yamnicky Sr., 71, who was honored during the dedication, having survived two
wars and five crashes as a Navy pilot, only to die as a passenger on Flight 77
when it hit the building where he worked.

Few Arrestees Found to Be Illegal Pr. William Chief Issues Report on Crackdown

Fewer than 2 percent of people charged with crimes in Prince William County
since the well-publicized crackdown on illegal immigration began in March have
turned out to be undocumented, Police Chief Charlie T. Deane told county
supervisors.

In a status report on the first six months of the county's illegal immigration
enforcement program, Deane told the supervisors that police questioned 626
illegal immigrants in all. Of those questioned, 341 were arrested, 196 were
released with no charges and 89 were charged and released on summonses. Ten
others were determined to be in the country legally.

Confusion Marks D.C. Vote Count In Council Primary, Carol Schwartz Loses

The D.C. government had its primary Tuesday, and the biggest loser appears to
have been the D.C. Board of Elections and Ethics. Confusion muted victory
parties after candidates and their supporters took note of unusually high
numbers of write-in votes in several races. It turned out that they were phantom
votes -- eventually removed from the tallies.

The problem didn't change any outcomes. Five incumbents won the Democratic
primary, and one, Carol Schwartz (R-At Large) was defeated in her race. D.C.
officials initially blamed a defective computer cartridge for the vote counting
difficulties, but the company that supplied the equipment said its machinery was
fine and raised the possibility of human error.

Fenty Outlines School Modernizations Critics Want Details on $1.5 Billion
Upgrades

Mayor Adrian M. Fenty presented the outlines of a $1.5 billion modernization
plan that he promises will place all D.C. schoolchildren in dramatically
improved buildings by 2014.

The blueprint drew criticism almost immediately for its abbreviated timetable
and shortage of details. It did not specify estimated costs for each school
project.

Fenty (D), who has staked his political future on transforming the city's
low-performing school system, wants at least some physical improvement to all
the District's 120 schools -- 62 elementary, 12 middle, 18 high, 22 pre-K-8 and
6 special education -- between 2009 and 2014. High schools would have the most
ambitious overhaul, officials said.

Police Disability Retirements Probed 'Questionable Practices' Cited in
Montgomery

More than 60 percent of Montgomery County police officers who retired in the
past four years are collecting disability payments, including one who was a top
finisher in a fitness contest a year after retiring on disability, according to
an interim report released Monday by the inspector general's office.

Inspector General Thomas J. Dagley cited "questionable practices" and patterns
or behaviors that a "prudent person would consider abusive." And he called on
county officials to tighten oversight of the $32 million program.

County Executive Isiah Leggett (D) has acknowledged problems with the system,
but he took issue with some of the report's findings. Retirees who qualify for
service-related disability receive two-thirds of their salary tax-free for life.
An officer who retires without disability after 25 years generally receives
about 60 percent of his or her salary, and the benefit drops significantly when
the retiree begins to collect Social Security.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; A Day of Tears,
Triumph Service members remove covers from the benches of the new Pentagon
Memorial. The memorial was unveiled Thursday, drawing thousands.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 3, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Number of Illegal Immigrants to U.S. Is Down, Report Finds

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 754 words


Amid a sluggish economy and stepped-up enforcement of immigration laws, the
number of illegal immigrants entering the United States each year has dropped
precipitously since the first half of this decade, according to a study released
yesterday. The rate of legal immigration remained steady, meanwhile, so that
legal arrivals now outnumber illicit ones for the first time in a decade.

The report by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center offers the most detailed
picture of the illegal immigrant population to date, and its findings are in
line with trends identified in less comprehensive recent analyses by the
Department of Homeland Security and the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington think tank that advocates stricter limits on immigration.

The Pew report found that the number of illegal immigrants entering the United
States has declined from an average of 800,000 a year in 2000-04 to 500,000 a
year in 2005-08.

By contrast, the flow of immigrants who are legal permanent residents has
remained unchanged at 650,000 a year and has exceeded the number of illegal
immigrant arrivals since last year.

The study also found a major slowdown in the growth of the illegal immigrant
population that reflects additions to that population and subtractions because
of people leaving the country, dying or changing to legal status. From 2000
through 2005, the illegal immigrant population rose by an average of 525,000
people a year. Since then, it has averaged increases of 275,000 a year. Over the
past year, little to no increase appears to have occurred.

"This was a population that was growing very rapidly and substantially for at
least 15 years, and the growth has essentially come to a halt," said Jeffrey S.
Passel, co-author of the study.

Despite the slowdown, the number of illegal immigrants remains at an all-time
high, up more than 40 percent from about 8.4 million in 2000 to 11.9 million in
March, according to the Pew study. Illegal immigrants make up about 4 percent of
the U.S. population and about 30 percent of its foreign-born residents. More
than four out of 10, or 5.3 million, arrived since the start of the decade.

About four out of five illegal immigrants come from Latin American countries,
mainly Mexico. Since last year, the number from Mexico appears to have leveled
off at 7 million, and the number from other Latin American countries has fallen.

The U.S. Census Bureau does not ask people their immigration status. So Passel
and co-author D'Vera Cohn estimated the size of the illegal immigrant population
by subtracting the number of visas, permanent residency permits and
naturalizations from the number of foreigners tallied by the bureau in 2000 and
a smaller annual survey conducted each March.

Passel and Cohn said their study does not explain the causes of the changes in
the illegal immigrant population. But they said a possible factor is immigrants'
growing concern about enforcement. They also pointed to another Pew study, which
indicates that the recent slump in U.S. economic growth has had a
disproportionate effect on foreign-born Hispanic workers even as economic growth
in Mexico and other Latin American nations has been stable.

According to that study, which was released yesterday, the median annual income
of non-citizen immigrant households declined by 7.3 percent from 2006 to 2007.
(Nearly half of such households are headed by an illegal immigrant, and most are
Hispanic.) During the same period, the median annual income of all U.S.
household rose by 1.3 percent.

The study's author, Rakesh Kochhar, speculated that non-citizen immigrants are
more vulnerable to economic shifts because they tend to have little education
and work in blue-collar jobs in construction or service industries "that are
more immediately susceptible to economic ups and downs than white collar work."

Several local immigrant advocates said that although they have not seen evidence
that the number of illegal immigrants in the Washington area is changing, many
here are struggling to make ends meet.

Nancy Lyall, a coordinator of the immigrant advocacy group Mexicans Without
Borders, said day laborers who gather at a 7-Eleven in Woodbridge recently asked
the organization for donations of food.

"Normally, we might get those kinds of requests in the winter, when the weather
prevents people from working," she said. "And these are not people who ask us
for something unless they really need it. So to get this request now, when the
weather is still good, is a sign of how much people are hurting."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 20, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Hitting a Wall on Immigration

BYLINE: Thomas Wenski

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 738 words


As the presidential election heads into its final days, the issue of immigration
remains largely unaddressed. It was not examined during the debates and is not
high on either candidate's list of talking points. Congress has left the issue
on the table. Sadly, this congressional reluctance has created a policy vacuum
that has widened America's political divisions and left us with an inconsistent,
ineffective and, in many cases, inhumane national policy.

The failure of comprehensive immigration reform last year, when Congress bowed
to a vocal minority, unleashed a torrent of initiatives designed to demonstrate
that the U.S. government can enforce our laws and secure our borders. In truth,
intermittent work site raids, increased local law enforcement involvement and
the creation of a wall along parts of our southern border, among other efforts,
have done little to address the challenges presented by illegal immigration.

The most visible of these initiatives has been the work site raids in cities and
towns across the nation. While these enforcement actions meet the political need
to show government's law enforcement capabilities, they have had minimal effect
on the number of undocumented workers in the United States.

Instead, they have caused dislocation and disruption in immigrant communities
and victimized permanent U.S. residents and citizens, including children. The
sweeping nature of these raids -- sometimes involving hundreds of law
enforcement personnel with weapons -- has made it difficult for those arrested
to secure basic due-process legal rights, including access to counsel. Some
families have been split up indefinitely.

The involvement of local law enforcement in immigration enforcement, most
prominently in Arizona and parts of the South, has greatly harmed the trust
between immigrant neighborhoods and law enforcement and has diverted police from
the work of apprehending criminals. The border wall and an unprecedented
immigration enforcement buildup along our southern border have failed to deter
new entrants to the United States and have discouraged immigrants from leaving.

Perhaps most damaging are the adverse, long-term effects these policies have had
on immigrant communities. The overriding emotion many immigrants feel is fear.
Not only do legal immigrants worry that a loved one may be swept away in a work
site raid or after a knock at the door at home, they are fearful for their own
futures -- and the futures of their children -- in the United States. This is
not the way to encourage integration and responsible citizenship.

While some organizations that oppose immigration are delighted by this and hope
such an atmosphere will lead to a mass exodus of illegal and legal immigrants,
they are likely to be disappointed. What they do not acknowledge is that 70
percent of the undocumented have lived in this country for five years or longer
and have no home to return to. These people identify themselves more as
Americans than anything else and would rather live here in the shadows than take
their U.S.-citizen children back to a place they do not know.

Opponents like to argue that our economy does not need the work of immigrants,
now or in the future. Again, they are wrong. The Labor Department predicts that
in the years ahead, despite the current economic slowdown, a shortage of
low-skilled labor will exist in several important industries, for some beginning
as early as 2010. As baby boomers begin retiring, immigrants will help support
them by paying billions into the Social Security system.

To many elected officials, immigration has become the new "third rail" of
American politics. Refraining from addressing this pressing domestic issue,
however, will elevate tensions in states and localities, further alienate
immigrants and their communities, and tacitly affirm the acceptance of a hidden
and permanent underclass in our country.

The silver lining of this dark cloud upon our immigrant history is that it
demonstrates that an enforcement-only approach to illegal immigration is
ineffective and contrary to our national interests. A new administration and new
Congress will be forced to act -- this time in a broad and balanced manner.
Otherwise, the American people will be left pondering a wall and wondering why
it is not working.

The writer is the Catholic bishop of Orlando and a consultant to the U.S.
Conference of Catholic Bishops' Committee on Migration.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 2, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Disclosure About Obama's Aunt May Have Broken Federal Law

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Judy Rakowsky; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 835 words


The Department of Homeland Security is investigating whether its privacy policy
was violated after a news organization reported that an aunt of Democratic
presidential nominee Sen. Barack Obama is an illegal immigrant from Kenya,
officials said yesterday.

The woman, Zeituni Onyango, 56, lives in a public housing complex in Boston and
is the half sister of Obama's late father, who spent most of his life in Kenya
before dying in a car accident in 1982.

The Associated Press reported late Friday that Onyango was denied asylum by an
immigration judge and that she was instructed to leave the United States in
2004. The AP cited two unnamed sources, identifying one as a federal law
enforcement official.

Federal privacy law restricts U.S. immigration agencies from disclosing
information about citizens and permanent residents, and DHS policy similarly
limits disclosures about the status of legal and illegal immigrants.
Asylum-seekers are granted greater protection, because of the sensitive nature
of their claims and the risks of retaliation.

In a statement, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said
the matter has been referred to the agency's Office of Professional
Responsibility and its parent department's inspector general.

"They are looking into whether there was a violation of policy in publicly
disclosing individual case information," ICE spokeswoman Kelly Nantel said. "We
can't comment on individual cases."

After Obama's campaign announced yesterday morning that it will refund a small
number of contributions made by Onyango, two government officials confirmed that
Onyango had sought asylum, citing violence in her native Kenya. One federal law
enforcement official confirmed that a federal administrative judge ruled in 2004
she was not legally entitled to be in the United States and that a final order
was entered for her deportation.

While such denials can be appealed, cases are generally decided within a year or
two, according to federal statistics. Of about 12 million illegal immigrants
estimated to be in the United States, about 550,000 are "fugitive aliens"
staying in violation of deportation orders.

Reports filed with the Federal Election Commission show Onyango gave Obama's
campaign a total of $265, including several contributions of $5 and $25. The
latest recorded contribution, of $5, was on Sept. 19. Only U.S. citizens and
legal permanent residents, known as green cardholders, can legally contribute to
federal presidential campaigns.

"Given the information that has been brought to our attention, the contributions
are being refunded," said Ben LaBolt, an Obama campaign spokesman. "Senator
Obama has no knowledge of her status but obviously believes that any and all
appropriate laws be followed."

Mark Salter, a McCain adviser, called the issue "a family matter."

In his 1995 memoir, "Dreams From My Father," Obama described meeting the woman
he calls Auntie Zeituni and other members of his large paternal family after he
first traveled to Kenya in 1988 upon learning of his father's death. Obama wrote
that Onyango was a tall, spirited woman who called herself "the champion dancer"
and worked as a computer programmer in Nairobi.

Obama was raised mostly by his mother and her family in Hawaii after his father
returned to Kenya when Obama was 2. Obama was reunited with his father once, for
a month, at age 10.

Obama and his future wife, Michelle, met Onyango on a subsequent visit to Kenya
in 1992, and she visited the Obama family in Chicago on a tourist visa about
nine years ago, his campaign said. Onyango attended Obama's U.S. Senate
swearing-in ceremony in 2005, and the senator last heard from her about two
years ago, according to the campaign.

A campaign source said Obama provided Onyango no assistance in obtaining a
tourist visa or housing, or in her immigration case.

In an interview with the Times of London, which first reported Onyango's
presence in Boston and her campaign contributions, Onyango said she had traveled
to and from the United States since 1975. Commercial databases indicate she
received a Social Security card in 2001, indicating she was legally present and
authorized to work at that time.

Onyango was not at her state-subsidized West Broadway residence yesterday in
South Boston, and no one answered her telephone.

William McGonigle, deputy director of the Boston Housing Authority, said Onyango
applied for public housing in 2002 and was approved in 2003 as an eligible
noncitizen. She was paid a small stipend for volunteering as a resident health
advocate starting in December 2007, he said.

McGonigle said that housing officials were not notified of her deportation order
and that they followed all federal rules and laws in providing her stipend. He
said housing officials were not aware that Onyango was related to Obama until
the Times of London phoned last week.

Rakowsky reported from Boston. Staff writers Keith B. Richburg in New York and
Matthew Mosk, and staff researcher Julie Tate contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Elise Amendola -- Associated Press; An aunt of presidential
candidate Barack Obama was ordered to be deported but lives here in South
Boston.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

REGIONAL BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 189 words

WHEATON

 Restaurateurs Plead Guilty to Money Laundering

Two restaurant operators accused of employing illegal immigrants and concealing
the profit from their business pleaded guilty to federal money laundering
charges yesterday.

Consuelo Solano, 69, of Arlington County and Juan Faustino Solano, 57, of
Kensington face prison sentences of 20 years each. Juan Solano, Consuelo's
brother, also pleaded guilty to a charge of conspiracy to commit alien harboring
and faces an additional 10 years.

Both are scheduled to be sentenced in September.

The Solanos, who operated the popular restaurant El Pollo Rico in Wheaton, paid
their undocumented workers in cash, and Juan Solano helped house them in
residences across Maryland, according to a news release from the U.S. Attorney's
Office in Maryland. From 2002 to 2007, the Solanos deposited more than $7
million from their business into other business and personal accounts.

As part of their plea, the Solanos agreed to forfeit $7.2 million.

An attorney for Consuelo Solano declined to comment. Attorneys for Juan Solano
did not return a phone message seeking comment last night.

-- Matt Zapotosky

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 2, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

No Way to Treat an Economic Engine

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 234 words


George F. Will's June 26 column, "Building a Wall Against Talent," made
persuasive arguments for congressional action to sharply increase the current
tight caps on green cards and H-1B visas for engineers and scientists. But he
omitted one important potential effect of loosening immigration restrictions on
highly skilled workers -- reducing the federal budget deficit.

For one thing, fees would probably be imposed on individuals and their employers
(the comprehensive immigration legislation called for fees ranging from $320 to
$3,500). In addition, high-skilled workers pay more in taxes than they receive
in public benefits. This is in contrast to less-skilled immigrants, from whom
the fiscal effects are more uncertain.

Attracting and keeping more high-skilled foreign workers would also improve
Social Security finances, although obviously not enough to eliminate the
program's funding difficulties.

ARLENE HOLEN

Senior Fellow

Technology Policy Institute

Washington

Â·

George F. Will's June 26 column stated concisely and convincingly why our
immigration non-policy is such a disaster. We cannot possibly build a high-tech,
21st-century economy by excluding the best-trained scientists in the world and
simultaneously incentivizing the unauthorized immigration of millions of
unskilled workers by promising legalization after their numbers reach a critical
political mass. .

NÃ[0/00]STOR ENRIQUE CRUZ

Annandale

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Immigrant Workers Sue Md. Employer;
Civil Claim Alleges Pay Exploitation

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 740 words


For about six months last year, Pedro Clavjio and other painters and carpenters
on his work crew toiled full days and sometimes nights at a Department of
Justice building downtown.

But as they spruced up the building, a civil lawsuit alleges, Clavjio and his
co-workers were being unlawfully exploited by their employer, Hann & Hann Inc.
construction services, a Rockville-based contractor.

For work there and elsewhere, Clavjio and the other laborers, mostly immigrants
earning $10 to $20 an hour, weren't paid overtime they were entitled to and in
some cases weren't paid for regular work hours, according to the lawsuit, filed
last week in U.S. District Court in Greenbelt. Hann & Hann also made
unauthorized deductions from workers' pay, charging them for tools such as
paintbrushes and uniforms that bore the company's name, the lawsuit alleges.

"We all have dignity," Clavjio, 42, a Silver Spring resident, said in an
interview conducted in Spanish. "What happened to me and the other workers isn't
right. We're looking for justice."

Clavjio, a legal immigrant from Peru, said he often worked 56 hours a week but
was paid for 40.

Hann & Hann is owned and run by company President Terry R. Hann, of Potomac, and
his brother Gary F. Hann, of Gaithersburg. The Hanns did not respond to phone
calls and e-mails requesting comment.

Robert J. Smith, an attorney for the company, said Hann & Hann "strives to abide
by all of the applicable laws relating to its employees.

"We're going to look into the allegations" in the lawsuit "and if there's a
problem, address it," he said.

The lawsuit was filed by the Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights and
Urban Affairs and lawyers at Arnold & Porter LLC, who are providing legal
services pro bono. The lawsuit alleges Hann & Hann violated the federal Fair
Labor Standards Act and the Maryland state labor law.

Hann & Hann reportedly had total sales of approximately $19 million in 2007,
according to the lawsuit. A "significant percentage" of the company's business
came from federal government contracts, according to the lawsuit.

The lawsuit names Clavjio and three other workers as plaintiffs. They worked for
Hann & Hann for periods ranging from 11 months to, in Clavjio's case, nearly
eight years. Laura E. Varela, of the Lawyers' Committee, said the company's
alleged exploitative practices affected many more workers, as many as 200 in
all.

The workers' attorneys will try to have a federal judge certify the lawsuit as a
class action, on behalf of all affected employees, Varela said.

She and other attorneys will seek the company's employment records to try to
determine how many laborers were not paid the time-and-a-half they were entitled
to for working overtime, and how many were not paid for work they did, Varela
said.

The four named plaintiffs and almost all of the other workers who were allegedly
exploited by the company are Latino immigrants, Varela said.

Each of the four named plaintiffs is a legal resident of the United States,
Varela said. She said she did not know the immigration status of the other
workers. Under federal labor law, she said, immigration status is not relevant
to whether a worker's rights have been violated.

In an opinion published this January, Susan K. Gauvey, a U.S. magistrate judge
in Maryland, cited a previous opinion that said allowing employers to exploit
undocumented workers would create an economic incentive for employers to hire
such workers and underpay them.

Exploitation of immigrant workers is common, workers and their advocates said.
In recent years, some Washington area workers have started fighting back through
the courts.

Last August, 46 Latino laborers in suburban Maryland received checks totaling
$100,000 in a partial settlement of a federal class-action lawsuit against a
contractor and subcontractor that had hired them to do arduous cleanup work in
Louisiana and Mississippi.

The workers said they were promised good living conditions, several months work
and $10 an hour in wages. Instead, several said, they were crammed into tiny
apartments, received only a few weeks work and were not paid for some or all of
their labor.

In February 2007, the Lawyers' Committee filed a federal lawsuit in Greenbelt
alleging that a Frederick County company that paints luxury condominiums in the
District defrauded Latino immigrant workers who routinely worked 60 or more
hours a week by failing to pay them overtime. That lawsuit is pending.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Hector Granados,
Pedro Clavjio and Miguel Moya, from left, worked at a Department of Justice
building for Hann & Hann, which they sued.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 4, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

A Recipe for Weakness;
By limiting visas for skilled foreign professionals, the United States only
harms itself.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 447 words


THANKS TO the nation's dysfunctional immigration system and the dysfunctional
Congress that keeps it that way, tens of thousands of promising, intelligent,
ambitious and highly skilled foreign professionals, including thousands
receiving advanced degrees from American universities this month, will be denied
a chance to contribute their expertise and energy to the American economy. Few
policies match this one is terms of sheer irrationality, and few will do as much
damage to this country's long-term prospects and competitiveness. Yet Congress,
mired in a political swamp of its own making when it comes to immigration, seems
incapable of extracting itself.

Although the United States welcomes unlimited numbers of foreign students and
subsidizes their education in engineering, physics, computer science, medicine
and other disciplines, those students face increasingly steep obstacles to
employment here. So do educated foreign workers whose skills are needed in the
American workforce.

This year, some 163,000 applicants from both categories vied for 85,000 H-1B
work visas -- 65,000 for foreign workers with bachelor's degrees and another
20,000 for foreign alumni of U.S. graduate schools. In April, U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services was so swamped it stopped accepting applicants after
just five days;  recipients were selected at random by computer lottery. The
number of applications was a third higher than last year and shows no sign of
abating.

All of that might seem fine and fair were it not for the fact that American-born
scientists and PhDs are in short supply and that technology companies, among
others, are clamoring to hire qualified foreigners, particularly those trained
at U.S. universities. And it's not just worker bees who are drawn from the pool
of foreign talent; so are the entrepreneurs who create jobs and fuel the
economy. During the 10 years that ended in 2005, foreign-born strivers started a
quarter of the new engineering and technology firms in this country. A similar
proportion of international patent applications filed in the United States in
2006 originated with immigrants. To the anti-immigration crowd that accuses
corporate America of favoring profits over patriotism, those facts should be
troubling.

The truth is, America will be a feebler place without a continuing and adequate
flow of foreign-born brainpower.  America's loss of foreign-born experts
translates directly into gains for China, India and other rapidly developing
competitors. While the presidential candidates are stepping gingerly around the
immigration debate, the ongoing brain drain of the best and brightest foreigners
should give them, and the nation, pause.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 24, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Verizon to Press Contractors On Immigrant Workers' Pay

BYLINE: Alejandro Lazo; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 430 words


Verizon Communications said yesterday it might withhold work from some of its
contractors if it finds that immigrant laborers who dug ditches for the
company's next-generation fiber-optic cables in the Washington area were not
paid for their work.

The statement by Verizon came after advocates for immigrants said they would
rally in front of the company's District headquarters today, calling on the
company to ensure that the laborers were paid fairly for their work.

"If it is true that workers are not being paid by subcontractors . . . Verizon
will take the proper course of action," Sandra Arnette, a Verizon spokeswoman,
said in a statement. She added that these actions may include "withholding work
from the prime contractor, suspending the prime contractor until the contractual
obligations are met or firing the prime contractor."

Representatives for the three groups pressing the workers' cause -- Silver
Spring-based CASA of Maryland, the District-based Washington Lawyers' Committee
for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs and the Charlottesville-based Legal Aid
Justice Center -- said they would press ahead with their planned protests.

"Verizon has known about these problems for some time," said Tim Freilich, a
lawyer with the Justice Center's Immigrant Advocacy Program. "They need to
ensure payment now."

Advocacy groups have been pressing Verizon on the issue since at least 2006, a
year after the company began offering FiOS, or Fiber Optic Service, in the
Washington area. The service uses the fiber-optic cables to send data via pulses
of light, allowing the company to offer Internet, cable television and phone
services over a single line.

Verizon contracts with construction companies, or prime contractors, to do the
work. Those companies often contract out the jobs to smaller companies.

Advocates representing immigrant laborers have won some judgments against
subcontractors in recent years. But they have had difficulty collecting the
money they were owed.

CASA, the Washington Lawyers' Committee and seven laborers who dug ditches
throughout Maryland and other states filed a class-action suit last week against
one of Verizon's prime contractors and several of its subcontractors. The suit
alleges that the workers were not paid for all the work they did, including some
overtime hours.

"Verizon FiOS cannot exist without the trenches that are dug by these workers,"
said Laura E. Varela, an attorney with the committee. "And Verizon has the moral
responsibly to assure that these workers are paid and continue to be paid as the
Verizon FiOS network is built."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 13, 2008 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant Workers Vital, Va. Firms Say;
Poultry Industry Seeks Better U.S. Screening to Cull Illegal Applicants, Avert
Fines

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: HINTON, Va.


Every morning, 26,000 white tom turkeys arrive at the Virginia Poultry Growers
Cooperative plant in the Shenandoah Valley, where they are killed, gutted,
cleaned, chilled, cut up and prepared for shipment by the end of the day. The
work is hard and cold and messy, and few local residents are willing to do it.

So the cooperative relies heavily on immigrant workers. Its owners say that they
do their best to weed out applicants who are in the country illegally but that
their industry is increasingly squeezed by federal pressure on employers who
hire illegal immigrants and criminal networks that sell false or stolen identity
documents.

Now, poultry processors in Virginia and across the country are taking their case
to Congress. Last week, several hundred industry leaders met in Washington to
lobby for immigration changes and an improved document-checking system as well
as relief from environmental rules that have doubled the price of the feed corn
they buy for their birds.

"We depend on immigrants. If they all went away today, people like us couldn't
operate," said Jim Mason, president of the cooperative, who visited a half-dozen
congressional offices. "People think we hire Hispanics because we can get them
cheaper, but it is absolutely false. We do everything the government asks and
more to make sure our workers are legal, and we turn a lot of people away. But
if an ID is stolen, there is nothing we can do."

The lobbying blitz has come as diverse businesses, including hotels and seafood
processors, have begun to unite to defend their economic interests in light of
the intensifying government crackdown on illegal immigration. In recent months,
stepped-up enforcement has led to a raids on workplaces across the region,
including a Leesburg convention resort and an Annapolis painting company.

In Virginia, an umbrella group called Virginia Employers for Sensible
Immigration Policy has recently been formed. Its members include the state Home
Builders Association, Manufacturers Association, Retail Merchants Association
and Chamber of Commerce. It also represents such major poultry companies as
Tyson Foods and hundreds of smaller producers.

The group seeks to preserve the state's attractive business climate, support
legal immigration as essential to the area economy and press the federal
government to increase action against illegal immigration instead of placing the
burden on local employers, who can be heavily fined if they hire illegal
workers.

"Our industry employs more than 10,000 people and supports more then 1,200
family farms," said Hobey Bauhan, president of the Virginia Poultry Federation.
"We are blessed with very low unemployment, and there are simply not enough
Americans available to do the work. We offer a good wage, and we want to have a
legal work force, but the available tools for checking document fraud are just
not adequate. The entire federal immigration system is in dire need of reform."

Some regional legislators appear to be sympathetic to such concerns, especially
among industries such as poultry breeding and processing that support large
portions of the rural economies of Virginia and Maryland. Rep. Robert W.
Goodlatte (R-Va.), a longtime member of the House Agriculture Committee, has a
busy constituent office in Harrisonburg, seven miles from Hinton, in the heart
of the state's poultry region.

Goodlatte agrees with Bauhan that the federal online documenting system needs to
be changed to detect more immigrants who use stolen papers and place less blame
on employers who fail to catch them.

The broader solution, he said, is not to legalize immigrants already working in
the United States, as some have proposed, but to expand the national "guest
worker" program, which allows up to 66,000 unskilled foreigners to work
temporarily on farms and other seasonal job sites, so that it would include food
processing and other agribusiness jobs.

"I am very much opposed to bills that would grant amnesty to illegal immigrants,
and I also want to make sure we don't undercut jobs and wages for those U.S.
citizens who do want the work," Goodlatte said. "We need the existing temporary
worker program to keep up with the changing face of agribusiness. We need to
enforce immigration laws and make them work better where there is a shortage of
American workers."

Efforts to expand the guest worker program failed last year in the broader
collapse of a Senate compromise proposal for comprehensive immigration change.
Opponents of the program say participants are vulnerable to such exploitation as
being cheated of wages and being forced to stay in poor living quarters.

At Jim Mason's processing plant, a majority of the 560 workers are immigrants
who live full time in the United States, most of whom are from Mexico or Central
America. Every instructional sign, such as "Wash Your Hands," is in English and
Spanish. Each department has a bilingual supervisor, and lines of people in
smocks and hairnets chatter in Spanish as they hose, clean and chop turkeys on
conveyor belts.

On the main door to the plant, a sign reads "This Business Employs American
Citizens and Legal Residents Only." In the hiring office, staff members enter
the name of applicants and details of the documents they provide. Within a
minute, the computer indicates whether the documents are genuine.

Mason said he quizzes prospective workers with extra questions to check their
veracity. Many forged documents come from Puerto Rico, but most immigrant
applicants are from Mexico or Central America, so he asks questions to find out
whether they know, for example, that the capital of Puerto Rico is San Juan.

More than he worries about immigration agents swooping down on his workforce,
though, Mason fears he will not be able to afford feed for his turkeys, as the
government increasingly orders U.S.-grown corn to be converted into ethanol for
use in car engines.

"We are a family business. We have no subsidies and no safety net," Mason said.
"If we don't get the ethanol situation settled, there is no need to talk about
immigration problems at all, because we will be out of business."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Pamela Constable -- The Washington Post; A worker hoses off
turkeys at a poultry plant in Hinton, Va. Owners say they try to avoid hiring
illegal immigrants but feel squeezed by federal penalties for employers and by
criminal networks that sell false or stolen identity papers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 9, 2008 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Companies Take Lead in Assimilation Efforts;
Programs Aid Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: Pamela Constable and N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1284 words


Jose Trivelli, a graying engineer from Peru, spends his days fixing Internet
connections at a Tysons Corner hotel and his evenings listening to a laptop
computer program with cartoon characters and a chirpy voice that helps him
pronounce such phrases as, "I'd like to open an account" and "Let me call my
manager."

At 52, he admits to being slightly embarrassed by the simplistic instructional
program, but he says his U.S.-born children, who speak perfect English, are so
enthusiastic about his efforts that they help him with difficult words and dream
of the day he will be promoted to manager.

Trivelli's employer, Marriott International, has a more ambitious motive for
offering thousands of foreign-born housekeepers, cooks and maintenance workers
its no-cost "Thirst for Knowledge" program, which simulates conversations in
banks, hospitals, shops and schools as well as in hotel kitchens and lobbies.

Marriott and another Bethesda-based company, Miller & Long Concrete
Construction, are among several dozen major U.S. corporations spearheading a
campaign to turn the divisive national debate about immigration in a more
positive direction.

"This is a mission for us," said Andy Chaves, a human resources manager for
Marriott and a member of the White House Task Force on New Americans. "When our
employees become proficient in English and assimilate into our society, it
benefits the company, the community and the individual. Everyone gains."

Amid increasing public hostility to immigrants and intensifying efforts by local
and federal authorities to crack down on illegal immigration, these business
leaders hope to counter criticism that immigrants steal jobs and burden public
services by highlighting the contributions they make to the U.S. economy and
improving their ability to integrate.

The initiative is supported by a bill recently introduced in Congress. Sponsored
by Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) and three representatives from
California, Florida and Texas, it would provide $350 million for immigrant
family literacy programs, individual tax credits for teachers and corporate tax
breaks for firms that offer educational workplace programs like "Thirst for
Knowledge."

In addition to support from private firms that employ thousands of immigrants
from Latin America and elsewhere, the bill is backed by the Americas Society and
Council of the Americas, which recently issued a report called "U.S. Business
and Hispanic Integration: Expanding the Economic Contributions of Immigrants."

The report points out that Hispanics make up more than 14 percent of the U.S.
workforce, own more than 2 million businesses and have a collective purchasing
power of more than $800 billion a year. It says foreign-born workers have much
to offer but need more help to master English and become more invested in
American society.

It concedes that many Hispanic immigrants arrive with limited educations and
that the immigration wave of the past two decades has slightly depressed wages
among unskilled American workers. It also argues that immigrants "complement"
the overall labor force as more native-born Americans earn degrees and seek
higher-level jobs.

The report also asserts that if immigrants are given more opportunities to
learn, earn and engage, they will repay the investment as better workers,
parents, consumers and participants in public life. Although not endorsing
illegal immigration, the report accepts it as a fact of life that needs to be
addressed through legislative reforms.

The report lists corporations that have offered their large immigrant workforces
a variety of skill-building programs. These include scholarships at Wal-Mart,
English classes at United Parcel Service, financial literacy programs at Western
Union and bilingual skills development at Northrop Grumman shipbuilders.

Some companies that employ immigrants have been reluctant to associate
themselves with the effort, however, citing fears of public criticism and
government scrutiny amid increasingly aggressive federal efforts to track down
illegal immigrants and punish their employers.

"Businesses feel cowed by the rhetoric," said Christopher Sabatini, a policy
director at the Americas Society and Council of the Americas. "There is a fear
of being labeled as aiding and abetting undocumented immigrants." He said some
companies have curtailed programs aimed at helping immigrant workers because of
community disapproval.

One company that has taken a strong public stance in favor of helping immigrant
workers is Miller & Long. Myles Gladstone, the firm's personnel director, said
that it once hired mostly African Americans but that since the early 1990s,
fewer U.S.-born workers have applied, and they have been largely replaced by
immigrants. Today, the firm employs more than 2,000 Hispanics, mostly
foreign-born.

Gladstone said the firm started offering safety instruction in Spanish but
gradually expanded into "broader life skills" for workers and their families.
Today, it offers 65 free classes, including English, Spanish literacy, job
safety, lifesaving, financial skills and health promotion. He said there are
plans to expand the program to help immigrants keep their children out of
trouble, with seminars on gangs and substance abuse.

He noted that not all immigrants are able to learn English and that of about 500
who have taken the company's language classes, "not a lot" have become truly
bilingual. He said that if construction workers are trained well and understand
safety, "they don't really need to have fluency in English," although without it
they cannot become foremen or crane operators.

Antonia Diaz, 42, has advanced steadily at Miller & Long since she emigrated
from Honduras six years ago. She began as a laborer, earning $10 per hour and
speaking almost no English. Now, after taking corporate English classes for
several years, she is a construction site safety worker and earns $18.50 an
hour.

"If I had known I would be talking like this, I wouldn't believe it," Diaz said
yesterday in passable English as she built wooden safety barricades around a
construction site in Silver Spring. Although she converses with her mostly
Hispanic crew in Spanish, she said learning English had other merits. "It helps
me in my personal life," she said. She said she loves her job and plans to stay
with Miller & Long but added: "If I know English and I get laid off, I can find
other work. I am prepared for anything."

At Marriott, where some hotels have employees from as many as 25 countries,
Chairman Bill Marriott calls immigrants the backbone of his business and
frequently talks about the virtues of diversity and assimilation in his personal
blog.

"We would hire a native-born person any day, but in most cases they don't want
to do the lower-level labor we need in our business," he said in a telephone
interview this week. "Probably the most important thing we can do is offer our
employees the opportunity to learn English and grow and become part of our
society."

At the Tysons Corner Marriott, much behind-the-scenes work is conducted in
Spanish among immigrant employees. Most who have taken the "Thirst for
Knowledge" class do not speak perfect English; Trivelli still confuses
"chopping" with "shopping" and tends to drop his consonants. But he and the
others said they have gained something else: a stronger sense of confidence and
belonging in their adopted environment.

"Until now, I was always working too hard to study," said Trivelli, who was
practicing vocabulary on his laptop in a workroom filled with tools and wires.
"Now my kids are so happy I am learning. They help me with my pronunciation, and
they tell me if I learn enough English, I can replace my boss one day."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2008



CORRECTION: Â· An Aug. 9 Metro article on companies with programs that help
immigrant workers assimilate gave an incorrect title for Myles Gladstone of
Miller & Long Concrete Construction. He is the company's vice president of human
resources.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; Jose Trivelli, a
Tysons Corner Marriott repairman, works on a program to learn English, part of
an effort by companies to integrate immigrant workers.
IMAGE; By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; Jose Trivelli studies
English in the Marriott maintenance room, using his employer's free "Thirst for
Knowledge" program.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 28, 2008 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Businesses Cite a Catch-22 After Miss. Immigration Raid

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Alejandro Lazo and Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff
Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1401 words


The arrests this week of nearly 600 immigrant workers at a manufacturing plant
in Laurel, Miss., are fueling a national debate over a federal system to check
new hires' work documents, a program whose expansion the Bush administration has
made a cornerstone of its fight against illegal immigration.

In what they called the largest immigration sweep at a single site in U.S.
history, federal agents raided a Howard Industries electrical transformer plant
Monday despite the fact that the company last year joined the work eligibility
system, called E-Verify.

The White House has called the program a key weapon against illegal hiring,
proposing to expand it to nearly 200,000 government contractors this fall,
covering about 4 million U.S. workers. Thirteen state legislatures have enacted
similar legislation, and Congress is debating whether to extend E-Verify this
fall.

Major U.S. employers assailed the expanding crackdown, saying it creates a
Catch-22. If businesses fail to enroll in E-Verify, they run the risk of  a raid
by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, business groups led by the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce said. But if they sign up, they face added costs, labor
disruptions and discrimination complaints -- as well as the risk that flaws in
the program won't stop all illegal hiring or prevent government raids, they
said.

"I think it's a mistake on the part of a company to think that simply because
they [enroll] that they are going to be protected from any kind of government
audit or raid," said Myles Gladstone, vice president of Miller & Long, of
Bethesda, a major construction firm based in the Washington area.

At issue is a program that is supposed to help employers abide by laws that bar
the hiring of illegal immigrants. E-Verify allows companies to check federal
Social Security and immigration databases to determine  whether an employee is
authorized to work.

However, a key weakness in E-Verify is that while it can determine  whether a
Social Security number presented by a worker is valid, it often cannot determine
whether the number belongs to the applicant. Many workers try to evade detection
by using another person's identification.

That was allegedly the case Monday, when dozens of U.S. agents sealed  entrances
to Howard Industries' Mississippi plant, stopping production while they executed
a criminal search warrant for evidence related to aggravated identity theft,
fraudulent use of Social Security documents and other crimes. A civil search
warrant for illegal immigrants was also executed, turning up suspect workers
from Mexico, Guatemala, Germany, Peru, Brazil, El Salvador, Honduras and Panama,
the government alleged.

About 475 workers were sent to a detention center in Jena, La., for deportation;
106 were released for humanitarian reasons to tend to a child or a medical
condition pending court appearances; nine were juveniles transferred to a
refugee resettlement agency, and eight face charges of criminal identity theft.

A spokeswoman for ICE noted the investigation began two years ago, before Howard
joined E-Verify.

In its only comment on the raid, Howard Industries released a statement saying:
"Howard Industries runs every check allowed to ascertain the immigration status
of all applicants for jobs. It is company policy that it hires only U.S.
citizens and legal immigrants."

The circumstances echoed a December 2006 raid on six plants operated by meat
processor Swift & Co., now JBS Swift & Co., after which the company reported $53
million in losses, even though it was a longtime participant in the
record-checking system.

Bush officials say such attacks are a smokescreen by industry groups, who oppose
the program because it works. They note that many opponents embraced E-Verify
last year, when they expected it to have less bite as part of a broad overhaul
that would have legalized many immigrant workers.

But one of the lessons of last year's failed immigration legislation is that the
American public wants to see tougher enforcement at U.S. workplaces before it
will expand immigration or legalize those in the country unlawfully, said
Stewart A. Baker, assistant secretary for policy at the Department of Homeland
Security.

"We have to have strong enforcement if we're ever to have a chance for
comprehensive reform,"  Baker said.

Baker said the government is fixing E-Verify's flaws as it prepares to expand
the initiative. Bush officials in early June proposed to triple the number of
companies in the program, mandating participation by 169,000 federal contractors
and requiring them for the first time to verify the eligibility of existing
employees, not just new hires.

Enrollment in E-Verify has grown from 3,000 companies to 82,000 since it was
expanded nationwide in 2003, but participation remains voluntary and covers 1
percent of an estimated 6 million U.S. employers and about 11 percent of annual
hiring.

The proposed changes would double E-Verify's reach, covering more than 20
percent of U.S. hiring, federal officials said.

Business groups call the proposal an election-year power play that goes far
beyond what Congress intended in 1996 when it created the voluntary system.

Although the government estimated the change will cover about 3 percent of the
153 million-member U.S. workforce, companies say the impact would be far
greater, as contractors and subcontractors with even a small piece of the $430
billion that the federal government awards each year would need to review their
payrolls. The U.S. chamber claims the rule would cost $10 billion to implement,
100 times the government's estimate.

"Without very significant changes, we would look at all options to stop a final
rule, including a court challenge," said Randel K. Johnson, vice president and
spokesman for the U.S. chamber.

Critics also say that E-Verify is not accurate enough, which could lead to
discrimination against legal, foreign-born workers. Sorting out problems also
threatens to swamp already overburdened Social Security administration offices
that have their hands full tending to other work.

About 4.1 percent of 435 million Social Security records used by E-Verify
contain errors -- or 17.8 million records -- the agency's Office of the
Inspector General stated in June 2007. The system wrongly rejected foreign-born
U.S. citizens 9.8 percent of the time in the first half of 2007, and it
erroneously flagged noncitizens who had been authorized to work 1.4 percent of
the time, a study last year found.

Federal officials insist that E-Verify is ready for prime time. In early 2007,
94.2 percent of workers were automatically verified. Another half-percent were
mistakenly rejected, but workers were eventually able to clear up the problem,
usually within two days. The remaining 5.3 percent of workers walked away, which
officials said suggested that they were illegal.

The system has fixed errors that arose when workers enter the country legally or
become citizens without notifying Social Security. Many remaining mistakes
involve people who fail to report name changes  after marriage or divorce.

Homeland Security has begun requiring workers who are permanent residents or
noncitizens to present photo IDs that can be compared with their images in
federal records. However, E-Verify lacks a similar check for people posing as
citizens. As a result the system is feeding a black market for selling Social
Security numbers, some of them stolen, business owners said.

"I think the general public thinks it's an answer-all to this whole
illegal-worker-identity theft problem and it's not," said Bernie Kohl Jr., owner
of Angelica Nurseries in Kennedyville, Md.

Kohl said E-Verify also creates a temptation for employers to discriminate
against hiring legal immigrants because they don't want to  hassle  with trying
to sort out the system's mistakes.

Congress still must decide whether to extend E-Verify beyond November. While the
House voted 407 to 2 to extend it for five years, it required Homeland Security
to pay the bills for the increased workload on Social Security and ordered new
studies about its effectiveness. The Senate has yet to vote. Meanwhile, 13
states require some use of E-Verify, while Illinois has voted to bar it,
creating a patchwork of laws likely to grow next year. Locally, Virginia
lawmakers last winter rejected an attempt to mandate participation in E-Verify;
no requirement exists in Maryland and the District.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Matt Bush -- Associated Press; Agents raided the Howard
Industries plant in Laurel, Miss., even though the company had joined the
federal work eligibility system, called E-Verify.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Citgo Giving $1.5 Million to Maryland Charity;
Venezuelan Firm Seeks to Help Immigrant Workers; Critics See Political Motives

BYLINE: Alejandro Lazo; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D08

LENGTH: 571 words


Citgo, the Venezuelan-owned oil company, is making a $1.5 million donation to
the Silver Spring nonprofit group CASA of  Maryland to help fund educational,
training and economic development programs for low-income and immigrant workers.

The contribution is the latest effort by Venezuelan President Hugo ChÃ¡vez to
reach out to the poor in the United States in what critics call an attempt to
curry favor with low-income Americans and  embarrass President Bush.

The  donation will be spread over three years to help fund the group's $4.4
million vocational training and economic development program. It  will offer day
laborers and other low-income workers skills courses in the construction trades,
counseling to small business owners and access to social services. One of the
programs  encourages the formation of worker-owned cooperatives. ChÃ¡vez has
encouraged such cooperatives as part of his so-called Bolivarian Revolution.

ChÃ¡vez's alliances with countries such as Iran and Cuba and his bellicose
rhetoric against Bush -- whom he referred to as the "devil" in a speech to the
United Nations -- have heightened tensions between the two countries. CASA
accepted the money despite the strain, said Kim Propeack, advocacy director for
the group, because few corporations have stepped up to make similar donations.

"Citgo is a large corporation, and it is all too rare in this world that large
corporations have a responsibility to the community from which they garner their
profits," Propeack said.

Others focused on ChÃ¡vez's political goals. "He is committed to creating this
constituency in the United States and also to embarrassing the United States,"
said Michael E. Shifter, vice president for policy at Inter-American Dialogue, a
policy forum on Latin America-U.S. relations. "That here is this Third World
country that is really taking care of social problems in the United States that
the United States is not able to deal with -- I think that is politically what
ChÃ¡vez tries to do."

Bernard Aronson, former assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs,
said that it is  understandable why groups like CASA, which he called a "worthy"
organization, would take the money. He said that while the donations are  part
of a larger attempt by ChÃ¡vez to influence policymakers in this country, he is
skeptical of their power.

"How they conduct themselves in the region, and the nature of democracy
internally and their relations with Iran -- I think those things are going to
weigh more heavily than the modest donations they have made to domestic groups,"
Aronson said.

Citgo began its advocacy efforts in 2005 by offering a 40 percent discount on
heating oil for poor households in Massachusetts through the nonprofit Citizens
Energy Corporation, founded by former congressman Joseph P. Kennedy II. Citgo
expanded to other states, including in the Washington area two years ago,
partnering with CASA of  Maryland to help  distribute the oil. Last winter,
Citgo said it provided about  112 million gallons of discounted fuel to more
than 224,000 households in 23 states.

The program received considerable media attention last year, when Citgo began
running advertisements for the program, some of which featured Kennedy. Citgo
has stepped up its advocacy efforts in other ways, particularly in New York's
South Bronx, where it is funding  social and economic development programs
through nonprofit groups there.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Victor R. Caivano -- Associated Press; This is the latest
effort by President Hugo ChÃ¡vez to reach out to U.S. poor.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 5, 2008 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Agency to Reveal Some Death Data;
DHS Bureau Will Report the Number of People Who Die Awaiting Deportation

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 633 words


The top U.S. immigration enforcement official told a congressional subcommittee
yesterday that the Bush administration will disclose more information about
foreigners who die in the sprawling network of federal detention centers around
the country.

Julie Myers, assistant secretary of the Department of Homeland Security's
Immigration and Customs Enforcement bureau, said her agency will report such
deaths to a branch of the Justice Department that collects similar information
about inmates in state prisons and local jails.

The Justice Department publishes statistics on the fatalities, not the
identities of the victims, but Myers said the change represents "more
transparency" about detainee deaths. Since last year, congressional Democrats
have pleaded with ICE to reveal the names and circumstances of foreigners who
have died in U.S. custody.

Myers announced the new reporting requirement during a congressional hearing on
medical care for immigration detainees, the first since The Washington Post
published a series of articles last month that documented a broken system of
care for the growing number of foreigners who are imprisoned while the
government tries to deport them.

The articles, based on thousands of pages of internal documents, found that 83
detainees had died since ICE was created five years ago and that many more sick
and mentally ill people have been denied the treatment to which they are
entitled. The Post found medical staff shortages, treatment delays, sloppy
record-keeping, poor administrative practices and cover-ups by employees aware
of the poor care.

Yesterday's hearing was partisan and testy. Myers said ICE has been working to
improve the health-care system. But detainees, their lawyers and relatives, and
advocates for immigrants offered graphic testimony about misdiagnoses, medical
neglect and secrecy.

ICE officials "are defending the indefensible," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren
(D-Calif.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's immigration
subcommittee. "Whatever you think about the overall debate on immigration,"
Lofgren said in an interview, "you are not supposed to kill people who are in
custody."

Rep. Peter T. King (R-N.Y.) countered, "Why should the American people be
responsible for paying for Rolls-Royce medical care for illegal aliens?"

Myers and committee Republicans said that ICE figures show that the rate of
deaths among detainees has fallen in recent years, and that fewer people die in
immigration detention than in prison.

But one witness, who works in detention centers with foreigners seeking asylum
in the United States, disputed ICE's claims, saying that health care in
detention centers "is getting worse, not better." Homer Venters, a physician at
the Bellevue-New York University Program for Survivors of Torture, said ICE's
assertion that deaths among detainees fell by 49 percent between 2006 and 2007
is misleading.

Venters said those figures ignore the fact that detainees are, on average,
spending less time in custody. Taking the length of stay into account, he
testified, the mortality rate during that period increased by 20 percent.

Venters said ICE's assertion that fewer people die in immigration detention than
in prison also is misleading because detainees tend to be younger and in custody
for less time than prisoners.

Democrats grilled Myers about The Post's findings that more than 250 detainees
had been sedated with powerful psychotropic drugs for their deportation over the
past five years, even though they were not mentally ill. ICE has recently
changed its rules to require permission from a federal judge before detainees
are drugged for behavioral reasons. Myers said yesterday that the agency has
sought four such court orders, all of which are pending.

Staff writer Spencer S. Hsu contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      May 14, 2008 Wednesday 12:00 PM EST

Immigrants Suffering in U.S. Custody

BYLINE: Dana Priest and Amy Goldstein, Washington Post Staff Writers,
washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 3347 words



HIGHLIGHT: Post reporters Dana Priest and Amy Goldstein was online Wednesday,
May 14 at noon ET to discuss their four-part investigative series detailing the
poor medical care provided to immigration detainees being held in scores of
facilities across the United States.


Post reporters Dana Priest and Amy Goldstein was online Wednesday, May 14 at
noon ET to discuss their four-part investigative series detailing the poor
medical care provided to immigration detainees being held in scores of
facilities across the United States.

Read the series here: Careless Detention

The transcript follows.

____________________

Amy Goldstein: Hi everyone -- this is Amy Goldstein. Thanks for joining us today
and being interested in our series. I'll be answering your questions for the
next half-hour, then Dana will take over. So, let's get started.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: How concerned were you that your reports would be viewed as
sympathetic to pro-immigration advocates and unsympathetic to anti-immigration
advocates?

Amy Goldstein: Thanks for your question. In reporting and writing these stories,
Dana and I were not trying to serve anyone's agenda. Instead, we wanted to take
readers into a world that not many people know about: what happens inside the
increasing number of prisons and compounds and jails all around the country
where the federal government houses foreigners it is trying to deport -- places
that an estimated 311,000 people will be in this year alone. Specifically, we
were looking at what happens with people inside this detention system get sick.
And we were incredibly fortunate to have thousands of pages of internal
documents that gave us, and enabled us to give all of you, an inside view.

_______________________

Washington: If the directors are so aware of the problems, why aren't they
improving things? They don't seem to understand that reviewing records after the
tragedies does not change anything.

Amy Goldstein: One of the really striking thing we noticed in internal emails,
memos and meetings of minutes is that some people who work in the Division of
Immigration Health Services -- the small agency responsible for detainees' care
-- are worried about what it happening but feel unable to fix problems. Senior
officials in the Agency's Washington headquarters have warned repeatedly about
the dangers of staff shortages. Doctors who work as clinical director in the
field have written that they are worried they could be sued because they are not
providing a proper standard of care. As your question implies, that awareness
makes the persistent problems -- and especially deaths inside the system --
particularly harrowing.

_______________________

Washington: It seems like providing care for ill detainees places a significant
financial and staffing strain on DHS. Did you find any records detailing whether
or not ICE was willing to release seriously ill detainees into alternatives
programs (such as are available in the criminal justice system)?

Amy Goldstein: You are right that health care for this number of detainees is
expensive, and the budget, while increasing, hasn't kept pace in recent years
with the number of people in detention. We didn't find written evidence of
consideration that ill detainees be sent to alternative programs. What we did
find, though, was evidence that some people have suddenly been released from
custody at the point when their care was becoming really expensive. This is what
happened in early 2006 to a detainee in California named Francisco Castaneda,
whose cancer had gone unconfirmed for months. As a result, he was late getting
treatment. Sadly, he died in February.

_______________________

Boston: Are Public Health Service personnel staffing the medical units of local
and county jails as well as federal facilities?

Amy Goldstein: Good question -- who exactly is supposed to be providing the
care. It's a patchwork. The U.S. Public Health Service provides the staff at
several big immigration detention compounds that are run directly by the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, which part of the Department of
Homeland Security. PHS workers also are at some of the largest private prisons
that house detainees under federal contracts -- and at one county jail. In many
cases, contract health agencies provide the staff. In all these circumstances,
the Division of Immigration Health Services is responsible for overseeing the
quality of care.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: You talk about the detainees who become sick while in these
facilities, but what about the ones that come into the U.S. sick already? What
about those nurses and doctors who take care of those detainees so that if they
are put out into the U.S. they don't cause an outbreak? What about all the
detainees who get through the system and are living in the U.S. after being
detained? Some of them are getting better care than most Americans.

Amy Goldstein: You raise an important point. People who come into detention
sometimes are unhealthy and often have not gotten good care before they were
taken into custody -- either in their native countries or because some have
lived illegally in the United States. So catching medical problems, including
infectious diseases, early is especially important. The rule is supposed to be
that all new detainees are given a health screening soon after they arrive. But
we found that sometimes doesn't happen -- or happen well. Translators can be in
short supply. Medical records are not always filled out accurately. And
sometimes there are simply too many new detainees for the staff on hand. We did
find the kind of outbreaks your question suggests -- chickenpox, tuberculosis.
In at least one case, we found that health workers had missed a case of
meningtisis of someone who had AIDS -- and died -- though we don't know if it
spread.

_______________________

Washington: What recommendations do you have for Congress to address these
problems? Are there laws that need to change, or is this largely a problem of
mismanagement on the part of ICE and DIHS?

Amy Goldstein: Congress is just started to look into the problems of health care
for immigration detainees -- and it seems too soon to know how fast or far the
issue will grow. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), convened a hearing on this issue
last October. One witness was Francisco Castenada, months before his death from
penile cancer. Another was Edwidge Danticat, an award-winner author whose uncle,
the Rev. Joseph Dantica, died in ICE detention a few days after he arrived in
Miami from Haiti, asking for asylum because he feared the violence that had
damaged his church. The hearing was sparsely attended. Rep. Logren has this
month introduced legislation that would require DISH to give more information to
Congress, including when detainees die. A Senate companion bill has been
introduced this week.

_______________________

Boston: What is the stated level of health care that ICE, DIHS and the USPHS is
charged with providing to detainees? Have any of the cases that you investigated
for the series resulted in the licensed health care providers being disciplined
by their respective professional state boards? If not, have you forwarded
relevant documentation to the respective state boards? Is any member of Congress
investigating this travesty? What is the USPHS and the CDC response in light of
the promulgation of communicable disease as a direct result of detainee
treatment and handling? Have the presidential candidates been queried about
their stance and planned action about the treatment and healthcare of detainees?
If so, what have they opined?

Amy Goldstein: Good question. One interesting thing we discovered in our
reporting is that standard of care in this system is simply to keep people
healthy enough that they can be deported. That is not the same as keeping them
completely healthy. In fact, a manual for a managed care system that is part of
DISH says that, if detainees have medical problems that "would cause
deterioration of the detainee's health or uncontrolled suffering affecting
his/her deportation status," treatment is not guaranteed. Instead, the manual
says, they "will be assessed and evaluated for care."

_______________________

Princeton, N.J.: Are any of the victims suing the government? It seems to me
that this is a good place for a tort attorney to do something in the public
interest and make a bundle at the same time.

Amy Goldstein: Yes. There are several individual lawsuits, and the ACLU also
filed litigation last year on behalf of a number of detainees it alleged got
improper care. At the same time, one reason that immigration detainees are
especially vulnerable in the system is that, unlike criminal defendants, they do
not have a right to free legal representation. As a result, only about one in 10
detainees has an attorney.

_______________________

Cumberland, Md.: Why is involuntary drugging of dangerous detainees for
deportation an effective way to export democracy?

Amy Goldstein: Thanks for your question. Something we wondered in reporting this
morning's story, the one that is about sedation of detainees during their
deportation, is why -- even if a deportee was combative -- the government uses
such strong drugs, rather than milder sedatives. We found that 50 people in
fiscal 2007 who were not mentally ill were given a potent anti-psychotic drug
called Haldol for their deportation. Going back to 2003, we found more than 250
people were given some kind of drugs to sedate them, even though they had no
psychiatric history. Some had no history of violence, either.

_______________________

Dana Priest: Hi Everyone. This is Dana Priest. I'm joining in now as Amy slides
off to work ... nice to be here. Series is done. Weather is fab. And I'm just
back from the gym so I'm roaring to go!!!!!

_______________________

Dunn Loring, Va.: What options are available to these detainees? Can they return
to their home country to receive better treatment?

Dana Priest: Most of them don't want to do that, which is why they are here. For
those from European countries where medical care is virtually free, I suppose
they will get care there. As a generalization, most immigrants come here to
better themselves and their families--and have for generations--and that applies
to the medical care as well.

_______________________

Corvallis, Ore.: You mention the need for translators; I have worked as a
translator and interpreter for many years (Indonesian/English) and always have
wanted to help the Indonesian diaspora more, but have had a hard time finding
the right agency in the maze of bureacracy. Do you happen to know which agency
to enlist with if one would like to be an on-call translator (i.e. on stand-by
should they need someone with certain language skills)?

Dana Priest: I would recommend you start with Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. They have an employment website, as does the Division of
Immigration Health Services.

_______________________

Indianapolis: It saddens me that in this country there was a big uproar when
cows were being mistreated, and yet the mainstream media ignores how human
beings are being treated. As an EMT, I know it's considered assault if you treat
someone without their consent; why is it that the government can inject people
with a drug not prescribed to them and not suffer any consequences?

Dana Priest: Wait a minute: I am the mainstream media! So how can you say we are
ignoring the treatment of human beings. This series was the longest one I've
worked on in my 22 years at the paper and every editor involved thought it was
worth doing. On the second half, well, they decided afterall that they should
not be doing it. The rules in the years prior seemed less guided by existing
laws and more a reaction to the new deluge of immigrants and the desire to get
them home asap.

_______________________

McLean, Va.: I loved your article. It expresses an ugent need for more social
workers, psychiatrists and mental health care professionals. Do you expect a
hightened awareness on detention will turn into more jobs?

Dana Priest: It has to if they want to fix this. On the other hand, there are
many, many vacancies right now in this area. So maybe it will turn into more
openings in unversities for students interested in mental health professions.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: You have painted a one-sided report on this subject without
fully understanding all the issues, and have "muddied the waters" so that if
appears that DIHS is responsible for all the negative outcomes. Many times
detainees refuse to cooperate with ICE to be interviewed in order to obtain
their travel papers in order to be deported; their home country refuses to take
them back because the medical care would be too expensive for that country; the
9th Circuit Court in California is extremely liberal and takes an immense amount
of time to finalize a case decision. Jails are selective about the type of cases
they will accept, as they do not want to incur increased medical expenses or
accept detainees who would require too many hours of care. What do you think the
answers are to these issues?

Dana Priest: The answers are not to dump it all on the laps of DIHS employees.
There has to be responsibility at the top, starting at DHS, whose office of
health affairs also seems to be asleep at the switch here. throughout these
stories we chronicle efforts made by DIHS employees to get the attention of
their managers at ICE (which is under DHS), but to no avail.

_______________________

Washington: Have any professional medical groups made statements or
recommendations for how professionals in these positions/circumstances should
approach the problems they are encountering? And would it make a difference if
they did? This seems to be yet another example of the close relationship between
government and medicine resulting in a biased view of public good, substandard
treatment and a lack of emphasis on the rights of individuals.

Dana Priest: I think it's a case of a virtually closed and cut-off system that
doesn't mix and debate enough with professionals outside its own. I'm sure there
are many good ideas, solutions, etc. floating around in their professional
circles. Not sure how open ICE is to such co-mingling though.

_______________________

Cumberland, Md.: You aren't suggesting that the U.S. not deport an alien just
because they have a serious illness that could not be treated in their home
country if they were deported? Isn't that rather unfair to U.S. taxpayers?

Dana Priest: No. The fact is there are laws on the books about the government's
responsibility to care for people in its custody. So when these people are in
U.S. custody, as they are inside immigration detention centers, they should be
treated humanely and appropriately. that's about it. It seemed to the judge
hearing the Francisco Castenada case, for example, that not only was the
government not doing the minimum for him, but its actions were "miles" beyond
negligence.

_______________________

Iowa City, Iowa: Your first article stated that there was a director who had a
criminal background and was not eligible for a position in Washington, but who
was now in a federal agency. Has this man been fired? Has Congress looked into
why he was hired? When I was in the Navy, such matters were taken to the judge
advocate right away.

Dana Priest: Not criminal. LeMont Flanagan was fired from his position in the
criminal justice system in Maryland, and his candidacy for a spot in the DC
youth justice system was nixed when advocates made a stint about his record. But
now he is the "unit head" for immigrant health services, he's the top dog there,
the liaison between DIHS and ICE.

_______________________

Boston: I am so impressed with the volume and quality of documents you were able
to obtain! (I think you called it a "treasure trove" on NPR yesterday!) How did
you get them? Was it through a Freedom of Information Act request? How long did
it take to receive them, and will the entire set of documents be made public at
some point?

Dana Priest: I am not at liberty to address this. I hope you understand. There
are currently no plans to make the entire set publicly available.

_______________________

Richmond, Va.: Hi Dana and Amy. First, I want to commend you both on another
excellent investigative piece -- thank you for your work. I have two questions,
please feel free to answer one or both. What gave you all the idea to do this
piece? Also, to what extent do you see the problem being the delayed process of
deportations and the prolonged appeals process? Thanks!

Dana Priest: Speaking for myself, I seem to be attracted as a journalist to
those things that the government is trying to hide, that go contrary to what
most people might think of as good-government, and involve people who are
powerless to speak for themselves to remedy the situation. This series fits that
description.

_______________________

Washington: Thanks for the chat. At any point will you compare ICE/DHS detention
and the regular prison system? The problems focused on in the pieces so far do
seem to be common throughout the criminal justice system (inmate suicide, lack
of proper mental/physical health treatment, etc.).

Dana Priest: I'm not sure it's a valid comparison, although I may be wrong. My
thinking is this: U.S. prisons house most people for years. These immigration
facilities are supposed to be a fairly quick turn around so the two systems were
"built" differently. Second, prisons systems were built for criminals. Half the
people in ICE detention have never committed a crime. And those who did served
their time already. That is not to say that there are some really bad actors
inside, it's just not the majority of detainees. Point being, it's a different
kind of population. Anyway, those are my thoughts on this for the moment.

_______________________

Tysons Corner, Va.: Dana, during the "60 Minutes" piece, I noticed that some of
the facilities had a "CCA" flag (Corrections Corporation of America?). How much
of this is outsourced to them? Does that contribute to the health care problem?

Dana Priest: There are eight big private immigration centers. Outsourcing is
increasing at every level.

_______________________

Atlanta: Having just seen this article on "60 Minutes" this evening, I must say
that I am absolutely stunned. In the U.S. today where millions upon millions of
legitimate taxpaying citizens cannot afford health care, here we are being sued
by an illegal immigrant who on top of that committed crimes to give him free
cancer care. Get real! If we cannot give our own citizens free health care, how
and why on Earth can we give it to everyone else? By all means we can be
compasionate toward his situation, but I'm sorry, there are far more worthy
recipients of my tax dollars. Bottom line, get real and focus the tax dollars on
those who deserve it -- we the taxpayers are not a bottomless pit !

Dana Priest: Passing this on...

_______________________

Chicago: It is truly sad and distressing what happened to Ghana native Yusif
Osman. Believe it, it could happen to any one of us Africans in spite of our
care to abide to the mores and constraints of a new society. Nevertheless, we
must not be too self-righteous in our remarks and commentaries about this
particular incident. The honest and painful truth is, the Western culture,
governments and peoples treat us much better and civilly than we and our
governments treat ourselves. Truly sad!

Dana Priest: This one too...

_______________________

Dana Priest: Okay, I've got to leave you now. Just wanted to mention, in case
you had not already picked this up, that the subject of immigration (and by
extension immigrant detention) elicits a very wide range of opinions, mirroring
the discussion of immigration in general. I so welcome the mix, and appreciate
the respectful tone most of you take here (as opposed to the flaming wackos who
are spewing venom-posing-as-comment at the end of the articles on the Web site.
Yuck. What a waste of space and time!)

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 13, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Suicides Point to Gaps in Treatment;
Errors in Psychiatric Diagnoses and Drugs Plague Strained Immigration System

BYLINE: Dana Priest and Amy Goldstein; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 4050 words


Peasant farmer Jose Lopez-Gregorio, 32, left his wife and five children behind
in Guatemala with two bags of corn, barely enough food for one month, when he
decided to find work in the United States. Detained crossing the Mexican border
and held in an Arizona immigration center, he felt guilty, he told guards,
eating three meals a day. Lopez had been inside one month and eight days when he
strangled himself with a bedsheet. Five days earlier, the staff had placed him
on suicide watch, only to be overruled within hours by the center's
psychologist.

Mexican Carlos Cortes Raudel, 22, hanged himself from a tree on the way to
breakfast in a California compound. Korean Sung Soo Heo, 51, was on suicide
watch, less than a week after leaving a psychiatric hospital, when he hanged
himself from a ceiling vent in his New Jersey cell. Geovanny Garcia-Mejia, 27, a
Honduran, wrote notes in blood on his Texas cell floor and hanged himself from a
ventilation grate while supposedly under 15-minute checks around the clock.

"It goes without saying that the incident could have been avoided," the Newton
County sheriff noted in an internal review of Garcia's death.

While tens of thousands of detainees inside immigration detention centers endure
substandard medical care, people with mental illness are relegated to the
darkest and most neglected corners of the system, according to interviews and
thousands of internal documents, including e-mails, memos, autopsy reports and
other medical records, obtained by The Washington Post.

Doctors and nurses who often have difficulty detecting and treating physical
ailments are having even greater problems managing the nuances of mental
illness, documents and interviews show. Treating mental illness is a challenge
in any context, but inside this closed, overburdened world, some psychiatric
patients undergo months and sometimes years of undermedication or
overmedication, misdiagnosis or no diagnosis.

The records reveal failures of many kinds. Suicidal detainees can go undetected
or unmonitored. Psychological problems are mistaken for physical maladies or a
lack of coping skills. In some cases, detainees' conditions severely deteriorate
behind bars. Some get help only when cellmates force guards and medical staff to
pay attention. And some are labeled psychotic when they are not; all they need
are interpreters so they can explain themselves.

Suicide is the most common cause of death among detained immigrants. It accounts
for 15 of 83 deaths since 2003, when the Department of Homeland Security's
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, known as ICE, took over facilities
for foreigners whom the government is trying to deport. Inside these
out-of-the-way compounds around the country, suicide attempts seem to be on the
rise, according to internal documents: 16 in June, 21 in July, 20 in August.

No one in the Division of Immigration Health Services (DIHS), the agency
responsible for detainee medical care, has a firm grip on the number of mentally
ill among the 33,000 detainees held on any given day, records show. But in
confidential memos, officials estimate that about 15 percent -- about 4,500 --
are mentally ill, a number that is much higher than the public ICE estimate. The
numbers are rising fast, memos reveal, as state mental institutions and prisons
transfer more people into immigration detention.

The influx is overwhelming the system, internal documents show. The ratio of
staff to mentally ill detainees is out of balance, with far fewer staff members
than in other prison settings, according to Dennis Slate, the top mental health
official in the detainee system. In an e-mail to colleagues the morning of last
May 31, Slate said the ratio in the Bureau of Prisons was 1 to 400. In prisons
for the mentally ill, it was 1 to 10. But in the immigration detention centers,
it was 1 to 1,142.

Immigration authorities contract with a private facility in South Carolina to
care for seriously mentally ill patients. They said they are considering
additional options for increasing care for such detainees.

Along with the crisis in care, the records also show soul-searching among
doctors, nurses and administrators. "We need to stop looking for band-aid
solutions for these problems," Slate wrote. "Step back, take a deep breath . .
."

It wasn't just patients that Slate and his colleagues worried about. They also
worried that trading financial savings for substandard health care would come
back to haunt the government. "Think about what we are trying to accomplish with
limited financial and personnel resources we have," Slate wrote. "The little
money managed care may save in the short run is going to be dwarfed by the
millions that will be paid out by ICE when the lawsuits roll in."

* * *

None of these problems appeared overnight. When immigration became a national
security issue after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the administration
decided to increase raids on workplaces for undocumented workers and to round up
convicted felons who had served time but were now deportable, no matter how long
they had lived in the United States. This, along with a new requirement that
political asylum-seekers must wait out their cases behind bars, created a deluge
that the system was unprepared to handle.

A system set up for quick stays turned into a de facto long-term care center for
the most troublesome patients, those whose countries of origin often refused to
take them, Slate noted in a confidential e-mail.

It was in this context that the basics of sound mental health care, such as
proper supervision of suicidal detainees, were often overlooked.

On the evening of March 21, 2005, Gene Migliaccio, then director of the
immigration health services agency, sent a brief BlackBerry message to
colleagues: "DIHS is concerned that detainee committed suicide, in medical pod,
after being assessed a suicide risk."

Hassiba Belbachir, a 27-year-old woman from Algeria, had strangled herself with
orange jail-issue socks, which she knotted together and wrapped twice around her
neck.

Five days before her suicide, Belbachir had a panic attack in her cell in an
Illinois jail and was moved to a medical ward. The next day, internal records
show, she told a social worker she was hearing "parasites and radio waves" and
that she wanted to die. "Death is dripping, drop by drop," she said. But she was
not placed on suicide watch.

Immigration officials declined to comment, citing ongoing litigation in the
case.

Belbachir had arrived eight days earlier at Chicago's O'Hare International
Airport. The youngest of seven children, she loved books on religion and dancing
the merengue. With a degree in Spanish, she thought of becoming a translator.
"She wanted to visit the world," said an older sister, Houaria Belbachir, who
lives in France.

Belbachir had gotten married, and her husband had brought her to Chicago to
live. After a month, she learned he had another wife. She fled to Spain, but
without a visa, she was turned away at the airport. She flew back to O'Hare,
asked for political asylum and, by federal policy, was taken into custody while
authorities considered her claim.

Belbachir was sent to McHenry County Jail in the far suburbs of Chicago. The
jail already had problems with its medical services: Detainees did not receive
the required mental health screening, nor the standard screening for suicide
risk, a recent review had found. Untrained staff members often did what
screenings there were.

During Belbachir's intake screening, jail records show, she said she had tried
to commit suicide once by drinking soap. The social worker who interviewed her
noted that she had a "major depressive disorder" and needed to see a
psychiatrist for medication. Belbachir was given an appointment for 6 p.m. on
March 18.

By then, she had been dead for a day.

Investigation reports say a guard glanced into her cell at 3:40 on the afternoon
Belbachir died. She was lying face down on the floor, but the guard could see
only her lower back and legs. He asked a co-worker whether she "usually sleeps
like that," and was told that she did.

Half an hour later, when the guard returned to deliver dinner, he opened the
cell door to discover Belbachir unconscious with the socks around her neck, her
face purple, her mouth bloody.

She left a five-page handwritten poem, in French, on a paper with "Visa Waiver
Program" across the top. It began: "It's good, the death."

* * *

Inside the detainee mental health system, treatment decisions often revolve
around money. There are frequent battles, with doctors and nurses in the field
on one side and the managed-care administrators in Washington on the other,
looking for ways not to spend. The battles often prompt Solomonic choices.

One day, Slate and his colleagues engaged in an e-mail debate over a mentally
ill detainee who was in the hospital but now well enough to leave. Should they
send him to a detention center, where there was a bed available but no
outpatient psychiatric care? Or should they keep him in the hospital, at greater
cost, until space in a more appropriate immigration compound became available?

"We can not just leave these detainees in the hospital," insisted Linda Jo
Belsito, the nurse in charge of managed-care decisions for DIHS. "Dr. Slate is
advising leaving these detainees in-patient but I do not agree." Reached by
phone, Belsito declined to comment.

Down the hall from Belsito's office at headquarters, Matt Kleiman, the head of
behavioral health, strongly disagreed. Detainees such as these who are returned
to the general prison population "will in all likelihood decompensate quickly,"
he warned, using a term that means to deteriorate psychologically.

Belsito and her managed-care associates were withholding treatment for many
types of care, saving the agency millions of dollars. For mental health
services, four denials for treatment of manic-depressive psychosis saved DIHS
$18,145.36, according to an itemized record of the savings over a one-year
period ending in August 2006. Two denials for care of "unspecified psychosis"
saved an estimated $11,668.60. Nine denials for treatment of "depressive
disorder not elsewhere classified" saved $43,158.57.

An immigration spokeswoman said the vast majority of requests are ultimately
approved and the denials are usually because of insufficient information.

Money is not the only factor that determines the quality of care. Poor
practices, records reveal, created a crisis situation at the South Texas
Detention Complex at Pearsall, outside San Antonio.

On June 15, Gustavo Cadavid, chief of psychiatry for DIHS, waved a red flag
after discovering that Pearsall's clinical director, Erik Johnson, had "close to
140 chart reviews" pending, meaning 140 patients still needed care. Cadavid had
complained to headquarters several times about Johnson. "[I]t is becoming clear
that there exist a crisis in the mental health care at Pearsall," he wrote in
June.

Two hours later, Slate gave Cadavid some advice. "It is my suggestion that
[medical director Timothy Shack] issue a clear order for Dr. Johnson to begin to
provide treatment to mentally ill detainees," he wrote in an e-mail. "If he
fails to follow the order, then this behavior needs to be interpreted as
insolence and insubordination and documented as such."

Slate titled his e-mail "Crisis in mental health care in Pearsall." He copied it
to seven top ICE and DIHS administrators, including the interim director of
DIHS, Neil Sampson.

Immigration officials said the mental health care program at Pearsall meets
national detention standards. Reached by phone, Johnson declined to comment. He
is still at Pearsall.

The case of Junior Bannister, a detainee from Barbados, indicates that problems
remain, as evidenced by another e-mail exchange.

When Bannister arrived at Pearsall in August, he told immigration officials that
he had been taking Celexa, an antidepressant, for five years, since his young
daughter died. When he was taken into custody, a top mental health official
recommended continuing his medication, but his notes did not get scanned into
Bannister's file.

Without his medication, he began having "auditory hallucinations." He complained
often, and staff sent the concerns to Johnson, who never signed off on the
prescription.

In January, a lawyer working with Bannister inquired about the delay, setting
off a heated exchange between Johnson and his bosses, who discovered that the
medical staff had seen Bannister 22 times.

Jay Sparks, officer in charge at Pearsall, sent a curt e-mail to Johnson on Jan.
11 after examining Bannister's medical records. "Now I am further puzzled. While
I understand a shortage of medical staff, we evidently were staffed well enough
to see this person 22 times, but in the course of all of this unable to get him
the medication that had been recommended -- why would this be?"

Johnson replied 90 minutes later. "I could not get to him," he wrote. ". . .
There are many things we are not able to get to."

Sparks e-mailed up the chain of command. "I believe this case illustrates that
we need something more efficient," he wrote. ". . . If we need more medical
staff, then they need to be deployed, but regardless of what the solution is, it
needs to occur rather quickly, as access to adequate medical care for our
detainees is a rather critical issue."

In a recent telephone interview, Bannister said he would try to get Johnson's
attention whenever he saw him, without success. Johnson, he said, would
dismissively "just wave his arms" every time. After eight months of asking,
Bannister recently received his medication.

Isaias Vasquez was not as lucky. Three mental health workers at Pearsall
misdiagnosed him and refused to allow him to continue taking medications that he
had been prescribed much of his life. Immigration officials declined to comment,
citing pending litigation.

Vasquez had come from Mexico to the United States legally with his family when
he was 2 years old. He served in the Army for two years until psychiatric
problems ended his military career. Years later, when he was convicted on a
drug-possession charge, he served the 1 1/2  -year sentence at a Texas state
psychiatric hospital. The government said the crime made him deportable, and
immigration officers picked him up from the hospital and sent him to one
detention center, then another. Records chronicle his paranoid delusions and
auditory hallucinations.

He had been diagnosed with chronic paranoid schizophrenia in the early 1990s and
had been hospitalized 18 times before he landed in Pearsall. But the staff ruled
that he was not schizophrenic and cut off his medication.

Instead, on Nov. 29, 2005, they diagnosed him with an "unspecified personality
disorder." Vasquez "insisted throughout session he was paranoid schizophrenic
and needed medication," a social worker wrote in his medical file. But the
evaluation team concluded that "his thought process and content was normal,
logical and coherent." They suspected he was faking to keep his Social Security
disability benefits.

They decided to take him off a drug for schizophrenia, and another for
depression, and cut his dose of a second antidepressant in half. The effects
were swift. A week later Vasquez was placed on suicide observation. He "smeared
feces throughout the suicide observation room," his medical chart shows. The
next day, "he announced in the dormitory that either he killed himself or God
would do it for him, and he took all of his clothes off. Then he got down onto
the floor and licked it."

The staff's response: They eliminated the last of his psychotropic medicine.
"Mental health visits will cease at present time," says a Dec. 15 note in his
medical file. Two months later, another note warned, "DO NOT PLACE YOURSELF
WITHIN GRABBING OR SPITTING DISTANCE OF THIS DETAINEE."

After another month, he was found sitting on his bed with only a blanket around
his waist, reading a Bible aloud and screaming, "The world is coming to an end,
but not until I finish using my red tape!" He refused his other medications for
diabetes, high blood pressure and suspected tuberculosis.

In mid-March, Johnson stuck a handwritten note on Vasquez's cell window: "If you
keep refusing to take your . . . medicines . . . YOU put YOURSELF at risk of
BLINDNESS, AMPUTATIONS, HEART ATTTACKS, KIDNEY FAILURE, STROKES and EARLY
DEATH."

Vasquez "covered that area of the window with spit," Johnson wrote in his
medical file. "I slid another copy under the door, and he turned it face down
and slid it back out, and then he blocked the door with his clothing so I could
not slide it under again."

On March 24, "[H]e had saved up 6 empty peanut butter jars and had some sort of
yellowish liquid in them. . . . [T]he guards told him to give them up. He
refused." The guards subdued him with tear gas.

They gassed him again two weeks later when he refused to give the guards the
broken eyeglasses he had "tied to his head with an undershorts waistband. . . .
When the room was repeatedly sprayed, he stood stoically."

Unable to persuade Vasquez to take his medicine, the staff discontinued it in
late April. A final note on his behavior, from May 1, five days before his
release, says he had "smeared feces on window to cell and threw water and feces
under door of cell."

Even then, the staff did not reconsider its assessment that he was not
schizophrenic or its decision to take away the psychotropic drugs. Their
assessment of his problem: "Ineffective individual coping."

Vasquez had won his immigration case. When his common-law wife picked him up,
she found him raving and gaunt. Gloria Armendariz drove him straight to the VA
hospital. On the way, she recalled, "I had to cut the [car] speakers and put
them in the trunk because he kept saying they . . . would listen and videotape
him."

At the hospital, guards had to subdue him. He was admitted to the psychiatric
ward, "which is where he needs to be," said his lawyer, Lee Teran. The next day,
he was started on antipsychotics.

Helped by his medicine and no longer facing deportation, Vasquez, now 49, did
something that, in his nearly five decades in the country, he'd never bothered
to do: He applied to become a citizen. At the citizenship ceremony last fall, he
wore a jacket, a tie and a broad smile.

* * *

While Vasquez had been denied crucial medicine, Amina Bookey Mudey had the
opposite problem. Records show that she was diagnosed with psychosis she did not
have and given medication she did not need.

Alone and speaking little English, the Somali woman arrived at John F. Kennedy
International Airport in New York on April 11, 2007, seeking political asylum.
With no interpreter to question her, immigration agents shackled her ankles,
wrists and waist, and put her in a van.

Exhausted, hungry and frantic about being tied up, Mudey collapsed on the way to
a windowless converted warehouse in Elizabeth, N.J., where she would remain for
five months.

The Elizabeth compound also had no interpreter . Nonetheless, an intake officer
wrote in her medical records that Mudey said she was epileptic. A doctor there
diagnosed her with post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and, incorrectly,
with psychosis. He prescribed the potent antipsychotic Risperdal.

Mudey, 30, was a member of an outcast Muslim clan and, according to her
political asylum application, had been tormented by dominant groups throughout
her life. When she was 10, she said, an old woman cut off her genitals with a
razor blade. As a teenager, she was clubbed and beaten by girls with status.
When she was 19, armed men shot and killed her father and two brothers at home.
At 22, five men with guns gang-raped her mother and sister, who screamed so much
the men killed her. Then they attacked Mudey with a knife and bashed her head
with a gun butt.

Soon after taking Risperdal at the Elizabeth detention center, she found herself
in the throes of its worst side effects. Her arms and legs shook uncontrollably.
Her tongue thickened and thrashed around in her mouth, which she was unable to
close. She drooled constantly, vomited often and began to lactate. "I said,
'Maybe I am going mad,' " Mudey said. " 'Maybe I am going to die in here.' "

When she lactated, her cellmates accused her of lying. " 'You must have killed
your baby or had a late abortion,' they told me. 'You must be lying to us.' . .
. Something was wrong. My breast was full of milk. They said to me, 'Are you
sure you didn't leave a baby behind?' "

Mudey's symptoms were classic side effects of Risperdal, said doctors consulted
by The Post. But when she complained, the detainee doctor only increased the
dose. ICE initially declined to comment because of privacy issues. Last night,
after those issues were resolved, the agency said it did not have enough time to
prepare a response.

In her stupor, Mudey had her first court appearance. It did not go well. Her
mind was a thick cloud; she was disoriented and unresponsive to questions. The
judge was not impressed.

In June, Mudey was introduced to Ann Schofield Baker, a Park Avenue lawyer who
specializes in high-stakes intellectual-property litigation and had volunteered
for pro bono duty. After much haranguing, Schofield Baker managed to get an
interpreter, psychiatrist and gynecologist into the compound to examine her
client. They determined she had been misdiagnosed, according to court
affidavits.

"She clearly has very severe PTSD and she is clearly depressed, but there is no
evidence of psychosis," wrote Katherine Falk, the psychiatrist and a consultant
for Physicians for Human Rights.

The two doctors wanted Mudey off Risperdal. "They just drugged the crap out of
her," Laurie Goldstein, the gynecologist, said in an interview. "They just kept
her slogged."

The doctors told her to refuse the pills. The compound's doctor scolded her when
she did. She defied him.

"I told him that the other doctors says this other medication has been hurting
me. I am not going to take it," she recalled in an affidavit prepared for court.
"The first day I stopped taking it, I noticed I stopped drooling. In two or
three days I could close my mouth. I was not as dizzy and confused. My appetite
came back. I started feeling almost normal." Her mind regained its focus. Her
next testimony was clear and more convincing.

But weeks later, Mudey experienced pain in her abdomen and back. She wrote notes
to the doctor pleading for help. When she could no longer stand and lay balled
up on her bed, her cellmates wrote notes for her. Weeks went by. She believed
that the doctor was retaliating against her because she disobeyed him.

On orders of the doctor, but without an exam, a nurse gave Mudey Diflucan for a
yeast infection, as Goldstein discovered after reviewing the few medical records
that immigration officials would give her. After several consultations with
Mudey by phone, Goldstein concluded that she was suffering from an acute urinary
tract infection, a kidney infection or pelvic inflammatory disease. She tried
repeatedly to reach the Elizabeth center's physician, but he would not respond,
she said.

Schofield Baker prepared a legal injunction to force the Elizabeth compound to
take Mudey to a hospital, and immigration officials relented. She got better
quickly. She has no idea what was wrong with her or what drugs she was given;
federal officials refused to give her the hospital records.

On Sept. 18, Mudey won her political asylum case. A guard told Schofield Baker
that she could wait for her client in the parking lot across from the compound.
Hours later, at 11 at night, Mudey's tiny figure appeared. She wore the same
flip-flops and fuzzy coat she had on the plane when she first arrived in the
United States.

"Seeing her walk out reminded me of a scene from the Holocaust," said Schofield
Baker. "I was absolutely shocked and amazed we can treat human beings like this
on our soil."

Mudey got into her attorney's rented Lincoln Town Car. It carried her down a
road lined with barbed wire, past rows of gritty warehouses and hundreds of
hulking trucks. Having not seen the sun or a star in the sky in the five months
she had waited inside the windowless compound, Mudey was overwhelmed by the
lights and motion. She gasped. "My goodness, how beautiful America is!"

Staff researcher Julie Tate contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Family Photos; Isaias Vasquez, far left, on the day after he was
released from an immigration detention center in Texas. He had spent much of his
six months there without the medicine that keeps his schizophrenia under
control. Months later, back on his medications, the longtime legal resident
celebrated becoming a U.S. citizen, left.
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE; Family Photo; In a message to colleagues, Gene Migliaccio, then director
of detainee health services, noted concern about the death of Hassiba Belbachir,
right. The asylum-seeker from Algeria had strangled herself in an Illinois jail
after being assessed as a suicide risk.
IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; When Amina Mudey turned 30
this year, she had a birthday party -- her first. Detained for five months when
she came to the United States from Somalia last year, she was given
antipsychotic drugs she didn't need. Her lawyer, Ann Schofield Baker, hugged her
upon her release, right.
IMAGE; Courtesy Of Ann Schofield Baker
IMAGE; In an internal e-mail, the head of the Pearsall, Tex., center asks why a
detainee was not given medication despite being seen 22 times by the medical
staff.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Care at the Immigrant Detention Centers

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 770 words


The May 11-14 front-page series "Careless Detention"  implicitly raised the
question of what purpose is served by incarcerating some 33,000 migrants and
asylum seekers in the United States each day.

The scapegoating of migrants and asylum seekers and the deliberate fueling of
fear by some politicians and parts of the media have been accompanied by
measures that have trampled on their most basic human rights, including the
right to liberty and personal security. In this atmosphere, detention is used as
a punishment of first resort rather than as a measure of last resort, and the
absence of oversight and accountability, severe overcrowding, outbreaks of
contagious diseases, and poor nutrition and neglect --  if not worse --  lead to
abuses and deaths.

Detained migrants should be provided with an effective opportunity to challenge
the decision to detain them. Incredibly, Immigration and Customs Enforcement is
not currently required to meet this minimal standard.

SARNATA REYNOLDS

Refugee and Migrant Director

Amnesty International USA

Washington

Â·

The recounting in "Careless Detention" of the health struggles of immigrants
held in detention facilities in the United States was painful to read. I cannot
fathom why  we treat people who come here to help their families and escape
horrific circumstances without a shred of human dignity.

I pray that Congress and the American people will demand better. Only if we
affirm the dignity of each person and ensure that our public servants
respectfully care for the most vulnerable among us can we be proud of our
country.

PAT PHIBBS

Alexandria

Â·

I was upset about The Post's narrow position on the supposed mistreatment of
illegal aliens and others in immigration detention centers. These people are
there for breaking laws, and it is hard to do everything 100 percent correctly
when there are more than 30,000 people in these facilities.

Why did the series so narrowly focus on the relatively few who are potentially
mistreated? Why did it not mention that each American citizen suffers increased
health-care costs and diminished education because of the millions of illegal
aliens in this country?

AL WESSOL

Manassas

Â·

Dana Priest and Amy Goldstein's series on medical care in immigration detention
highlighted the case of Victoria Arellano (whom The Post referred to as Victor
Alfonso Arellano), a 23-year-old transgendered detainee who died of AIDS while
in federal custody [front page, May 11]. Human Rights Watch issued a report in
December focusing on this case  as but one example of the substandard care
provided to detainees with HIV and AIDS.

HIV-positive detainees are particularly vulnerable to discrimination and
harassment in the 450 detention centers, prisons and local jails used by the
Department of Homeland Security. The department keeps no comprehensive
statistics on HIV or AIDS cases among detainees and offers them no testing,
counseling or education programs.

Human Rights Watch joins other advocates in urging passage of the Detainee Basic
Medical Care Act, which is sponsored by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.). This
legislation establishes a threshold of services that the DHS must provide to all
detainees.

Equally important, the bill promotes accountability to Congress and to the
public for any deaths that occur in immigration detention.

MEGAN McLEMORE

Researcher, HIV-AIDS and Human Rights Program

Human Rights Watch

New York

Â·

The Division of Immigration Health Services, part of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE),  had numerous problems during the three years I worked there,
from poorly qualified employees  to cumbersome processes, including the
managed-care system. However, problems at some sites should not be generalized
to all, and a desire to expose injustice should not lead to inflammatory, poorly
supported statements.

As clinical director at one compound in Arizona, I focused on making sure that
all detainees received quality care and were treated with dignity by our staff.
A few points I'd like to emphasize about the May 12 article, which focused on
the facility where I worked:

Â· All detainees at our facility received an initial medical screening.

Â· I sent records to the  specialists treating  all of my patients. However, as
is often the case in private practice as well, these documents were not always
incorporated into the off-site medical record.

Â· I did not resign abruptly;  I gave notice in February and left in August.

I worked very hard within and often against a broken system and successfully
provided high-quality medical care to people in difficult situations at a
well-run ICE facility.

ELIZABETH FLEMING

Buenos Aires

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; The detention
facility in Elizabeth, N.J.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 7, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Bond Help Heartens Immigrants;
Workplace Raids' Frequency Propels Fundraising Effort

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1196 words


Boston financier Robert Hildreth has been contributing to immigrant service
groups around his home state for nearly two decades. So when federal immigration
agents raided a garment factory in New Bedford, Mass., last year and began
transferring the workers to Texas detention centers thousands of miles from the
community organizations trying to help them, Hildreth quickly stepped in with
what he thought was a modest offer:

"I just told [their lawyers], 'You know, if you ever need bond money for
someone, let me know,' " the 57-year-old multimillionaire recalled during an
interview. "I was just following my nose on this. . . . I had no idea of the
scale of what I was getting into."

Within a matter of weeks, Hildreth had posted bond for 40 detainees,
contributing $116,800 of his own money and launching the pilot version of a
national bond assistance program immigrant advocates hope will prove the
linchpin of an emerging strategy to counter the recent increase in government
workplace raids, including the arrest of nearly 600 workers at a manufacturing
plant in Laurel, Miss., on Aug. 25.

Already, the National Immigrant Bond Fund has attracted more than $300,000 in
contributions and helped bail out nearly 90 immigrants detained in six  worksite
raids, including 10 of the 46 workers detained during a raid on a painting
company in Annapolis in June.

Days before the Mississippi raid, at the first sign that immigration agents
appeared to be massing there, representatives of the fund were on the phone to
immigrant advocates in the state.  The fund stands ready with at least $150,000
for bond hearings and is trying to raise more.

"This is exactly what we hoped the fund would do," said Paromita Shah, associate
director of the National Immigration Project of the National Lawyers Guild and a
member of the bond fund's steering committee. "I don't see this as bringing
about the end of these raids, but I'm optimistic that the fund is going to make
a difference for a lot of people."

Although workplace arrests bring in only a fraction of the nation's estimated 8
million illegal immigrant workers, they have risen sharply in recent months,
growing from 510 in 2002 to nearly 5,000 a year.

Unlike defendants in the criminal justice system, foreigners facing deportation
in immigration court do not have a right to a government-provided attorney if
they cannot pay for their own. And when  they are moved to remote holding
facilities far from their families, it is more difficult for them to find
attorneys, advocates contend. Without access to legal advice, immigrants often
have a tough time determining if they have a viable defense against deportation,
let alone collecting the evidence needed to present their case. So many simply
agree to deportation.

The bond fund aims to change that pattern by offering to pay up to half of an
immigrant's bond, increasing the number who can afford bail while insuring the
immigrant has a financial incentive to show up in court.  Those awaiting a
deportation hearing are generally eligible for release on bond if they have no
criminal convictions, were not previously ordered deported and can convince a
homeland security official or an immigration judge that they pose no danger to
national security or the community and are not a flight risk, which they often
demonstrate by providing evidence of long-standing community ties through their
children, spouses and other relatives.

Raising enough cash to keep up with the spike in workplace raids could be
challenging, advocates say.

"The decision to grant bond and the amount of the bond that is set seems to
follow a wildly arbitrary process that totally differs from one judge to
another," said Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum
and another member of the bond fund committee. "I've seen everything from $2,000
to $24,000 bonds for essentially the same circumstances."

Three Guatemalan brothers who were arrested in June's raid on the Annapolis
painting company, for instance, received substantially different bond amounts
even though they shared the same family ties and living arrangements. Sergio
Gonzalez, 32, the first to go before an immigration judge, was granted a $6,500
bond. When his brothers Hugo Gonzalez, 27, and Juan Carlos Gonzalez, 41, went
before a different judge about a week later, their bonds were set at  $3,500
each.

All three said they send most of their earnings back to family in Guatemala and
did not have enough savings to cover their bonds.  Their brother Obdulio
Gonzalez, who is a legal permanent resident and has lived in the United States
for 10 years, was able to come up with the $6,500 needed to bail out Sergio and
$3,500 toward the other two. But he said he probably would have had to leave one
of the brothers in detention if the bond fund had not covered the remaining
$3,500.

As it was, Obdulio, 37, who is self-employed as a house painter and has a wife
and U.S.-born daughter, used up his entire rainy-day fund, which he  saves over
the summer to cover his mortgage and other bills during the winter season, when
jobs are scarce.

"Honestly, I don't know how I'm going to survive this December," Obdulio said
during an interview at the kitchen table of his ranch house in an Annapolis
suburb on a recent evening. "I'm just asking God for more clients to give me
more work, and I'm lowering my prices to get as many jobs as I can."

Sergio and Hugo, who share Obdulio's burly build and reserved demeanor, listened
with a mixture of guilt and gratitude. If they hadn't been able to bond out,
Hugo said, they would almost certainly have agreed to deportation rather than
trying to contest their case from detention.

"It's hard to explain how terrible it felt to be locked up in that tiny, hot
room, with just a bed and a metal toilet," he said. "You lose all hope. You just
feel despair."

It remains to be seen whether the bond fund will ultimately help such immigrants
gain anything beyond a few extra months to get their affairs in order before
they are ordered deported. Several of the Guatemalans picked up in New Bedford
have requested asylum based on dangers they faced as members of persecuted
indigenous groups back home. Others are seeking relief from deportation on the
grounds that it would cause extreme hardship to their U.S.-born children.
Attorneys also pointed to a number of other potential lines of defense,
including negotiating a temporary stay of deportation in exchange for testimony
against a former employer or, in the case of immigrants who initially entered
legally and have a U.S. citizen relative eligible to sponsor them, persuading a
judge to let them apply for residency.

Still, the number of people likely to qualify for each type of relief is
probably low, said Mark Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
think tank that favors limits on immigration. And he said this suggests that the
true goal of the bond fund is to "lawyer up illegal immigrants" and "obstruct
enforcement of immigration law until Congress passes an amnesty."

"If the anti-enforcement folks are successful in tying up enough of these
hearings, then it will become impossible to do enforcement," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jacquelyn Martin -- Associated Press; After a speech in
Silver Spring last month, Robert Hildreth is hugged by a man who was arrested
during an immigration raid but able to post bond through the National Immigrant
Bond Fund, which Hildreth's idea launched.
IMAGE; By Leah L. Jones For The Washington Post; Obdulio Gonzalez, standing, got
help to bail his brothers Sergio Gonzalez and Hugo out of detention. Hugo says
that had he not gotten the money, he would have likely agreed to be deported
rather than fight while in detention.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 5, 2008 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

The Profit of Detention;
Private $21 Million Facility Would Speed Process, Investor Says

BYLINE: Josh White and Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C08

LENGTH: 1189 words

DATELINE: FARMVILLE, Va.


A clearing in the woods between this small town's water treatment plant and a
metal salvage yard soon will be transformed into what could become the largest
immigration detention facility in the mid-Atlantic region, a $21 million project
fueled by the aggressive policies some Virginia localities have adopted toward
identifying illegal immigrants and handing them over to the federal government.

The 1,040-bed facility will be unique not only because it will dwarf many of
Virginia's jails but also because it is a private venture aimed at capitalizing
on the massive influx of detainees into the Immigration and Customs Enforcement
system over the past year. A small group of Richmond investors looks to reap
millions of dollars in profit by building what has been described as the
"mid-Atlantic hub" for ICE operations in a town just three hours south of the
nation's capital.

The detention compound is billed as a remedy for the system that has been taking
in hundreds of newly arrested immigrants but has struggled to deal with their
cases efficiently. Instead of dispersing detainees to nine detention facilities
across the state -- which has caused overcrowding, delays and additional
taxpayer expense -- ICE is considering Farmville as a place it could centrally
house detainees and possibly move regional administrative offices. The investors
and Farmville leaders also hope to lure the immigration courtrooms now in
Arlington County to the compound.

Although ICE has not guaranteed that even a single detainee will be sent to the
facility, the investors plan to break ground Oct. 15 and believe they will have
the facility filled to 85 percent of capacity a year from now as part of a
contract between the town and ICE. There is room to expand the detention center
to 2,500 beds.

"This will speed up the process of getting [detainees] out of the country," said
investor Warren Coleman, a former Philip Morris executive who will run the
facility.

Coleman and the other investors said the facility would provide much more humane
treatment than detainees currently receive in Virginia, because the state's
municipal jails are not designed to house noncriminal prisoners.

"If you look at the system that is used to hold these kinds of folks now, what
kind of system is this? Jails," Ken Newsome, a spokesman and investor in the
project, said at a public briefing in Farmville last month. "You're taking folks
who aren't criminals and you're making a jail system house them. You're treating
people who aren't criminals as criminals."

By moving detainees out of local jails, ICE would centralize its operations and
bring uniformity to detention conditions. It also would move the detainees, and
perhaps the courtrooms, to a rarely visited area at the heart of central
Virginia. ICE officials said they were in a "robust dialogue" with Farmville but
are waiting for the jail to develop.

"ICE has made no commitment to relocate anyone at this stage," said Marc Moore,
assistant director for field operations with ICE's detention and removal
program. "It's early to speculate what this facility will look like and to what
extent it will allow us to consolidate and gain economies of scale."

Farmville is a small town of red-brick storefronts at a bend in the Appomattox
River. Of its 7,000 residents, about 2,500 are students at Longwood University,
a state school that has been a bulwark against the town's crumbling
manufacturing sector. In the past few years, two of the area's largest companies
have left, according to town officials, taking more than 400 jobs from a place
with an annual per capita income of $13,552.

Not far from the quaint town center, where on a recent day college sorority
women strolled by antiques shops and cafes, lies a faltering industrial park.
The wooded clearing that could turn Farmville into the region's main deportation
portal is just about a mile away as the crow flies, hidden down a road few
residents would ever take.

Farmville is already Virginia's largest custodian of jailed illegal immigrants.
Just outside town at nearby Piedmont Regional Jail, 300 such detainees are
housed in a series of hangar-like cellblocks. Jail officials would not allow
photographs or interviews with detainees, but a look inside the dormitories
revealed men sleeping on triple bunk beds, watching TV, talking on pay phones
and playing cards on a towel-draped table.

In handwritten letters to advocacy groups forwarded to The Washington Post,
detainees there complain of harsh treatment by guards, inadequate medical care
and rotten food. Mostly, though, they complain about having no idea about their
case status or when they might be deported -- a fate most have long accepted as
the only way out of jail. The new facility would give detainees access to
computers, video games and exercise equipment while holding them just yards away
from courtrooms where their cases can be heard.

Farmville officials think that the facility would also be a huge financial
windfall for the community. Town Council member Edward Gordon, who is the
medical director at Piedmont, said Farmville had a simple choice: "We had this
industry or nothing."

"Yes, we might come to be known as an ICE hub, but the average person who lives
in town won't know where it is," Gordon said, adding that most residents had no
idea that Piedmont had been holding immigrant detainees.

Built and run by a private subcontractor, the facility will not be paid for by
taxpayers. The town expects to receive about $322,000 a year in revenue by
collecting $1 per detainee per day. An additional $425,000 would stream into
Farmville and neighboring Prince Edward County by way of taxes and fees,
buttressing Farmville's annual budget of about $24 million.

"I'm tickled to death with it," said Otto Overton, a Town Council member who is
looking forward to the creation of about 200 jobs that average $48,000 a year in
salary and benefits.

But it also figures to be a huge boon for the private investors, who have
secured as part of the ICE contract a rate of almost $63 per detainee per day.
That means that if the estimated 322,000 detainee days are achieved each year,
the company could gross $20 million in federal tax dollars annually.

After salaries and expenses, the group could make millions in profit while also
saving taxpayers money, since the $63 rate is lower than that of many of the
state's jails. While Piedmont charges $46.25 to house ICE detainees, rates in
Northern Virginia range from $64 per detainee per day in Prince William County
to $113 in Alexandria.

And local jails don't always have the room to hold ICE detainees for long
periods. Prince William's regional Adult Detention Center has had to send about
120 of its criminal prisoners to other facilities to make room for illegal
immigrant detainees, and has had to budget about $1.8 million to process
immigration-status reviews of all foreign-born suspects.

"ICE needs the beds, and a new facility will help relieve their pressure of
finding a place," said Pete Meletis, superintendent of the Prince William jail.
"This will be a central place for them to house people and will be a good
thing."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 7, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Applicants for Citizenship Take To the Courts to Force Action

BYLINE: Christopher Lee; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 672 words


Mark Sapir got fed up waiting years for immigration officials to act on his
citizenship application. So the native of Russia did the most American thing he
could think of: He filed a lawsuit.

Sapir, a mathematics professor at Vanderbilt University, asked a federal court
to enforce the law that requires U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to
decide whether to grant citizenship within 120 days of interviewing an
applicant. In Sapir's case, that deadline had long passed.

"Since nothing worked, I decided this was the only thing I can do," Sapir said
in an interview last week.

He is not alone. An increasing number of immigrants seeking U.S. citizenship are
using legal action to force a decision from the perennially backlogged
immigration office, which in 2003 became a part of the new Department of
Homeland Security.

In fiscal 2005, applicants filed 370 such lawsuits against the agency. By last
year, the number had jumped to 3,900, and applications this year are on pace to
surpass 5,200.

"We acknowledge a significant increase in litigation against the agency during
the last few years," CIS spokesman William G. Wright said in an e-mail.

A big reason for the agency's slow pace is that immigration officials began
scrutinizing applicants' backgrounds more extensively after the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks. Applicants for citizenship must undergo an FBI name check to determine
whether they appear on any terrorism watch lists or are mentioned in a federal
law enforcement investigation. If red flags arise, the applicant must prove that
he is not the person in question.

Since October, immigration officials have submitted 792,397 name check requests
to the FBI. In March, 345,600 were pending, including 72,000 that had been in
process for more than six months.

"We are making significant progress in reducing the backlog," said Wright, who
noted that the vast majority of name checks are completed within six months.

Sapir and his family came to the United States in 1991 on a work visa, obtained
permanent resident status in 1994 and applied for citizenship in 1999. In 2000,
immigration officials interviewed them and gave them the required exams in
English, civics and U.S. history, all of which they passed.

"After that, nothing happened for like three years, during which I tried all
possible ways to speed it up," Sapir said. "After some time, it was clear they
had lost my file."

By April 2003, Sapir decided that he had waited long enough. With the help of an
attorney, he filed his federal lawsuit that month. He even managed to garner
some press coverage. A trial was set for August 2003, but it never got that far.
By July, he and his wife and their older daughter had been granted citizenship.
(Two of his other children were U.S. citizens by virtue of being born here.)

The court ordered the government to pay half of Sapir's legal fees -- about
$4,000, he said.

The government received nearly 1.4 million applications for naturalization last
year, according to federal figures. Most applicants will never reach the point
where suing the government would make sense tactically, and even among those who
do, the cost might be a powerful deterrent.

Such lawsuits cannot force immigration officials to grant citizenship only to
make a timely decision on an application. In defending itself in these cases,
the government has argued that the "examination" stage includes the FBI check,
so the 120-day clock should not begin ticking until that is completed.

Federal courts have come down on both sides, experts say. Even so, filing a
lawsuit has become an increasingly popular tactic.

"The mere bringing of an action puts pressure on the immigration service by the
assistant U.S. attorneys, who call them and say, 'Look, I don't want to deal
with these 400 cases. Why aren't you acting on them?' " said Muzaffar A.
Chishti, a lawyer and senior official at the Migration Policy Institute, a
nonpartisan Washington think tank.

"And that inevitably may result in the senior bureaucrats making those cases
rise to the top of the pile."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 14, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrants Can Linger In Detention for Months;
Immigrants Can Linger In Detention for Months

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 171 words


Foreigners detained by immigration officials spent an average of 37 days in
custody during fiscal 2007, according to Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
Detainees, though, can be held for a much longer or much shorter time, depending
on their circumstances. Under a practice that was expanded during the summer of
2006, undocumented immigrants caught within 100 miles of the Mexican border --
and within 14 days of their entry into the United States -- are deported swiftly
under an "expedited removal" program. These immigrants usually do not have a
hearing before a judge. On the other hand, some immigrants are detained for
months or even years if they challenge their deportation in federal courts.

Here is a breakdown of time in custody for fiscal 2006, the most recent
information ICE could provide. The figures exclude nearly 5,800 detainees who
are seeking asylum.

Less than three months    206,325

Three to six months     10,828

Six to nine months      2,644

Nine months to one year     1,269

More than one year      1,809

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 14, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Phobia at the Gates

BYLINE: Andrew Sullivan

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 873 words


Twelve countries ban HIV-positive visitors, nonimmigrants and immigrants from
their territory: Armenia, Brunei, Iraq, Libya, Moldova, Oman, Qatar, the Russian
Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Sudan  and . . . the United States. China
recently acted to remove its ban on HIV-positive visitors because it feared
embarrassment ahead of the Olympics. But America's ban remains.

It seems unthinkable that the country that has been the  most generous in
helping people with HIV should legally ban all non-Americans who are
HIV-positive. But it's true: The leading center of public and private HIV
research discriminates against those with HIV.

HIV is the only medical condition permanently designated in law -- in the
Immigration and Nationality Act -- as grounds for inadmissibility to the United
States. Even leprosy and tuberculosis  are left to the discretion of the
secretary of health and human services.

The  ban can be traced to the panic that dominated discussion of  the human
immunodeficiency virus two decades ago.  The ban was the brainchild of Sen.
Jesse Helms (who came to regret his initial hostility toward people with HIV and
AIDS). President George H.W. Bush sought to drop the ban, but in 1993,  after a
scare about Haitian refugees, Congress wrote it into law.

I remember that year particularly because it was when I, a legal immigrant,
became infected. With great lawyers, a rare O visa (granted to individuals in
the arts and sciences), a government-granted HIV waiver and thousands of dollars
in legal fees, I have managed to stay in the United States. Nonetheless, because
I am HIV-positive, I am not eligible to become a permanent resident. Each year I
have to leave the country and reapply for an HIV waiver to reenter. I have lived
in the United States for almost a quarter-century, have paid taxes, gotten
married and built a life here -- but because of HIV, I am always vulnerable to
being forced to leave for good. After a while, the stress of such insecurity
gnaws away at your family and health.

I am among the most privileged non-Americans with HIV. Others live in fear of
being exposed; many have to hide their medications when entering the country for
fear of being discovered by customs or immigration. Couples have been split up
and torn apart. International conferences on HIV and AIDS have long avoided
meeting in the United States because of the ban, which violates U.N. standards
for member states.

This law has lasted so long because no domestic constituency lobbies for its
repeal. Immigrants or visitors with HIV are often too afraid to speak up. The
ban itself is also largely unenforceable -- it's impossible to take blood from
all those coming to America, hold them until the results come through and then
deport those who test positive. Enforcement occurs primarily when immigrants
volunteer their HIV status -- as I have -- or apply for permanent residence. The
result is not any actual prevention of HIV coming into the United States but
discrimination against otherwise legal immigrants who are HIV-positive.

Would treating HIV like any other medical condition cost the United States if
such visitors or immigrants at some point became public dependents? It's
possible -- but all legal immigrants and their sponsors are required to prove
that they can provide their own health insurance for at least 10 years after
being admitted. Making private health insurance a condition of visiting or
immigrating with HIV prevents any serious government costs, and the tax dollars
that would be contributed by many of the otherwise qualified immigrants would be
a net gain for the government -- by some estimates, in the tens of millions of
dollars.

In the end, though, removing the ban is not about money. It's a statement that
the United States does not discriminate against people with HIV and does not
retain the phobias of the past. That's why repeal has been supported by a
bipartisan group of senators, including Republicans Gordon Smith and Richard
Lugar and Democrats John Kerry and Barack Obama, in an amendment to the
reauthorization of the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. They know
that immigration and public health policy should not rest on stigma or fear. For
the Bush administration, removing the Helms ban would be a final, fitting part
of its admirable HIV and AIDS legacy.

It's also worth remembering that we are talking about legal immigrants and
visitors, people who go through the process and seek to participate and
contribute to this country. Making HIV the only medical condition that legally
prevents someone from immigrating or even visiting is a signal to people with
HIV that they have something to be ashamed of. That stigma is one of the
greatest obstacles to tackling HIV across the world. The United States has done
much to reduce this stigma; it makes no sense to perpetuate it in its own
immigration policy.

People with HIV are no less worthy of being citizens of the United States than
anyone else. All we ask is to be able to visit, live and work in America and,
for some of us, to realize our dream of becoming Americans -- whether we are
HIV-positive or not.

Andrew Sullivan is a senior editor of the Atlantic magazine and former editor of
the New Republic.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2008 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Ex-Employees at Va. Resort Await Immigration Hearings

BYLINE: Bill Brubaker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 807 words


Six weeks after immigration agents raided Lansdowne Resort in Loudoun County,
most of the 59 workers arrested on civil charges of entering the United States
illegally have been released from custody while they await hearings on their
immigration status, authorities said.

Six of the former workers have been deported or left the country voluntarily,
resolving their cases, and one has been charged with a criminal offense,
officials said.

Jose Manuel Guerra, 47, a native of El Salvador, has been charged with using
bogus Social Security and alien registration numbers to get a job at Lansdowne,
according to court documents. He faces up to 10 years in prison if convicted.

Guerra admitted to a federal agent that he bought a fake U.S. immigration
resident alien card from an unknown person on an unknown street in the District
for $50, court documents say.

More criminal charges cannot be ruled out against former workers or managers at
the resort, said Pat A. Reilly, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. None of the resort's administrators has been charged.

"The investigation continues. I mean, 59 people have a lot of information" that
could implicate others, Reilly said.

ICE officials said they are looking into how the Lansdowne workers entered the
United States without legal documents, how some obtained fraudulent papers and
how they got jobs at the resort.

The civil administrative charges by ICE remain against 53 of the former
Lansdowne workers, 15 of whom remain in custody, officials said. The other 38
have been released while they await hearings; a judge will decide whether they
can stay in the United States.

The investigation began in July after a routine inspection of federal employment
verification forms, known as I-9s, that immigrant workers had submitted at the
resort, officials said. Agents said they determined that many of the workers
were using fraudulent documents or had stolen identities.

On April 8, ICE agents descended upon Lansdowne and interviewed about 100
employees, which led to the 59 arrests.

"ICE nabs illegal workers at an affluent hotel resort in northern Virginia," the
agency's news release was headlined.

The raid came just a few weeks after ICE agents raided a construction company
office in Prince William County, arresting 34 workers suspected of being in the
United States illegally.

The former Lansdowne workers are nationals of El Salvador (40), Peru (7),
Honduras (5), Bolivia (3), Mexico (2), Guatemala (1) and Argentina (1), federal
officials said.

Lansdowne bills itself as a luxurious resort with 310 rooms and suites
overlooking the Potomac River and a championship golf course.

The resort's marketing and public relations director, Marjorie Lane, did not
respond to repeated requests Thursday and Friday for an interview. Reached on
her cellphone Friday, Lane said she was not available to talk.

Lansdowne's controller and acting general manager, David Millar, also declined
an interview Friday, saying he had to attend a business meeting and a child's
football game.

The resort is owned by Houston-based Benchmark Hospitality International.

Government officials say it's often difficult for employers to detect whether
their workers' documents are authentic.

"Generally, it's a hall of mirrors for employers," Reilly said. "It's hard to
find out who you've got, really, because [some workers] have fraudulent
documentation. We don't ask people to be document experts at the places of
employment. We just ask them to do due diligence."

Reilly said some employers might "look the other way" and hire suspected illegal
immigrants because "it is hard to get labor."

Some employers have been prosecuted for knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. In
one case, ICE agents discovered that lower-level managers had facilitated the
hiring, according to Reilly.

Many of the Lansdowne workers were released from custody on humanitarian grounds
-- to care for children, for example -- after agents determined they were not
flight risks, Reilly said.

"All kinds of criteria come into play when we're deciding whether somebody can
get out [of jail], such as whether they have ties to the community, whether they
have assets, whether they have a fixed address," she said.

Guerra remains in jail, pending a court hearing.

An ICE agent said in a sworn affidavit that Guerra carried two identity cards
from El Salvador with an October 1960 birth date and a fake U.S. resident alien
card with an October 1965 birth date.

The alleged fake card had "incorrect font, incorrect photograph and text
alignment, improperly trimmed edges, improper coloring, and failure to show fine
detail," according to the affidavit, filed in U.S. District Court in Alexandria.

And the number on the card had been assigned to another man, who was identified
in the affidavit as Abdul R., a Pakistani 27 years younger than Guerra.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 26, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Expedite Deportation

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 109 words


Reading Julie L. Myers's May 20 op-ed column, "Caring for Immigration
Detainees," I was struck by the extraordinary costs American taxpayers are
burdened with in order for the Department of Homeland Security and Immigration
and Customs Enforcement to enforce our immigration laws. Instead of detaining
illegal immigrants for weeks or months, we should institute an expedited
deportation process for those who overstayed their visas or entered illegally.
This would reduce costs and be fair to taxpayers, including the millions of
legal immigrants, like me, who followed our laws.

DINO TEPPARA

Washington

The writer is chief of staff for Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.).

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 6, 2008 Friday
                                Regional Edition

DHS to Reopen Inquiry Into Suspect's Expulsion to Syria

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 406 words


The Department of Homeland Security inspector general's office has reopened its
investigation of the government's treatment of Maher Arar, a Syrian-born
Canadian who, after being falsely named as a terrorist, was seized in September
2002 and sent to Syria, where he was tortured.

DHS Inspector General Richard G. Skinner told a congressional hearing that he
could not rule out the possibility that immigration officials violated a law
that prohibits the American government from sending anyone to a country where he
or she is likely to be tortured, especially since investigators were not allowed
to question all participants.

Without elaborating, Skinner also said his office is conducting new interviews
because it recently received information that contradicted one of its
conclusions.

Skinner's testimony and a heavily redacted 50-page report found that U.S.
immigration officials appropriately determined that Arar could be expelled. But
he said immigration authorities concluded that sending Arar to Syria "would more
likely than not result in his torture" and relied on "ambiguous" assurances from
Syria that he would not be.

The order not to return Arar home to Canada, despite his citizenship there, was
signed by then-Deputy Attorney General Larry D. Thompson after deliberations by
then-Immigration and Naturalization Services chief James W. Ziglar. It came
after U.S. authorities were told by Canadian counterparts that they would be
unable to detain Arar.

Skinner also questioned U.S. officials' minimal efforts to notify attorneys for
Arar before a late-night hearing where he could argue his fear of torture, and
he recommended that immigration authorities allow more time to respond to
charges.

Lawmakers on the House Judiciary and Foreign Affairs committees criticized the
Bush administration for taking four years to disclose details of the case to
Congress and for trying to keep those details secret from the public.

Rep. Bill Delahunt (D-Mass.) called on lawmakers to ask the Justice Department
to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate whether U.S. laws were violated.

Arar was stopped on a layover in New York en route home from a vacation. Syria
released him after nearly a year's imprisonment.

The Canadian government has apologized to Arar and agreed to pay him $9 million
in compensation after finding that its agents wrongly labeled him an Islamic
fundamentalist and passed that information to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 22, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

New Policy On Illegal Immigrants Questioned;
ACLU Seeks Files From Sheriff's Office

BYLINE: Bill Brubaker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ01

LENGTH: 515 words


The American Civil Liberties Union expressed concern Friday about plans by the
Loudoun County Sheriff's Office to check the immigration status of anyone
arrested in the county who is suspected of being in the United States illegally.

"We believe these kinds of policies are ill-advised in all circumstances,
placing the federal responsibility to implement immigration laws in local hands
and leading to hostile relations between local governments and their Latino
communities," Kent Willis, executive director of the ACLU's Virginia chapter,
said in a statement.

"But where these policies do exist, those in charge must train police officers
in non-discriminatory practices, they must put in place an explicit race-neutral
protocol for determining when citizenship records will be sought, and they must
have recordkeeping systems that compare treatment across racial lines," Willis
said.

The ACLU said it has filed a Freedom of Information Act request with the
Sheriff's Office, asking for records "pertaining to policies . . . for
determining which arrestees will be subject to immigration status checks."

Sheriff's Office spokesman Kraig Troxell said Friday that Loudoun deputies have
a general order from the Sheriff's Office not to show bias. He also said three
Loudoun deputies have begun participating in federal training "on how this
program works."

Loudoun Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson (I) announced plans for the immigration
status checks Tuesday, saying he had reached agreement with U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement to participate in a program that seeks to deport illegal
immigrants convicted of serious felonies. The program is in place in other
Northern Virginia jurisdictions.

Simpson said Tuesday that his deputies will not target people  based solely on
their ethnicity. "Racial profiling has not been condoned in the department. It
never has. It never will be," he said.

ICE is seeking to deport only illegal immigrants convicted of certain felonies,
including violent crimes, or those who have returned to the United States
illegally after being deported, Simpson said.

But Loudoun will use a computerized ICE program to check the residency status of
even those charged with minor offenses if there is reason to think they are
illegal immigrants. Simpson said people charged with minor offenses must be
checked because some might have felony convictions on their records, possibly
under different names.

The ICE program, also used in Prince William County, Manassas, Manassas Park and
Herndon, will begin in Loudoun this summer, Simpson said.

Willis, in his statement Friday, questioned whether Simpson has a protocol for
how law enforcement officers will decide which suspects should be checked. "If
he implements this plan without precise -- and probably costly -- procedures to
protect against discrimination, then we are concerned that discrimination based
on national origin will occur," he said.

Troxell said the three deputies being trained in South Carolina will become
"experts" on the program and will work "hand in hand with ICE" to ensure it is
being run properly.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Loudoun Policy on Illegal Immigrants Questioned;
ACLU Seeks Files From Sheriff's Office

BYLINE: Bill Brubaker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA27

LENGTH: 515 words


The American Civil Liberties Union expressed concern Friday about plans by the
Loudoun County Sheriff's Office to check the immigration status of anyone
arrested in the county who is suspected of being in the United States illegally.

"We believe these kinds of policies are ill-advised in all circumstances,
placing the federal responsibility to implement immigration laws in local hands
and leading to hostile relations between local governments and their Latino
communities," Kent Willis, executive director of the ACLU's Virginia chapter,
said in a statement.

"But where these policies do exist, those in charge must train police officers
in non-discriminatory practices, they must put in place an explicit race-neutral
protocol for determining when citizenship records will be sought, and they must
have recordkeeping systems that compare treatment across racial lines," Willis
said.

The ACLU said it has filed a Freedom of Information Act request with the
Sheriff's Office, asking for records "pertaining to policies . . . for
determining which arrestees will be subject to immigration status checks."

Sheriff's Office spokesman Kraig Troxell said Friday that Loudoun deputies have
a general order from the Sheriff's Office not to show bias. He also said three
Loudoun deputies have begun participating in federal training "on how this
program works."

Loudoun Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson (I) announced plans for the immigration
status checks Tuesday, saying he had reached agreement with U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement to participate in a program that seeks to deport illegal
immigrants convicted of serious felonies. The program is in place in other
Northern Virginia jurisdictions.

Simpson said Tuesday that his deputies will not target people  based solely on
their ethnicity. "Racial profiling has not been condoned in the department. It
never has. It never will be," he said.

ICE is seeking to deport only illegal immigrants convicted of certain felonies,
including violent crimes, or those who have returned to the United States
illegally after being deported, Simpson said.

But Loudoun will use a computerized ICE program to check the residency status of
even those charged with minor offenses if there is reason to think they are
illegal immigrants. Simpson said people charged with minor offenses must be
checked because some might have felony convictions on their records, possibly
under different names.

The ICE program, also used in Prince William County, Manassas, Manassas Park and
Herndon, will begin in Loudoun this summer, Simpson said.

Willis, in his statement Friday, questioned whether Simpson has a protocol for
how law enforcement officers will decide which suspects should be checked. "If
he implements this plan without precise -- and probably costly -- procedures to
protect against discrimination, then we are concerned that discrimination based
on national origin will occur," he said.

Troxell said the three deputies being trained in South Carolina will become
"experts" on the program and will work "hand in hand with ICE" to ensure it is
being run properly.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 29, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Candidates Court Latino Leaders;
Obama Accuses McCain of Bowing to GOP on Immigration

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 727 words


Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) yesterday accused Republican Sen. John McCain of
retreating from a comprehensive overhaul of immigration laws that the senator
from Arizona had championed in Congress, contending that his rival for the White
House "walked away" from his own legislation to win the GOP presidential
primary.

"When he was running for his party's nomination, he walked away from that
commitment," Obama told a gathering of Latino elected officials at which the two
candidates appeared separately to woo Hispanic voters.

McCain, who spoke prior to Obama's appearance, insisted that immigration "will
be my top priority yesterday, today and tomorrow." He said the federal
government eventually should create a method for immigrants living in the United
States illegally to become citizens, in addition to strengthening security
measures to prevent foreigners from sneaking across the borders.

The broad immigration bill that stalled in Congress -- co-sponsored by McCain
and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) -- would have addressed both goals at once.
But beginning last fall, McCain began to say political reality dictates that
stricter enforcement must come first. The legislation "wasn't very popular . . .
in my party," he acknowledged yesterday. "We will not succeed in the Congress
until we can convince the majority of the American people we have border
security."

A McCain campaign spokesman shot back at Obama's characterization of the issue.
"It's quite audacious for Barack Obama to question John McCain's commitment to
immigration reform when it was Obama himself who worked to kill the Senate's
bipartisan immigration reform compromise last year," the spokesman, Brian
Rogers, said in a statement. It also said Obama  had voted for five amendments
"designed by special interests to kill the immigration reform deal."

The sparring over immigration erupted as the two parties' presumptive nominees
made one of their first back-to-back appearances at the same event in the
general-election campaign. Their immediate audience was the several hundred
members of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials
convened this weekend at a downtown Washington hotel. But the candidates'
messages were intended for Latinos around the country, who have emerged as the
nation's second-largest minority group and could prove a pivotal constituency in
the November elections.

During the long Democratic primary period, Obama drew significantly fewer votes
from Hispanics than his main opponent, Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.).
Recent polls suggest that Obama has far greater support within the group than
McCain. A Gallup Poll this month found that 66 percent of Hispanics said they
favored Obama, while 29 percent said they supported McCain -- far below the
estimated 40 percent of Latinos who voted for President Bush four years ago in a
record showing for a GOP presidential candidate.

That imbalance in support was evident in the ballroom where the two men spoke
yesterday. McCain was interrupted three times by antiwar hecklers, and the warm
applause he drew was eclipsed by long, boisterous cheering that greeted Obama
when he took the stage a half-hour later.

McCain began his remarks by criticizing his rival for not agreeing to share the
stage with him, a reference to the series of joint "town hall" meetings he has
proposed, an invitation that Obama has sidestepped so far.

Each candidate sought to demonstrate that Latinos in particular would be
beneficiaries of his policies on a variety of issues, including health care,
education, trade and the Iraq war, in addition to immigration. For his part,
Obama tried repeatedly in his remarks to show that Latino and African American
voters -- groups whose political interests have not always been aligned -- have
a common cause in his election.

Despite yesterday's barbs, McCain's and Obama's views on immigration overlap to
some degree. Each supports stepped-up enforcement of the nation's borders,
although Obama has been more critical of a fence along the Mexican border that
the Bush administration wants to build. And both men, to varying extents, say
illegal immigrants should be required to surmount certain hurdles before
applying for citizenship and should wait in turn behind legal immigrants who
often linger in limbo for years awaiting government review of their
applications.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Lm Otero -- Associated Press; Presumptive Republican nominee
John McCain may be in for a struggle for Hispanic voters. A Gallup Poll this
month showed 29 percent supporting him.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 7, 2008 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Law Students Rush to Meet Needs In Booming Field of Immigration

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1146 words


Ann Kim made monthly trips this year to a Richmond area immigrant detention
center, trying to free a mentally ill Honduran man. He ended up being deported,
but Kim got something out of it: more experience in the burgeoning field of
immigration law.

"Immigration is becoming more and more complex, and it's going against
immigrants rather than for them," said Kim, 27, a second-generation Korean
American who took the Honduran's case as part of her immigration law clinic at
American University's Washington College of Law. "There's a great need for
lawyers."

A subject that three decades ago was a secondary, technical field delegated to
adjunct professors is booming at law schools nationwide. Elective immigration
law courses taught by tenured specialists are filling lecture halls, immigration
clinics are expanding and student groups devoted to the subject are mushrooming.

The momentum is partly driven by a high-profile, rancorous immigration debate.
But it is also the result of an era of mass immigration that has fueled demand
from foreigners and businesses seeking help navigating U.S. immigration statutes
and has created a generation of law students intimately familiar with the issue,
often because they are children of immigrants or immigrants themselves.

"Immigration is just one part of a much broader story about globalization, of
movement of goods and movement of people and movement of ideas, and what used to
be a backwater of the law has become mainstream," said T. Alexander Aleinikoff,
dean of Georgetown University Law School, who co-authored the first major
immigration law casebook in 1985. "This is certainly a very, very hot topic."

Unlike undergraduates, law students do not pick majors, so there are no
statistics on the number studying immigration law. But professors say there is
no question about the explosion in interest.

When AU created an immigration division within its well-known human rights
clinic three years ago, administrators struggled to fill it; now, as many as 32
students vie each year for 16 slots. "We have to beat them away with a stick,"
said Richard Wilson, a professor. Two years ago, the school added two more
sections of a basic immigration law course.

At least 50 law schools offer immigration clinics, which usually give students
the chance to represent indigent immigrants who have no right to court-appointed
lawyers. More sprout each year: This year, clinics have been launched at the
University of La Verne and Southwestern Law School in Southern California, as
well as at schools in areas that have seen recent influxes in immigration, such
as Penn State and the University of Arkansas, where students circulated a
petition in support of the idea.

Student teams can debate the finer points of the immigration code each year at
the nation's first moot court competition, begun by New York University two
years ago. The University of California at Davis started a second contest this
year.

In the past three years, students at the University of Maryland, George Mason
University and Harvard University have founded immigration law groups. At AU, an
Immigrants' Rights Coalition formed by law students in 2005 has 50 members and
has hosted a conference on a new visa category and panels of day laborers and
refugees.

"We're a country of immigrants, and yet we're putting immigrants out," said the
group's co-chairman, Amalia Greenberg, 29, who emigrated from Venezuela at age
6. "It's a continuation of the civil rights movement, and it feels like it's in
our hands to do something about it."

Professors say the immigration law boom is part of a broader explosion of
interest in human rights and international law, spurred by today's globally
minded students. Immigration is by no means the hottest law school topic --
criminal law and litigation remain hugely popular, and environmental law is a
new favorite.

And although practitioners' ranks are growing -- membership in the American
Immigration Lawyers Association has nearly doubled since 2003, to more than
11,000, 15 percent of whom passed the bar exam within the past three years --
the majority of students in immigration law classes will not become immigration
lawyers, professors said. Many students said they might specialize in another
area and do pro bono immigration cases on the side.

But there is a growing realization, students and professors said, that policies
on issues such as asylum and due process are evolving as never before,
particularly since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. A growing immigrant
population also means that legal status often complicates what might have once
been simple criminal or labor cases.

"It's not just that people think immigration is important, but they're seeing
that it affects everything," said Hiroshi Motomura, an immigration law professor
who will join UCLA in the fall.

Many students said their studies had underscored how thorny immigration is.
Jennifer Khouri recently graduated from George Washington University Law School.
As a student, she successfully argued at Arlington Immigration Court that an
illegal immigrant from Colombia should be allowed to stay in the United States
with her young son, a U.S. citizen. As proud as Khouri is of that victory, she
is starting a job this fall as a U.S. Department of Justice attorney
representing the government in immigration court.

"On both sides, the reaction is too emotional. . . . There's not enough actually
looking at the numbers, empirical evidence about how immigrants are affecting
the country," said Khouri, 27, the daughter of a Lebanese immigrant father and
Cuban immigrant mother. "The reason I want to work for the government is because
I want to push for the middle."

The topic's ultra-political nature frustrates some. Asha Allam, who recently
took GW's immigration clinic, said the experience made her decide against the
field because she thought the immigration system was unfair, in part because of
documented disparities of approval and denial rates among immigration judges.
Stalled federal immigration legislation also means lawyers can offer little aid
to illegal immigrants, she said.

"Lawyers are telling a lot of their clients, 'There's nothing we can do for you
right now,' " said Allam, 23, who plans to work in global trade in hopes that
someday people will not have to migrate for opportunities. "That's not really
legal advice," she said.

The challenges have only energized Karlie Dunsky, a GW law student. Unlike many
of her peers, she had little experience with immigrants while growing up in
Ohio. But she's set on a career in refugee and asylum law.

"I'm going to have to get used to my clients' claims being denied, but the first
one is always hard," said Dunsky, 24. But, she said, "what makes immigration so
compelling is that it's a human issue. . . . It's not some vague entity that
doesn't have a face. It really motivates you."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: July 9, 2008



CORRECTION: A July 7 Metro article about student interest in immigration law
incorrectly said that recent graduate Jennifer Khouri will represent the
government in immigration court as a

Justice Department attorney. Khouri will represent the government in immigration
cases at the U.S. appeals court level.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Demand in the immigration
field has attracted law students like AU's Ann Kim.
IMAGE; Photos By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Ann Kim of American
University's Washington College of Law meets with Sonia Quintanilla, a D.C.
resident from El Salvador, at the school's law clinic.
IMAGE; Kim and Quintanilla hug. Students get case experience through the clinic.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 9, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

CORRECTION

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 48 words


A July 7 Metro article about student interest in immigration law incorrectly
said that recent graduate Jennifer Khouri will represent the government in
immigration court as a

Justice Department attorney. Khouri will represent the government in immigration
cases at the U.S. appeals court level.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 19, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 640 words

LOUDOUN COUNTY

Deputies to Check Suspects' Immigration Status

The Loudoun County Sheriff's Office said yesterday that it has received
clearance from federal authorities to begin checking the immigration status of
people arrested in the county if deputies suspect they are in the United States
illegally.

Three members of the sheriff's gang intelligence unit recently completed a
four-week training program run by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
Loudoun officials said. The deputies are empowered to begin the deportation
process for illegal immigrants who have committed serious crimes, Sheriff
Stephen O. Simpson said.

"The agreement [with ICE] clearly states that our intent is to target those
involved in gang or other serious criminal activity," Simpson said in a
statement. "This program cannot and will not be used for random checks or
unsolicited searches."

The program, known as 287(g), has been adopted by more than 50 other law
enforcement agencies, including Prince William County's.

-- Bill Brubaker

Fuel Spill Causes Flight Cancellation at Dulles

A flight bound for Los Angeles from Dulles International Airport was delayed for
hours and finally canceled after a 15-gallon spill during refueling, authorities
said.

American Airlines Flight 149, which originally was scheduled to take off at 9:20
a.m. was being refueled about 4:25 p.m. when the spill occurred. An emergency
was declared, and passengers left the plane, authorities said.

The spill was nearly cleaned up by 5 p.m., an airport spokeswoman said. By then,
however, federal regulations governing crew work hours forced cancellation of
the flight, according to an airline spokeswoman. A detailed explanation of the
earlier delays could not be obtained immediately.

"Just a nightmare," said a man who telephoned The Washington Post and described
himself as a passenger. He did not give his name.

-- Jonathan Mummolo

MANASSAS

Doctor Charged With Prescription Fraud

An anesthesiologist at Prince William Hospital has been charged with using a
former hospital patient's name to obtain medication, Manassas police said
yesterday.

Carlos Ocampo, 38, of Fairfax was charged with prescription fraud, grand
larceny, identity theft and computer fraud after police learned that he used a
patient's name to access medicine, authorities said. Police said they are still
investigating.

-- Jonathan Mummolo

U.S. DISTRICT COURT

Armed Robber Sentenced to 93 Years in Prison

A Fairfax County man who was convicted of three armed robberies in Fairfax and
Arlington counties was sentenced in federal court yesterday to more than 93
years in prison.

James E. Rose Jr., 35, was arrested in Annandale in February 2007, a month after
a string of holdups in the Huntington area and in Arlington by a man with a
sawed-off shotgun. Rose was convicted in April by a U.S. District Court jury in
Alexandria.

-- Tom Jackman

FAIRFAX COUNTY

Quarantine Placed on Ash Trees and Lumber

Virginia officials have placed a quarantine on ash trees and lumber in Fairfax
County to prevent the spread of a beetle known to infest and kill such trees.

The quarantine is a response to an infestation of the emerald ash borer,
discovered last week in about 40 trees in Herndon and Newington.

-- Chris L. Jenkins

STATE GOVERNMENT

Superintendent of Public Instruction Resigns

Governor Timothy M. Kaine (D) announced yesterday that Virginia's top education
official is resigning after two years on the job.

Billy K. Cannaday Jr. will step down as superintendent of public instruction
Sept. 30 to become dean of the School of Continuing and Professional Studies at
the University of Virginia.

Cannaday was appointed by Kaine in April 2006 after leading the Chesterfield
school system in suburban Richmond for six years. He was the first African
American to head the state's Department of Education.

-- Michael Alison Chandler

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 28, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The Reign of 'Sheriff Joe';
In Arizona, the perils of driving while brown

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 573 words


MANUEL DE Jesus Ortega Melendres, a Mexican citizen, entered the United States
legally last fall, using a visa valid until 2016 as well as a permit from the
Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Ortega had every reason to believe he was
on the right side of the law, except for one small misstep: being brown in
Maricopa County.

Maricopa, which includes Phoenix, is home to more than half of Arizona's 6.2
million people. It is also the domain of Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who is determined
to make life miserable for illegal immigrants. Trouble is, "Sheriff Joe," as he
is universally known, isn't too particular about how he and his men identify
illegal immigrants, or whether they also harass legal immigrants such as Mr.
Ortega, or, for that matter, American citizens who happen to be Hispanic. "We
know how to determine whether these guys are illegal," Mr. Arpaio told the
Chicago Tribune recently, "the way the situation looks, how they are dressed,
where they are coming from."

Mr. Ortega had been in the United States for barely three weeks last September
when Mr. Arpaio's deputies stopped the vehicle he was riding in. Despite showing
the officers his documents, Mr. Ortega says he was handcuffed, treated roughly,
jailed and finally turned over to federal immigration officials, who promptly
released him. During the nine hours Mr. Ortega spent in custody, no one offered
him a translator, or any explanation for his treatment, or food or water.  Nor
did anyone advise him of his Miranda rights. Little wonder Mr. Ortega is now
afraid to be seen in public.

His experience is included in a class-action lawsuit filed last week in federal
district court in Arizona against Mr. Arpaio, his office and Maricopa County.
The complaint recounts similar episodes, including one involving Velia Meraz and
Manuel Nieto, U.S. citizens who say they were ordered from their car at
gunpoint, handcuffed and menaced by sheriff's deputies who seemed to take
offense that the pair were listening to music on a Spanish-language radio
station.

The lawsuit lays out a pattern of alleged racial profiling by the sheriff's
office, which by all appearances systematically seizes the flimsiest of pretexts
-- failing to use a turn signal and the like -- to check the papers of people of
Hispanic descent. By equating race with immigration status, the sheriff's office
has made moving around Maricopa County risky and at times terrifying for many
Latinos, immigrant and native alike.

Sheriff Joe likes to refer to his blatantly unconstitutional campaign of
harassment as "crime suppression sweeps." These "sweeps" have been denounced not
only by Latino groups, which consider them overtly racist, but also by the mayor
of Phoenix, who has asked the Justice Department to investigate, and by Gov.
Janet Napolitano, who has withdrawn state funding from the sheriff's office.

The sheriff loves describing himself as a tough guy and delights in humiliating
prisoners by, among other things, making them wear pink underwear and swelter in
open-air camps. He has gotten away with it --  even won reelection -- thanks to
his colorful public persona and an electorate rattled by the demographic changes
caused by immigration, legal and illegal. He denies allegations of racial
profiling even as his deputies practice something that looks awfully like it.
It's high time for federal authorities, or courts, to step in to halt what has
become a travesty of justice in Arizona.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 2, 2008 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Old Crimes Return to Haunt Legal Immigrants;
Number Deported for Minor Records Rising, Lawyers and Activists Say

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1204 words


It was a very stupid thing to do, Kathryn Ingleson says now. She was a teenage
cashier, and she used customers' credit card numbers to buy $339.07 worth of
items, including a fake Christmas tree. She pleaded guilty, got probation and
pretty much forgot about it.

Until, that is, she took a trip abroad six years later and federal authorities
decided the crimes made her deportable. Now the British citizen, who has lived
in Newport News as a lawful permanent resident since she was 7, has been ordered
to leave the United States this month.

"It's just like a nightmare, really," said Ingleson, 31, who has worked at a
packaging company for a decade and has two children, both U.S. citizens.

Lawyers and activists said Ingleson is one of a rising number of legal
immigrants with relatively old and minor criminal records to be snagged in the
federal government's stepped-up efforts to deport those whom authorities refer
to as "criminal aliens." Unlike illegal immigrants captured in raids or while
crossing the border, lawyers said, these legal immigrants are often people who
believed they had paid their dues, only to be flagged while presenting green
cards at customs checkpoints or applying for visa renewals or citizenship.

"The perception among the American public and even among lawmakers is that the
people who are being deported are maniacal, homicidal and rapist criminals,"
said Alison Parker, deputy director of the U.S. program of Human Rights Watch,
which published a report last year on deportations of legal immigrants. "In many
cases, they're green card holders. They're the family down the street."

A 1996 federal immigration law facilitated such deportations by greatly
expanding the categories of crimes that are deportable offenses, including some
misdemeanors. The law also removed most legal immigrants' rights to fight
expulsion by presenting evidence of community ties or hardship to U.S. citizen
relatives, and it was retroactive, so that even those convicted before the law
took effect in 1997 can be deported.

A total of 272,389 people were deported in 2006, and 95,752 were deported on
criminal grounds, federal statistics show. More than 68 percent of the
convictions that triggered deportation were for nonviolent crimes, according to
the statistics.  The government does not publish figures indicating how many of
those deported are lawful permanent residents.

Among the legal immigrants whose past crimes have come back to haunt them is a
62-year-old Salvadoran man who lived in Northern Virginia since the 1980s. After
applying to renew his green card, he was detained last year for deportation
because of two misdemeanor theft convictions in 2002 and 2003 -- one each for
shoplifting a bottle of wine and packet of razors, said Jayesh Rathod, a law
professor at American University, where students have taken on the man's case.

In early June, a Baltimore steamfitter was flagged for deportation while going
through customs in Atlanta after a trip to his native country, Trinidad. The
man, a permanent U.S. resident for 28 years, said he had never had trouble
entering after previous travels abroad, but this time, records show,
authorities' interest was piqued by a 1994 theft conviction. According to his
attorney, Cynthia Rosenberg, the man had stolen the pen he used to sign a check
at a Baltimore grocery store.

"I'm so tired and disgusted with this. Two-thirds of my life is here," said the
man, 59, who has two U.S. citizen children, one of whom is 16. He spoke on
condition of anonymity because he feared angering the immigration judge who will
hear his case. "And they want to deport me for a 30-cent pen."

Immigration officials do not deny that they want to deport immigrants with
criminal records, legal or illegal, so long as the law allows it.

"What somebody might judge to be minor, somebody else might judge as a threat to
the community," said Pat Reilly, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. Regarding some permanent residents' deep roots in America, she
said: "The time in place, you know, does not exonerate what you might have done
to cause somebody else harm. . . . Lawful permanent residence is nevertheless a
privilege granted to you by the United States, and if you abuse that privilege,
you could lose it."

Ingleson said she would have considered that when she pleaded guilty had she had
any clue what her immigration status was or that it might be jeopardized by a
felony conviction. She was 19 and it never occurred to her, she said, and her
public defender never mentioned it.

The Ingleson family -- Kathryn, her sisters and her parents -- came to the
United States in the 1980s when her father's company transferred him. All still
live in the Hampton Roads area. Kathryn has raised two children, Hakeem, 17, and
Ali'yah, 9, bought a house and kept a clean record since the theft, court
records show.

Returning from a 2003 visit to England, her first trip there since childhood,
Ingleson was pulled aside by immigration authorities at Dulles International
Airport. When she went to a follow-up appointment at a Norfolk immigration
office a month later, she was arrested on the spot.

Although Ingleson provided her employer with a written confession to her crimes
in late 1996, before the new immigration law took effect, she was not convicted
until October 1997. That makes her ineligible to qualify for a waiver that
previously allowed judges to use discretion in cases involving longtime
permanent residents.

Ingleson's attorney, Joseph Peter Drennan of Alexandria, has argued that the
timing of her confession should make her eligible. Courts have rejected that
reasoning and have ordered Ingleson to leave by Aug. 14.

"I'm not saying that it's justifiable to commit a crime. But the fact of the
matter is, let's take things in context. This woman made a mistake, and she's
not re-offended," Drennan said. "A family is going to be broken up because of
this."

In June, Drennan asked Virginia Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) to pardon Ingleson.
That tactic, Drennan said, recently stalled the deportation of rapper Ricky
"Slick Rick" Walters, a British citizen whose 1991 attempted murder conviction
was pardoned in May by New York Gov. David A. Paterson (D).

A Kaine spokesman said the governor is considering the request. But Bernard
Henderson, deputy secretary of the commonwealth, said that under Virginia law,
governors may grant absolute pardons only when convinced that a person should
never have been convicted. Ingleson, Henderson said, has never denied her crime.
Reilly, the ICE spokeswoman, said that a pardon would not necessarily guarantee
Ingleson's right to stay and that a judge would need to review her case.

Ingleson said she is trying to stay hopeful while also thinking about what she
calls the "devastating" possibility of being separated from her children.

One of her sisters just became a U.S. citizen to avoid the possibility of
similar troubles, she said. Ingleson said she has been "begging" her parents to
do the same.

"If this would go away, that would be the first thing I would do," Ingleson
said. "I never really thought about it until this happened . . . for the most
part in my every day life, it's been just like being an American."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Family Photo; British citizen Kathryn Ingleson, 31, with her
children, Ali'yah, 9, and Hakeem, 17, who are Americans, and her father, Ray
Ingleson. Because of a theft as a teen, she faces deportation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 15, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Kaine Intervenes In Deportation Case;
British Citizen in Va. Gets Reprieve

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 482 words


A Newport News woman who was to be deported yesterday for a 1996 crime has been
pardoned by Virginia Gov. Timothy M. Kaine and will be granted a one-year
reprieve by federal immigration authorities.

Kathryn Ingleson, 31, a British citizen who has lived legally in the Hampton
Roads area since she was a child, must ask the Board of Immigration Appeals to
reopen her case and vacate her deportation order, according to Joseph P.
Drennan, her Alexandria-based attorney.

"There's still some red tape to go through, so I'm still a little bit scared,"
Ingleson, a single mother of two children who are U.S. citizens, said yesterday.
"But I'm relieved."

Ingleson and her parents emigrated from England as lawful permanent residents,
or green card holders, when she was 7. In 1996, she used customers' credit card
numbers to purchase about $340 worth of items at a store where she worked as a
cashier, a crime to which she confessed after being confronted by her employers.
Ingleson pleaded guilty to two counts of felony credit card theft in late 1997,
paid restitution and served probation.

Ingleson's conviction came months after a 1996 federal immigration law took
effect. The law expanded the categories of deportable offenses and barred
immigration judges from considering most legal immigrants' ties to their
communities or hardship to their U.S. citizen relatives. Activists and lawyers
say immigration authorities, who have stepped up efforts to deport immigrants
with criminal records, are increasingly using the law to deport legal immigrants
for relatively old and minor crimes.

In 2003, Ingleson was stopped by U.S. customs officials at Dulles International
Airport as she returned from a trip to England. A month later, she was arrested
by immigration authorities, who said her crime made her deportable. Ingleson's
subsequent appeals to immigration and federal courts failed, and she was
scheduled to be deported yesterday.

But developments this week have stalled her removal. On Tuesday, Kaine (D)
granted Ingleson a simple pardon, or official forgiveness, citing her otherwise
clean criminal history, her children, her steady work history and her home
ownership.

On Wednesday, Drennan said, a Newport News Circuit Court judge amended
Ingleson's convictions to credit card fraud, which is not a deportable offense.
The same day, Rep. Robert J. Wittman (R-Va.) wrote a letter to U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement requesting that officials delay Ingleson's deportation;
ICE officials told Wittman that day that they would grant her a one-year stay,
said Steve Stampley, Wittman's spokesman.

An ICE official confirmed that the agency plans to grant the reprieve, which
will give Ingleson time to continue her appeals.

"We're at a stage now where there is significant cause for optimism as for what
the result will be," Drennan said. "I'm very pleased, but we're not out of the
woods yet."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Family Photo; Kathryn Ingleson, with children Hakeem and
Ali'yah, had faced deportation because of a crime she committed as a teenager.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 18, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Clean House at Justice Now

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 319 words


The Aug. 14 editorial "Justice at Justice" failed to grasp the consequences of
politicized hiring decisions at the Justice Department. The fallout from less
qualified judges and lawyers enforcing the law is tantamount to a denial of
justice, so we need to root out bad hires now. Attorney General Michael B.
Mukasey is satisfied to let the personnel evaluation process weed out the
incompetent over time.

In the meantime, roughly 40 immigration judges awarded positions based on
partisan interest, not experience or merit, will make decisions that carry
serious and sometimes life-threatening consequences for those seeking relief
from deportation.

Most people facing deportation are not represented by lawyers; there is no right
to counsel in immigration court. The principal responsibility for ensuring due
process and fairness lies with the immigration judge. If judges in place now are
demonstrably less qualified than those who were passed over for political
reasons, that situation must be rectified at once -- not with the passage of
time.

It is up to Congress to ensure that the Justice Department cleans up, not covers
up, the politicized hiring.

MICHAEL W. MACLEOD-BALL

Chief Legislative and Policy Counsel

Washington Legislative Office

American Civil Liberties Union

Washington

Â·

"Justice at Justice" would more properly have been headlined "Let Crime Pay." By
allowing partisan political and religious considerations to dominate their civil
service hires, Monica Goodling and others betrayed the public trust in the most
contemptible way.

But you agree with the Justice Department's stance that the improper hires
should be allowed to remain, because the chicanery was not theirs. So the
degradation of government service would be allowed to stand.

The only fair solution is for the improperly filled jobs to be declared vacant
and the improper hires allowed to compete on the basis of merit.

ENID McKITRICK

Gaithersburg

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 8, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Effort on Immigration Courts Faulted;
Review Finds Inadequate Progress on Most Initiatives

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Carrie Johnson; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 667 words


A two-year-old Bush administration effort to improve the nation's backlogged
immigration courts has not adequately increased oversight of immigration judges,
tightened the appeals process or consistently sought funding for new judges,
according to a report.

The review, funded by the Carnegie Foundation and released yesterday, reported
that out of a 22-point plan unveiled by then-Attorney General Alberto R.
Gonzales in August 2006, the Justice Department and the Executive Office for
Immigration Review have failed to complete six initiatives. They include
conducting performance evaluations for judges and appellate judges, completing a
code of judicial conduct, and finalizing a rule to decrease cases in which a
single appellate judge affirms a case without an opinion.

The report said eight measures have been partially completed, raising doubts
about their effectiveness. For example, the EOIR has assigned an assistant chief
immigration judge to handle complaints about judges but has not published
information about how the process works or how many complaints have been
processed.

"Political promises were made. They put out the 22 points. . . . But, in the
meantime, they haven't done much," said David Burnham, co-director of the
Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, an independent research organization
at Syracuse University that tracks the Justice Department and conducted the
study.

The report said department officials have largely completed eight upgrades,
including publishing standardized procedures, assigning supervisory judges to
all courts, adding appeals judges and training lawyers.

Carrie Nelson, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, disagreed with TRAC's
characterization, saying, "The Department of Justice has made significant
progress in implementing the 22 measures, as nearly all of them are completed or
near completion."

Nelson said the department began performance reviews for appeals judges in July
and is negotiating with the union to do the same for immigration judges. It is
also putting into place systems to track the performance of new judges and
complaints against all judges, she said. The department requested 120 additional
positions from Congress this year but did not receive them, she said.

The EOIR has a budget of $238 million and oversees 54 immigration courts, 200
administrative judges and the 15-member board of appeals.

The review comes after the Justice Department's inspector general and Office of
Professional Responsibility reported in July that they found widespread problems
with the hiring of immigration judges from 2004 to 2006.

Investigators said former department officials improperly took political and
ideological considerations into account while screening applications for the
career civil service positions.

The staff members used Internet searches to determine whether candidates had
made political campaign contributions and to seek out their voting patterns and
affiliations, the report said. The searches "contributed to significant delays
in appointing immigration judges" at a time when the courts were burdened by a
rising workload, investigators said.

As many as 40 judges won jobs through the improper process, but efforts by
Democratic lawmakers and interest groups to dislodge them are unlikely. Attorney
General Michael B. Mukasey told an American Bar Association audience last month,
after the inspector general's report emerged, that unseating the judges would be
"unfair -- and quite possibly illegal given their civil service protections." A
candidate mentioned in the report, Garry D. Malphrus, was promoted this year to
serve as a judge on the Board of Immigration Appeals.

"The illegal hiring process casts a stain on the entire deportation process and
calls into question whether immigration courts can perform the job of handling
thousands of deportation cases annually in accordance with individualized due
process, fairness and judicial neutrality," ACLU legislative counsel Joanne Lin
said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 13, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Judging the Judges;
Immigration court reform still has a way to go.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 417 words


TWO YEARS after Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales  announced 22 measures to
reform the nation's immigration courts, the Justice Department has made
respectable progress. But it can and should do more.

Mr. Gonzales called for the reforms -- primarily increased training and more
rigorous personnel evaluations  for judges -- after courts of appeals, which
review decisions by the immigration courts, criticized some immigration judges
for lack of expertise and a failure to treat with appropriate respect those
seeking asylum in the United States.

The Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC), a research group based at
Syracuse University, issued a report this week on the state of the Justice
Department's progress. The department deserves credit for, among  its
improvements, creating a practices manual for judges, establishing training
programs for lawyers at the Board of Immigration Appeals, and implementing
on-the-job and classroom training for immigration judges and those who sit on
the Board of Immigration Appeals. It also created a program to increase the
number of  lawyers whose services are available at no charge  to those who
appear before immigration courts.

The department, however, has fallen short on two important measures: finalizing
rules to increase the number of appeals decided by three-judge panels and
implementing rigorous performance evaluations of judges.

Currently, appeals may be decided by only one judge, who is not required to
provide a written explanation for his decision. This lack of a record makes it
that much harder for asylum seekers -- the great majority of whom are denied
their requests -- to challenge  board rulings in  federal appeals courts. The
Justice Department also did not implement annual performance evaluations for
immigration appeals judges until July, and it is still in negotiations over
reviews with the union that represents the judges on the lower immigration
court. These evaluations are particularly important in light of a report
released last month by the Justice Department's Office of the Inspector General
and Office of Professional Responsibility that concluded that a significant
number of candidates for immigration judgeships were disqualified by DOJ
officials if they did not pass a conservative political litmus test.

Thorough evaluations of these and all sitting judges are imperative to ensure
that only those who are qualified and willing to dispense impartial justice sit
in judgment on the fate of asylum seekers.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 14, 2008 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Judging the Judges;
Immigration court reform still has a way to go.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 417 words


TWO YEARS after Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales  announced 22 measures to
reform the nation's immigration courts, the Justice Department has made
respectable progress. But it can and should do more.

Mr. Gonzales called for the reforms -- primarily increased training and more
rigorous personnel evaluations  for judges -- after courts of appeals, which
review decisions by the immigration courts, criticized some immigration judges
for lack of expertise and a failure to treat with appropriate respect those
seeking asylum in the United States.

The Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC), a research group based at
Syracuse University, issued a report last  week on the state of the Justice
Department's progress. The department deserves credit for, among  its
improvements, creating a practices manual for judges, establishing training
programs for lawyers at the Board of Immigration Appeals, and implementing
on-the-job and classroom training for immigration judges and those who sit on
the Board of Immigration Appeals. It also created a program to increase the
number of  lawyers whose services are available at no charge  to those who
appear before immigration courts.

The department, however, has fallen short on two important measures: finalizing
rules to increase the number of appeals decided by three-judge panels and
implementing rigorous performance evaluations of judges.

Currently, appeals may be decided by only one judge, who is not required to
provide a written explanation for his decision. This lack of a record makes it
that much harder for asylum seekers -- the great majority of whom are denied
their requests -- to challenge  board rulings in  federal appeals courts. The
Justice Department also did not implement annual performance evaluations for
immigration appeals judges until July, and it is still in negotiations over
reviews with the union that represents the judges on the lower immigration
court. These evaluations are particularly important in light of a report
released last month by the Justice Department's Office of the Inspector General
and Office of Professional Responsibility that concluded that a significant
number of candidates for immigration judgeships were disqualified by DOJ
officials if they did not pass a conservative political litmus test.

Thorough evaluations of these and all sitting judges are imperative to ensure
that only those who are qualified and willing to dispense impartial justice sit
in judgment on the fate of asylum seekers.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Court Ordered To Reconsider Asylum Case

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 210 words


Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey rebuked a mid-level federal court yesterday,
ruling that the court must reconsider the asylum case of a Mali woman who fears
genital mutilation if sent home.

It is rare for the nation's top law enforcement officer to reject rulings issued
by the U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals. In the past three years, the attorney
general has weighed in on three immigration cases; U.S. immigration courts rule
on about 40,000 cases each year.

The panel had spurned the Malian woman's request for asylum, in part because her
genitals already have been mutilated.

"The board based its analysis on a false premise: that female genital mutilation
is a onetime act that cannot be repeated on the same woman," Mukasey wrote in
his order. "As several courts have recognized, female genital mutilation is
indeed capable of repetition."

The 28-year-old woman said she could be forced to marry a cousin if she returned
to Mali, and would be powerless to prevent tribal officials from mutilating the
genitals of any daughters she might have in the future. The immigration appeals
panel previously has ruled that fear of female genital mutilation is solid basis
for granting asylum.

Mukasey's order does not automatically grant U.S. residency to the woman.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 27, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration From Two Perspectives

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 455 words


Howard County has unveiled a comprehensive, needs-based, affordable health-care
program for residents who have no health insurance ["Howard Health Initiative
Ready to Enroll Uninsured," Metro, Sept. 30]. It's a sane and fiscally
responsible approach to providing health-care coverage to those truly in need.

Montgomery County Executive Isiah Leggett (D) and County Council President
Michael Knapp (D-Upcounty), up to their eyeballs in uncontrolled spending and
budget deficits, should take note. They contribute county funds to a similar
program called Montgomery Cares, a budget-busting, exponentially growing attempt
at health care for the uninsured.

What is the difference between the two programs? In Howard, you have to provide
proof of legal U.S. status -- a birth certificate, a Social Security card, a
certificate of naturalization or citizenship, or a green card. This rightly
limits the pool of applicants to citizens or legal immigrants.

In Montgomery, Mr. Leggett and Mr. Knapp allow anyone, legal immigrant or not,
to walk in and sign up for comprehensive health care. And illegal immigrants
walk in by the thousands with their extended families in tow, coached by
taxpayer-funded groups, such as CASA of Maryland, that support illegal
immigrants. It's a fiscal black hole that draconian school budget cuts and
planned furloughs of county police officers, firefighters and other workers will
not solve.

BRAD BOTWIN

Director

Help Save Maryland

Rockville

Â·

Bishop Thomas Wenski's call for increased tolerance of illegal immigrants is
welcome ["Hitting a Wall on Immigration," op-ed, Oct. 20]. However, less
educated, illegal workers are not the only immigrants who have become the
objects of scapegoating, often with racial overtones, by frustrated Americans
looking for someone to blame for the loss of their jobs, savings and homes. Tens
of thousands of skilled professional workers are turned away each year because
of a shortage of H-1B visas, and many others are unable to remain here because
there are not enough green cards.

Moreover, employers of educated, skilled, legal foreign workers are coming under
increased suspicion by immigration officials looking for fraud, even though the
overwhelming majority of these visas are genuine. This is intimidating some
employers into refusing to hire the very people who have the most to contribute
to our economy by providing scientific and other skills that help U.S. companies
compete in the global marketplace. Also, many skilled immigrants start their own
businesses and provide jobs to American workers.

With a recession looming, this is not the time to slam America's gates shut
against people who have so much potential to give our economy an urgent boost.

ROGER ALGASE

New York

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Letters To the Editor

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW02

LENGTH: 332 words

Standing Up to Hate

 I want to thank everyone in our community who helped to stand against the hate
being perpetrated by Greg Letiecq's Black Velvet Bruce Li blog.

I consider Mr. Letiecq a dangerous man and his blog and extremist nativist
organization (according to the Southern Poverty Law Center) a serious threat to
our community.

First, he creates his hate-filled blog. Then he goes on to assassinate the
character of some members of our community. Then he helps create an extremist
nativist organization and becomes its president. Then he links up with the
Immigration Reform Law Institute and asks Michael Hethmon (who worked for many
years as a staff lawyer for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
hate group, according to the SPLC) to write the first draft of Prince William
County's anti-illegal immigration resolution. Then he asks Supervisor John T.
Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville) to sponsor the resolution, which he gladly does.

Mr. Letiecq has been the catalyst and perpetrator of this hateful and costly
behavior from the beginning, and he enjoys bragging about much of this in his
recent Front Line newsletter.

A few years ago, Prince William passed a resolution declaring it to be a
hate-free zone. I endorse our supervisors for having the courage to stand
against the hate being perpetrated in the Black Velvet Bruce Li blog.

Two weeks ago, supervisors voted to change the anti-illegal immigrant
resolution. It was an important vote that opened the door for healing to begin
in our community. Since then, at least one supervisor has received serious
threats as a result of the changes to the resolution. Intimidation and hate are
powerful forces that can be used to shape public policy if we stand by and let
it happen.

I applaud our supervisors and county government officials for their courage to
stand against this ugly behavior. I challenge other members of our community to
do the same, especially our houses of worship and business community.

Gregg Reynolds

Woodbridge

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 12, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

As Latin Nations Treat Gays Better, Asylum Is Elusive

BYLINE: Ceci Connolly; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1406 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Quietly over the past 14 years, gay men and lesbians from Mexico have sought --
and received -- political asylum in the United States based on their sexual
orientation and the argument that the culture of "machismo" in their country has
sometimes put homosexuals there in danger.

But as Mexico and other Latin American countries begin to liberalize laws
regarding homosexuality, hold gay pride events and expand treatment for people
with AIDS, it is becoming increasingly difficult to win such cases, say asylum
applicants, U.S. lawyers and Latino activists.

"For a time, it seemed like it was a slam-dunk if you were gay, from Mexico and
filed for asylum in the United States," said Arthur S. Leonard, a professor at
New York Law School. "But there's been a turning point. The gay rights movement
has started to make progress in Mexico, and it's a little harder to show" that
asylum is warranted, he said.

The subtle, unofficial shift in immigration policy has significant public health
implications, say leaders throughout the region who view asylum as a path to
better treatment of people with HIV. Though many applaud the progress on gay
rights and AIDS care, they caution that it may take decades to reverse deeply
ingrained attitudes toward homosexuality that are closely connected to the
spread of HIV in the region.

Figures for asylum decisions are unavailable, but immigration lawyers hazard a
guess that in the past, dozens were granted every year to gay Mexicans. The
Department of Homeland Security does not track asylum by categories such as
religious affiliation or sexual orientation. But Leonard and other experts
report that applications by gay men and lesbians from throughout Latin America
are encountering more hurdles.

Last fall, U.S. circuit courts rejected asylum requests by two gay Mexican men,
and a recent policy requires that every asylum request from Mexico undergo a
separate review by homeland security officials in Washington. Those developments
have raised alarm in immigrant-heavy communities in San Diego and elsewhere.

Officials at the Department of Homeland Security, speaking on the condition of
anonymity, said there has been no policy change regarding asylum eligibility for
gay men and lesbians. They said they have no way of knowing whether  asylum
officers or immigration judges have become more skeptical about requests from
Latin American homosexuals because they do not track that data.

"We were winning cases left and right," said Antonio Munoz, an advocate in San
Diego. "Then last year, it really tightened up."

No group in Mexico has been hit harder by AIDS than men who have sex with men --
and nothing has done more to fuel the epidemic than homophobia, said Jorge
Saavedra, chief of Mexico's AIDS programs. In the nation where the International
AIDS Conference convened last week, gay men are 109 times as likely to contract
HIV as the general population, he said.

Across Latin America, men who engage in homosexual sex are 33 times as likely to
be infected with HIV, according to a report released at the conference by the
Foundation for AIDS Research, known as AmFAR.

"People think the homophobia is under control, which is not true," Saavedra
said. "Homophobia in Mexico is really high."

Saavedra, who is openly gay and HIV-positive, has a unique perspective on the
situation in Mexico. As a government official, he points to achievements,
particularly Mexico's low overall infection rate of 0.3 percent of the
population. But because the country routinely experiences medication shortages,
discrimination and violence against gays, some still need asylum, he said.

It was not until the 1990s that sexual orientation was even considered a reason
for political asylum. But in 1994, then-Attorney General Janet Reno issued an
order allowing homosexuals to gain asylum if they could demonstrate that they
faced persecution because of their sexual orientation. Many of the early
applicants came from Latin America, with its conservative, strongly Catholic,
macho culture. They were men such as Fernando Legy, an unemployed 26-year-old
seeking asylum in San Diego.

While growing up in the state of Mexicali, Legy said he was raped by male
friends of a brother-in-law. By the time he was a teenager, Legy and his
boyfriend were often arrested by  police who demanded money or insisted they
perform sex acts on men in the jail, he said.

"It was like a show to them," he said. When an employer gave him a random blood
test and discovered he had HIV, Legy lost his job. At one point, he was so
depressed that he tried to drink a mix of toxic chemicals. But the bitter brew
burned his mouth.

"I kind of hide here in the United States because the men who raped me have made
threats," he said, noting that two are involved in drug trafficking. "I'm afraid
to go back."

Between 1995 and 2006, about 1,200 Mexicans were killed because of their sexual
orientation, according to estimates by the Mexican gay rights group Letra S. Two
years ago, after Mexico City enacted same-sex civil union laws, many --
including U.S. immigration and asylum officials -- expected life to improve for
Mexico's gay community, said Alejandro Brito, editor of the Letra S magazine.

"Instead, this has provoked aggressions by some in the society and especially
some police," he said. "It would be a terrible shame to close this door to
asylum."

Stigma and a lack of education have complicated prevention efforts, health
workers say. At the private Mexico City hospital where Martin Martinez Sanchez
works, patients and employees are routinely screened for HIV without their
permission, he said.

"If they test positive, they are not admitted," said Martinez, who has not told
his employer that he is gay. A friend was fired because he contracted HIV.

Discrimination, or in many cases low self-esteem, leads many gay Mexicans to
take health risks.

"They have sexual encounters in clandestine areas, and in parts of the city that
are just horrible and dangerous," he said. "Later they go home and have
unprotected sex with their wives. Many gays feel they have to have a wife for
appearances."

Said Saavedra: "They can be fired from their job. It is not right, but we know
it happens."

That is what happened to Alejandro Torres.

Six months after beginning a coveted medical residency slot with the Mexican
Navy in 2002,  he tested positive for HIV.

"They told me I had two options: fire me immediately, or finish the year but
don't touch another patient," said Torres, 29.

Navy Capt. Arturo Lopez said Torres was ordered to stop seeing patients under a
policy curtailing the work of anyone with a contagious disease. The policy does
not distinguish between illnesses such as influenza that are transmitted through
casual contact and HIV, which is spread through sexual contact, shared needles
or blood transfusions.

For the rest of his internship, Torres filled out paperwork and endured efforts
by Navy superiors to "cure" his homosexuality by lining up dates with female
nurses. He tried working in Puerto Vallarta and Mexico City, both home to large
gay communities.

Even in the capital, Torres said, he was harassed. One night, police rounded up
Torres and his friends as they emerged from a gay bar in the Zona Rosa. His
bosses would not let him counsel patients about HIV protection. He was shuttling
to San Diego for treatment.

"The doctors in Mexico don't have training to deal with HIV patients," he said.
His condition deteriorated, and he lost 15 pounds in two weeks. Finally, his
doctor urged him to move to the United States for good.

"He said the stress of being in Mexico and making the trip for care every two or
three months made my immune system fall down," Torres said. "I was going to live
in Tijuana and just drive across for my treatment, but I realized if something
terrible happened and I went to the hospital there, they wouldn't be able to
care for me."

Torres has spent $8,000 on attorney fees and has worked odd jobs in
construction, plumbing and at a local clinic. When an immigration officer first
heard his case, Torres was told that his life was not in imminent danger and was
turned down.

"If you're expecting me to wait until somebody kills me or the police beat me
up, I'm not going to do that," he said.

His appeal is set for February 2009.

Reporting for this article was supported by the Project for International Health
Journalism Fellowship, a part of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation's Media
Fellowships Program.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Fernando Legy, an
HIV-positive man seeking asylum in San Diego, comforts his mother, Mercedes
Espinoza, who recently visited from Mexico.
IMAGE; Alejandro Torres was told to move rather than traveling for treatment.
IMAGE; Legy tries on a costume that his mother made for him to wear in a gay
pride parade.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 30, 2008 Friday 5:34 PM EST

A New Direction in Latin America

BYLINE: Shannon O'Neil, From the Council on Foreign Relations,
washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 806 words



HIGHLIGHT: Latin America has never mattered more to the United States. The
region is the largest foreign supplier of oil to the United States and a strong
partner in the development of alternative fuels. It is one of the United
States's fastest growing trading partners, and its biggest supplier of illegal
drugs. Latin America is also the largest source of U.S. immigrants, both
documented and undocumented. No less important, nearly all Latin American
nations are now vibrant, if imperfect, democracies. Not only does the United
States affect Latin America, but Latin America increasingly shapes the United
States as well. Yet despite these deepening strategic, economic, cultural and
political ties, U.S. policies toward the region have remained relatively
unexamined.


Latin America has never mattered more to the United States. The region is the
largest foreign supplier of oil to the United States and a strong partner in the
development of alternative fuels. It is one of the United States's fastest
growing trading partners, and its biggest supplier of illegal drugs. Latin
America is also the largest source of U.S. immigrants, both documented and
undocumented. No less important, nearly all Latin American nations are now
vibrant, if imperfect, democracies. Not only does the United States affect Latin
America, but Latin America increasingly shapes the United States as well. Yet
despite these deepening strategic, economic, cultural and political ties, U.S.
policies toward the region have remained relatively unexamined.

A new Council on Foreign Relations report, U.S.-Latin America Relations: A New
Direction for a New Reality, takes stock of these changes in the Western
hemisphere and assesses their consequences for U.S. policy toward the region. It
finds that the decades-old U.S. foreign policy trifecta of trade support, drug
eradication and democracy promotion is not effectively advancing U.S. interests.
Instead, the report identifies four areas that should provide a new basis for
U.S. policy toward Latin America: poverty and inequality, public security,
migration and energy security.

The region has undergone significant changes in recent decades, making
substantial progress but also facing ongoing challenges. Democracy has spread,
economies have opened, and populations have grown more mobile. But many
countries have struggled to reduce poverty and inequality and to provide for
public security. These endemic problems limit economic growth and allow illegal
activities and crime organizations to flourish, undermining Latin American
governments and U.S. interests in the process.

The United States can help Latin American governments face these challenges. To
start, the United States should expand assistance for poverty alleviation and
institution-building by fully funding the Millennium Challenge Account and
developing new initiatives to reach the poor regions of the larger middle-income
countries. This funding should reflect the priorities of Latin American
governments and also involve restructuring and integrating the programs of
various U.S. government bureaucracies and multilateral institutions. Alongside
aid, the United States should approve pending free trade agreements with
Colombia and Panama and extend trade preferences to Bolivia and Ecuador,
encouraging productive relations and expanding economic opportunities for both
Latin America and the United States.

In addition, the United States can aid Latin America in its quest to improve
public security. In part, the United States can offer significant support and
technical expertise to governments reforming their law enforcement and judicial
systems. As important, the U.S. can halt the flow of guns and money across its
own border south, reducing the arms that strengthen and fund drug cartels.

While reformulating approaches to traditional objectives, expanding U.S. ties
with the region means that new issues -- migration and energy integration among
them -- must be part of a comprehensive foreign policy strategy. Comprehensive
immigration reform is necessary to create a system that better meets U.S.
security, economic and foreign policy interests, and must be a priority for the
next administration. While incorporating better security and employment
verification systems, it must also address the 12 million unauthorized
individuals currently residing in the United States, and provide a flexible
program that can adjust to future U.S. labor demands.

In the energy sector, the United States can provide incentives for investment in
traditional energy sources and infrastructure to increase supply throughout the
region. It can also take the lead in the development of alternative energy
sources, boosting energy security through diversification while also promoting
environmentally sustainable options in a shared hemisphere.

In redirecting its relations with Latin American nations, the United States
needs to recognize the limitations of its traditional policy tools. Latin
America is not Washington's to lose; nor is it Washington's to save. Latin
America's future rests chiefly in the hands of its own elected leaders. But, the
United States can play a positive role, supporting regional efforts and
ultimately better promoting U.S. and Latin American interests in the process. By
truly beginning to engage Latin America on its own terms, Washington can mark
the start of a new era in U.S.-Latin America relations.

Shannon O'Neil is a fellow for Latin American studies at the Council on Foreign
Relations and director of the CFR-sponsored Independent Task Force on
U.S.-Latin-America Relations.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 7, 2008 Monday 12:00 PM EST

Outlook: A Glass-Half-Full View of the Budweiser Bid;
Foreign Buyout of Anheuser-Busch Would Be Fitting for Immigrant-Built Behemoth

BYLINE: Maureen Ogle, Author, "Ambitious Brew: The Story of American Beer",
washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 6795 words



HIGHLIGHT: "The InBev bid for Anheuser-Busch is only the latest chapter in the
ongoing tale of consolidation, mergers and globalization that is the American
brewing industry. ... So why am I -- and the Missouri congressional delegation
and all those online activists -- so bothered by [InBev CEO] Brito's siege? It's
not that we love Budweiser more than, say, Miller or Coors. (Well, technically,
most Americans do love it more: Bud has outsold both brands for decades.) It's
that we love the idea of Budweiser, or, more accurately, Anheuser-Busch.
Immigrants founded the company and, in the course of about 30 years, transformed
it from nothing into one of the world's largest breweries. ... That's why I love
Anheuser-Busch and Bud. I am them, and they are me: a mixture of old world and
new, hard work, tenacity and ambition."


"The InBev bid for Anheuser-Busch is only the latest chapter in the ongoing tale
of consolidation, mergers and globalization that is the American brewing
industry. ... So why am I -- and the Missouri congressional delegation and all
those online activists -- so bothered by [InBev CEO] Brito's siege? It's not
that we love Budweiser more than, say, Miller or Coors. (Well, technically, most
Americans do love it more: Bud has outsold both brands for decades.) It's that
we love the idea of Budweiser, or, more accurately, Anheuser-Busch. Immigrants
founded the company and, in the course of about 30 years, transformed it from
nothing into one of the world's largest breweries. ... That's why I love
Anheuser-Busch and Bud. I am them, and they are me: a mixture of old world and
new, hard work, tenacity and ambition."

Maureen Ogle, author of "Ambitious Brew: The Story of American Beer," was online
Monday, July 7 at noon ET to discuss her Outlook article on the potential
purchase of the biggest American beer company by a Belgian-Brazilian
conglomerate, and take your questions on U.S. beer history and the current
domestic brewing landscape.

The transcript follows.

Archive: Transcripts of discussions with Outlook article authors

____________________

Maureen Ogle: Greetings! Time to pop open a few questions and pour a few
answers. (Sorry. I couldn't resist.)

For those following the action, this morning InBev formally filed its plan to
force the removal of A-B's entire board of directors. The brawl is underway.

Now to some questions.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: I guess the people in Missouri are upset because of the
potential for downsizing in this company. For the consumer, however, this would
be a good thing, and would include a better choice of InBev beers in the U.S.
Tastes are changing, and lets face it, Bud's only real large market is the U.S.
What makes Bud so special? It certainly isn't the taste of the beer they
produce. Don't tell me it's the Clydesdales.

Maureen Ogle: I'm not sure that InBev's takeover will result in a better
selection of InBev beers in the US. InBev specializes in taking over and then
marketing local beers around the world. Many of those beers are, frankly,
interchangeable with the traditional American-style lagers (like Bud or Miller).

What we might end up with here is the Brazilian beer that is, I believe, InBev's
biggest seller. But right now, even before this takeover, InBev already is
selling many of its brands here through its distribution partnership with -- you
guessed it -- Anheuser-Busch.

As to Missouri (and the other states where A-B has plants): A-B has a solid
reputation as an employer. InBev has a reputation for slicing costs to the
tiniest penny. I think people in Missouri are worried about job losses!

_______________________

Dennis, Mass.: Budweiser and its marketing methods led to the downfall of many a
better local beer. I have no love for Bud -- it's not very good beer.

Maureen Ogle: Ah! The crux of the matter. I won't bore everyone with 50 years of
brewing history (although my book actually opens in 1844 and runs to the year
2000), but A-B is where it is in large part because of the "beer wars" that
dominated the industry in the 1950s and 1960s. Its two competitors then were
Schlitz and Pabst. (Guess who won?) Then Miller and Coors tried to take it on.
Whoops!

But -- and this is the main point -- during those ferocious beer wars, many many
many brewers went after each other's throats, all of them trying to make it into
the Top Ten. Plenty of small beer-makers demolished other small beer-makers. A-B
just happened to "win" the war; had things played out a bit differently, InBev
might be trying to take over, say, Schlitz or Heileman or Miller. (Indeed, I
gather it still has some interest in Miller.)

_______________________

Washington: What would America lose if Anheuser-Busch were bought by InBev?
Nothing at all. All the innovation in American brewing is happening at small- to
mid-scale micro and craft brewers. Anheuser-Busch has got capacity, but not much
else.

Maureen Ogle: Good question! I've been thinking about this a lot.

Yes, it's true that the dynamic action in American brewing is unfolding in the
other 1,450 (give or a take a few) small breweries. (Not all of those, by the
way, are "craft" brewers. Many are brewing operations attached to chain
restaurants.)

And what would happen if A-B is taken over? In the short run, maybe not much --
but in the long run, I think it will cause turmoil among the smaller brewers
,who will seize the accompanying turmoil among A-B's distributors and try to
parlay that into larger sales territories.

That's a short answer to a complicated (but important) question. And I'm
blogging about it this week (shameless plug for my blog, which you can reach by
going to maureenogle.com)

Seriously, it's the main question and the answer is ... complicated.

_______________________

Philadelphia: Ms. Ogle, regarding Budweiser outselling Miller or Coors: If you
will excuse me, they are the same beers. It's just like Premium and Unleaded gas
-- they all come from the same tap, and if one can tell the difference, the most
subtle of subtle differences, then that is simply a testament to their
propensity for time-wasting. One only must travel abroad for 20 or 30 minutes to
discover that even the worst beer on tap in the Schiphol Airport emasculates the
best mainstream American beer. In five minutes at a Mexican bodega, one
discovers the same about Mexican beers. That a foreign company is buying
Anheuser-Busch ... I am doing back flips as I type.

Maureen Ogle: Yes, to some people they are the "same beer." And indeed, they're
made using similar processes. But it's worth remembering that something like 96
percent of the beer sold in the U.S. is Bud, Miller, Coors, etc. People like
this kind of beer. In the 30 years that the craft brewing industry has existed,
it never has been able to expand its share of the market beyond about 6 percent
or 7 percent.

Here's one possible explanation: Beer has two essential flavor components, malt
and hops. Because of the way our taste buds are arranged on our tongues, we
humans have a preference for either the hops component or the malt component. (I
am a malty person myself.) So if a brewer makes, say, intensely hoppy ales, he
or she runs the risk of ignoring about half the market for beer -- people like
me who, whose taste buds favor malt, won't drink it. So a beer-maker like A-B or
Miller has been very, very successful by aiming for the entire beer market by
making a beer that's neither too hoppy nor too malty.

Sure, I prefer other beers (again, I'm a fan of Turbodog and other malt-rich
beers) ... but no one's gonna get rich just making beer for me! Does that make
sense?

_______________________

Anonymous: Is there a pattern to which countries prefer stronger or weaker
beers? Belgium has some great beers; some of them have real taste, and a few
pack a wallop. Here in Brazil, pretty much all mass-produced beers are "pilsen"
variety, and pretty weak, but it can't be just a matter of tropical temperatures
-- most mass-produced beers in the U.S. (e.g., Bud) are weak, and temps in
Brazil, at least in the south, can get pretty chilly in the winter. And Mexico,
with some hot temps, has both weak (e.g. Corona) and stronger (e.g. Negro Modelo
and Bohemia) beers.

Maureen Ogle: I don't think there's a pattern for taste preference, but there is
a big difference in attitudes toward alcohol and in the beer cultures in those
other countries.

Namely, they are more accepting of alcohol as a part of everyday life. And they
(most of them) have long, long traditions of enjoying alcohol with food and as
an ordinary part of leisure activity. So many of those countries have had
brewing industries that consist of many small beer-makers that survive because
there's a wide array of drinkers.

The situation here in the U.S. is historically different -- since the early
1800s, we've had an, um, uncomfortable relationship with alcohol. It's not
regarded as just an ordinary part of our lives. Instead, we tend to demonize
alcohol and drinking.

Also, we Americans came to beer late, and when German immigrants tried to
persuade us to drink, we didn't want the rich heavy beers that were supposed to
be sipped and savored. (That's partly because of our protein-rich diet here in
the U.S.). We wanted a light-bodied beer -- like Budweiser.

I'm simplifying a complicated string of historical events and trends (which I
discuss in a lot more detail in my book), but again -- the difference here is
not the beer, so much as it is the drinking culture in different countries.

Now the interesting issue is this: How is the emergence of these mega-beer
giants, like InBev and SA, affecting global drinking tastes and cultures? (One
short answer is that when I first visited China in 1987, all the beer was truly
local. When I went back in 1999, all the local beer had vanished! It was pretty
much Heineken or nothing...)

_______________________

Iowa: Bud has a world market -- to say its only large market is the U.S. is like
saying Coke or Pepsi's only large market is the U.S. You get can get Bud in any
country in the world! The U.S. beer market right now, though, is fantastic.
There some great U.S. beers available that beat beers I used to drink in Europe,
hands-down.

Maureen Ogle: Yes, A-B long ago turned Bud into a global brand. It's available
pretty much anywhere in the world.

And yes, right now the U.S. has the most creative, dynamic brewing culture in
the world. I know that seems hard to believe, but it's true. We Americans have
access to more beer styles across a broader spectrum of flavor "profiles" than
any other country in the world -- and those beers are domestic, not imported!

As I said in the op-ed piece, we patriots should man (or, um, woman) our
barstools and drink American -- and it's not hard to do!

_______________________

Washington: You said InBev might bring a Brazilian beer to the U.S. ... which
one?

Maureen Ogle: Brahma! It's worth a trip to InBev's Web site just to see the
amazing array of beers that the company sells around the world.

_______________________

Washington: Your article is rich on factoids about the history of beer, but
doesn't offer a whole lot to back up your argument that Anheuser-Busch should be
sold to InBev. The only reasons you give are that the sale embodies the spirit
of the American revolution, that Adolphus Busch would hire the InBev CEO, and
that Anheuser bought Rolling Rock from InBev a few years ago. Do you have a more
compelling justification for the sale?

Maureen Ogle: Oh, I don't want the sale to happen! Indeed, I think InBev is
about to make a really stupid mistake (because if it buys the company, it
effectively destroys what has given A-B its cachet for over a century: the
leadership of the Busch family).

In my op-ed piece, I wasn't so much arguing for the sale as I was pointing out
that once we get past the handwringing over the deal and once we accept that
it's probably a done deal, well, hey, there's nothing new under the sun. This is
just another brewing merger/takeover like hundreds of others that have preceded
it.

But again, I want to stress that I am more than a little heartbroken about this
whole thing. I'm realistic -- the world won't stop just 'cause my heart's
breaking. Carlos Brito doesn't care what I think.

But the historian in me just couldn't help point out the ironies in the
situation.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: The only American beer I like is Corona. I always have wondered
about the taste buds in St. Louis and Milwaukee. The best movie made about beer
was "Smokey and the Bandit." Do you remember when drinking Coors had cachet?

Maureen Ogle: Speaking of Coors, now there's a great example of what happens
when a brewer gets too big for its britches. The Coors family decided to try to
cash in on that regional mystique -- and they ended up all but destroying the
company.

It's a fascinating episode, and one I cover in detail in the book (which is why
I won't bore everyone with it now) but it's one of the better cases of the past
offering a guide to brewing's future.

_______________________

Washington: Interesting to note that many of the commenters are ignoring the
economic implications of the sale (like you said, InBev cutting jobs) because
they are snobby microbrew drinkers. Me, I can taste the difference between Bud
and Miller, and I do enjoy drinking mass-produced light American beers as much
as I enjoy a nice microbrew. I guess I really am an outlier.

Maureen Ogle: Nah, you're not an outlier. You're ... eclectic in your tastes!
Like me. Because I enjoy Bud -- and Abita Turbodog and Anchor Liberty and
Saranac Adirondack Lager and just about any oatmeal stout I can lay my hands on.

By the way, many people can and do taste the difference between Miller and Bud.
That's because there is a difference in the adjuncts added to the brew vat. Bud
is made using rice and Miller is brewed using corn. I definitely can taste the
difference.

_______________________

Herndon, Va.: Ms. Ogle, I can't get too worked up about "them furriners" taking
over A-B. Growing up in Nebraska and attending the University of Nebraska in the
1960s, I well remember all the small regional or "one-state" breweries being
swallowed up or disappearing as A-B and other megaliths dropped their prices on
their way to total market domination. Side comment -- one owner of a dying local
brewery, when asked about "light beer," responded with "you want that (crap),
then take my beer, pour it in a glass to two-thirds full, and top it off with
water!"

Maureen Ogle: I have a funny quote in the book about light beer. Joe Ortlieb,
then president of the now-defunct Ortlieb Brewing in Philadelphia, hated the
whole light beer "craze," which is what many people thought of it back in the
1970s.

He ran a TV ad that showed Joe standing next to a bottle of Ortlieb, a glass
half-full of beer, and a pitcher of water.

"This is how we make light beer," he'd say, and then he'd pour water into the
glass. And then he'd look at the camera and say "now that's why we don't make
it."

_______________________

Beer in China: Got to disagree with you on local beers disappearing in China. I
traveled throughout the country in 2003, and in every city I visited I drank a
different local (or perhaps regional) beer. Sure, the beers were mass-produced,
and they all were relatively light, but there certainly was regional variety.

Maureen Ogle: Really? That's great news. Because I'm telling you, we were all
over the country in 1999 (I think that's the right year; maybe '98), and even in
tiny isolated villages -- there was Heineken!

_______________________

Philadelphia: It's a bit off-topic, but it seems a bit unusual (but awesome!) to
have a woman cover beer. Have you found that to be the case? What sort of
responses do you get when people find out that you write about beer? How did you
become interested in the subject?

Maureen Ogle: Hey, it's beer-related! It's not off-topic.

Here's the truth: In 2001, I was casting about for a new book topic (I'd just
finished my second book, a history of Key West). I wracked my brains and came up
empty. Nada. No good ideas.

Then one day I was driving down the street, thinking about nothing in
particular. A few blocks ahead a red truck rolled past my line of vision. And my
brain said: "Beer. Go home and write a history of beer in America."

I knew right away it was a good idea, so I figured it had been done to death. I
was thrilled to discover that, really, no one had ever written a substantive
history of beer. So I dug in.

I should add that at the time I didn't drink beer and knew nothing at all about
it -- not even what it was made of -- and knew nothing about its history. But I
prefer that perspective: I'm a blank slate. I have no agenda. It's all new to me
and I learn as I go.

_______________________

Craft Brewers: Maureen, I know that A-B bought a big stake in the local Old
Dominion Brewery out in Ashburn. Is A-B's strategy to buy up a lot of the
smaller craft breweries like Old Dominion? If so, they are going for world
dominance, it seems to me. Any idea what the new owner would do concerning a new
strategy?

Maureen Ogle: A-B owns stakes in Old Dominion, Redhook and Widmer, and its
reason for doing so is simple: It wants access to the craft-beer "niche," to
that segment of the market.

Why? Because a bottle of, say, Widmer, returns more profit than a bottle of Bud.
That, by the way, is why A-B's distributors have been getting restless of late:
A distributor wants those higher-profit brands on its trucks, and they don't
think A-B is being aggressive enough in tackling that segment.

I don't know what InBev will do with those brands. If it's smart, it will hang
on to them and go after even more. But: if Miller/Coors is smart, it will do the
same thing -- which is why I think there are going to be a lot of mergers,
takeovers, etc., in the craft segment. Those guys are valuable properties to
these big giants.

_______________________

Burke, Va.: Ms. Ogle: What do you take from the trend of the major brewers
trying to dip a toe into the "tastable" beer markets -- either by buying up
micros or by coming up with their own products that actually have taste?

Maureen Ogle: I think they don't have any choice. Brewing is an insanely
competitive biz, and beer sales have been flat for fifteen years now. The giants
have to do anything they can to compete.

Oddly enough, back in the early 1990s, when craft brewing was about 10 years
old, the major brewers tried their hand. Most gave it up (especially A-B) as a
lost cause. They just didn't take craft brewing very seriously back then.

I suspect they regret it now! By the way, the two success stories in that regard
were Coors's effort with Blue Moon, which is still around, and Miller's purchase
of Leinenkugel, which proved to be a good move for them.

_______________________

Herndon, Va.: Ms. Ogle: "Regional mystique" is always a big factor. When living
in Kansas City, Mo., in the early 1970s, I found myself obliged to stop in
Kansas, when driving to visit relatives in Nebraska, to pick up Coors (then sold
only as far west as Kansas). Before coming back, I had to pick up Olympia (sold
in Nebraska, but not Kansas and Missouri) for friends who thought it was
"special."

Maureen Ogle: Oh, boy, the regional mystique is a huge factor. And that's why I
think Dick Yuengling is the smartest guy in brewing right now -- he's the only
beer-maker out there who never has tried to go national. His beer is only
available along the eastern seaboard.

Now why would he do that? Because he watched Coors, Olympia, Rheingold and a
bunch of other brewers go bankrupt when their owners tried to turn regional
mystique into national sales. Bad idea -- very bad idea!

_______________________

$17 A Bottle?: Maureen, why did a bottle of Bud cost the equivalent of $17 today
way back when? And why were people willing to drop that kind of money for one
bottle of beer? There's not a beer made today that I would pay anything close to
$17 for -- not even at Nats Stadium, where a brew costs an outrageous $7.50.

Maureen Ogle: Because of the ingredients! Yes, I know that's hard to believe,
but at the time Carl Conrad insisted on imported Saaz hops and he also used
rice, which made the brewing process more expensive because it was a lot more
complicated. I know that sounds goofy to us now, but it's true.

By the way, all those adjunct-based beers back then were the "premium" beers of
their day. Odd how that has changed...

_______________________

Washington: "Bud is made using rice and Miller is brewed using corn." I'm
wondering, is this historically true? Because as you mentioned, many of our big
brewers were started by German immigrants. If only they'd have followed the
Rheinheitsgebot!

Maureen Ogle: No time left to explain why, but yes, this began here in the U.S.
in the 1860s and 1870s. I explain why in the book, but the short answer was that
Americans then wouldn't drink all-malt beers!

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: The true holy grail of beer lovers in my opinion is
cask-conditioned beer -- that is fresh beer out of casks that still have live
yeast. It's disappearing out of the U.K. somewhat, but a few places around here
have it, and it is delicious! Was it ever common in America? If not, why not?

Maureen Ogle: Cask-conditioned beer was never popular here -- well, not until
recently. That's because Americans never drank much beer until the big wave of
German immigration in the 1840s and later -- and Germans made and drank lager,
not ale.

I know that seems counterintuitive. We all have this image of the Founding
Fathers downing ale. But in fact, colonists drank relatively little beer, and
preferred rum and cider. Why? Because those latter two were much less
labor-intensive -- and that mattered in the colonies, where labor was in short
supply.

_______________________

Carlisle, Pa.: It is telling that we as a nation are so bothered by a
multinational company taking over one of our own, yet we feel no remorse when a
U.S. company takes over a foreign one. We want the world to accept American
companies with open arms -- but when they come here, that's a different matter.

Maureen Ogle: Isn't that the truth? When I step back and look at this whole
InBev affair, it's a good reminder of just how complicated life really is.

I mean, there's the American icon issue, the globalization angle, the weak
dollar angle ... just about any stance anyone can take ends up oversimplifying a
really complex set of issues.

_______________________

Washington: Back when I lived in Belgium and Germany, I decried Interbrew
(InBev's predecessor) for its lackluster products like Jupiler and Stella Artois
(much like my disdain for Anheuser-Busch and its lackluster products), but to be
honest, InBev can do a lot of things that other distribution companies can't.
I've learned this since returning back to the states. Today, I can get
Hoegaarden and Leffe at nearly any liquor store or bar -- what used to be a very
rare occurrence is now commonplace thanks to InBev's distribution network seems.
Anheuser-Busch stockholders would be negligent to not take this into account.

Maureen Ogle: Yup. This comment is a great example of what I mean by the
complexity of the issue: there are winners and there are losers, but which is
which depends entirely on your point of view!

InBev has in fact introduced a slew of beers to the U.S., Stella being the
obvious example. (Personally, I can't stand Stella. I do not get why people like
it so much. But that also just proves a point I'm always trying to make: Beer
itself is so relative. What I think tastes great, you may think is swill.)

_______________________

Washington: If InBev is successful in taking over Anheuser-Busch, will it change
AB's beer brands' recipes to make them actually taste good, or will they remain
undrinkable?

Maureen Ogle: I very much doubt InBev would alter the recipes, or at least not
anymore than A-B itself has done over the years. Consumer tastes change
constantly, and most beer-makers tinker with their recipes to accommodate those
tastes.

As to whether, cough cough, the beer will remain undrinkable ... well, that
depends on what ya think tastes good!

_______________________

Washington: Honestly, why should I care whether InBev takes over AB? AB and its
distributors have been borderline terroristic (or at least monopolistic) in the
way they treat craft brewers. Their involvement with brewers such as Redhook,
Dominion, Goose Island and others has resulted in a homogenization of the craft
segment that makes it less interesting. Why should a dedicated craft-brew
drinker like me care about this?

Maureen Ogle: I think I sort of addressed this earlier, but you asked it in a
way that gets to another point: Why should craft beer drinkers care?

Because I think that InBev's presence is going to cause a lot of short-term
upheaval and I predict that many craft brewers will try to seize that upheaval
and engineer their own expansion. So it's possible -- indeed, likely -- that
craft brewing will feel the impact. Maybe not immediately, but it will be felt.
(I'm discussing this topic all week at my blog.)

_______________________

Washington: Could this lead to a cheaper Belgian-style weise beer or hefewiezen?
The cheapest ones I know are either very local or Blue Moon. I'd love something
cheap and universal to most bars.

Maureen Ogle: Have you tried Widmer Brothers's weise beer? It's not bad at all.

_______________________

Washington: I don't think Yuengling is the only beer not to go national ... you
can't get Fat Tire east of the Mississippi, and its all the rage out West.

Maureen Ogle: Sorry. I was typing to fast. I meant of the old, mainstream "big"
brewers (not, mind you, that Yuengling is "big" compared to A-B or
Miller/Coors).

But on that subject: many many many of the craft brewers -- like the folks who
make Fat Tire and Dogfish and Abita -- are trying as hard as they can to create
national markets. A few years ago, Fat Tire was only available in a few states.
It has expanded its territory significantly in a short time.

That's because it managed to wrangle distribution deals. That -- the
distribution system -- is what's going to feel the impact of the InBev takeover.
That's where and why the craft brewers will feel this.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: What does it mean to file a motion to remove the board of
directors? That seems like grandstanding, and not something that will be
effective.

Maureen Ogle: I gather it's a way to use a legal mechanism to move the deal
forward: InBev can argue that A-B's current board is not satisfying the
stockholders. If the court (or whatever entity rules on this stuff) agrees,
InBev would be able to replace those directors with people who are in favor of
the InBev takeover.

It's just another move in a complicated game....

_______________________

Madison, Wis.: InBev's stock continues to plummet and its brands sales are
drooping as consumers cut costs ... how long can this bluff by InBev's CEO
continue before his own company crashes and burns?

Maureen Ogle: Good question! I'm fascinated by the fact that, as you say,
InBev's stock is spiraling downward. Plus, I still say that if Brito and InBev
succeed, they're in for a rude awakening, because the removal of the "Busch
factor" from the equation will diminish the value of A-B. History has shown that
over and over and over again.

_______________________

Should I Care?: Hi Maureen. I liked your article. Though I am not a big Bud
drinker, if I was, why should I care who owns the company? I don't imagine Bud
will go away regardless, right? Why the big fuss then?

Maureen Ogle: Partly I think it's the timing: The economy already feels like
it's going to hell in a hand basket, and now someone wants to buy a legendary
American company.

I'm bothered by it in part because I love the idea of this one family running
the show for six generations. That's amazing! But: you're right. In the long
run, it's a corporation and the ownership doesn't matter. Except I still think
InBev is gonna destroy the company...

_______________________

Washington: A lot of local breweries in Europe are being swallowed by the large
corporations. Will this trend happen in the U.S.? We have so many wonderful
microbrews that, as far as I know, remain independent (such as New Belgium,
Dogfish Head, etc.).

Maureen Ogle: Ah! Now there's the $64 bazillion question: Will the independents
remain independent? The short answer is, some won't. Some of these have become
very attractive to larger brewers. Also, a couple of other things that will roil
craft brewing:

Some of those microbrewers who've now been at it for 25 or 30 years will start
thinking about retirement, and it's not clear at all what they will decide to do
with their companies.

Also, brewers are being clobbered by prices. Barley and hops are both at record
high prices, in part because of severe shortages. Some of those independents
simply won't survive. And when they close their doors, some other, more stable
beer-maker will grab the plants and maybe even the brands and use those to
expand their sales -- which will put more pressure on other independents.

_______________________

Detroit: Isn't InBev just taking advantage of the weakened dollar in making an
offer that would not have been possible but for a favorable Euro exchange rate?

Maureen Ogle: Definitely! InBev competes primarily in small, "underdeveloped"
countries, but all of a sudden, thanks to the weak dollar, it's got a chance to
grab a bigger share of an aging, "mature" beer market.

_______________________

McLean, Va.: If A-B is taken over, what might happen to its captive craft
breweries, Red Hook and Dominion?

Maureen Ogle: Somewhere in all these replies, I talked about this, but the short
answer is: No one knows. If InBev is smart, it will hang on to them. If InBev
puts them on the market, you can bet that some other, smaller, craft brewer will
try to grab them. That's now little companies become giants.

_______________________

Budweiser overseas?: When I visited Ireland a year ago, I was surprised to see
Budweiser on tap in several pubs. I was surprised that the Irish would drink
such a weak fizzy beer. But I was told that it wasn't American Budweiser, it was
a Czech beer named Budweiser.

Maureen Ogle: There is a Czech beer called Budweiser -- Carl Conrad used it as
his inspiration for Bud. The Czech company and A-B have wrangled with each other
over the name for a century. I've lost track of where they are now!

_______________________

Fredericksburg, Va.: Living in Germany for six years in the early '90s, I often
was amazed to see German and other NATO soldiers buying Bud by the case in the
local PX. In Germany -- beer heaven! I finally inquired as to why, and the
response was "we can drink a six pack of Budweiser and get a slight beer taste
without getting the least bit drunk." Budweiser -- the first unintentionally
light, nonalcoholic beer!

Maureen Ogle: Oh, that's funny! But the fact is Bud did have a lower alcohol
content, thanks to American laws back then. It only has been recently that many
states have started to allow manufacture and sale of beers with more than about
3.2 percent alcohol content. So those GIs were drinking cheaper beer with a lot
less kick than the European stuff.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: While I freely admit the Bud and Bud Light products are not on
par with microbreweries (like Victory for example), Bud does represent something
American -- it is apple pie, NASCAR, the troops overseas. To most people this
isn't about business but about the desire to keep an American Icon the way it
is. It's not like AB is going to go bankrupt without a sale, and not every
business needs to be available for purchase.

Maureen Ogle: I couldn't agree more! Sometimes smaller is better, if you know
what I mean.

On the other hand, A-B has shareholders breathing down its neck, and there's one
thing about shareholders: They want instant gratification.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: What do you think about the rise of Sam Adams? Are they
considered one of the Bigs yet? And do you think they will benefit from the
Anheuser-Busch sale? Thank you for taking my questions.

Maureen Ogle: Sam Adams, which is owned by Boston Beer Company -- which was
founded by Jim Koch (who is still the major holder and CEO) -- is the classic
example of the "craft" brewer that made it big.

He's a very smart guy, and he'd like to expand. He'll be looking for A-B
distributors who are worried about the InBev deal. My guess is that he'll be
doing some serious growing once this deal goes through -- or at least he'll try
to use the opportunity to grow.

But he needs to be careful. If one of the giants decides to squash him flat,
well...

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: Would InBev continue to pursue sports advertising with the
same intensity as A-B?

Maureen Ogle: I'm sure InBev would stick with the current deals and probably try
for more. If nothing else, it probably would try to promote televised soccer
(the Brazilians being people who know a thing or two about soccer).

What's the name of those Belgian horses? Percherons? Maybe the Clydesdales would
be retired in favor of Belgian horses!

_______________________

Pacific, Mo.: No one is talking about the downside of Carlos chopping up
Anheuser and selling off bits and pieces. He will need to do so just to recover
the $40 billion-plus in debt he will generate. Why is this a good idea? Anheuser
has, for most of the past 40 years, provided excellent return on your
investment. What company has not fallen on tough times in that time frame? Let
Anheuser's current board run the company, and profits will rise without$ 40
billion in debts.

Maureen Ogle: Amen to that. Yes, I agree: For all Brito's talk about how he'll
leave the company intact, well, I'm not buying it. (No pun intended.)

And I think the value of the company will plunge after the takeover,and then he
probably won't have any choice but to chop it to pieces and sell it off. It's
really very distressing!

_______________________

Washington: I am one of those microbrew snobs that doesn't really care for Bud,
but any fan of beer cannot be excited about this potential buyout. A-B has
managed to assemble the most efficient distribution network in the world, and
thanks to it Americans are able to taste some of the greatest American beers
from all across the country. From what I can tell, InBev is not nearly as great
at distribution (as evidenced by 14-month old Becks on store shelves here in the
states), and I would expect the same nonchalant attitude toward distribution
after the purchase -- which would mean a beer that we now get a couple of weeks
after finishing will take months, degrading the taste.

Maureen Ogle: Oh, the distribution system -- that is going to be the key to
InBev's relative success or failure, because yes, A-B has an extraordinary
distribution system, and has had one for 75 years. But in the past 18 months or
so, some of those distributors have been very unhappy. They're the people to
watch. They are going to be major players in this affair.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: Isn't Miller already owned by a South African concern? (This
may be in your article, but Outlook sometimes doesn't get read till lunch on
Monday ... or Tuesday...) And whatever happened to my favorite regional beer
that destroyed itself by going national, Stroh's?

Maureen Ogle: When the Stroh family self-destructed by, as you say, trying to go
national (an event that I describe in the book), that brand ended up in, I
think, the Kalmanovitz portfolio (that's the outfit that took over and destroyed
Pabst). But like a lot of brands, it no longer had any value.

Yes, Miller is owned by SAB, and SAB recently merged its North American Miller
ops with Molson-Coors's North American ops, to create Miller/Coors.

Interesting side note: The people at Miller werethrilled when SAB acquired
Miller from Philip Morris in 2000 (2001?) They were so happy to have a (gasp)
brewer take them over, because PM never really had any interest in beer as
beer...

_______________________

St. Louis: First, Maureen I would like to say thanks for writing a good article.
I believe in many of the things you have stated. However, I must say that if
InBev buys out Anheuser-Busch it is not just St. Louis that will be hurt, but
all 12 of the A-B breweries, their distributors, the parks, the history and the
heritage. It is proven that InBev does not stick to their word and does what is
in the best interest of their shareholders.

The reason InBev wants A-B is because their stock is starting to decline, so
they need something to jump-start it again. Purchasing A-B and slashing into the
books to make the company appear profitable is what InBev will do! If you look
at A-B's stock history it is proven that they are very profitable alone. Their
shares actually increased nonstop from the early 1980s until 2002.

However, if you look at the dollar, it continually has decreased since
2002-2003, which is the same time period A-B's stock has become what some call
stagnant. If you look at the latest statistics concerning the best beer brands
in the world, A-B has the top two -- No. 1 is Bud Light and No. 2 is Bud -- and
it also has 4 of the top 10. That's pretty impressive for the No. 3 brewer in
the world in the second-largest beer market in the world!

I would like to add a comment concerning some of the previous comments
concerning craft brewing. My comment is that A-B actually has microbreweries at
some of their main breweries to develop craft beers, which they test to see how
well they perform, although many people will not taste them because they only
are distributed in certain markets. I also don't think some people know that A-B
in St. Louis (and probably at their other breweries) helps some of the smaller
craft breweries obtain their ingredients for their craft beers.

Maureen, I have tasted several beers from InBev (I realize they have 200 brands
compared to A-B's 80 or more) and I've traveled all over the world trying
various local beers along the way. I enjoyed some but found many were poor
quality. I believe InBev actually would hurt the overall American appeal to some
beers -- mainly Bud or Bud Light because of their heritage -- although it may
help more with local craft beers or Miller (because people do not feel obligated
to drink American, which is what SABMiller CEO wants). I guess I'm attached to
my American beer when I drink it, and I don't want anything to happen to it.
Also, do you believe InBev can do anything to implement new beers that would
appeal to American tastes that we as Americans can't do ourselves, considering
brewers from all over the world come to us for help?

Maureen Ogle: Oh, lots there, and I'm not sure I have time to respond to all,
but re: the question about what InBev brings to the table as far as brewing
goes, I think the answer is nothing.

Because you're right: A-B runs one of the world's finest breweries -- meaning a
place where people tinker with ingredients and yeast and so forth -- and I doubt
InBev gives a damn about it.

A-B has invested a lot of money in the past few years working on "craft" beers.
It faces a challenge, of course: how to break into a market whose consumers hate
"big" companies. But it also has to figure out how to make the wide array of
beers that craft brewers do without using up all of its vat capacity (because of
course it still has to keep making its "regular" beers).

A-B definitely is not the bad guy that many people think it is. The people at
A-B care about beer and brewing. That's what's going to be lost if the company
is sold. All American beer-makers will lose a friend in the business. I know
that sounds hard to believe, but it's true...

_______________________

Washington: Can South African Breweries takeover of Miller offer a glimpse at
the possible future A-B faces if InBev manages to force the sale? As far as I
can tell, little has changed since Miller went from being a Milwaukee-based
company to a Johannesburg-based company. So is all this hand-wringing much ado
about nothing?

Maureen Ogle: The big difference is this: Philip Morris took over in 1969 and
1970, and Miller since then has been just another corporate beer-maker, which is
why it never since has been able to compete with A-B. (A-B, by the way, makes
about 105 million barrels a year; Miller makes about 40. Miller and Coors
combined now make about 60.)

I think part of A-B's edge all this time has been the fact that it was a company
focused on the beer and on the heritage. Don't discount the value of the
continuing presence of the Busch family. Without them, A-B will become just
another Miller.

_______________________

Maureen Ogle: Sadly -- and I am sad -- I've gotta go. I have an appointment. I
wish I could keep answering questions, but...

For all of you who shared your ideas, thank you so much. As I noted earlier, I
am blogging about InBev, craft brewing, and the future. I'm going to try to
incorporate some of the unanswered comments into my blog posts.

And for more information (okay, maybe more than you want) I hope you'll read
"Ambitious Brew." It's out in paperback now and readily available.

Again, thanks so much for this lively experience. It's great to have a chance to
"talk" to readers.

Okay, patriots: Grab a beer and man your barstools!

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 3, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

In D.C. Area, Citizenship Test Is One Of Patience;
Local Immigrants Face Longest Wait

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1180 words


Eager to become an American citizen? Don't move to the Washington region. Try
Omaha.

The federal agency that handles immigration paperwork has been rolling out
tidbits of good -- or less bad -- news about last summer's deluge of
naturalization applications, which created a backlog that might prevent hundreds
of thousands of would-be citizens from voting in November.

Early last month, the agency announced that it would take an average of 13 to 15
months to process the petitions, not as long as previously predicted but longer
than the pre-influx average of seven months.

Then last week, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services projected what the
processing times would be at the end of September at 70 offices across the
country. There was more good news -- for folks in places such as Omaha, that is,
where citizenship paperwork is expected to be polished off in 5.8 months.

Washington area applicants will need to preserve their patience.

Maryland petitioners, whose papers go to Baltimore, can expect a 14-month wait,
the agency said. Applicants in Southern Virginia, who file in Norfolk, will
probably have the second-longest wait in the nation -- 14.6 months.

Those in Northern Virginia and the District? They will face the nation's longest
delay -- 14.7 months.

"You would think that D.C. has an inside track," said William Ramos, head of the
Washington office of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials.

"I'll vote next time, if I'm alive," said Reston retiree Apolonio Marin, 69, a
Nicaraguan native who applied for citizenship last summer. He is still waiting.

Those comments and the agency's projections underscore a problem that has long
frustrated critics of the bureaucratic and sluggish U.S. immigration system: How
long applicants wait depends on where they live. And in this election year, some
say, the variations are more important and unfair than ever.

"One of the benefits of becoming a citizen is to be able to vote," said Parastoo
Zahedi, a Vienna lawyer who heads the Washington area chapter of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "Why should their cousin who lives in a
jurisdiction that processes their application faster get to vote and those who
live in Virginia have to skip the vote?"

Officials with USCIS, which is funded by fees, stop short of saying they need
more money. Places with more immigrants are bound to have longer waits, they
say.

"It does seem unfair if someone's applying in a small area of the country versus
someone applying in Los Angeles or Washington or Detroit or Dallas. And it is
unfair," said Bill Wright, a USCIS spokesman. "But if we have more in
Washington, D.C., there's really not a whole lot we can do about it. It's based
on the demand. It's based on the resources available to us."

USCIS officials say they were overwhelmed by last year's surge, which was
triggered by a fee increase and bolstered by interest in the presidential
election and tensions over immigration. The cost of an application, including
fingerprinting fees, jumped from $410 to $675 on July 30. Between October 2006
and September 2007, USCIS received 1.4 million naturalization applications,
nearly twice as many as in the previous 12-month period. Of those, 460,000
arrived in July.

Wright said it was "not appropriate" to estimate how many of the 1.4 million
applications would be finalized by Election Day.

The influx did not hit all offices to the same degree, officials said.

In July, the Baltimore immigration office received 4,549 naturalization
applications, up from 1,374 in the same month in 2006. Intake at the Washington
office, which handles applications from the District and Northern Virginia,
jumped from 1,453 in July 2006 to 7,192 last July. Each of those offices had 31
adjudication officers to process all types of applications. Norfolk received
1,590 naturalization petitions in July, a sixfold increase over July 2006. Seven
employees were on staff to process them.

"A lot of this is the result of some grass-roots efforts on the ground to get
folks to apply for citizenship, and the filings depended on where those efforts
were," said Don Neufeld, acting associate director of domestic operations for
USCIS. "Some offices were better situated to be able to absorb a surge."

USCIS officials say they are tackling the naturalization backlog by hiring
employees and holding citizenship interviews during off hours. Six hundred
adjudication officers have been hired nationally, and 637 are in the pipeline,
officials said. The agency wants to bring the processing time for naturalization
down to a five-month average by 2010.

In February, the Baltimore office began conducting citizenship interviews on one
Saturday a month; Saturday interviews will begin this month in the Washington
office, which is in Fairfax County. Washington and Baltimore have each added
nine adjudication officers; Norfolk, three, officials said.

Surge aside, immigration processing times have long varied by location. It is a
topic that generates angst on immigration-related Web sites and uproar among
USCIS watchdogs. A report last year by the USCIS ombudsman singled out the
variations as one example of the agency's "continued lack of standardization."

Critics say USCIS should be aware enough of immigrant settlement patterns to
staff offices accordingly. They also say that delays are not always longest in
immigrant-heavy regions: The recent projections put the processing time of
Chicago at 8.6 months and that of Yakima, Wash., at 14.1 months.

Prakash Khatri, a District lawyer who served as the USCIS ombudsman from 2003
until the end of February, said his investigations revealed that planning at the
national level does not always account for needs in offices such as the one in
Norfolk, which Khatri said was already busy with applications from service
members who qualify for expedited citizenship. Some offices focus on simple
cases to meet "production quotas," Khatri said, then get backed up with
complicated ones. Others, he said, are more efficient because of good management
or interest from their congressional delegation.

"But there is no excuse for a five-month processing in one part of the country
or a 15-month processing in another, when there is a national law that should be
administered by the federal government fairly and equitably across the country,"
Khatri said, referring to the Immigration and Naturalization Act. "This does
impact people's lives in terms of benefits and grants and in terms of jobs."

It's all a bit baffling for immigrant applicants.

Marin, the Nicaraguan native who lives in Reston, said he hopes to be able to
vote for Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) in November. He applied for citizenship with
his wife and son in June. His daughter applied later and has taken her
citizenship test. She must be lucky: She applied in Norfolk.

"I belong to here now," said Marin, who teaches English at Hogar Hispano, a
Falls Church program run by Catholic Charities. He has lived in the United
States for two decades. "I was trying to vote, that's my biggest concern. For
this reason, I'm disappointed."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 8, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Agents Arrest 33 in Raid at Construction Site

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 324 words


Federal immigration agents raided the construction site of a new federal
courthouse in Richmond on Monday, arresting 33 workers on charges of violating
federal immigration laws and being in the United States illegally, officials
said yesterday.

Ernestine Fobbs, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency, said the 29 men and four women who were arrested were from El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua and Peru. All were found to lack
documents that would allow them to live or work in the United States, Fobbs
said.

Officials had received information that illegal immigrants were working at the
site, Fobbs said. The investigation is ongoing, and no information was available
about the employers, she said. Those arrested were being processed for
deportation.

According to radio reports, federal agents and Virginia State Police officers
surrounded the work site about 8 a.m. and rounded up about 50 workers while
others attempted to hide inside the half-built complex. The reports said that
officials were still searching the site hours later and that the remaining
workers were required to wear wristbands showing that their IDs had been found
valid.

Aaron Samsel, a representative of the Virginia Immigrant People's Coalition in
Richmond, said his organization and others would be available to assist
relatives and friends of the arrested workers if they contact the Hispanic
Liaison Office in Richmond at 804-646-0145. He said the groups would provide
food, day-care services and help in obtaining information about the detained
workers.

The raid was the third roundup of illegal immigrant workers in Virginia in the
past two months. On April 8, federal agents arrested 59 Hispanic workers at the
Lansdowne Resort in Loudoun County on charges of immigration violations and said
most would be deported. In March, immigration officials arrested 43 Latin
American immigrants at a construction site in Manassas.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 11, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Switch to;
Looking for the Country's Smartest Newscasts? Switch to EspaÃ±ol.

BYLINE: Joe Mathews

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1615 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Amid all the national debate over immigration, at least one firm consensus has
emerged: Newcomers to the United States should learn English because it remains
the lingua franca of our civic life. All three remaining presidential contenders
say that the ability to speak English should be a requirement of U.S.
citizenship.  And last year, the immigrant governor of California told a
convention of Latino journalists that immigrants should watch only
English-language TV so they can understand the language and news of their home
state. "You've got to turn off the Spanish television set," Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger advised the National Association of Hispanic Journalists.

Schwarzenegger is wrong, and so is this new consensus. The error is particularly
obvious in cities with the largest immigrant populations, especially Los
Angeles, the town the governor calls home. Schwarzenegger could discover ample
evidence of this all by himself -- simply by turning on his television.

On most nights here, the most timely, serious and civic-minded local news is not
available on the Internet, the radio or any of the half-dozen English-language
stations that broadcast nightly shows that purport to be newscasts. At 11 p.m.
each night here, the best newscasts in the market appear on two Spanish-language
channels, Univision's flagship KMEX and Telemundo affiliate KVEA.

This might come as a surprise to English-speaking Americans, who hear about the
Spanish-language TV news only when its on-air personalities engage in
soap-opera-style antics, such as the KVEA anchor-reporter who became the
mistress of Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa. But I've been watching these
two Spanish newscasts and their English competitors on the local ABC, NBC and
CBS affiliates, and the content doesn't lie. If immigrants took Schwarzenegger's
advice and flipped off Spanish stations in favor of English-language news, they
wouldn't have nearly as good an idea of what was happening in their adopted
city, state and country.

Take a recent night, after a typical day of Los Angeles news. English-language
TV led with the weather (it was raining, which is not as unusual as you might
think during an L.A. winter), then moved into splashy reports with dramatic
footage of a gang shootout and possible hostage situation in a city
neighborhood. Less than eight minutes into the newscast, trivia took over. The
CBS affiliate's third piece involved new questions about the death of Marilyn
Monroe. The NBC affiliate dwelled on a hepatitis scare at a party for
celebrities and swimsuit models, then attempted a brief consumer-oriented
investigation about people's need to replace their tires more frequently. The
ABC affiliate gave five minutes to movies and entertainment, from an Oscar
preview to a sit-down interview with Jon Stewart.

In Spanish, viewers got fewer soft features and more deeply reported, longer
pieces. KMEX mentioned the gang shootout but provided far more context,
interviewing local residents about recent crime and about how local businesses
and schools were affected by an hours-long neighborhood lockdown as police
searched for a suspect. KMEX also aired a detailed report on a major beef recall
from a local firm, a couple of pieces on local politics (including a roundup of
what city and county leaders had done that day) and a four-minute examination of
key policy issues in the presidential campaign. The Oscars went unmentioned.
KVEA's half-hour newscast, "En Contexto" (which means what it sounds like), was
even more substantive. It gave a thorough review of local political and
government news, then delved deeply into nearly 20 minutes of explanation of
rising home foreclosures and mortgage problems. (Yes, Spanish-language viewers
were callously left to figure out that it was raining all by themselves.)

This was no fluke. The next night, KMEX broke the news that the LAPD had more
Latino officers than white officers, and KVEA ran a piece on the pay and working
conditions of security guards. Meanwhile, their English-language rival KABC was
finishing another Oscar preview and beginning a heartwarming story involving
dogs.

"There's no comparison in the coverage," says Josh Kun, a communications
professor at the University of Southern California who closely follows Spanish
TV. "For people here, there are two places to look for better news: BBC News and
Spanish-language news."

Why the difference? As English-language news organizations -- desperate to stop
the declines of their audiences and ad revenues -- cut back on news-gathering,
they devote their time and resources to entertainment, celebrities, pets and
crime (or, best of all, stories that combine all four). But Spanish-language TV
producers, who serve a clearly defined, growing audience, have space to tackle
weightier topics.

The result: The sharpest coverage of state and local issues -- government,
politics, immigration, labor, economics, health care -- is now found on
Spanish-language TV. They compete hard on serious stories. As a labor reporter
for the Los Angeles Times in 2006, the only competitors I routinely saw at major
union stories were reporters for KMEX, KVEA and La Opinion, a Spanish-language
daily newspaper. These outlets tell their viewers more about how the state and
the region work, they are more persistent in demanding explanations from public
officials, and their reports routinely include more interviews with more sources
from more perspectives.

The Spanish-language TV broadcasts are, for lack of a better word, more
American.

They get ratings, too. KMEX's 6 p.m. program has ranked either first or second
for years among newscasts in the market in any language; its 11 p.m. newscast
leads the ratings among nearly every adult demographic. KVEA lags behind, but
its audience is increasing. "There's such a thirst for news," says Maelia Macin,
vice president and general manager of Univision's Los Angeles stations.

And there's profit, too. KVEA and KMEX don't report separate financial results
for themselves or their newscasts, but their networks -- KVEA is part of NBC
Universal's Telemundo, and KMEX is part of Univision, which is owned by private
equity investors including billionaire Haim Saban -- have each been purchased in
recent years for billions of dollars and report strong growth in cash flow and
advertising revenues.

To be sure, these Spanish-language broadcasts often look good only by comparison
to their English competitors. The stations sometimes seem to use sex to sell the
news; a blouse worn recently by KMEX anchor Fabiola Kramsky was so tight that it
left little to the imagination.

Journalistic ethics have not been sterling. KVEA's political reporter and anchor
Mirthala Salinas was not only Villaraigosa's mistress; she also had a romantic
relationship with Assembly Speaker Fabian NÃºÃ±ez, probably California's second
most powerful politician. Seemingly clueless about the ethical problems of
dating sources, she complained in an interview in this month's Los Angeles
magazine that the station had attempted to reassign her to less glamorous beats.
She resigned instead -- as, she said, "a matter of dignity."

But the most serious complaint about Spanish news is that the reporting and
commentary often feel more like advocacy than traditional journalism. It's a
fair point, and one that those who work in Spanish news don't dispute. The two
stations' immigration coverage is deeply sympathetic to undocumented immigrants,
with on-air reporters encouraging viewers to join national immigration rallies.
Macin, the KMEX general manager, notes that her station's philosophy is "a su
lado" (on your side).

The upside of the advocacy approach is serious reporting and newscasts with
broader perspectives. Viewers are engaged more as citizens than consumers.

On KMEX, the advocacy is also matched by impressive production values. Jerry
Perenchio, the former Univision chairman and chief executive, liked to say that
with the sound turned down, viewers should not be able to tell the difference
between his Spanish-broadcasts and those on English-language competitors. KVEA
newscasts can lag in production values. (During one recent interview, the camera
kept leaving half of the subject's face out of the picture.) But KVEA also
produces by far the most substantive newscast in Los Angeles in any language:
its 11 p.m. program, "En Contexto."

Its host and lead reporter, RubÃ©n Luengas, arrived from his native Mexico City
six years ago and is still uncomfortable being interviewed in English. Staffers
refer to the program privately as a "30-minute Spanish '60 Minutes.' " Luengas
is an aggressive host, conducting detailed interviews and sometimes offering his
own opinions. "The idea was to put the news in context, to see if we could
combat the tendency for infotainment," he says in Spanish. "I didn't want to be
part of infantilization of the news."

On a recent night, KVEA did eight minutes on the Iraq war, spent five minutes on
deplorable working conditions in Southern California car washes and had reports
on narco-traffickers and the latest key legislation in the state legislature and
Los Angeles City Hall. Meanwhile, the CBS affiliate had a reporter doing a trend
piece on "night spas" that are open until midnight, and ABC was running an item
on high-tech fitness equipment.

It's enough to make one wonder if it isn't time for our political leaders to
turn off the English-language TV and encourage good citizens to learn Spanish,
the language of civic-minded news.

mathews@newamerica.net

Joe Mathews is an Irvine senior fellow at the New America Foundation and the
author of "The People's Machine: Arnold Schwarzenegger and the Rise of
Blockbuster Democracy."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; A News Crew From Kmex 34, A Univision Affiliate, In Los Angeles;
By Damian Dovarganes -- Associated Press
IMAGE; Left: Courtesy Of Univision's Kmex. Above: Courtesy Of Telemundo's Kvea;
L.A. stories: Univision's Peabody Award-winning "Ya es hora Â¡CiudadanÃ­a!"
(left) encourages good citizenship; KVEA's 11 p.m. "En Contexto" newscast
(above) tackles serious topics including the mortgage crisis.
IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 11, 2008 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Bittersweet Reunions Span U.S. Border;
Mexican Mothers Get Glimpse of Kin

BYLINE: Ashley Surdin; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, May 10


You can walk to the U.S. border, Francelia Menchaca's immigration lawyer advised
her, but don't put your fingers through its fence. It may hinder her immigration
paperwork, the lawyer said.

But when, after a year apart, Menchaca's mother arrived in her flowered straw
hat here Saturday and put her small, wrinkled hands up to the cast-iron gate,
Menchaca reached out and touched them.

"Were you anxious to touch my hand?" Menchaca asked in Spanish. Tears stood on
her lashes.

"Yes," said her mother, Francisca RodrÃ­guez, a resident of Tijuana, as her
three grandchildren, including a 10-month-old girl she had never seen, strained
to be near her.

The Menchacas, who drove from Phoenix, are among those who gather here annually
on Mexico's Mother's Day along this kinder portion of an otherwise unforgiving
border that separates the United States and Mexico.

For nearly 2,000 miles, the boundary rolls from the tip of Texas westward
through the foot of California. But in Tijuana, just before the line juts out
and sinks into the Pacific Ocean, it eases into a rusty, weather-beaten fence.

Flanked by the U.S. Border Field Park on one side and Playa de Tijuana on the
other, the 10-foot-high fence offers a modest opening here and there, just wide
enough to slip a hand or a homemade taco through.

Safe gathering spots such as these are few along this increasingly violent
boundary, and Saturday may mark the last time families can use them. Amid
escalating drug wars -- which have recently erupted in bloody nighttime and
daytime street shootouts, sending people into hiding in their homes -- officials
are fortifying the border.

But no one seemed to give that a thought as Benjamin RodrÃ­guez GonzÃ¡les, 49,
cued the day with the cling-cling of his ice-cream cart. Shortly after, three
rancheros from Hollister, Calif., sidled up from the U.S. side, slipping dollar
bills through the openings in exchange for coconut Popsicles. A Mexican
Popsicle, someone quipped, is not allowed to cross the border. Those on both
sides of the fence laughed.

Many sat in cars, waiting for a glimpse of an anticipated arrival. Monica
Alvarado, 42, of Tijuana brought beach chairs -- one for her, a smaller one for
her year-old son, Ricardo -- and set them near a plate-size hole in the fence.
Her son Luis Jaime CermaeÃ±o, 23, came from San Ysidro, Calif., to meet them.

Salsa music floated from a beachside restaurant as the three lunched together on
birria, or goat, tacos. CermaeÃ±o, a construction worker who sends money to his
family, said he missed the tierra, the dirt, found only in Tijuana tacos. So his
mom prepared him plate after plate and slid them through the fence.

"He's a big guy!" she said in Spanish, spreading her arms and shaking them.

Within the next few weeks, the U.S. government will build more fences in this
beachside area. The idea anguishes visitors such as RodrÃ­guez.

"We're hoping that by next year, they have their immigration papers," she said,
clutching a family photo album, as her grandchildren gathered daisies for her
and pushed them through the fence.

Until then, she can only wait.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; A 10-foot-high
fence separates California and Mexico, but a modest opening here and there is
just wide enough to slip a hand through. But officials are fortifying this
border amid raging drug wars.
IMAGE; Francelia Menchaca drove with her family from Phoenix to see her mother,
Francisca RodrÃ­guez of Tijuana. It was only their second meeting in 10 years.
IMAGE; Francelia Menchaca, her niece, Yamilth Camacho, and her husband, Paul
Menchaca, watch as her mother pages through a family photo album.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 11, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Enrollment in ESL Program Shows Signs Of Slowing;
Drop in Available Jobs May Explain Trend

BYLINE: Bill Brubaker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ01

LENGTH: 754 words


Enrollment in the Loudoun public school system's English as a Second Language
program has surged more than 2,000 percent over the past decade, a reflection of
the county's boom in foreign-born residents.

But ESL enrollment has edged up only 7.5 percent over the past year, after
increasing by at least 31 percent each of the previous four years -- and school
officials predict the slow-growth trend will continue in the 2008-09 school
year.

What gives?

"The general slowdown in the economy is the biggest factor," said Alessio A.
Evangelista, supervisor of Loudoun's ESL program. "There seems to be fewer jobs
here. And historically, people come here from other countries for jobs."

Construction jobs in particular have taken a hit in Loudoun because of the
slumping housing market, experts say. Many of these jobs have been held in
recent years by immigrants.

Evangelista said an anti-illegal immigration movement in Northern Virginia also
may have figured into the slowdown in ESL enrollment. Lawmakers in several
counties, including Loudoun, over the past year have called for restricting
services to illegal immigrants. That, in turn, may have encouraged some workers
to look for jobs elsewhere.

"I suspect the decrease in [ESL] growth also has to do with the general
appearances" that Loudoun has become less friendly to immigrants, Evangelista
said. "But is the decrease because of this rhetoric? It's really hard to say.
All we know is that we are not growing as fast."

Last year, the county's Board of Supervisors, then Republican-controlled, passed
a resolution aimed at driving out illegal immigrants, who they said had brought
crime to Loudoun neighborhoods. In January, a new board controlled by Democrats
backed away from that effort. But the illegal-immigration issue was again
front-and-center in Loudoun last month with the arrest of 59 foreign-born
workers at Lansdowne Resort.

Loudoun is spending $17.4 million on its ESL program this year so that immigrant
students "will understand, speak, read, and write English in order to function
in American society," the school system's Web site says.

Evangelista said the 133 teachers and two administrators in the program do not
attempt to learn whether the students and their families are in the United
States legally.

"I avoid this kind of conversation," Evangelista said. "Our job -- my job -- is
to help these students. We accept those who come to live here and want to go to
school here. We just want to give these kids a top-notch education."

The School Board had planned to increase the ESL program's fiscal 2009 budget by
about $3 million, school system spokesman Wayde Byard said. But with enrollment
in the program slowing unexpectedly, and the board needing to bring its spending
in line with the county's overall budget, school officials cut $1.9 million from
that increase, citing a "dramatic leveling off" in the growth of the ESL student
population.

"We haven't enrolled anywhere as many students as we had expected, so we will
not need as many additional teachers," Evangelista said. "We're still going to
have more money than we have this year."

As recently as the 1997-98 academic year, only 195 students were enrolled in the
ESL program, according to school officials. Now there are almost 4,400 -- a jump
of more than 2,000 percent. Overall enrollment in Loudoun schools rose 127
percent over the same 10-year period, from 23,782 to 54,047.

Seventy-two languages are spoken by students throughout the school system as of
this year. The top five foreign languages are Spanish, Vietnamese, Urdu, Korean
and Punjabi.

Evangelista, who speaks Spanish and Italian, said he could have benefited from
an ESL program when he emigrated with his family from Italy in 1954.

He was 8 years old and did not speak a word of English. And a public school in
Rochester, N.Y., gave him two choices: Drop back a grade or enroll in a school
for students with learning disabilities. His family instead sent him to a
Catholic school that allowed him to enroll in the age-appropriate grade.

Evangelista said times were tough for his family then, just as they are for many
of the new immigrants in his program. His father eked out a living as a barber,
he said, and he recalls a group of strangers bringing a bag of groceries to his
front door during his first Christmas season in the United States.

"So in that sense I can relate to the kids in our program," Evangelista said. "I
know what is going on in their households. And I know that learning English
opens up varied possibilities."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 11, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

System of Neglect;
As Tighter Immigration Policies Strain Federal Agencies, The Detainees in Their
Care Often Pay a Heavy Cost

BYLINE: Dana Priest and Amy Goldstein; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 5243 words


Near midnight on a California spring night, armed guards escorted Yusif Osman
into an immigration prison ringed by concertina wire at the end of a winding,
isolated road.

During the intake screening, a part-time nurse began a computerized medical file
on Osman, a routine procedure for any person entering the vast prison network
the government has built for foreign detainees across the country. But the nurse
pushed a button and mistakenly closed file #077-987-986 and marked it
"completed" -- even though it had no medical information in it.

Three months later, at 2 in the morning on June 27, 2006, the native of Ghana
collapsed in Cell 206 at the Otay Mesa immigrant detention center outside San
Diego. His cellmate hit the intercom button, yelling to guards that Osman was on
the floor suffering from chest pains. A guard peered through the window into the
dim cell and saw the detainee on the ground, but did not go in. Instead, he
called a clinic nurse to find out whether Osman had any medical problems.

When the nurse opened the file and found it blank, she decided there was no
emergency and said Osman needed to fill out a sick call request. The guard went
on a lunch break.

The cellmate yelled again. Another guard came by, looked in and called the
nurse. This time she wanted Osman brought to the clinic. Forty minutes passed
before guards brought a wheelchair to his cell. By then it was too late: Osman
was barely alive when paramedics reached him. He soon died.

His body, clothed only in dark pants and socks, was left on a breezeway for two
hours, an airway tube sticking out of his mouth. Osman was 34.

The next day, an autopsy determined that he had died because his heart had
suddenly stopped, confidential medical records show. Two physicians who reviewed
his case for The Washington Post said he might have lived had he received timely
treatment, perhaps as basic as an aspirin.

Privately, Otay Mesa's medical staff also knew his care was deficient. On Page 3
of an internal review of his death is this question:

Did patient receive appropriate and adequate health care consistent with
community standards during his/her detention . . .?

Otay Mesa's medical director, Esther Hui, checked "No."

Osman's death is a single tragedy in a larger story of life, death and often
shabby medical care within an unseen network of special prisons for foreign
detainees across the country. About 33,000 people are crammed into these
overcrowded compounds on a given day, waiting to be deported or for a judge to
let them stay here.

The medical neglect they endure is part of the hidden human cost of increasingly
strict policies in the post-Sept. 11 United States and a lack of preparation for
the impact of those policies. The detainees have less access to lawyers than
convicted murderers in maximum-security prisons, and some have fewer comforts
than al-Qaeda terrorism suspects held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

But they are not terrorists. Most are working-class men and women or indigent
laborers who made mistakes that seem to pose no threat to national security: a
Salvadoran who bought drugs in his 20th year of poverty in Los Angeles; a legal
U.S. resident from Mexico who took $50 for driving two undocumented day laborers
into a border city. Or they are waiting for political asylum from danger in
their own countries: a Somali without a valid visa trying to prove she would be
killed had she remained in her village; a journalist who fled Congo out of fear
for his life, worked as a limousine driver and fathered six American children,
but never was able to get the asylum he sought.

The most vulnerable detainees, the physically sick and the mentally ill, are
sometimes denied the proper treatment to which they are entitled by law and
regulation. They are locked in a world of slow care, poor care and no care, with
panic and coverups among employees watching it happen, according to a Post
investigation.

The investigation found a hidden world of flawed medical judgments, faulty
administrative practices, neglectful guards, ill-trained technicians, sloppy
record-keeping, lost medical files and dangerous staff shortages. It is also a
world increasingly run by high-priced private contractors. There is evidence
that infectious diseases, including tuberculosis and chickenpox, are spreading
inside the centers.

Federal officials who oversee immigration detention said last week that they are
"committed to ensuring the safety and well-being" of everyone in their custody.

About 83 detainees have died in, or soon after, custody during the past five
years. The deaths are the loudest alarms about a system teetering on collapse.
Actions taken -- or not taken -- by medical staff members may have contributed
to 30 of those deaths, according to confidential internal reviews and the
opinions of medical experts who reviewed some death files for The Post.

According to an analysis by The Post, most of the people who died were young.
Thirty-two of the detainees were younger than 40, and only six were 70 or older.
The deaths took place at dozens of sites across the country. The most at one
location was six at the San Pedro compound near Los Angeles.

Immigration officials told congressional staffers in October that the facility
at San Pedro was closed to renovate the fire-suppression system and replace the
hot-water boiler. But internal documents and interviews reveal unsafe conditions
that forced the agency to relocate all 404 detainees that month. An audit found
53 incidents of medication errors. A riot in August pushed federal officials to
decrease the dangerously high number of detainees, many of them difficult mental
health cases, and caused many health workers to quit. Finally, the facility lost
its accreditation.

The full dimensions of the massive crisis in detainee medical care are revealed
in thousands of pages of government documents obtained by The Post. They include
autopsy and medical records, investigative reports, notes, internal e-mails, and
memorandums. These documents, along with interviews with current and former
immigration medical officials and staff members, illuminate the underside of the
hasty governmental reorganization that took place in response to the attacks of
Sept. 11, 2001.

The terrorist strikes catapulted immigration to a national security concern for
the first time since World War II, when 120,000 Japanese residents and their
American relatives were locked away in desolate internment camps.

After Sept. 11, the Bush administration transferred responsibility for border
security and deportation to the new Department of Homeland Security, which gave
it to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) -- a reconfiguration of the
decades-old Immigration and Naturalization Service -- in 2003, the year The Post
used as the starting point for counting detainee deaths. Each year since, the
number of detainees picked up for deportation or waiting behind bars for
political asylum has skyrocketed, increasing by 65 percent since July 2005.

Government professionals provide health care at 23 facilities, which house about
half of the 33,000 detainees. Seven of those sites are owned by private prison
companies. Last year, the government also housed detainees in 279 local and
county jails. To handle the influx of detainees, ICE added 6,300 beds in 2006
and an additional 4,200 since then. They too are nearly full.

These way stations between life in and outside the United States are mostly out
of sight: in deserts and industrial warehouse districts, in sequestered valleys
next to other prisons or near noisy airports. Some compounds never allow
detainees outdoor recreation; others let them out onto tiny dirt patches once or
twice a week.

Detainees are not guaranteed free legal representation, and only about one in 10
has an attorney. When lawyers get involved, they often have difficulty prying
medical information out of the bureaucracy -- or even finding clients, who are
routinely moved without notice.

The burden of health care for this crush of human lives falls on an obscure
federal agency that lacks the political clout and bureaucratic rigor to do its
job well. The Division of Immigration Health Services (DIHS), housed in a
private office building at 13th and L streets NW, several blocks from ICE
headquarters, had a budget last year of $61 million. ICE spent an additional $28
million last year on outside medical care for detainees.

Medical spending has not kept pace with the growth in population. Since 2001,
the number of detainees over the course of each year has more than tripled, to
311,000, according to ICE and the Government Accountability Office. Meanwhile,
spending for the DIHS and outside care has not quite doubled, ICE figures show.
ICE's conflicting population and budget numbers make the trends difficult to
determine.

The agency is responsible for managing and monitoring detainee medical care,
about half of which is provided by U.S. Public Health Service professionals and
the rest by contracted medical staff. When doctors and nurses at the immigration
compounds believe that detainees need more than the most basic treatment, they
have to fax a request to the Washington office, where four nurses, working 9 to
4, East Coast time, five days a week, make the decisions.

A proud Statue of Liberty replica stands just beyond the glass doors of DIHS
headquarters to remind visitors of the Public Health Service's historical role
in screening and treating European immigrants arriving at Ellis Island at the
turn of the last century. Its new role is to keep detained immigrants healthy
enough to be deported.

The mission is accompanied at times by a sense of panic and complicity. Many
documents obtained by The Post make clear that the people in charge know that
the system is in trouble and that piecemeal fixes are not enough.

"The onus is on us if it hits the fan," one official complained during a
high-level headquarters meeting about staff shortages late last summer,
according to records of the conversation. "We're going to be responsible if
something happens, because it's well documented that we know there's a problem,
that the problem is severe."

"We are putting ourselves and our patients at risk," another official said.

Doctors express concerns about violating medical ethics and fear lawsuits. In
July, Esther Hui at Otay Mesa sent a memo to DIHS medical director Timothy T.
Shack, saying her colleagues were worried that they might be sued because of the
substandard care they were giving detainees. The agency's mission of "keeping
the detainee medically ready for deportation" often conflicts with the standards
of care in the wider medical community, Hui wrote. "I know in my gut that I am
exposing myself to the US legal standard of care argument. . . . Do we need to
get personal liability insurance?"

Nurses who work on the front lines see the problems up close. "Dogs get better
care in the dog pound," said Catherine Rouse, a contract nurse at an Arizona
detention center who quit after two months last year because she saw what she
regarded as "scary medicine" in the prison: patients taken off medications they
needed and nurses doing tasks they were not qualified to do. "You don't treat
people like that. There has to be some kind of moral fiber," Rouse said.

In a statement responding to questions raised by The Post, ICE officials pointed
out that the federal government spent nearly $100 million in fiscal 2007 on
medical care for immigration detainees. About one in four immigrants in the
detainee population has a chronic health condition, the statement said.

"Among ICE's highest priorities is to ensure safe, humane conditions of
confinement for those in our custody," the statement said. "We make every effort
to enforce all existing standards and, whenever possible, to improve upon them.
When we find standards that are not being met, we take immediate action to
correct deficiencies and when we believe that the deficiencies cannot be
corrected, we relocate our detainees to other facilities."

By their calculations, officials said, the mortality rate among detainees has
declined since 2004 to a level that is lower than that in U.S. jails and
prisons. The deaths, the statement said, "highlight the tremendous
responsibility and potential liability the government faces in providing medical
care to a population that often did not have access to adequate health care
before coming into our custody."

To this end, the agency recently increased its inspections of facilities and is
creating an inspection group at headquarters to review serious incidents,
including deaths or allegations that standards are not being met.

ICE declined to comment on specific cases, citing internal policies on patient
privacy or pending litigation.

Neil Sampson, who ran the DIHS as interim director most of last year, left that
job with serious questions about the government's commitment. Sampson said in an
interview that ICE treated detainee health care "as an afterthought," reflecting
what he called a failure of leadership and management at the Homeland Security
Department. "They do not have a clear idea or philosophy of their approach to
health care [for detainees]," he said. "It's a system failure, not a failure of
individuals."

A new director for health services arrived six months ago, following a stretch
when the agency was run first by Sampson and then by a second interim director.
The new boss is LaMont W. Flanagan, who brought with him the credential of
having been fired in 2003 by the state of Maryland for bad management and
spending practices supervising detention and pretrial services. An audit found
that Flanagan had signed off on payments of $145,000 for employee entertainment
and other ill-advised expenditures. His reputation was such that the District of
Columbia would not hire him for a juvenile-justice position.

* * *

"Another death that needs to be added to the roster," Diane Aker, the DIHS chief
health administrator, tapped out in an e-mail to a records clerk at headquarters
on Aug. 14, 2007.

Juan Guevara-Lorano, 21, was dead.

Guevara, an unemployed legal U.S. resident with a young son, was arrested in El
Paso for driving illegal border-crossers farther into the city. He was paid $50.

An entry-level emergency medical technician, with barely any training, had done
Guevara's intake screening and physical assessment at the Otero County
immigration compound in New Mexico. Under DIHS rules, those tasks are supposed
to be done by a nurse.

After two difficult months in detention, Guevara had decided not to appeal his
case. He would go back to Mexico with his family. But on Aug. 4, he came down
with a splitting headache, what he called a nine on a pain scale of 10, his
medical records show. The rookie medical technician prescribed Tylenol and
referred Guevara to the compound's physician "due to severity of headache . . .
and dizziness," according to medical records.

But Guevara never saw a doctor. Eight days after the first incident, he vomited
in his cell. The same junior technician came to help but was unable to insert a
nasal airway tube. Guevara was taken to a hospital, where doctors determined an
aneurysm in his brain had burst.

His wife, pregnant at the time with their second child, recalled that she rushed
to the hospital, but ICE guards would not let her inside until the Mexican
Consulate interceded. Guevara's mother waited five hours before they let her in.
By then he was brain-dead.

"My son is not coming back," sobbed Ana Celia Lozano months later, sitting in
Guevara's small mobile home as her grandson played on the floor. "I want to know
how he lived and died, nothing more."

What appears to be the most incriminating document in Guevara's case has been
partially blacked out. Still, what is left shows that he did not receive
adequate care. "The detainee was not seen or evaluated by an RN, midlevel or
physician. . . . At the time of the incident on 8/12/2007, the detainee was seen
and examined by EMTs."

Each immigration facility is allotted a different number of positions, and a
shortage of doctors and nurses is not unusual at centers across the country.
Records from February show that about 30 percent of all DIHS positions in the
field were unfilled. ICE officials said last week that the current vacancy rate
is 21 percent. Concern about the vacancies is voiced repeatedly at clinical
directors' meetings. "How do we state our concerns so that we can be heard? . .
. this is a CRITICAL condition. . . . We have bitten off more than we can chew,"
a physician wrote in the minutes of one meeting last summer.

In some prisons, the staffing shortages are acute. The Willacy County detention
center in South Texas -- the largest compound, with 2,018 detainees -- has no
clinical director, no pharmacist and only a part-time psychiatrist. Nearly 50
percent of the nursing positions were unfilled at the 1,500-detainee Eloy,
Ariz., prison in February. At the newly opened 744-bed Jena, La., compound,
nurses run the place. It has no clinical director, no staff physician, no
psychiatrist and no professional dental staff.

Last August, Sampson, who was then DIHS interim director, warned his superiors
at ICE that critical personnel shortages were making it impossible to staff the
Jena facility adequately. In a vociferous e-mail to Gary Mead, the ICE deputy
director in charge of detention centers, he wrote:

"With the Jena request we have been re-examining our capabilities to meet health
care needs at a new site when we are facing critical staffing shortages at most
every other DIHS site. While we developed, executed and achieved major successes
in our recruitment efforts we have been unable to meet the demand."

The slow ICE security-clearance process forced many job applicants to go
elsewhere, Sampson wrote. Of the 312 people who applied for new positions over
the past year, 200 withdrew, he wrote, because they found other jobs during the
250 days it took ICE, on average, to conduct the required background
investigations. Last week, ICE officials said the average wait had decreased
recently to 37 days.

These shortages have burdened the remaining staff. In July 2007, a year after
Osman's death in Otay Mesa, medical director Hui strongly complained to
headquarters about workload stress. "The level of burnout . . . is high and
rising," she wrote in an e-mail. "I know that I have been averaging
approximately 2-6 hrs of overtime daily for the past 2 months. I will no longer
be able to sustain this pace and will be decreasing the number of hours that I
work overtime. This being said, more will be left undone because we simply do
NOT have the staff."

* * *

The overcrowding has created a petri dish for the spread of diseases. One
mission of the Public Health Service is to detect infectious diseases and
contain them before they spread, but  last summer, the gigantic Willacy center
was hit by a chickenpox outbreak.

The illness spread because the facility did not have enough available isolation
rooms and its large pods share recycled air, but also because security officers
"lack education about the disease and keep moving around detainees from
different units without taking into consideration if the unit has been isolated
due to heavy exposure," noted the DIHS's top specialist on infectious diseases,
Carlos Duchesne. The staff was forced to vaccinate the entire population in
mid-July.

In one 2007 death, memos and confidential notes show how medical staff missed an
infectious disease, meningitis, in their midst. Victor Alfonso Arellano, 23, a
transgender Mexican detainee with AIDS, died in custody at the San Pedro center.
The first three pages of Duchesne's internal review of the death leave the
impression that Arellano's care was proper. But the last page, under the heading
"Off the record observations and recommendations," takes a decidedly critical
tone: "The clinical staff at all levels fails to recognize early signs and
symptoms of meningitis. . . . Pt was evaluated multiple times and an effort to
rule out those infections was not even mentioned."

Arellano was given a "completely useless" antibiotic, Duchesne wrote. Lab work
that should have been performed immediately took 22 days because San Pedro's
clinical director had ordered staff members to withhold lab work for new
detainees until they had been in detention there "for more than 30 days," a
violation of agency rules.

"I am sure that there must be a reason why this was mandated but that practice
is particularly dangerous with chronic care cases and specially is particularly
dangerous with . . . HIV/AIDS patients," Duchesne wrote. "Labs for AIDS patients
. . . must be performed ASAP to know their immune status and where you are
standing in reference to disease control and meds."

* * *

Given the frequency with which ICE moves people within the detention network,
keeping track of detainees is critical to stopping the spread of infectious
illnesses. The purchase of an electronic records system named CaseTrakker in
2004 was supposed to help. But according to internal documents and interviews,
CaseTrakker is so riddled with problems that facilities often revert to
handwritten records.

A study at one site found that it took one-third more time to use CaseTrakker
than to use paper. Thousands of patient files are missing. Recorded data often
cannot be retrieved. Day-long outages are common.

When detainees are transferred from one facility to another, their records, if
they follow them, are often misleading. Some show medications with no medical
diagnoses or "lots of diagnoses but no meds," according to Elizabeth Fleming, a
former clinical director at one compound in Arizona.

After Yusif Osman's death and the discovery of the problem with his computerized
records, the DIHS ordered a review of all charts at the Otay Mesa center. During
the review, auditors also found that 260 physical exams were never completed as
required. The nurse responsible for the error in Osman's case was reprimanded,
but the computer problem was not fixed.

The CaseTrakker system "has failed and must be replaced," Sampson, the DIHS
interim director, wrote to his ICE supervisors in August.

In January 2008, medical director Shack told colleagues that CaseTrakker "is
more of a liability than the use of paper medical record system," according to
the minutes of a meeting. It "puts patients at risk."

ICE officials said last week that they are not satisfied with CaseTrakker and
are working to replace it.

Along with being at the mercy of computer  glitches, detainees suffer from human
errors that deny or delay their care. And with few advocates on the outside,
they are left alone to plead their cases in the most desperate ways, in
hand-scribbled notes to doctors they rarely see.

"I need medicine for pain. All my bones hurt. Thank you," wrote Mexico native
Roberto Ledesma Guerrero, 72, three weeks before he died inside the Otay Mesa
compound.

Delays persist throughout the system. In January, the detention center in
Pearsall, Tex., an hour from San Antonio, had a backlog of 2,097 appointments.

Luis Dubegel-Paez, a 60-year-old Cuban, had filled out many sick call requests
before he died on March 14. Detained at the Rolling Plains Detention Facility in
the West Texas town of Haskell, he wrote on New Year's Day: "need to see doctor
for Heart medication; and having chest pains for the past three days. Can't
stand pain."

Ten days later he went to the clinic and became upset when he wasn't seen. He
slugged the window, yelled, pointed at his wristwatch. He was escorted back to
his cell.

Another of his sick call requests said: "Need to see a doctor. I have a lot of
symptoms of sickness . . . as soon as possible!" The next was more urgent: "I
have a emergency to see the doctor about my heart problems . . . for the last
couple days and I been getting dizzy a lot."

The next day, Dubegel-Paez collapsed and died. His medical records do not show
that he ever saw a doctor for his chest pains.

Hanna Boutros, 52, who came to the United States 30 years ago, waited seven
months for surgery after receiving a diagnosis of "high-grade" prostate cancer,
which his urologist urged be treated immediately. ICE officials sent him to
Krome Service Processing Center in Miami because, they said, it could best deal
with his condition.

But he was seen by nurses, not a doctor, until he found an outside lawyer to
threaten a suit. Boutros finally got surgery just before Christmas, before he
was deported to Lebanon, leaving two children and a wife in the United States.
"I was miserable. I was very, very scared. It was always burning," he said.

Juan Guillermo Guerrero, 37, was denied his seizure medication and given an
ineffective substitute. Suffering from one or two painful seizures a week, he
told his lawyer to drop his case, saying he preferred to be deported than to die
inside an immigration prison. A few days after he returned to Mexico, Guerrero
died of asphyxiation during a seizure, according to his lawyers.

Sometimes, to save money, the government releases detainees instead of treating
them. Martin Hernandez Banderas, a 40-year-old Mexican, was released from
custody last year while he was in the hospital following surgery to amputate his
leg. An internal review found that the system failed him before the surgery:
Nurses and doctors at Otay Mesa did not appreciate the severity of his diabetic
foot wounds, did not properly treat them or prescribe the correct course of
antibiotics, and did not bring in a qualified surgeon to evaluate the problem.

Simon Reyes-Altimirano, 25, a Honduran, was diagnosed with chickenpox and sent
back to his cell with Benadryl, only to be hospitalized a day later and
diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor. He died two weeks later.

Shack, the medical director, found that Reyes-Altimirano's care at the El Paso
detention center had been "appropriate and timely." But a nurse at the center
poured out her remorse in a typed note placed in Reyes-Altimirano's medical
file. "We always have to listen to the patient and the reason I say this is
because" when he first reported his problems, "one of the nurses said, 'I think
he is faking his illness' . . . this is not just a medical learning experience
but also an emotional one."

* * *

Three weeks after Reyes-Altimirano died, a nurse at the Krome Service Processing
Center accused the Rev. Joseph Dantica of faking an illness, too. The
81-year-old Baptist minister had fled Haiti in the fall of 2004, fearing for his
life after gangs set fire to the church overlooking Port-au-Prince where he ran
a school, let people use computers for free and quietly handed out money to
needy families.

As a younger man, Dantica listened to tapes to practice English every day, but
he never wanted to live in the United States, said a niece, writer Edwidge
Danticat, who was raised by him. He visited once a year, to see his brother in
Brooklyn and raise money for his church.

But after U.N. peacekeepers and Haitian riot police seized the church to use as
a base against gangs, and after the gangs retaliated by burning the altar,
Dantica slipped on a woman's muumuu and wig and headed to the airport. He
arrived in Miami with a valid visa but decided to seek asylum because he thought
he might have to stay longer than his visa allowed. In an earlier time, Dantica
would have been permitted to go on to New York while the government considered
his claim. This time, he was detained.

Dantica and an immigration lawyer were sitting before an asylum officer when the
minister began to vomit violently. The lawyer, John Pratt, said agents at the
detention center had taken away his client's blood-pressure medicine.

Dantica "turned very cold. His eyes wandered around, and he appeared not to be
conscious of his surroundings," the asylum officer, Miriam Castro, later told
investigators, according to confidential documents. "Applicant assumed a rigid
position with his legs stretched out and remained in this position."

Castro called for medical help. No one came for 15 minutes. When the public
health nurse and a physician assistant arrived, the nurse said he believed that
Dantica "was faking because Applicant kept looking at him randomly," Castro
said. The nurse, Tony Palladino, "then went on to demonstrate that when he moved
Applicant's head up and down, Applicant maintained his head rigid as opposed to
limp, thus not allowing his head to fall back. [The nurse] stated that was
another way he determined Applicant was faking symptoms."

Dantica died a day later in Miami's Jackson Memorial Hospital, shackled to a
bed. Pratt had called the hospital repeatedly, trying to get information about
his condition and permission for his family to see him. "They never said
anything but they were doing tests," Pratt said. Security reasons, hospital
officials told him, prevented visitors.

The government's internal medical records say Dantica died of pancreatitis. A
one-page death certificate in his file has "VOID" stamped across it. Two outside
doctors who reviewed his medical records for The Post said he probably died of
heart problems.

* * *

Yusif Osman had been living in Los Angeles as a legal resident for five years
when he was detained crossing back from Tijuana in 2006 with a passenger, also
from Ghana, who had a false ID. Osman was arrested on a smuggling charge, which
he denied and was fighting while locked up at Otay Mesa. He seemed healthy to
his friends and family who visited him or spoke to him by phone.

His girlfriend, Dorothy Weens, was stunned when she picked up the phone in late
June and a stranger broke the news. "Yusif Osman passed away," the man said.

When Osman's lawyer called the compound to verify what had happened, he was told
only that his client was no longer there. Weens and a cousin of Osman's called
immigration officials several times for answers. They were told that the matter
was under investigation. Eventually they stopped calling.

Osman's belongings from the prison arrived at his cousin's house one day by
mail. Pants. Socks. Scraps of paper with prayer verses written in Arabic. His
birth certificate. A letter from Dorothy: "Hey Babe! Hang in there. I'm trying
everything I can do, to get you out of there. I love you and God love you. And
that all you needs. I'm sending you $100.00. Love, Dot."

There was also an inventory of the rest of his personal property on the day he
died: "4 yellow envelopes. 1 writing pad. 1 religious beads. 1 Chap Stick. 14
Ramen soups. 1 grape jelly. 1 jar peanut butter. 1 hot cocoa mix. 1 box Q tips."

The mortuary received a preliminary death certificate from the coroner's office.
It noted Osman's cause of death as "pending," enough to release the body. His
mosque collected money for a burial in a Muslim cemetery in the Mojave Desert.
Male friends dug the grave. They laid his corpse, wrapped in white cloth, into
the open earth and covered it with rocky dirt.

The final death certificate arrived in the mail sometime later. Under cause of
death, it still read "pending." Osman's passing remains a mystery to his
grieving relatives in Ghana and his adopted African community in Los Angeles.

An uneven, blank concrete headstone marks Grave 26. The truth of Osman's death
is also buried, thousands of miles away, past the Statue of Liberty replica near
the front door, inside a cabinet at the Division of Immigration Health Services,
in file #077-987-986.

Staff researcher Julie Tate and database editor Sarah Cohen contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 11, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

E-Mails Show Attempt To 'Patch Up' a Case Of Medical Negligence

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 709 words


At the agency in Washington responsible for foreign detainees' medical care,
internal documents reveal a tendency to conceal the truth by withholding
complete medical records or by offering misleading public explanations. But
e-mail exchanges speak for themselves in the death of Francisco Castaneda.

Castaneda's family had fled the civil war in El Salvador when he was 10 years
old, but his mother died of cancer before she could obtain legal status for her
children. Castaneda began working at 17 and eventually got involved with drugs.
After living for nearly a quarter-century in Los Angeles, he was being deported
after serving a four-month sentence for drug possession.

In March 2006, immigration officers took him into custody. Medical staff members
suspected that Castaneda, then 34, had penile cancer. A lesion on his penis was
bleeding and oozing. The staff sought approval for a biopsy, but the Division of
Immigration Health Services, or DIHS, headquarters in Washington denied the
procedure for 10 months.

Along the way, as he fought deportation, Castaneda filed several grievances. "I
am in a considerable amount of pain and I am in desperate need of medical
attention," he wrote in June. "I feel that I am entitled to a healthy life."

In July, David Lusche, a physician assistant at the Otay Mesa facility in
California, where Castaneda was being held, realized that his grievances were
still pending and that an audit of the compound's medical files was approaching.
At 2:26 a.m. July 28, he e-mailed a colleague, asking him to retrieve a
handwritten grievance from Castaneda that Lusche had left in a drawer in an
examining room.

"We need to write something different, or make some amendment, on the Grievance
for Francisco Castaneda," Lusche wrote. ". . . Your response starts, 'Grievance
not resolved.' Those words are going to attract all kinds of attention during an
ICE [Immigration and Customs Enforcement] Jail Standards audit. . . . Could you
somehow 'patch up' that Grievance with an amendment then put it in my box. I
just want to avoid problems when the Auditors show up."

Anthony Walker, a physician assistant at Otay Mesa, responded at 10:10 a.m. the
next day: "But it is true, unfortunately, this is a case where his grievance is
correct and I don't blame the detainee."

After pressure from the  American Civil Liberties Union, a biopsy was finally
scheduled for early February 2007. But immigration officials suddenly released
Castaneda from custody days before the surgery, sparing the agency the cost.

When the DIHS medical director, Timothy T. Shack, was asked to review the case,
he concluded: "I looked over about 200 pages of medical records for this case.
In my opinion, the care provided to this detainee was, and is, timely and
appropriate."

One week later after the review, UCLA doctors gave Castaneda a diagnosis of
invasive squamous cell carcinoma. On Valentine's Day, surgeons amputated his
penis.

In October, after rounds of chemotherapy, he testified before a congressional
panel looking into detainee medical care.

"I am a 35-year-old man without a penis with my life on the line," he said. "I
have a young daughter, Vanessa, who is only 14. She is here with me today
because she wanted to support me -- and because I wanted her to see her father
do something for the greater good, so that she will have that memory of me. The
thought that her pain -- and mine -- could have been avoided almost makes this
too much to bear."

On Feb. 16, 2008, Castaneda died.

U.S. District Judge Dean D. Pregerson denied a government request to dismiss the
lawsuit brought on Castaneda's behalf. In his March 11 ruling, the judge said
lawyers had "submitted powerful evidence that Defendants knew Castaneda needed a
biopsy to rule out cancer, falsely stated that his doctors called the biopsy
'elective,' and let him suffer in extreme pain for almost one year while telling
him to be 'patient' and treating him with Ibuprofen, antihistamines, and extra
pairs of boxer shorts."

Pregerson added: "Defendants' own records bespeak of conduct that transcends
negligence by miles. It bespeaks of conduct that, if true, should be taught to
every law student as conduct for which the moniker 'cruel' is inadequate."

-- Amy Goldstein and Dana Priest

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; Cbs News; U.S. District Judge Dean D. Pregerson criticized the government
as he refused to dismiss a lawsuit on behalf of Francisco Castaneda, left.
Castaneda, a former detainee who was denied cancer treatment, died in February.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 12, 2008 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Far From Home, in the Kitchen;
Male Latino Workers Find Domestic Skills Are Survival Tools

BYLINE: Steve Hendrix; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1188 words


Marco Antonio Rosales learned to cook the way many immigrant men do: from a
cellphone. Soon after arriving in the Washington area five years ago, the young
construction worker found himself on the horn to a mountain town in western
Guatemala, burning up calling-card minutes in pursuit of domestic skills he
never learned at home.

"I would ask my mother or my wife: 'How do you cook this soup? How do you
prepare the beans?' " Rosales said.

The women were amused and delighted to impart some advice remotely, Rosales
said, maybe all the more so because it shattered the norms of their machismo
society. "In my country, a man would never go into the kitchen and a woman would
never go into the field. Here, I was forced to learn."

For many of the single Latino men, or solteros, who come to the United States
looking for work, the long trek across borders ends in the most foreign
territory of all: the kitchen. For many, life in the Washington area is an
all-male existence, from their construction and landscaping jobs in the day to
the apartments crowded with fellow laborers at night, with no mother, wife or
sister to handle the domestic chores.

"Most of the Latino men come from a culture where they're used to having their
wives or companions do everything around the house," said Melba Calderon, site
director of the Maryland Multicultural Youth Center in Langley Park. "For new
arrivals, it's very difficult. The more assimilated you get to this culture, the
more you do shopping and cooking and cleaning."

Now, as construction jobs grow scarce and a recent crackdown by Prince George's
County has closed many of the truck-based food vendors that served Latino
cooking, more men are having to learn kitchen basics any way they can. They
place emergency stove-side calls to women back home, ask for tips from grocery
store checkout clerks or simply turn to older hands.

Despite the cultural moat that once lay between Rosales and the frying pan (not
to mention the mop and the washing machine), the 39-year-old is now domestically
self-reliant. He cooks for himself most evenings, washes his clothes once a week
at a nearby laundromat and rotates household cleaning duties with the three
Latino workers who share his two-room apartment in Silver Spring.

"Now we all care about the apartment and what we eat," said Rosales, whose
kitchen repertoire has expanded from basic frijoles and rice to beef and chicken
soups, carne asada (marinated beef) and ceviche (raw seafood soaked in lime
juice). "It makes it better to live here."

Rosales has even emerged as a culinary tutor.

"Mostly I learned from Marco Antonio," said Virgilio, a 19-year-old recent
arrival from Guatemala who is one of Rosales's roommates. He declined to give
his last name. "I work at McDonald's, but I want to eat something besides
hamburgers all the time."

According to social workers and activists familiar with the immigrant community,
Rosales's cooking-and-cleaning arrangement is not just good for the health, but
also gives him and his housemates a better chance of avoiding the loneliness and
heavy drinking that plague many of the single workers.

"It's like a little village of men," said Sister Carmen Sota, an outreach worker
with Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Washington. "They create their own
support system. And when they realize that they can care for themselves to a
certain extent, they do it gracefully."

The alternative, Sota said, is equally common: apartments crowded with men in
which no one cleans, meals that come exclusively from convenience stores or
pupusa trucks and a social life defined by little more than long hours working,
or waiting for work, and alcohol.

"We see a very high rate of alcoholism," Sota said. "That has destroyed many of
them. What we hear about a lot is the loneliness of having their wives and
children back home. Every human person needs a human relationship. If no one is
cleaning and no one is doing the cooking, it isn't like a household."

Beth McNairn of Takoma Park remembers a glimpse her family got into that
often-barren male world when an intoxicated man rang her doorbell by mistake on
a recent Christmas Eve. McNairn's husband escorted the man to the address he was
looking for, a neighboring house where numerous Latino laborers lived. Inside
was a living room devoid of furniture and filled with men sitting on the floor,
talking into cellphones that were plugged into wall sockets.

"They were all calling home on Christmas Eve," McNairn said. "It was so sad."

Making these all-male homes homier can ease the stress of working alone in a
strange country, some workers said. Francisco Santo, 47, and Linto Duarte, 32,
had not met before arriving in the Washington area from Guatemala.

But the two, who were folding laundry on a recent evening at the Wishy Wash on
University Boulevard in Silver Spring, have formed what they describe as a
brotherly relationship. They clean their house together each Sunday, share
shopping and cooking chores, and eat together most evenings.

"It's more social," Santo said, "more like family."

Jose Campos suffered in packed, chaotic apartments for several years after
coming from El Salvador in 2004. The 57-year-old laborer rented a sliver of
floor space among an ever-changing crowd of roommates who were, he said, more
likely to steal his modest possessions than neaten up the kitchen or bathroom.

"It was very bad," he said. "When they were home, they were drunk."

Life has been much better, Campos said, since he found a tidy, three-bedroom
basement apartment in Langley Park to share with two workers. A modest
collection of dishes and pans is stacked in the cupboards, trash cans are neatly
lined with garbage bags, and the bathroom smells of soap and scouring powder. A
weekly schedule of cleaning duties hangs prominently on a cabinet door.

But domestic skills didn't come easily, Campos said. His early efforts at the
stove set off the smoke detector several times before the owner of the house
showed him how to use the exhaust fan. And his first two loads at the laundromat
ended with ruined clothes.

"The woman told me I put too much Clorox in," said Campos, who grew up with six
brothers in a poor household in central El Salvador. "All of this is so
complicated. Everything here is different."

Now, Campos has a dorm refrigerator filled with eggs, chilies, tomatoes and
other groceries that he buys in the small Latino shops that abound in Langley
Park. He cooks every evening and lately has even gotten daywork as a
house-and-office cleaner.

"I have learned all these things," Campos said. "When I go home, I will be like
a foreigner."

Sota wonders whether the domestic responsibilities Latino workers face here
might contribute to greater balance between the sexes when they go home.

"I hope they realize the work it takes to maintain a home," Sota said. "I hope
this experience will get them to collaborate in the house."

But Rosales said he has no desire to do laundry when he returns to Guatemala,
where most families still wash clothes by hand. And as for his newfound kitchen
skills?

"When I get home, my wife will cook," he said. "Her food is better."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Marvin Joseph -- The Washington Post; Housemates Linto
Duarte, 32, left, and Francisco Santo, 47, fold their laundry at the Wishy Wash
in Silver Spring. They share shopping and cooking chores.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 13, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Predicted ESOL Savings Debated;
760 Students Left Pr. William Schools

BYLINE: Michael Alison Chandler; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 902 words


Prince William County's top elected official asserted last month that an exodus
of immigrant families after the county's crackdown on illegal immigration is
saving the school system millions of dollars because it has to educate fewer
students who are learning English as a second language.

But Prince William school officials say that the departure of nearly 760
students this school year from the English for Speakers of Other Languages
program has not brought a financial windfall to the school system, contrary to
an estimate of $6 million in savings cited by Prince William Board of County
Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large).

Many Prince William ESOL students have moved to Fairfax County schools or
elsewhere in Northern Virginia, raising questions about the financial impact of
the school-to-school migration as the immigration enforcement initiative has
drawn scrutiny.

ESOL students typically cost more to educate than most students, partly because
they are taught in smaller classes. Prince William school officials estimate
that their county spends about $3,165 more for each ESOL student than for most
students. In Fairfax, the additional annual cost per student is about $3,538.
That extra expense is covered by funds from local, state and federal
governments.

State education aid is distributed to school systems according to poverty and
enrollment data and provides nearly half of Prince William's annual school
funding. When students leave a school system, so does state funding. David S.
Cline, director of financial services for Prince William schools, estimated that
the reduction in state funding this school year because of the ESOL student
exodus totaled $2 million. But the school system was unable to reduce spending
accordingly because students left from many schools. Officials could not reduce
teaching staff, for example, or send back textbooks.

Prince William schools, with total enrollment of about 73,000 students, expect
to recover the lost funding in the next school year, Cline said, with a net
savings of about $2 million. If ESOL students continue to leave in the longer
term, officials said, the school system will be able to plan for fewer students
and save on operational costs such as teachers and buses, as well as
construction costs, with fewer schools to build.

Stewart said the school system's short-term analysis is misleading.

"They can twist the numbers however they want," he said, "but it's an absurd
conclusion that a reduction in the number of students does not save any money."
Stewart said he based his $6 million cost savings estimate on a projected
slowdown in enrollment growth, but he acknowledged that the county might not net
that much in the next school year from the ESOL program reduction. Still, he
said, taxpayers would benefit because the cost of educating students is shared
by the state and the county.

Stewart has led the Prince William movement to deny some public services to
illegal immigrants and to require police to check the immigration status of
crime suspects thought to be in the country illegally. Whether for that or for
other reasons, hundreds of immigrant families with ESOL students have left the
county, with ESOL enrollment dropping -- from 13,404 on Sept. 30 to 12,645 on
March 31.

Records show most of those students have moved to other Virginia school systems
and are therefore still funded partly by the state. Fairfax received 623 ESOL
transfers from Prince William in that time, up from 241 the year before. In the
same period, dozens of ESOL students also shifted from Prince William to
Arlington County and Alexandria schools.

Fairfax, which provides ESOL services to more than 22,000 students, was able to
absorb the extra students from Prince William this year, county ESOL services
director Teddi Predaris said. The rate of growth of the county's ESOL program
has been steady in recent years, she said.

But the increase in Fairfax's ESOL population coincides with a rise in
enrollment that officials attribute mainly to a slow housing market that is
limiting migration out of the county. School officials recently revised their
projections upwards for next school year to 168,384 students, about 3,500
students more than they included in their budget last year. Accommodating those
new students will cost about $22 million, they estimated.

At the same time, the Fairfax County government is providing less money for
Fairfax schools this year than the School Board has requested. The tight budget
has forced the School Board to consider raising average class sizes by half a
student and giving teachers a 2 percent cost-of-living raise rather than the 3
percent raise they have sought. Against that backdrop, new ESOL costs add to the
county's budget pressures. County schools get about 20 percent of their annual
funding from the state, a lower proportion than in Prince William.

Fairfax School Board members said Thursday they welcomed new students who arrive
from the neighboring county. School Board member Kaye Kory (Mason) said some
schools in her district have added dozens of new students in the past few
months, many from Prince William, which she attributes in part to that county's
immigration policies. Kory said she expects there will be fewer teachers and
instructional assistants next year to help those students because money is
scarce.

But she said: "It's not like I can send Prince William a bill."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Alfredo Duarte Pereira -- El Tiempo Latino; "They can twist
the numbers however they want. But it's an absurd conclusion that a reduction in
the number of students does not save any money," Prince William Board of County
Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 13, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

How Immigrants Fare in U.S. Cities

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 124 words


The study compared the assimilation levels of immigrants in 10 cities. Among the
findings:

Â· New York, the nation's second-largest immigration destination, is also one of
the most assimilated cities.

Â· Cities closer to the Mexican border, such as Houston, tend to have
less-assimilated immigrants, although San Diego stands out as an exception. One
explanation may be the large U.S. military presence in that city, which may draw
immigrants to enlist, thus increasing San Diego's assimilation score.

Â· Economic assimilation is strongest among immigrants in Washington and Miami.

Â· Cultural assimilation is strongest in New York, Washington and San Diego.

Â· Civic assimilation is strongest in New York and Oakland, Calif.

SOURCE: Manhattan Institute

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 13, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Study Says Foreigners In U.S. Adapt Quickly

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 696 words


Immigrants of the past quarter-century have been assimilating in the United
States at a notably faster rate than did previous generations, according to a
study released today.

Modern-day immigrants arrive with substantially lower levels of English ability
and earning power than those who entered during the last great immigration wave
at the turn of the 20th century. The gap between today's foreign-born and native
populations remains far wider than it was in the early 1900s and is particularly
large in the case of Mexican immigrants, the report said.

The study, sponsored by the Manhattan Institute, a New York think tank, used
census and other data to devise an assimilation index to measure the degree of
similarity between the United States' foreign-born and native-born populations.
These included civic factors, such as rates of U.S. citizenship and service in
the military; economic factors, such as earnings and rates of homeownership; and
cultural factors, such as English ability and degree of intermarriage with U.S.
citizens. The higher the number on a 100-point index, the more an immigrant
resembled a U.S. citizen.

In general, the longer an immigrant lives in the United States, the more
characteristics of native citizens he or she tends to take on, said Jacob L.
Vigdor, a professor at Duke University and author of the study. During periods
of intense immigration, such as from 1870 to 1920, or during the immigration
wave that began in the 1970s, new arrivals tend to drag down the average
assimilation index of the foreign-born population as a whole.

The report found, however, that the speed with which new arrivals take on
native-born traits has increased since the 1990s. As a result, even though the
foreign population doubled during that period, the newcomers did not drive down
the overall assimilation index of the foreign-born population. Instead, it held
relatively steady from 1990 to 2006.

"This is something unprecedented in U.S. history," Vigdor said. "It shows that
the nation's capacity to assimilate new immigrants is strong."

A possible explanation, Vigdor said, was that the economic expansion of the
1990s created more job opportunities at all levels, speeding the economic
integration of immigrants. It could also be that because today's immigrants
begin at such a low starting point, "it's easier to make progress to the next
level up" of integration than it would be if the immigrant had to improve on an
already high level of integration.

Vigdor also said his findings included cause for concern: most notably, the fact
that the 2006 assimilation index of 28 is less than the previous low point of 42
in 1920. The difference indicates the substantial change in the composition of
today's immigrants compared with earlier immigration waves.

Although new arrivals at the turn of the 20th century were most likely to be
eastern and southern Europeans, he said, "one of the top five origin countries
was England, and close to 100 percent of them spoke English." By contrast, the
majority of immigrants today are Mexicans and other Latin Americans, with the
next largest share coming from a range of developing nations with languages
other than English.

The overall assimilation index also masks big differences between immigrants
from certain countries. Mexicans, for example have an index of 13, while
Vietnamese were at 41. And although immigrants who arrived as children tend to
be nearly identical to their U.S.-born counterparts, apart from their lower
rates of citizenship, those who come from Mexico are less assimilated and have
higher incidences of teenage pregnancy and incarceration.

A major reason for these disparities in assimilation levels may be the high
percentage of Mexican immigrants who are in the country illegally, Vigdor said.
When only cultural factors are considered, Mexicans score almost as high as
Vietnamese and higher than immigrants from countries such as India and China,
which tend to have a high rate of immigration to the United States.

"If you're in the country illegally, a lot of the avenues of assimilation are
cut off to you," he said. "There are lot of jobs you can't get, and you can't
become a citizen."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 14, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Some Detainees Are Drugged For Deportation;
Immigrants Sedated Without Medical Reason

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein and Dana Priest; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 4902 words


The U.S. government has injected hundreds of foreigners it has deported with
dangerous psychotropic drugs against their will to keep them sedated during the
trip back to their home country, according to medical records, internal
documents and interviews with people who have been drugged.

The government's forced use of antipsychotic drugs, in people who have no
history of mental illness, includes dozens of cases in which the "pre-flight
cocktail," as a document calls it, had such a potent effect that federal guards
needed a wheelchair to move the slumped deportee onto an airplane.

"Unsteady gait. Fell onto tarmac," says a medical note on the deportation of a
38-year-old woman to Costa Rica in late spring 2005. Another detainee was
"dragged down the aisle in handcuffs, semi-comatose," according to an airline
crew member's written account. Repeatedly, documents describe immigration guards
"taking down" a reluctant deportee to be tranquilized before heading to an
airport.

In a Chicago holding cell early one evening in February 2006, five guards piled
on top of a 49-year-old man who was angry he was going back to Ecuador,
according to a nurse's account in his deportation file. As they pinned him down
so the nurse could punch a needle through his coveralls into his right buttock,
one officer stood over him menacingly and taunted, "Nighty-night."

Such episodes are among more than 250 cases The Washington Post has identified
in which the government has, without medical reason, given drugs meant to treat
serious psychiatric disorders to people it has shipped out of the United States
since 2003 -- the year the Bush administration handed the job of deportation to
the Department of Homeland Security's new Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency, known as ICE.

Involuntary chemical restraint of detainees, unless there is a medical
justification, is a violation of some international human rights codes. The
practice is banned by several countries where, confidential documents make
clear, U.S. escorts have been unable to inject deportees with extra doses of
drugs during layovers en route to faraway places.

Federal officials have seldom acknowledged publicly that they sedate people for
deportation. The few times officials have spoken of the practice, they have
understated it, portraying sedation as rare and "an act of last resort." Neither
is true, records and interviews indicate.

Records show that the government has routinely ignored its own rules, which
allow deportees to be sedated only if they have a mental illness requiring the
drugs, or if they are so aggressive that they imperil themselves or people
around them.

Stung by lawsuits over two sedation cases, the agency changed its policy in June
to require a court order before drugging any deportee for behavioral rather than
psychiatric reasons. In one instance identified by The Post, the agency appears
not to have followed those rules.

In the five years since its creation, ICE has stepped up arrests and removals of
foreigners who are in the country illegally, have been turned down for asylum or
have been convicted of a crime in the past.

If the government wants a detainee to be sedated, a deportation officer asks for
permission for a medical escort from the aviation medicine branch of the
Division of Immigration Health Services (DIHS), the agency responsible for
medical care for people in immigration custody. A mental health official in
aviation medicine is supposed to assess the detainee's medical records, although
some records contain no evidence of that happening. If the sedatives are
approved, a U.S. public health nurse is assigned as the medical escort and given
prescriptions for the drugs.

After injecting the sedatives, the nurse travels with the deportee and
immigration guards to their destination, usually giving more doses along the
way. To recruit medical escorts, the government has sought to glamorize this
work. "Do you ever dream of escaping to exotic, exciting locations?" said an
item in an agency newsletter. "Want to get away from the office but are strapped
for cash? Make your dreams come true by signing up as a Medical Escort for
DIHS!"

The nurses are required to fill out step-by-step medical logs for each trip.
Hundreds of logs for the past five years, obtained by The Post, chronicle in
vivid detail deviations from the government's sedation rules.

An analysis by The Post of the known sedations during fiscal 2007, ending last
October, found that 53 people who got medical escorts were sedated without a
documented psychiatric reason. Forty-eight of them had no documented history of
violence, though some had managed to thwart an earlier attempt to deport them.
These figures do not include two people who immigration officials said were
given sedatives for behavioral rather than psychiatric reasons before being
deported on group charter flights, which are often used to return people to
Mexico and Central America.

Even some people who had been violent in the past proved peaceful the day they
were sent home. "Dt calm at this time," says the first entry, using shorthand
for "detainee," in the log for the January 2007 deportation of Yousif Nageib to
his native Sudan. In requesting drugs for his deportation, an immigration
officer had noted that Nageib, 40, had once fled to Canada to avoid an assault
charge and had helped instigate a detainee uprising while in custody. But on the
morning of his departure, the log says, he "is handcuffed and states he will do
what we say." Still, he was injected in his right buttock with a three-drug
cocktail.

In one printout of Nageib's medical log, next to the entry saying he was calm,
is a handwritten asterisk. It was put there by Timothy T. Shack, then medical
director of the immigration health division, as he reviewed last year's sedation
cases. Next to the asterisk, in his neat, looping handwriting, Shack placed a
single word: "Problem."

* * *

When he landed in Lagos, Nigeria, Afolabi Ade was unable to talk.

"Every time I tried to force myself to speak, I couldn't, because my tongue was
. . . twisted. . . . I thought I was going to swallow it," Ade, 33, recalled in
an interview. "I was nauseous. I was dizzy."

As he was being flown back to Africa, his American wife alerted his parents
there that he was on his way. His father was waiting at the Lagos airport. It
was the first time in three years that they had seen one another. Shocked by how
woozy the young man was, his father decided not to take him home and frighten
the rest of the family. Instead, he checked his son into a hotel.

Ade was in the hotel for four days before the effects of the drugs began to
abate.

Part of a prominent Nigerian family, Ade asked The Post to identify him by only
a portion of his name to protect their reputation. He had come to the United
States as a college student in the mid-1990s. Five years later, he was in a car
belonging to cousins when police found fraudulent checks in the trunk. He
pleaded guilty.

After finishing his sentence, Ade was living in Atlanta, and was two semesters
away from a telecommunications degree at DeVry University, when immigration
officers came looking for him one day in January 2003. They wanted to deport him
for the old crime. He called his probation officer to ask whether he could wait
to surrender until he took his upcoming final exams. But when he went to the
probation office, immigration officers were there to arrest him.

His records offer little explanation of why he was sedated. The one-page medical
record in his file mentions one condition: chronic nasal allergy. The log of his
trip does not mention mental illness; in the space to list current medical
problems, a nurse wrote merely that Ade was anxious.

His drugging, however, fits a pattern that emerges from the cases analyzed by
The Post: The largest group of people who were sedated had resisted attempts to
deport them at least once before.

One summer day in 2003, deportation officers arrived at the rural Alabama jail
where Ade was being held. Pack your bags, they told him. When they reached an
immigration office in Atlanta, Ade recalled, half a dozen "big guys came to meet
me and said I was there to be deported."

"I can't be deported," he replied. "I have a wife I love very much." Besides, he
told them, he was still appealing his immigration case. He shouldn't have to
leave, he protested, until the judge had ruled. That day, he was returned to
Alabama. But he said that immigration officers warned him, "We'll find a way to
get you on a plane."

A few weeks later, the officers came back and again took him to a holding cell
in Atlanta. He was, the medical log says, becoming "increasingly anxious and
non-cooperative per flt. to Nigeria." At 1:30 p.m., the log says, "Dt taken down
by four" guards.

Ade was being held down, he recalled, when he noticed a nurse "with a needle and
a bottle with some kind of substance in it." He said he told the guards: "Okay,
fine, fine. If it's going to be like this, don't inject me. I will go on my own
free will."

The nurse went ahead, the log shows, injecting him in the left shoulder with two
milligrams of a powerful drug, Haldol, used to treat psychosis, and one
milligram of an anti-anxiety drug, Ativan. He was injected with two more rounds,
as well as a third drug, in progressively larger doses, during the trip.

The effects of those injections are what alarmed Ade's father after the plane
landed in Lagos. Yet the medical log says Ade arrived "alert and oriented."

His family's doctor, who visited him on each of the four days his father hid him
in the hotel, had a different view. "He was groggy -- somebody under the
influence of drugs or drunkenness," recalled Olakunle Adigun, a general
practitioner. He couldn't figure out what sedatives his patient had been given,
so he tried to detoxify him with saline infusions.

Ade's pulse was dangerously low, and when he tried to walk around the hotel
room, "he leaned on the wall," Adigun said. "He was talking, but a slurred kind
of speech."

* * *

Internal government records show that most sedated deportees, such as Ade,
received a cocktail of three drugs that included Haldol, also known as
haloperidol, a medication normally used to treat schizophrenia and other acute
psychotic states. Of the 53 deportees without a mental illness who were drugged
in 2007, The Post's analysis found, 50 were injected with Haldol, sometimes in
large amounts.

They were also given Ativan, used to control anxiety, and all but three were
given Cogentin, a medication that is supposed to lessen Haldol's side effects of
muscle spasms and rigidity. Two of the 53 deportees received Ativan alone. One
person's medications were not specified.

Haldol gained notoriety in the Soviet Union, where it was often given to
political dissidents imprisoned in psychiatric hospitals. "In the history of
oppression, using haloperidol is kind of like detaining people in Abu Ghraib,"
the infamous prison in Iraq, said Nigel Rodley, who teaches international human
rights law at the University of Essex in Britain and is a former United Nations
special investigator on torture.

For people who are not psychotic, said Philip Seeman, a University of Toronto
specialist in psychiatry and pharmacology, "prescribing Haldol . . . is
medically and ethically wrong." Seeman studied the drug in the 1960s and later
discovered the brain receptors on which several antipsychotic drugs work.

The only circumstances in which small amounts of Haldol are appropriate for
non-psychotic people, Seeman said, are when a person comes into a hospital
emergency room violent and agitated from an overdose of a drug such as PCP, or
when someone with severe dementia is delusional or combative. "You or I wouldn't
get it if we were emotionally upset," he said.

In addition, Seeman said, typical doses to help psychotic patients accustomed to
the drug are perhaps five to 15 milligrams a day. Several deportees were given a
total of 30 milligrams, which Seeman characterized as "really high," especially
for people who have never taken the drug before.

Even when used for its intended patients, people with psychosis, Haldol has
drawn warnings from the U.S. government. In September, the Food and Drug
Administration issued an alert citing "a number of case reports of sudden death"
and other reports of dangerous changes in heart rhythm. It is, important, the
FDA warned, to inject Haldol only into muscles, not veins, and to avoid doses
that are too high.

"Pharma non grata" is the way Emergency Medicine News magazine described the
drug after the FDA alert.

Beyond the specific drugs used, Rodley said, is a deeper question: "What is the
least intrusive means of restraint consistent with the human dignity of the
person? . . . I'd be very surprised if the injection of disabling chemicals
against somebody's will that affect one's psychological well-being . . . is
likely to be the least intrusive means."

Asked to explain the reason for using Haldol and other psychotropic drugs with
people who are not mentally ill, ICE responded, "The medications used by
Aviation Medicine are widely used in psychiatry." Agency officials said that
medical escorts administer "the lowest dose possible." Combining Haldol and
Ativan "allows you [to] use less of each," they said, and produces a quicker and
longer sedative effect.

In the years before Ade was drugged, there had been an internal debate within
the U.S. government over whether sedating deportees against their will is legal,
according to confidential legal memos obtained by The Post. There was agreement
that mentally ill people could be forced to take psychotropic medicine on their
way out of the country. At dispute were cases in which the detainees were not
mentally ill but combative -- known as "behavioral cases."

Near the end of the Clinton administration, Health and Human Services lawyers
sent around a memo that warned, "[U]sing chemical restraints in cases in which
medication is not clinically indicated . . . may put the government at risk of
potential liability."

Another memo went further, concluding that it could be done only if a federal
judge gave permission in advance. "[R]egarding detainees who are not mentally
ill," the November 2000 document said, "involuntary medication of such persons
for the sole purpose of subduing them during deportation, without a court order,
is not supported by any legal authority and raises ethical issues, as well."

After the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, and after the Bush administration assumed a
tough new stance on immigration in its campaign against terrorism, the Justice
Department still sounded wary about drugging deportees. In March 2002, a Justice
lawyer laid out two options. One choice, he wrote, was to "seek a court order .
. . in every case where the alien's medication is not therapeutically
justified." The other choice was to create a regulation to grant immigration
officials explicit permission to sedate deportees, perhaps including safeguards
that would give people a warning that they might be medicated -- and a chance to
object.

Top immigration officials chose neither. Instead, in May 2003, just after ICE
was created, they internally circulated a new policy: "[A]n ICE detainee with or
without a diagnosed psychiatric condition who displays overt or threatening
aggressive behavior . . . may be considered a combative detainee and can be
sedated if appropriate under the circumstances."

Under that policy, scores of people have been sedated every year since then,
usually with heavy psychotropic drugs.

Some countries forbid the practice. The medical files for several deportees
recount disputes between U.S. officials, who wanted to inject a subject, and
foreign officials, who would not allow it.

Immigration guards and a public health nurse ran into trouble in May 2004,
during a stopover on a trip from Colorado to Guinea. The deportee had been given
the three-drug cocktail at the airport gate before leaving Denver, the nurse
wrote in the log. Three "booster doses" followed.

The last booster was given shortly before the plane landed in Belgium. "[N]o
problem initially with Belgium security," the log says. "[T]hen approached and
informed illegal to medicate detainee against their will in Belgium. Informed
them pt wasn't medicated in Belgium airspace for which they replied that he is
medicated in Belgium." In the end, the security officers let the deportation go
ahead.

Immigration guards and a nurse had more trouble during another deportation to
Guinea in April 2006, as they escorted a 34-year-old man from Atlanta, with a
stop in France.

He had been given 15 milligrams of Haldol, as well as the two other drugs, by
the time the flight reached Paris at 9:45 a.m. According to a nurse's report on
the incident, the guards, nurse and deportee were met at the plane by French
national police, who accompanied them to an airport police station to await the
connecting flight to Africa later in the day.

Once at the station, one of the guards asked a French officer "where we could
inject the detainee when needed." First, they were shown into a private area.
But five minutes later, the nurse's report says, "a superior French police
officer approached and informed me that any type of involuntary injection was
strictly forbidden in France, and that we would have to wait until we were in
the aircraft if we were to inject our detainee."

Six hours later, the entourage returned to the boarding area for the flight to
Guinea. "When we arrived at the plane, the detainee became very argumentative,
refusing to enter plane until [the guards] produced paperwork showing a final
deportation order," the nurse wrote. The immigration officers tried to coax him
onto the plane. He refused.

"I asked the French police if the ramp on the gate would be an appropriate place
to medicate," the nurse wrote. "The French police's reply was that it was
strictly forbidden." The plane's captain came over to say that he would not
allow the deportee onto the flight. The guards and the nurse flew him back to
Atlanta.

Five weeks later they tried again, and this time, they reached Guinea. By the
time they arrived, a nurse had given the deportee nine injections of Haldol
totaling 55 milligrams -- nearly four times as much as before.

* * *

One deportee who was sedated last year had convictions for armed robbery and
assault. Another kept telling immigration officers, "I am God." But many of
those injected with psychotropic drugs, records show, are neither violent nor
mentally ill. They simply do not want to go home.

"[M]ild anxiety and agitation" is how a deportation log describes Remmy
Semakula's state on the afternoon he was taken from his cell in the Middlesex
County jail in New Jersey to be deported to Uganda in early April 2007.
According to a memo from his deportation officer, he had said earlier that he
would "fight with the officers and obstruct the operation of the airline" if
guards tried to force him to go home. Semakula, 42, said that he had not tried
to thwart his deportation and had not known it was imminent because his
immigration case still was before a federal judge. "I never fought violently or
physically," he said. "They just grabbed me and injected me with a sleeping
drug."

The first time immigration agents tried to deport Michel Shango, he slammed his
head, hard, against the outside of the van that had come to pick him up at
Atlanta's city jail. Instead of being driven to the airport, then flown to the
Democratic Republic of Congo, he was brought back to the jail so his wound could
be tended to.

"I asked him why he feared being returned back to his country," an immigration
officer wrote of the incident. Shango, now 42, replied that he had been a
journalist and had written articles critical of the Congolese government.
"Detainee stated . . . that he might as well die trying to avoid deportation," a
second officer wrote, "because they will kill him as soon as he gets to the D.R.
of the Congo."

Until early 1996, Shango worked in Congo, ghostwriting articles and supplying
information to foreign correspondents about the repressive administration of
President Mobutu Sese Seko, he said in telephone interviews from locations in
Congo, Gabon and Equatorial Guinea, where friends are now helping him hide.
Eventually Shango was arrested, he and two of his lawyers said, but he escaped
to Canada, then settled in North Carolina, where he started a limousine business
with a cousin in Charlotte. He married an American, who at first offered to help
him become a citizen. The marriage dissolved. He applied for political asylum.
He was turned down.

He was remarried to a Congolese woman by the time immigration officers came to
his house at 4:30 one morning in May 2006. As his wife and their three
American-born children cried at the frightening scene, the officers led him away
at gunpoint.

On Feb. 28, 2007, three months after the first deportation attempt was aborted
because of the head-banging incident, seven guards arrived at the Atlanta jail
to make a second attempt. Shango glanced at his watch and noted that it was 1:45
p.m. "They pushed me against the wall," he recalled. "They pulled my pants
down." His medical log shows that he was given seven shots in his right buttock
and right shoulder before he boarded the airplane.

The log says his only psychological problem was "anxiety disorder."

By the time Shango reached Congo, records show, he had been injected with 32.5
milligrams of Haldol and 7.5 milligrams of Ativan. As he was thrown into a
prison after he got off the plane, and even as friends helped him escape, he was
so disoriented, he said, that he did not fully know where he was. For two weeks,
Shango said, "It was like I was dreaming. . . . I started crying, crying, crying
all day long. . . . I was like crazy, because [of] the drugs, knocking me down."

* * *

Of all the detainees who have been forcibly drugged, only two have drawn much
public attention. Neither, in the end, was deported. And compared with other
deportees, neither got large doses of sedatives. But publicity about their cases
sent shock waves through the immigration bureaucracy.

Raymond Soeoth, a Christian minister from Indonesia, had tried and failed to win
asylum in the United States. While in custody at an immigration compound near
Los Angeles, his medical log notes, Soeoth, now 39, he said he would kill
himself if deported -- a statement his lawyers say he never made.

On Dec. 7, 2004, he was injected in the left buttock with five milligrams of
Haldol and four milligrams of Cogentin before being taken to the airport. As it
turned out, his deportation was canceled before takeoff because immigration
officials had not alerted airline security in Singapore, a stopover point.

Amadou Diouf came to the United States from Senegal as a student in 1996 and got
a degree in information systems from California State University at Northridge.
He married a U.S. citizen and was trying to change his immigration status when,
in March 2005, he was arrested and brought to the same compound as Soeoth.

Eleven months later, as he was still appealing his case and, according to his
lawyers, had a court order blocking his deportation, immigration officers came
for him and took him to the airport for the trip back to Senegal.

At first, records show, Diouf, now 32, was calm. He was already sitting in a
window seat, 4A, when he demanded to speak to the plane's captain. He "became
more agitated, anxious and loud in his dialogue," according to the medical log.
A nurse said he would be given "some calming medicine," but when Diouf saw the
needle, he lunged. Guards "proceeded to take down the detainee to the ground" in
the plane's galley, and the nurse injected him with five milligrams of Haldol,
two milligrams of Ativan and two milligrams of Cogentin.

At that point, the guards and nurse called off the trip. Diouf was returned to
his cell.

In early May 2007, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern
California was drafting a lawsuit on behalf of Soeoth and Diouf and told a local
newspaper, the Los Angeles Daily Journal, about their sedations. Across the
continent, inside the immigration health division's headquarters in downtown
Washington, the publicity's effect was electric.

The next day, the chief of psychiatry for the division's aviation medicine
branch dispatched a memo. "I have stopped all planned non-psychiatric behavioral
escorts, of which 10 are currently planned," he wrote, until government lawyers
"have formalized policy in regards to this type of escort activity."

A month and a half later, the medical escort rules were changed. Except in
psychiatric cases, according to a confidential June 21 memo from ICE, the health
division "must have a court order to assist . . . [ICE in] removal of
problematic detainees." In January, the language was made even stronger: "DIHS
may only involuntarily sedate an alien to facilitate removal where the
government has obtained a court order. There are no exceptions to this policy."

The newest rules were issued less than three weeks before the government
tentatively settled the lawsuit with Soeoth and Diouf, who are now out of
custody. The government is no longer trying to deport Soeoth; Diouf is still
fighting to remain in the country.

How well the government is following its new rules is unclear. Asked how many
court orders the government has sought, immigration officials said that none
"have been issued to involuntarily sedate an alien for removal purposes," but
they declined to discuss whether any requests are pending.

In one known case in which government lawyers sought a court order, they
withdrew the request after a congressman intervened. On Oct. 1, a federal judge
in Texas was asked for permission to sedate Rrustem Neza. Immigration officers
had canceled their first attempt to deport him to Albania because he created a
scene at the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, screaming, "I am not a
terrorist."

One week after the government filed its motion, Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Tex.), a
former judge, wrote to the court, saying he had "grave concerns" about the
government's desire to medicate his constituent to deport him. "Mr. Neza fled
Albania after telling a crowd in Tropoje the names of the men who were seen
killing Azem Hajdari, who organized a student movement against the Communist
Party. Mr. Neza's cousins were fatally shot while fleeing with him," the
congressman wrote. "[S]edating Mr. Neza amounts to a death sentence for an
innocent man."

Last March, after Gohmert had spoken about Neza's case with Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice, and after he had introduced legislation to block Neza's
deportation, the issue was dropped.

* * *

In at least one instance since the rules were changed, the government apparently
drugged a deportee without permission from a judge. Maher Ayoub, now 44, was
sent back to Egypt last August. A month later, immigration officials told
Congress that they had not yet asked for a court order in any case.

Ayoub had thwarted the first attempt to deport him, a few months earlier, by
sitting in a van and demanding all the paperwork in his immigration file. He
said he spent the next three months in segregation in an Elizabeth, N.J.,
detention center. The next time they tried to send him home, immigration
officers were determined to make sure he would go quietly.

His record offers contradictory evidence about whether there was psychiatric
justification for the drugs he got, though it seems to suggest that there was
not. A one-page "patient summary" for Ayoub says "Med/Psych Alert Documents:
None." His medical escort log labels him a mental health case and says he had a
"depressed mood" and an "anxiety state."

A handwritten note in his escort file, from a psychiatrist who saw him at the
Elizabeth center, first says Ayoub was not likely to endanger himself or anyone
else -- then, lower on the same page, says he might. On the next page of the
file is another note, this one written two days before his flight, from the
psychiatrist in charge of aviation medicine. It says that Ayoub's case is a
"behavioral escort," not a psychiatric one, and that the nurse "is only to give
medications to the patient if he agrees to take them. He will only use
involuntary treatment if the patient is at imminent risk of hurting himself or
others."

That is not what happened.

"Detainee tearful and wringing hands," his medical log begins. An hour later, it
says: "Detainee increasingly agitated and resisting clothing change. Detainee is
now crying and screaming" at two guards. A nurse at the Elizabeth detention
center slid two milligrams of the anti-anxiety drug, Ativan, into his left
shoulder.

Immigration officials said his deportation was "consistent" with the June policy
that allows medication only when a detainee "may be a risk to himself or
others."

"I was feeling my head was leaving my body," Ayoub remembers. "I was losing
control over my body." He was groggy but awake when he arrived with guards and
the nurse at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport and boarded the
nonstop flight to Egypt.

Before the plane took off, he remembers, he called over a flight attendant and
"asked them to tell the pilot I didn't want to leave." The nurse stuck a needle
into his right arm this time. That injection put him to sleep.

Staff researcher Julie Tate and database editor Sarah Cohen contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE; Family Photo; Michel Shango said he fled Congo after working as a
journalist there. In America, he married and had children, but he did not win
asylum.
IMAGE; Family Photo; Remmy Semakula was deported to Uganda last year. "They just
grabbed me and injected me with a sleeping drug," he said.
IMAGE; By Ric Francis -- Associated Press; The government has tentatively
settled a lawsuit in the case of former detainee Raymond Soeoth, who was
drugged.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Detention Deficit;
Immigrant detainees suffer and die from poor care in a system where many
shouldn't be in the first place.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 513 words


A34-YEAR-OLD man being held in a U.S. facility for foreign detainees dies of
heart failure after employees  wait more than 40 minutes after his collapse to
provide medical help. A permanent legal resident facing deportation because of a
10-year-old conviction for buying stolen jewelry is denied treatment for a
suspected recurrence of cancer. An 81-year-old Baptist minister, seeking asylum
from his native Haiti, perishes in custody after a nurse concludes he was faking
illness.

Health problems misdiagnosed or ignored, detainees injected with psychotropic
drugs to make them easier to transport, suicides that could have been prevented.
These and other disturbing examples of neglect or incompetence were documented
in a four-part series this week by Post reporters Dana Priest and Amy Goldstein
that focused on the medical treatment received by the hundreds of thousands of
foreigners who are shuffled through the immigration detention system every year.
Some are held for legal violations that make them a target for deportation; some
are seeking asylum and are being held until their cases are decided. All are in
the custody of the U.S. government, which, after the 2001 terrorist attacks,
abandoned its "catch and release" approach and opted for detention of all those
who may be subject to deportation.

On any given day, there are roughly 33,000 detainees in custody. Over the past
five years, since the creation of the Department of Homeland Security, hundreds
of thousands of detainees have gone through the system. The Post series
documented 83 detainee deaths during this time. Given the size of the
population, a certain number of deaths is unavoidable, and the Division of
Immigration Health Services (DIHS), the unit  of Homeland Security that provides
medical care for detainees, argues that these statistics show that it provides
competent care for the vast majority of those being held. The agency notes that
it is prohibited from commenting on specific cases because of the privacy rights
of detainees. But even some who work for the DIHS have expressed serious
concerns about its ability to provide adequate care to this growing population
because of staff shortages and budget shortfalls that inevitably lead to neglect
or errors.

The skyrocketing rate of these detentions is not accidental; it is  a direct
result of an administration policy decision. The administration should rethink
this policy. Does it really make sense to hold someone such as Yong Sun Harvill,
the woman with the suspected recurrence of cancer, when, if released, she would
undoubtedly return to her Florida home to be with her husband and seek care? If
the government determines that she must be deported, it's likely she would be
easily found.

Funding for the beleaguered system also must be increased. Human error cannot
always be avoided, but continuing to underfund and understaff the medical care
system for these detainees only increases the chances of an unnecessary tragedy.
The law requires that those in U.S. custody be given adequate treatment. Simple
decency demands no less.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2008 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Detention Deficit;
Immigrant detainees suffer and die from poor care in a system where many
shouldn't be in the first place.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 513 words


A34-YEAR-OLD man being held in a U.S. facility for foreign detainees dies of
heart failure after employees  wait more than 40 minutes after his collapse to
provide medical help. A permanent legal resident facing deportation because of a
10-year-old conviction for buying stolen jewelry is denied treatment for a
suspected recurrence of cancer. An 81-year-old Baptist minister, seeking asylum
from his native Haiti, perishes in custody after a nurse concludes he was faking
illness.

Health problems misdiagnosed or ignored, detainees injected with psychotropic
drugs to make them easier to transport, suicides that could have been prevented.
These and other disturbing examples of neglect or incompetence were documented
in a four-part series last  week by Post reporters Dana Priest and Amy Goldstein
that focused on the medical treatment received by the hundreds of thousands of
foreigners who are shuffled through the immigration detention system every year.
Some are held for legal violations that make them a target for deportation; some
are seeking asylum and are being held until their cases are decided. All are in
the custody of the U.S. government, which, after the 2001 terrorist attacks,
abandoned its "catch and release" approach and opted for detention of all those
who may be subject to deportation.

On any given day, there are roughly 33,000 detainees in custody. Over the past
five years, since the creation of the Department of Homeland Security, hundreds
of thousands of detainees have gone through the system. The Post series
documented 83 detainee deaths during this time. Given the size of the
population, a certain number of deaths is unavoidable, and the Division of
Immigration Health Services (DIHS), the unit  of Homeland Security that provides
medical care for detainees, argues that these statistics show that it provides
competent care for the vast majority of those being held. The agency notes that
it is prohibited from commenting on specific cases because of the privacy rights
of detainees. But even some who work for the DIHS have expressed serious
concerns about its ability to provide adequate care to this growing population
because of staff shortages and budget shortfalls that inevitably lead to neglect
or errors.

The skyrocketing rate of these detentions is not accidental; it is  a direct
result of an administration policy decision. The administration should rethink
this policy. Does it really make sense to hold someone such as Yong Sun Harvill,
the woman with the suspected recurrence of cancer, when, if released, she would
undoubtedly return to her Florida home to be with her husband and seek care? If
the government determines that she must be deported, it's likely she would be
easily found.

Funding for the beleaguered system also must be increased. Human error cannot
always be avoided, but continuing to underfund and understaff the medical care
system for these detainees only increases the chances of an unnecessary tragedy.
The law requires that those in U.S. custody be given adequate treatment. Simple
decency demands no less.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Resort Workers Arrested in Raid Await Hearings;
38 of 53 Ex-Lansdowne Employees Facing Immigration Charges Are Out of Custody
Until They Face a Judge

BYLINE: Bill Brubaker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW04

LENGTH: 807 words


Six weeks after immigration agents raided Lansdowne Resort in Loudoun County,
most of the 59 workers arrested on civil charges of entering the United States
illegally have been released from custody while they await hearings on their
immigration status, authorities said.

Six of the former workers have been deported or left the country voluntarily,
resolving their cases, and one has been charged with a criminal offense,
officials said.

Jose Manuel Guerra, 47, a native of El Salvador, has been charged with using
bogus Social Security and alien registration numbers to get a job at Lansdowne,
according to court documents. He faces up to 10 years in prison if convicted.

Guerra admitted to a federal agent that he bought a fake U.S. immigration
resident alien card from an unknown person on an unknown street in the District
for $50, court documents say.

More criminal charges cannot be ruled out against former workers or managers at
the resort, said Pat A. Reilly, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. None of the resort's administrators has been charged.

"The investigation continues. I mean, 59 people have a lot of information" that
could implicate others, Reilly said.

ICE officials said they are looking into how the Lansdowne workers entered the
United States without legal documents, how some obtained fraudulent papers and
how they got jobs at the resort.

The civil administrative charges by ICE remain against 53 of the former
Lansdowne workers, 15 of whom remain in custody, officials said.

The other 38 have been released while they await hearings; a judge will decide
whether they can stay in the United States.

The investigation began in July after a routine inspection of federal employment
verification forms, known as I-9s, that immigrant workers had submitted at the
resort, officials said. Agents said they determined that many of the workers
were using fraudulent documents or had stolen identities.

On April 8, ICE agents descended upon Lansdowne and interviewed about 100
employees, which led to the 59 arrests.

"ICE nabs illegal workers at an affluent hotel resort in northern Virginia," the
agency's news release was headlined.

The raid came just a few weeks after ICE agents raided a construction company
office in Prince William County, arresting 34 workers suspected of being in the
United States illegally.

The former Lansdowne workers are nationals of El Salvador (40), Peru (7),
Honduras (5), Bolivia (3), Mexico (2), Guatemala (1) and Argentina (1), federal
officials said.

Lansdowne bills itself as a luxurious resort with 310 rooms and suites
overlooking the Potomac River and a championship golf course.

The resort's marketing and public relations director, Marjorie Lane, did not
respond to repeated requests Thursday and Friday for an interview. Reached on
her cellphone Friday, Lane said she was not available to talk.

Lansdowne's controller and acting general manager, David Millar, also declined
an interview Friday, saying he had to attend a business meeting and a child's
football game.

The resort is owned by Houston-based Benchmark Hospitality International.

Government officials say it's often difficult for employers to detect whether
their workers' documents are authentic.

"Generally, it's a hall of mirrors for employers," Reilly said. "It's hard to
find out who you've got, really, because [some workers] have fraudulent
documentation. We don't ask people to be document experts at the places of
employment. We just ask them to do due diligence."

Reilly said some employers might "look the other way" and hire suspected illegal
immigrants because "it is hard to get labor."

Some employers have been prosecuted for knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. In
one case, ICE agents discovered that lower-level managers had facilitated the
hiring, according to Reilly.

Many of the Lansdowne workers were released from custody on humanitarian grounds
-- to care for children, for example -- after agents determined they were not
flight risks, Reilly said.

"All kinds of criteria come into play when we're deciding whether somebody can
get out [of jail], such as whether they have ties to the community, whether they
have assets, whether they have a fixed address," she said.

Guerra remains in jail, pending a court hearing.

An ICE agent said in a sworn affidavit that Guerra carried two identity cards
from El Salvador with an October 1960 birth date and a fake U.S. resident alien
card with an October 1965 birth date.

The alleged fake card had "incorrect font, incorrect photograph and text
alignment, improperly trimmed edges, improper coloring, and failure to show fine
detail," according to the affidavit, filed in U.S. District Court in Alexandria.

And the number on the card had been assigned to another man, who was identified
in the affidavit as Abdul R., a Pakistani 27 years younger than Guerra.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 22, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

DHS Will Face Questions on Care of Detained Immigrants

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 861 words


Top lawmakers in Congress criticized the Department of Homeland Security
yesterday for failing to provide adequate medical care to detained immigrants,
and said they plan to demand explanations today from Secretary Michael Chertoff
and Julie L. Myers, assistant secretary for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) announced that Senate Majority Leader Harry M.
Reid (D-Nev.) and others will question Chertoff and Myers in a meeting today
about reports of medical negligence and deaths of immigrants in ICE detention,
as well as improper detentions of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents.

House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.) and Rep. Zoe
Lofgren (D-Calif.), head of the panel's immigration subcommittee, said they have
asked for relevant Homeland Security records and plan a hearing after Congress
returns from its Memorial Day recess.

"We intend to press them on these issues. We cannot accept the nature of what is
going on," Menendez said at a news conference with family members of illegal
immigrants who died in U.S. custody, as well as representatives of immigrant
advocacy groups and the American Civil Liberties Union.

"The Constitution is what makes this country unique in the world, and its
presumption of fundamental rights for all people at the end of the day makes us
the beacon of light for the rest of the world. I am not willing to have it
eroded," Menendez said.

His statements followed reports of detainee deaths and substandard medical care
in The Washington Post, the New York Times and the CBS News program "60
Minutes."

"The Department of Homeland Security's denial and delay is leading to death and
disability," Conyers said. "It is time for answers, not excuses."

The Post reported this month that thousands of pages of internal government
documents depicted a "massive crisis in detainee medical care" in a health-care
system run by the Division of Immigration Health Services, a small agency taken
over by ICE last fall. During the past five years, about 83 immigrants died
during or soon after being taken into custody.

Actions by medical staff may have contributed to 30 of those deaths, according
to internal government reviews, confidential medical records and outside medical
experts who reviewed some cases for The Post. The Post's series also described
flawed medical judgments and administrative practices, neglectful guards, poorly
trained technicians, sloppy record-keeping, lost files, and staff shortages,
among other problems.

Myers, in a published article, has called any death "regrettable" but said the
media reports were misleading and exaggerated. Since its formation in 2003, ICE
has improved the detention procedures that it inherited from the former
Immigration and Naturalization Service for a population that often does not have
health insurance, Myers wrote.

She added that ICE doubled spending on detainee health care between 2003 and
2007, to $100 million. However, independent analysts said such statistics are
misleading. Medical spending has not kept pace with the growth in the detainee
population, which has more than tripled since 2001, to 311,000 over the course
of a year, according to ICE and the Government Accountability Office, Congress's
audit arm.

Myers also said that while the number of detainees has increased more than 30
percent since 2004, the number of detention deaths fell from 29 in 2004 to seven
in 2007, and that the mortality rate fell from 10.8 deaths per 100,000 detainees
to 3.5.

Conyers and Lofgren are among those criticizing the death rates claimed by ICE.
Although the agency has compared its record favorably with statistics on medical
problems in the broader U.S. prison population, immigrant detainees are younger
than members of that population. Most stay in custody for less than three weeks,
although many are held far longer. Conyers's committee has requested Homeland
Security documents on all detainee deaths, and a breakdown of death rates by age
and length of time in custody.

Menendez, Conyers and Lofgren introduced legislation this month that would
require the Homeland Security Department to set up procedures for timely and
effective health care for detainees, ensure that medical decisions are based on
professional clinical judgments, and require the reporting of all deaths to
Congress and the department's inspector general. The department is not now
required to track or report such deaths.

The inquiry comes as the federal government has dramatically escalated its
detention of immigrants, who are typically imprisoned under a penal model even
though most are charged with administrative immigration violations. Detainees
are not guaranteed the protections provided to citizens or criminal defendants,
including access to public defenders, and instead are held under 38 nonbinding
detention guidelines.

Congressional investigators reported last year that many detainees are
improperly barred from making even a single phone call to a lawyer and cannot
file grievances or seek consular help because of inadequate internal procedures.
ICE is spending $2.4 billion on detention and removal operations this year.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 29, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Advocates of Citizenship Propose $15 Million for 'Support Centers'

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 435 words


Immigrant advocates and officials from Maryland and Virginia said yesterday that
they will seek $15 million to help tens of thousands of eligible area immigrants
obtain U.S. citizenship.

"This is about getting people who have become [legal] permanent residents to
become U.S. citizens . . . so they can become full participants in this
society," said J. Walter Tejada (D), chairman of the Arlington County Board, at
a news conference to announce the proposal.

The three-year plan, which was primarily developed by the advocacy groups CASA
de Maryland and Tenants and Workers United of Virginia, is modeled on similar
initiatives in California and Illinois. It would use a combination of federal,
state, county and private sources to fund as many as 25 "Naturalization Support
Centers." The centers would provide a range of services, including educational
outreach, test preparation, legal counseling, referrals to English courses and
assistance with filling out applications.

The proposal envisions about $6.2 million, or 41 percent, of funding coming from
state and federal sources and $1.2 million, or 8 percent, from county and local
governments.

At a time of fiscal constraints and controversy over immigration policy,
obtaining that level of financing could prove a challenge. In recent months, the
governors and legislatures of Maryland and Virginia considered including as much
as $1 million for naturalization assistance in their respective budgets but
abandoned the idea.

Supporters of the "New Americans Initiative" -- including representatives of
Maryland and Virginia's governors -- said they hoped that by repackaging their
efforts as part of a comprehensive, multi-jurisdictional plan, they can generate
sufficient interest and momentum to succeed next year.

After four decades of decline, the share of foreign-born residents who become
citizens has been rising rapidly since the 1990s, according to an analysis by
the Pew Hispanic Center last year. By 2005, almost 60 percent of eligible
immigrants nationwide had become citizens. The figures are higher in Virginia
and Maryland, where the percentage of eligible immigrants who have become
naturalized citizens reached 65 percent and 71 percent respectively.

Still, immigrant advocates said the fact that more than 250,000 eligible
immigrants in those two states and the District have not become citizens
highlights the barriers many face. These include increased application fees,
lack of English skills, low education levels, confusion as to whether they are
eligible and fear of running afoul of immigration authorities and losing their
legal status.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 30, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Japanese Are Loath To Rebuild Workforce Through Immigration;
Politicians Avoid Issue They See as Toxic

BYLINE: Blaine Harden; Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 928 words

DATELINE: TOKYO, May 29


When threatened by soaring oil prices in the 1970s, Japan's response was swift,
smart and successful.

It transformed itself into the most efficient user of energy in the developed
world, thanks to government leadership, engineering skill and a public that
embraced conservation.

Now Japan faces a much more fundamental threat to its future -- demographic
decline that experts say will delete 70 percent of its workforce by 2050.

Yet the all-hands-on-deck response that quelled the oil shock is conspicuously
missing from Japan's policies for a disappearing population.

"Unfortunately, the people do not share a sense of crisis," said Masakazu
Toyoda, a vice minister at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. "Yes, we
deserve some kind of criticism."

Inside the government, there is growing agreement that Japan can head off
disastrous population decline by significantly increasing immigration.

Japan has the world's highest proportion of people older than 65 and the world's
smallest proportion of children younger than 15. Without immigration in
substantial numbers, it will soon run perilously low on people of working age.

Yet among highly developed countries, Japan has always ranked near the bottom in
the percentage of foreign-born residents. In the United States, about 12 percent
are foreign-born; in Japan, just 1.6 percent. Most immigrants here are from Asia
or South America. The largest number come from Korea (about 600,000 people),
followed by China and Brazil. The Brazilians are mostly of mixed Japanese
descent.

Yet there is little or no political will here to persuade or prepare the public
to accept a sizable influx of foreigners.

Based on a round of interviews with Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda and several
other senior government officials and politicians, the issue is too politically
toxic for extensive public discussion.

"We need to work out policy in order to actively accept increasing numbers of
immigrants," Fukuda said, adding that his advisers are researching and
discussing the issue.

But as soon he explained the need for immigrants, Fukuda, whose approval ratings
are an anemic 24 percent, said he had to remain cautious on the issue.

"There are people who say that if we accept more immigrants, crime will
increase," Fukuda said. "Any sudden increase in immigrants causing social chaos
[and] social unrest is a result that we must avoid by all means."

In his speeches and public appearances, Fukuda rarely mentions immigration. In
that respect, he is like most politicians in Japan, which has little historical
experience of substantial immigration.

"We really need to let the people know that the economy simply cannot be managed
without the help of foreigners," said Seiji Maehara, a member of parliament and
a vice president in the opposition Democratic Party of Japan.

But Maehara said no leading politician here has the courage to say as much to
voters. The silence is enforced, in part, by political ambition.

The Democratic Party, which last year won control of the upper house of
parliament, has a rare opportunity to take control of the government away from
the Liberal Democratic Party, which has more or less run Japan since the 1950s.

The ruling party, with the unpopular Fukuda as its leader, is more vulnerable to
defeat than it has been in decades, according to many analysts. An election is
possible this year but will probably be held in the fall of 2009.

Until then, as politicians from both parties jockey for advantage, Maehara said
it is virtually certain that the "urgent matter" of immigration will get no
public hearing whatsoever.

There is another way for Japan to slow population decline and maintain its
workforce: persuade more Japanese women to  marry, have children and remain on
the job.

Japan is failing badly in this area. The percentage of women who choose to stay
single has doubled in the past two decades. When they do marry and have
children, they drop out of the workforce at far higher rates than in other
wealthy countries.

These worrying numbers have been bouncing around inside government ministries
for several years. But the policy response -- in a government dominated by men
in their 50s, 60s and 70s -- has often been tentative and sometimes insulting to
women.

A health minister last year described women of childbearing age as "birth-giving
machines" and instructed them to do "their best per head" to produce babies.

In recent months, however, the government's tone has changed substantially, as
powerful politicians and business leaders have begun to call for enlightened
government intervention that would ease the cost and complications of raising
children.

"We need to organize our society so that women and families will be able to
raise children while working," Fukuda said in the interview.

To that end, the government is working on a bill to require companies to offer
shorter hours to parents with young children and to stop requiring them to work
overtime.

Still, Fukuda's government is not proposing a major new increase in spending on
national child care, in part because it does not have the money.

Japan struggles to pay the pension and health-care costs of the world's oldest
population. It also has a debt burden that amounts to 180 percent of its gross
domestic product, which is the highest ever recorded by a developed country.

Government spending on child care here amounts to a quarter of what is spent in
France and Sweden, where comprehensive family policies have increased the
birthrate and kept women at work.

"I think we still lack adequate efforts on that front," Fukuda said.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 2, 2008 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Prosecutions Hit New High;
Critics Say Increased Use of Criminal Charges Strains System

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1593 words


Federal law enforcement agencies have increased criminal prosecutions of
immigration violators to record levels, in part by filing minor charges against
virtually every person caught illegally crossing some stretches of the
U.S.-Mexico border, according to new U.S. data.

Officials say the threat of prison and a criminal record is a powerful
deterrent, one that is helping drive down illegal immigration along the nearly
2,000-mile frontier between the United States and Mexico. Skeptics say that the
government lacks the resources to sustain the strategy on the border and that
the effort is diverting resources from more serious crimes such as drug and
human smuggling.

Before Operation Streamline, as the program is known, most Mexican nationals
caught at the border were fingerprinted and returned to Mexico without criminal
charges. Since 2005, people other than Mexicans are generally held until
removed.

In testimony to Congress this spring, Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff said that Operation Streamline "is a very good program, and we are
working to get it expanded across other parts of the border" because "it has a
great deterrent effect." The program is now in place in parts of Texas and
Arizona.

But Melissa Wagoner, a spokeswoman for Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), said
there is a shortage of jail beds and public defenders in areas where the program
is operating. "Operation Streamline in its current form already strains the
capabilities of the law enforcement system past the breaking point," she said.

Others note that, historically, immigration violations have been processed by
U.S. administrative courts. Criminalizing illegal immigration while turning a
blind eye to employers who provide the jobs that lure migrants makes for good
election-year politics but poor policy, said T.J. Bonner, president of the
National Border Patrol Council.

"This strategy pretty much has it backwards," he said. "It's going after
desperate people who are crossing the border in search of a better way of life,
instead of going after employers who are hiring people who have no right to work
in this country."

First piloted in December 2005 near Del Rio, Tex., Operation Streamline requires
that virtually everyone caught illegally crossing segments of the border be
charged with at least a misdemeanor immigration count and jailed until they are
brought to court and, if convicted, eventually deported. A conviction
jeopardizes any future legal entry to the United States.

Federal officials credit the program and other measures for contributing to a 20
percent drop in apprehensions of illegal immigrants on the U.S.-Mexico border in
2007, to 859,000. That figure is on track to drop an additional 15 percent this
year.

While apprehension statistics can be misleading -- they obviously do not account
for border-crossers who evade capture -- federal authorities say the decline
coincides with a decrease in financial remittances from illegal immigrants in
the United States to families in Mexico.

In areas where it has been applied -- which total about 500 miles, or one-fourth
of the border -- Operation Streamline has slowed border traffic more
substantially.

The number of apprehensions fell by nearly 70 percent in the last quarter of
2008 along a 120-mile stretch near Yuma, Ariz., after the program was phased in
between December 2006 and June 2007, and by nearly 70 percent along the 210-mile
span near Del Rio. Apprehensions fell 22 percent after Operation Streamline was
initiated in October along 171 miles near Laredo, Tex.

Overall, the number of criminal immigration cases filed by U.S. prosecutors
nearly doubled between January and February. They accounted for the majority of
new Justice Department prosecutions nationwide in February  -- about 7,250 out
of 13,500 -- outnumbering all white-collar, civil rights, environmental and
other criminal cases combined.

The surge in prosecutions accompanies other get-tough immigration-enforcement
efforts, such as last month's raid on a kosher meatpacking plant in Iowa, where
federal authorities detained 389 workers; 297 were convicted of
immigration-related felonies, mainly using false documents to obtain jobs.

The prosecution data was collected by the Transactional Records Access
Clearinghouse, an independent research organization at Syracuse University that
analyzes monthly Justice Department prosecution statistics.

A Justice spokesman, Dean Boyd, challenged the specifics but not the conclusions
of the group's findings, which are based on data compiled by the department's
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys. He said some of the increase in
prosecutions may be due to improved reporting. The department declined last week
to provide its own count of immigration prosecutions.

Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey said the program has had "great success" in
areas with relatively low migrant traffic because the threat of imprisonment and
criminal prosecution has sent a "major message" to most border-crossers, "who
turn out to be people who are simply looking for work."

"It's worked beautifully. Crime has dropped 76 percent in Del Rio, with the
lowest level of illegal crossings they have ever seen," said Rep. John
Culberson, a Houston area Republican who has worked with two border-district
Democrats to promote the program. "Law enforcement is simple if you just enforce
the law rigorously."

But experts warn against exaggerating Operation Streamline's potential. The
crackdown comes amid a softening U.S. economy, which tends to decrease illegal
immigration. And migrants and smugglers have responded to past enforcement
efforts by moving to more remote areas.

Mukasey said the program would be much more difficult to expand to high-traffic
areas, such as the Tucson sector, where the Border Patrol made 378,000
apprehensions in 2007, nearly half its total. That number is more than three
times the total apprehended in the Yuma, Laredo and Del Rio sectors combined.

In fact, Tucson is emerging as the battleground for Operation Streamline's "zero
tolerance" concept, presenting a case study of the challenges in ramping up the
nation's legal machinery to tackle the estimated 1 million-plus people a year
who cross the border illegally or overstay their visas. Authorities there have
launched a modified version of the program that they hope to expand in coming
months.

John M. Roll, chief judge of the U.S. District Court of Arizona, said that since
January, authorities from the Justice and Homeland Security departments and the
federal courts have worked closely to increase  Operation Streamline-related
prosecutions. They began with 40 cases a day, are prosecuting 70 now and hope to
reach 100 per day by September.

In four months this year, the court's magistrate judges imposed 3,700 sentences
for Operation Streamline-related minor offenses, close to the 4,700 petty and
misdemeanor cases they handled in all of 2007. The court also handled 2,800
felony  cases, mostly immigration-related, in Tucson last year, for a total of
about 7,500 cases, making it the nation's third-busiest.

Meeting the 100-case-a-day goal would nearly triple the court's workload, to
more than 20,000 cases. But even that effort would address only about 5 percent
of the apprehensions made in Tucson last year.

David Gonzales, the U.S. marshal for Arizona, said the program is swamping
federal courthouses and jails.

"If [Streamline] was all we were doing, that would be fine. But we also have to
deal with all other federal prisoners in southern Arizona and all other
prisoners federal agencies bring in," Gonzales said.

Other federal officials are more critical, warning that the focus on immigration
is distorting the functions of law enforcement and the courts. Several Arizona
officials noted that U.S. prosecutors there last year were so short on
resources, they chose not to prosecute a number of marijuana seizures of less
than 500 pounds, although they later revised the guideline to 20 pounds.

"We're concerned about the misdirection of resources," said Heather Williams,
first assistant to the federal public defender of Arizona. Each day her office's
lawyers spend on misdemeanor border-crossing cases, she said, "they're not
talking about a drug case, a sex crime, a murder, assault or any number of
white-collar cases -- and the same is obviously true of the prosecutors."

"This is taking on a life of its own," she said.

Williams also warned that the program tests the U.S. legal system's promise of
fairness to the accused. "If we as a U.S. citizen were placed in any other
country on the planet, and had to resolve a case in a day that could result in
being deported and having a criminal record, we would be outraged, and so would
our government," she said.

Boyd, the Justice Department spokesman, said the government has not seen
decreases in all other types of prosecutions and is increasing resources to
support five border-area U.S. attorney's offices.

Michael Friel, a spokesman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Homeland
Security agency that includes the Border Patrol, said that even if Operation
Streamline-related prosecutions near Tucson deter only a few illegal immigrants,
that will free up resources that can be deployed elsewhere. He noted that U.S.
authorities have been able to expand the program bit by bit since starting with
a five-mile stretch near Del Rio.

"Obviously," Friel said, "we think it's proving to be an effective tool as part
of a larger strategy to gain effective control of the border."

Staff writer Carrie Johnson contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; By Sylvia Moreno -- The Washington Post; Border Patrol agents patrol the
Rio Grande near Del Rio, Tex. Apprehensions in the sector are down 70 percent
since Operation Streamline began.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Police Investigate Threatening Calls to Immigrant Advocacy Group

BYLINE: Dan Morse; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 545 words


Police are investigating three threatening telephone calls received by an
immigrant advocacy group in Montgomery County, including a voice-mail message
that warned one official that he could be shot for "being stupid and helping
illegals."

The group, CASA of Maryland, plans to hold a news conference today to draw
attention to the calls, received May 18, which CASA has reported to the police
in Montgomery and the District.

Officials at those agencies declined to provide details of their investigations
yesterday. Montgomery police spokeswoman Lucille Baur said detectives were
investigating the matter.

All three calls used similar language, stating that CASA officials should not be
surprised if their buildings are blown up or if they are hurt.

"I took this seriously from the first time I heard it," said the Rev. SimÃ³n
Bautista, vice president of CASA's board of directors, who received one of the
calls.

CASA spokesman Mario Quiroz said, "Our hope is that this is nothing more than
somebody on a Sunday afternoon who felt better after calling, who got some kind
of catharsis."

CASA of  Maryland runs five Maryland day-labor centers where workers can gather
while waiting to be picked up for jobs. The centers in Montgomery have generally
avoided the level of controversy that has affected some  facilities,
particularly in Herndon.

But last year, a fire was set at a CASA day-labor center just outside
Gaithersburg, causing about $2,000 in damage. No one has been charged in the
case, said Pete Piringer, spokesman for the Montgomery County Fire and Rescue
Service.

The group says it regularly receives angry e-mails and occasionally phone calls.
On March 6, a caller from Frederick told a CASA supervisor that she was "nothing
less than a traitor to the United States," Quiroz said. Three days later, Quiroz
received an e-mail calling CASA staffers "parasites" who "should be tried for
treason."

The three telephone calls May 18, however, were more explicitly threatening,
CASA officials said.

One was left in a voice mail to Bautista on a Washington number he uses for his
work as the Latino missioner of the Episcopal Diocese of Washington. "Don't be
surprised when there's a [expletive] bullet in the back of your [expletive]
brain," the caller said, according to a recording made available by CASA
staffers.

Another call that day was left as a message on CASA's 800 number. Six of the 19
words were curse words, with the caller saying CASA should not be surprised if
somebody blows up one of the group's facilities.

The third call went to Quiroz. He did not record it but told Montgomery police
the caller said, "You shouldn't be surprised if your places start blowing up in
pieces," according to a police report of the incident.

Quiroz has listened to the other two voice mails and said the voice is similar
to the one on the voice mail he received. He said CASA has reported the phone
calls to the FBI. An FBI spokesman in Baltimore said he checked with
investigators and was not aware of a probe into the calls. A phone call late
yesterday to a spokeswoman at the FBI's Washington field office was not
immediately returned.

"Everyone has a right to disagree with us," Quiroz said. "Sometimes there's hate
going on, and when hate turns to violence, we have a problem."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 7, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Welcoming Brainpower, Wherever It's From

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 126 words


That the United States harms itself through immigration policies that limit
visas for skilled foreign professionals, many of whom received their graduate
degrees in this country, is well understood ["A Recipe for Weakness," editorial,
June 4]. The country must attract and retain international brainpower and
increase its efforts and investments in educating its domestic population,
particularly those from underrepresented groups.

Alumni of U.S. graduate schools contribute  to our national prosperity and
welfare. Ensuring a steady supply of the best and brightest students, those born
both here and overseas, should be a priority in the next administration. It
would be a recipe for success.

DEBRA W. STEWART

President

Council of Graduate Schools

Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 9, 2008 Monday
                                 Every Edition

As Housing Pauses, Immigrant Laborers Return to School to Expand Their Tool Belt

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 415 words


With home-building jobs increasingly hard to come by, the Residential
Construction Workers Association of Alexandria is trying to help Hispanic
workers improve their marketability and skills with a new curriculum that
teaches them construction trades as well as small-business skills.

Though not strictly limited to Hispanic workers, the group has offered an array
of social-service referrals and counseling in Spanish since its founding in
2002, assisting immigrant workers in enrolling their children in school,
obtaining a driver's license and finding courses to learn English.

Now the group is making training and certification its primary activity.

"Most of the people working in construction are new immigrants, and they have
all the problems that new immigrants have adjusting to a new country," said
Clayton Sinyai, executive director of the group.

Known as ASTRACOR, its initials in Spanish, the organization started with a
grant of $200,000 from the state of Virginia. Local government officials,
business leaders and members of the Construction & Master Laborers Local Union
11, which represents workers in commercial construction, founded the group.

The group's new curriculum offers free courses in home electrical wiring,
plumbing, carpentry, masonry, drywall and ceramic tile installation. The group
is also rolling out a curriculum in small-business skills for residential
construction workers. That course will teach workers how to read plans, estimate
the cost of work and obtain financing, among other things.

"There is always a demand for skilled construction workers," Sinyai said. "But
it is true that there are a lot of people who are taking advantage of a slow
market to upgrade their skills."

On one recent evening, Antonio Figueiras, a Cuban native and a retired engineer
who is the program's teacher of home wiring and electrical installation, stood
before his students in the group's Alexandria classroom, outlining on a
dry-erase board how circuit boxes might be configured on a typical home. Drawing
small arrows on that board, Figueiras illustrated how electrical current might
flow from one circuit to the next.

"This is a circuit in a series and you use it often," Figueiras told his
students, construction workers from countries such as El Salvador, Bolivia and
Peru who diligently took notes. "And what happens if you lose this one?" he
continued, pointing out one of the freshly drawn boxes with a pen, pausing for a
moment. "All the power goes."

-- Alejandro Lazo

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; An association for
Hispanic residential construction workers offers classes for laborers who want
to build their skills.
IMAGE; One class covers the intricacies of electrical circuits for residences.
Another new set of classes will teach small-business skills.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 9, 2008 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Area Immigrants Sending Food to Home Countries;
International Shortages and Price Increases Prompt Micro-Level Relief

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1218 words


Jovy Mark showed up at Manila Oriental, a Falls Church grocery that doubles as
an agent for Filipino shipping companies, lugging two hefty boxes destined for
relatives in the Philippines. Inside: Four 25-pound bags of Japanese rice,
purchased at a Korean supermarket in Virginia and about to make a trip back to
Asia.

"They are really short of rice over there," said Mark, 59, a nanny who lives in
Manassas. "My brother said the [price of] rice is going up. So what I did, I
said, 'All right, I'll look for rice that is cheaper over here.' "

As the United Nations met in Rome last week to discuss shortages and high prices
of food and international charities scramble to help the nations hardest-hit by
the global food crisis, some immigrants in the United States are providing their
own version of food aid. They are paying to have provisions delivered to hungry
relatives at home.

Filipinos in the Washington region say the unthinkable has become fairly common
in recent months: Migrants are stuffing sacks of rice into care packages known
as balikbayan boxes and shipping them to the Philippines, where shortages have
led to soaring prices and rationing. Area immigrants from Haiti, where
skyrocketing prices have sparked riots, are boosting orders of food from
U.S.-based money transfer agents. The orders are plucked from the shelves of
warehouses in Haiti and delivered to recipients within hours.

These blips on the global food shipment landscape, of course, are not going to
lift poor nations out of crisis. In interviews, immigrants from several
countries said most of their compatriots are sending more money, if anything, to
help relatives deal with food costs.

"That would be too expensive!" said Celestin Njibeck, about shipping food to his
native Cameroon, where high prices have also triggered civil unrest. He was
rolling napkins at the Silver Spring restaurant he manages, which is struggling
with food cost problems. Njibeck is considering raising menu prices.

In fact, the Filipino and Haitian food deliveries say more about
country-specific systems to transfer immigrant earnings than about shortages in
those nations. Remittance researchers say immigrants from nearly all countries
send money home, a flow estimated to be as much as $300 billion a year, most of
which is used to buy food. Only some immigrant groups also have well-established
systems for the transfers of goods, said Manuel Orozco, a remittance expert at
Georgetown University.

Among them is the Filipino practice of sending 23-by-20-by-17-inch boxes packed
with U.S. products, which are typically shipped for a flat rate of about $100 no
matter what's stuffed inside. Another is the Haitian food transfer system, a
method experts say has never taken off in other nations. Both are now
facilitating family-level food aid.

On a recent afternoon, Jimmy Alazi paid $107 at Taptap Inc. on Georgia Avenue in
the District, a one-desk office where Haitian expatriates can select from a
product list that includes 24 cans of tomato paste ($42) and one live goat
($76). Alazi had chosen basics for friends in Port-au-Prince: 55 pounds of rice,
three gallons of cooking oil, 25 pounds of black beans, 20 packets of spaghetti
and 27.5 pounds of sugar.

"When you send money they can use it for other things," said Alazi, 38, a Fort
Washington insurance agent. "I want them to eat."

At Esther Express, a Silver Spring agent for the Haitian remitter Unitransfer,
food transfers have doubled in the past three months, owner Rony Pierre said. At
Taptap, an agent for the Miami-based Caribbean AirMail, food transfers have
tripled in that time, according to owner John Boursiquot.

"Almost 90 percent of the people that come here, they say people are hungry, so
they have to send food instead of cash," said Boursiquot, who counts himself
among those driving the trend. On Monday, instead of transferring the $300 he
usually sends to relatives in the southern city of Jacmel, he sent $100 in cash
and $200 worth of comestibles.

Officials at Forex, a top Filipino shipping company based in Alexandria, began
noticing more rice in balikbayan boxes earlier this year. So the company
launched a special offer to "demonstrate our social conscience," said founder
Jaime CariÃ±o: For a limited time, immigrants in the United States can ship
25-pound bags of rice -- no need for a box -- for $15 each. About 1,200 bags
have been sent each month for the past three months, the company said.

If sending rice to the Philippines rings of carrying coals to Newcastle, some
Filipino community groups agree. The National Federation of Filipino American
Associations is encouraging immigrants to send money instead, noting that
although rice is expensive in the Philippines, it is available.

Besides, rice prices have shot up stateside. A 25-pound bag of the Thai jasmine
rice preferred by Filipinos hovers around $20, up from about $12.75 six weeks
ago. And shipments take at least a month to arrive (although when they do, the
deliveryman snaps a photo of the happy recipient with the box and mails it to
the sender).

But to those sending rice, it makes a certain sort of inevitable sense. The
Philippines is the world's biggest importer of rice, which accompanies three
meals a day and sometimes serves as a snack. Rice is "like a religion," Manila
Oriental shopper Rudy Mendoza said. Nearby hung a poster pitching the Forex
special, which exhorted shoppers in Tagalog to "Help the Rice Crisis in the
Philippines."

Most customers deem it more economical to send rice in balikbayan boxes, said
the store's food service manager, Christie Zerrudo. She is preparing a box of
clothes and canned goods, anchored by two 25-pound bags of jasmine rice. It will
be a surprise for her brother, who operates a tricycle-for-hire in Manila and
who recently told her the rice available there tastes bad.

"It just breaks my heart. I said, 'Don't eat it,' " Zerrudo said. "I told them,
'I'll send you a bag of rice.' "

Maila Mabolo, a chef who lives in Suitland, has sent two installments of rice to
Manila. Her brothers complained that government-subsidized rice, which is
rationed and offered at about 20 cents per pound, gives them stomachaches.
Better-quality commercial rice goes for more than twice as much.

"My brothers are going to the line for three hours, and they will get only three
kilos," said Mabolo, 37, as she piled boxes of mangoes into her trunk outside
Manila Oriental. "I'm not going to let my brothers struggle, doing like that."

For Arnedo Valera, a Fairfax lawyer and executive director of the Migrant
Heritage Commission, sending rice is "a political statement." If Filipino
customs agents see it, he explained, they will have yet more evidence that
Filipino expatriates, who sent home nearly $15 billion in 2006, are keeping the
Philippines humming.

After a visit to Haiti in December, when prices were on the rise, Remy Darisme
stopped shipping a monthly box of food to Haiti.

He upgraded to a barrel, which he fills with oil, powdered milk and cereal
purchased at Costco. He sends it through Esther Express, which also offers a
cargo shipping service. In April, as food riots broke out, he dispatched two
barrels to friends and relatives.

"We are here. We've got health. We can work," said Darisme, 50, a Silver Spring
taxi driver. "We've got to think about them. "

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post; Some immigrants
are responding to news of food shortages in their home countries not by sending
money but by shipping out food. The Rice family of Herndon, from left, Elysha,
3, Jessica, 9, and their mother Melinda, prefer to send money to their relatives
in the Philippines.
IMAGE; In the United States, a 25-pound bag of the Thai jasmine rice preferred
by Filipinos hovers around $20, up from about $12.75 six weeks ago.
IMAGE; By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post; Manila Oriental food service
manager Christie Zerrudo is sending 50 pounds of rice to her brother in the
Philippines.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 10, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Audit Faults Delays in Immigrant Name Checks;
FBI System Said to Have 'Deficiencies'

BYLINE: Carrie Johnson; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 357 words


The FBI system for checking the names of immigration applicants suffers from
"serious deficiencies" that have produced overwhelming backlogs and questions
about the reliability of the information, an internal audit has found.

The bureau's name checks have fallen victim to "outdated and inefficient
technology" as well as inadequately trained employees, according to a report
issued yesterday by the Justice Department inspector general.

More than 327,000 requests were pending as of March, the report said. The
reviews are required before applicants can win citizenship, enter the United
States to work and study or receive other benefits.

The delays have been the focus of persistent criticism by judges, lawmakers and
immigration advocates.

"The FBI's name-check process needs significant improvement," Inspector General
Glenn A. Fine said.

About 86 percent of the requests are dispatched within two months, the inspector
general found. But of those remaining, the process can take months if not years
to complete.

The FBI receives more than 4 million name-check bids per year, about half of
which come from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. In some cases, the IG
report said, trouble with processing name checks may hamper efforts to deport
people who pose national security threats.

The system derailed five years ago after the Department of Homeland Security
submitted in one fell   swoop 2.7 million requests to gain more information
about applicants. The paper records at issue can spread across more than 250
bureau field offices throughout the world, the investigative report said.

Rather than overhaul its systems, the bureau instead employed "small band-aids"
to patch over problems, one unnamed FBI records employee told investigators.

FBI officials tried to demonstrate that they would address the problems by
developing target dates for reducing the backlog.

Michael Cannon, a chief in the FBI's records management division, told reporters
that the bureau has hired scores of contract workers with security clearances to
help process the applications. By November, he said, all requests more than one
year old would be completed.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 10, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Daughter Makes Plea for Witnesses To Come Forward

BYLINE: Dan Morse; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 402 words


The 27-year-old daughter of a Salvadoran shopkeeper slain last month in Silver
Spring pleaded yesterday for the public's help solving the case, stressing that
potential witnesses shouldn't fear speaking to the police.

Jenny Villatoro, whose father was shot in an attempted robbery, emphasized that
Montgomery County police do not ask about the immigration status of witnesses or
victims.

She said her father, Jorge Villatoro, 50, befriended the Latino immigrants who
shopped at the store, called Variedades Jenny. Many customers used the store's
wire transfer service to send cash home, she said.

The two assailants are described as Latino men in their mid-30s.

"There's no words to explain how devastating this has been to all of us," she
said, speaking after a news conference in which officials announced a $5,000
reward for information leading to an arrest and conviction.

Police in Montgomery and elsewhere have expressed concern that cracking down on
illegal immigration might lead to a reluctance among potential witnesses to
cooperate with police.

After the news conference, Capt. Patricia Walker, director of Montgomery's major
crimes division, said, "What's important for us is we build a sense of trust, a
sense of communication, so that when something happens to your community or to
your family . . . you trust us enough to know that your immigration status isn't
going to come into play."

About two years ago, Jenny Villatoro helped her father buy a small store on
University Boulevard East near the Prince George's County line. The family
members all were legal residents, she said.

Police said one suspect in the May 27 slaying wore an oversize black or brown
trench coat and was armed with a shotgun. He is described as 5 feet 8 inches
tall and 140 pounds, with medium-length hair and a gold front tooth, according
to the police.

The second suspect was about 180 pounds and had bushy black hair, a full
mustache and scruffy stubble, police said. He was wearing a black baseball cap
with a brim that had a green underside, wraparound sunglasses, a waist-length
camouflage jacket, jeans and black Timberland-style boots, police said.

They fled by carjacking a nearby Comcast bucket truck, according to the police.

"We believe that this was an attempted robbery," Walker said. "But for some
reason the subjects responsible just decided to shoot."

Police have asked that anyone with information call 866-803-2337.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Family Photo; Jorge Villatoro, shown with son Jorge Villatoro
Jr., ran a store in Silver Spring.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 11, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 407 words

PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY

U.N. Official Delays Immigrant-Related Visit

A United Nations human rights official has postponed a planned visit to inspect
the treatment of immigrant workers in Prince William County, according to the
activist group Mexicans Without Borders. The group had welcomed the outside
scrutiny, saying the county's illegal-immigration policies have "created a
climate where suspicion and terror thrive."

Jorge A. Bustamante, a U.N. special rapporteur for human rights of migrants,
called off a visit planned for yesterday and today. In a letter to Mexicans
Without Borders, Bustamante cited "something unexpected of extreme gravity" that
was "totally outside of my control" as a reason and did not indicate when he
would reschedule the trip.

Opponents of illegal immigrants in the county had planned to protest
Bustamante's trip, during which he intended to meet with county officials as
well as immigrant residents.

-- Nick Miroff

LOUDOUN COUNTY

Board Chairman Floats Business Property Tax

The chairman of the Loudoun County Board of Supervisors, Scott K. York, said
yesterday that the county might have to impose a new commercial property tax to
ease its transportation troubles.

In a state of the county address to business leaders, York (I) said the board
should consider the tax because state lawmakers have failed to come up with a
solution to the region's gridlock, which threatens the economy and quality of
life in Loudoun.

"Unfortunately, if we don't improve our system here . . . it will grind us to a
halt," he said.

Under a transportation bill approved by the General Assembly last year, Northern
Virginia counties were given permission to impose a real estate tax surcharge on
office and retail buildings of up to 25 cents per $100 of assessed value.

-- Sandhya Somashekhar

JUDICIARY

Portsmouth Judge Confirmed to Federal Bench

The U.S. Senate unanimously confirmed a Portsmouth judge, Mark S. Davis,
yesterday to become a federal district judge for the Eastern District of
Virginia.

Davis, 46, is likely to serve in Alexandria but could sit elsewhere in the
district, which includes Richmond, Norfolk and Newport News, according to an
aide to Sen. James Webb (D-Va.). He is chief judge of the Portsmouth Circuit
Court and was a partner at a Hampton Roads law firm.

Sen. John W. Warner (R-Va.) and Webb praised Davis, who worked in Warner's
office before attending law school. Both had recommended Davis.

-- Jerry Markon

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Scott York would use a tax to fund transportation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 14, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

The Name Game;
The FBI's incompetence is punishing immigrants who play by the rules.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 445 words


WHAT'S IN a name? For Ali Rahimian, it may be the difference between a quick
path to citizenship and a two-year sentence to immigration purgatory. Dr.
Rahimian has lived in the Washington area for 17 years, and, among other useful
pursuits, has helped operate a free clinic for  people who lack medical
insurance. Two years ago, Dr. Rahimian, who was born in Iran, applied to become
a U.S. citizen. His application was sent to the FBI for what should have been a
routine background check, and Dr. Rahimian said he has not heard from the bureau
since.

The applications of hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants  such as Dr.
Rahimian are mired in FBI bureaucracy, according to a recent audit by the
Justice Department inspector general. The audit found that the FBI's National
Name Check Program, designed to be a security vetting of immigrants applying to
be citizens, is relying on outdated technology and poorly trained workers.  Some
immigrants awaiting resolution are denied the right to work or to study. And,
significant in an election year, they are denied the chance to vote.

More than 300,000 citizenship requests were pending as of March, according to
the audit. Although the FBI handles 90 percent of these claims in less than a
month, some take as long as three years. The backlog exists  although the FBI
increased its name-check workforce significantly in recent months. One unnamed
FBI employee told investigators that the workforce increase, and other measures
the FBI has taken to reduce the backlog, are "small Band-Aids" applied  to the
problem.

The problem isn't just the size of the FBI's workforce, it's the  agency's
overall approach. The FBI doesn't have a sound way to measure the program's
effectiveness,  so it doesn't know whether an elaborate name-check process
prevents terrorism. To improve the efficiency of the process, the FBI should
implement the inspector general's recommendations, including a formal training
curriculum and quality assurance measures. Most important, the FBI should update
its name-matching tool, which relies on an algorithm that was developed in the
early 1900s.

Fortunately, the FBI is realizing it cannot continue business as usual. Michael
Cannon, chief of the name-check program, said the FBI is receptive to the audit
and is complying with many of the inspector general's recommendations. Since
March, the FBI has reduced the number of immigrants waiting more than a year by
two-thirds, to 40,000, Mr. Cannon said.  He hopes to reduce that number to zero
by November. These changes can't come too soon. The FBI has been punishing the
immigrants who are most deserving of citizenship: those who play by the rules.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 15, 2008 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

The Name Game;
The FBI's incompetence is punishing immigrants who play by the rules.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 445 words


WHAT'S IN a name? For Ali Rahimian, it may be the difference between a quick
path to citizenship and a two-year sentence to immigration purgatory. Dr.
Rahimian has lived in the Washington area for 17 years, and, among other useful
pursuits, has helped operate a free clinic for  people who lack medical
insurance. Two years ago, Dr. Rahimian, who was born in Iran, applied to become
a U.S. citizen. His application was sent to the FBI for what should have been a
routine background check, and Dr. Rahimian said he has not heard from the bureau
since.

The applications of hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants  such as Dr.
Rahimian are mired in FBI bureaucracy, according to a recent audit by the
Justice Department inspector general. The audit found that the FBI's National
Name Check Program, designed to be a security vetting of immigrants applying to
be citizens, is relying on outdated technology and poorly trained workers.  Some
immigrants awaiting resolution are denied the right to work or to study. And,
significant in an election year, they are denied the chance to vote.

More than 300,000 citizenship requests were pending as of March, according to
the audit. Although the FBI handles 90 percent of these claims in less than a
month, some take as long as three years. The backlog exists  although the FBI
increased its name-check workforce significantly in recent months. One unnamed
FBI employee told investigators that the workforce increase, and other measures
the FBI has taken to reduce the backlog, are "small Band-Aids" applied  to the
problem.

The problem isn't just the size of the FBI's workforce, it's the  agency's
overall approach. The FBI doesn't have a sound way to measure the program's
effectiveness,  so it doesn't know whether an elaborate name-check process
prevents terrorism. To improve the efficiency of the process, the FBI should
implement the inspector general's recommendations, including a formal training
curriculum and quality assurance measures. Most important, the FBI should update
its name-matching tool, which relies on an algorithm that was developed in the
early 1900s.

Fortunately, the FBI is realizing it cannot continue business as usual. Michael
Cannon, chief of the name-check program, said the FBI is receptive to the audit
and is complying with many of the inspector general's recommendations. Since
March, the FBI has reduced the number of immigrants waiting more than a year by
two-thirds, to 40,000, Mr. Cannon said.  He hopes to reduce that number to zero
by November. These changes can't come too soon. The FBI has been punishing the
immigrants who are most deserving of citizenship: those who play by the rules.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

At the FBI, Progress on a Vital Mandate

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 277 words


The June 14 editorial "The Name Game" told readers only half the story.

The editorial implied that the FBI is, through indifference, "punishing
immigrants" by taking too long to complete some background checks for the
Department of Homeland Security.

For years, the FBI did this job with great efficiency. We ran a computer check
to see whether a person had been the named subject of an FBI investigation.
After Sept. 11, 2001, however, the then-Immigration and Naturalization Service
resubmitted 2.7 million names to be rechecked on a much broader criterion:
whether they had been referenced in a negative manner in an FBI file.

From a processing standpoint, this meant that the FBI was required to review
many more files in response to each individual background check request. This
sometimes requires tracking down paper files across the country and overseas, or
interviewing agents about current and old cases.

This avalanche, and the much deeper  research required, created a backlog that
no agency could have dispatched quickly. Even so, FBI employees complete almost
90 percent of these checks on time and have substantially reduced the number of
pending Homeland Security checks this year.

While files containing possible derogatory information are found in less than 1
percent of Homeland Security requests, it is important to recall that it only
took 19 terrorists to kill 3,000 people. We take these checks very seriously.

We agree that some people were not well served by this process, and we continue
to work hard to fix that. But we believe the other half of the story matters,
too.

WILLIAM L. HOOTON

Assistant Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 21, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 568 words

LOUDOUN COUNTY

Motorcyclist Injured in Crash

An Ashburn man was seriously injured in Sterling on Wednesday when his
motorcycle crashed into a pickup truck driven by a Springfield woman,
authorities said yesterday. The Honda sport motorcycle driven by Nicholas Noll,
31, struck a Ford F-150 driven by Deborah Kremer, 50, on Cascades Parkway, the
Loudoun County Sheriff's Office said.

Noll, who was airlifted to Inova Fairfax Hospital with life-threatening
injuries, was in stable condition yesterday, authorities said. He was wearing a
full-face helmet, padded riding jacket, gloves and boots, officials said.

Kremer was not injured.

No charges have been filed as authorities investigate the cause of the crash,
sheriff's spokesman Kraig Troxell said.

He asked that any witnesses who have not spoken with an investigator call the
sheriff's office at 703-771-5798.

-- Bill Brubaker

Immigration Program Scrutinized

The American Civil Liberties Union raised concerns yesterday about an agreement
that the Loudoun County sheriff has made with federal authorities to check the
immigration status of all people arrested in the county who are suspected of
being in the United States illegally.

The ACLU's Virginia chapter said it filed a Freedom of Information Act request
with the sheriff's office, asking for records pertaining to the program.

On Tuesday, Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson (I) announced that he had reached
agreement with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to participate in the
program, which ultimately seeks to deport illegal immigrants convicted of
serious felonies.

Simpson said his deputies will not check suspects based solely on their
ethnicity.

The ICE program, also used in Prince William County, Manassas, Manassas Park and
Herndon, will begin in Loudoun this summer, Simpson said.

-- Bill Brubaker

STATE POLICE

Violent Crime Down, Report Says

Violent crime in Virginia was down 2.6 percent last year from 2006, but the
murder rate went up slightly, according to the Virginia State Police annual
crime report released yesterday.

Last year, 411 people were slain, at a rate of 5.3 per 100,000 residents. That
is up from 398 homicides, or a rate of 5.2, in 2006.

Drug offenses increased for the second consecutive year, as did stolen property
reports.

Motor vehicle thefts declined for the second consecutive year.

Crimes against a person -- including murder, assault and sex offenses --
occurred every 4 minutes, 27 seconds; crimes against property every 1 minute, 34
seconds; and crimes against society, such as drug offenses and weapons
violations, happened every 8 minutes, 49 seconds.

-- Associated Press

CAPITAL BELTWAY

Speed Limit Changes Near Bridge

The speed limit on the Capital Beltway near the Woodrow Wilson Bridge will be
adjusted periodically for overnight travelers.

Wilson Bridge project spokesman John Undeland said that beginning late next
month, an operator will adjust the speed limit based on sensors and cameras that
monitor traffic.

The speed limit will vary from 35 to 50 miles per hour in Northern Virginia
between the Springfield interchange and Telegraph Road.

Transportation officials hope that adjusting speeds will keep traffic flowing
evenly, reducing the number of collisions.

Initially, variable speed limits will be used only overnight when some lanes are
closed for construction. However, officials say the system could eventually be
used full time.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson (I)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. Looked Into Kidnapping of Woman Related to Lawmaker

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 390 words


U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents helped investigate the
kidnapping last week of a Mexican citizen who is related to the chairman of the
powerful House intelligence committee, Rep. Silvestre Reyes (D-Tex.), officials
confirmed yesterday.

Erika Posselt, a Mexican citizen whom Reyes's aides described as a "distant
relative" of his wife, was released Sunday, three days after her abduction,
after her family paid $32,000 ransom in Ciudad Juarez, a city across the border
from El Paso, which Reyes represents.

A public interest group criticized the agency's intervention and requested an
investigation.

"The United States does not . . . routinely step in and offer its assistance in
recovering foreign kidnapping victims not related to powerful members of
Congress," Melanie Sloan, executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and
Ethics in Washington, wrote Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff
yesterday.

An ICE spokeswoman said that, to her knowledge, the agency had not previously
investigated a kidnapping in Mexico.

A leaked ICE memo stated that Reyes's office contacted ICE's assistant attache
in Ciudad Juarez on June 19. That federal official then arranged meetings with
Chihuahua State Police, contacted that state's attorney general, briefed FBI and
ICE officials in Mexico City, and coordinated technical support.

ICE agents in Ciudad Juarez also set up a command post with Mexican state and
federal authorities and helped interview people in the United States who were
thought to have relevant information.

Reyes spokesman Vincent Perez said his office notifies law enforcement whenever
it learns of potential criminal matters, and that the report came from Posselt
relatives who live in his district. Reyes was notified by aides only after ICE
was contacted, Perez said.

"Any suggestion that Congressman Reyes somehow influenced the actions of law
enforcement is false," he said, adding that Posselt apparently was not targeted
because of her connection to Reyes.

Cross-border cooperation is standard practice on many drug and human smuggling
cases, ICE spokeswoman Kelly Nantel said.

"In any case where ICE is provided credible and specific information related to
ongoing serious criminal conduct, we would seek to contact the appropriate law
enforcement agency and offer assistance upon request," Nantel said.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 2, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

McCain Stressing Trade On Latin American Trip

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin and Michael D. Shear; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1326 words

DATELINE: CARTAGENA, Colombia, July 1


Sen. John McCain arrived here Tuesday night on his third foreign trip since
clinching the Republican presidential nomination, the latest attempt to
embellish his international credentials at a time when the electorate is
increasingly focused on domestic issues.

McCain's latest trip -- to Colombia and Mexico -- is designed to highlight his
positions on trade and, to a lesser degree, immigration. Its value has been
questioned by campaign strategists in both parties, since neither issue seems a
winner for his campaign. His insistence on the virtues of free trade remain
suspect in Rust Belt swing states, and his position on immigration continues to
make many conservatives wary.

That raises a difficult question for his campaign: Can a presidential candidate
really win by "expanding the map" to Mexico, Colombia, Canada and Europe?

Speaking to reporters on his arrival in Colombia, McCain (Ariz.) said he will
stick by his support for free trade because "I have to do what I think is right
for America. But I want to add very quickly: I understand the pain people are
going through. I understand the challenges."

Asked whether his trade position will hurt his campaign, he took a swipe at his
Democratic opponent, Sen. Barack Obama (Ill.): "I take stands on principle, and
I don't switch positions depending on what audience or what time it is in the
electoral calendar."

But the electoral risks are significant in a country that by better than a 2 to
1 margin thinks global trade has been bad for the U.S. economy, according to a
recent survey by NBC News and the Wall Street Journal.

Worse for his chances of winning the White House in the fall, recent surveys
show growing majorities of the public think free-trade policies lead to job
losses, slow the economy and pose a threat to the country's economic recovery.
Almost a third of voters say free trade has probably hurt their family's
financial situation.

McCain's three-day trip follows one to Canada last week in which he extolled the
virtues of an open border and talked about the "shared destiny" and "productive"
relationship between the two countries. Aides said McCain will have another
chance to put his foreign policy experience on display when he meets with
Colombian President Ãlvaro Uribe and Mexican President Felipe CalderÃ³n.

Critics of McCain's position on trade have cited abusive treatment of labor
activists in both countries, and he hopes to confront the issue on the trip. He
has called the situation in Mexico "serious" but has said that any human rights
abuses in Colombia have to be balanced against Uribe's "rescue of Colombia from
a failed-state status."

In an interview before leaving the United States, McCain acknowledged that his
high-profile crusade for free-trade agreements with Latin America remains a hard
sell with many U.S. voters.

But, the senator added, he had no other choice: "For me to give up my advocacy
of free trade would be a betrayal of trust. I think the most precious commodity
I have with the American people is that they trust me."

He will have a hard time convincing leaders of organized labor. James P. Hoffa,
president of the Teamsters union, which has endorsed Obama, said McCain's trips
abroad are an "insult" to Americans.

"It shows shocking insensitivity to the current problems we face," Hoffa said.
"People can't fill up their car with gasoline. People are losing their homes.
And he's in Canada and Colombia worried about more free trade, which will export
American jobs."

Hoffa said McCain's prospects are especially bleak in the very places where many
observers expect the presidential race to be most critical: manufacturing states
such as Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania.

"Trade is basically killing jobs in all the major states in the Midwest," Hoffa
said.

Sallie James, a trade policy analyst for the libertarian Cato Institute,
rejected that argument, saying the benefits of free trade are more difficult to
see. But she acknowledged that McCain will probably take a beating in those
states for his position.

"His stance on free trade is not going to win him the election," she said. "And
even if some Americans think it's a good thing, there are other issues on their
agenda right now."

But she said McCain stands to benefit politically from his adherence to an
unpopular policy.

"Some of these people might be upset. But is that outweighed by people saying,
'Well, he says what he believes, no matter the cost'?" she asked. "It is, if it
reinforces his brand as a straight talker."

That was clearly on McCain's mind as he boarded his new campaign jet, emblazoned
with the Straight Talk Express logo, for the trip to Colombia.

In order to assuage voters' concerns about lost manufacturing jobs, McCain said
he will push to revamp U.S. programs aimed at workers who lose their jobs to
overseas plants. Calling those programs "terrible," McCain said he would empower
community colleges to take charge of the programs even as he pushed to lower
trade barriers for foreign goods.

"We need to fix the displaced-worker program and the unemployment insurance
program to bring it up to the 21st century from the 1950s. . . . Herbert Hoover
signed into law the Smoot-Hawley tariff acts and we went from a recession to the
country's deepest depression in modern history," he said. "So I've got to
convince people, particularly those who have recently and suddenly lost their
jobs, that I have a plan to give them the kind of education and training they
need, so they can reenter the workforce and lead even more profitable and better
lives than the jobs they left."

Asked whether the trip could bolster his standing among Latinos, a voting bloc
he has courted assiduously, McCain said Hispanic voters are more interested in
his stances on education, jobs and health insurance than on his trips abroad.

"I hope that it would give them some assurance that I understand the issues and
challenges that the countries that they came from face, but I don't think
there's a large number of voters that are going to say, 'Gee, John McCain went
to wherever it was and therefore I'm going to vote for him,' " he said.

The larger question, however, is whether McCain's outspoken support for greater
ties to Latin America will prove a liability with some Americans who have grown
increasingly hostile to Latino immigrants, both legal and illegal.

During the primaries, McCain did worst among voters who identified immigration
as their top concern. An ABC News analysis of polling data from all states with
GOP exit polls showed that McCain received only 30 percent of the vote in that
group, while getting more than 40 percent of voters with other top issues.

The issue of immigration remains a vital one for the Republican Party's
conservative base. A USA Today-Gallup poll found that 73 percent of
conservatives describe the issue of illegal immigration as very important or
extremely important this year. Among all adults, 58 percent described illegal
immigration that way.

During a town hall meeting in Pipersville, Pa., on Monday, McCain did not
discuss his Latin American trip, but one woman questioned why she has to deal
with Spanish speakers in the United States.

"Why, as an American, do I have to push a button to speak English or hear
English?" she asked, prompting a huge round of applause.

"I think you struck a nerve," McCain told the woman, laughing a little
nervously.

"I'm telling you, I really get ticked," she replied.

McCain started his response by reiterating his commitment to cracking down on
illegal immigration -- "We have to have comprehensive immigration reform, and
the first step has to be securing our borders." But he also reminded the
questioner that diversity remains a key part of America's identity.

"There's a thing that's wonderful about America, and I'm sure you'll appreciate
it, we welcome all cultures from all over the world," he said.

Shear reported from Washington. Polling analyst Jennifer Agiesta in Washington
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Lm Otero -- Associated Press; John McCain and wife Cindy
board his campaign jet in Indianapolis for a trip to Colombia and Mexico. It is
his third foreign trip since he secured the Republican nomination.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 2, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigrant Killed in Afghanistan Granted Posthumous Citizenship

BYLINE: Mark Berman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 577 words


Dawid Pietrek, a Polish immigrant, couldn't vote, run for public office or
obtain a U.S. passport. But he signed up to serve a country that wasn't yet his,
and last month he gave his life for that country.

Pfc. Pietrek, 24, of Bensenville, Ill., was one of four Marines killed by a
roadside bomb June 14 in Afghanistan's Farah province. Yesterday, more than 90
mourners gathered at Arlington National Cemetery to celebrate Pietrek's life and
honor his sacrifice. He was the 489th member of the military killed in Iraq and
Afghanistan to be buried at Arlington.

Pietrek's grave was surrounded by a half-dozen wreaths and floral arrangements
and a pair of flags, one American and the other a Marine Corps flag. Mourners
dressed in dark suits and dresses stood in contrast to Marines in crisp white
hats lined up at the rear of the group.

In an e-mail to family, friends and the Daily Herald of Illinois, Pietrek's
mother, Dorota, asked that her son's sacrifice be remembered.

"Thank you for keeping him in your hearts and your minds," she wrote in Polish,
according to the Daily Herald.

Pietrek came to the United States three years ago on a green card, hoping to
attend college and become a police officer, according to the Herald. He lived
with two families in Elmhurst, outside of Chicago, as a trained medical
caregiver for elderly family members.

Marine Sgt. Dmitry Novak said the Marines, along with other agencies and groups,
helped Pietrek's family arrange travel and burial plans.

Novak sent an e-mail to a Polish announcement list imploring members of the
community to attend the burial. "It would mean more to the family than can ever
be expressed in words," he wrote. Seven of Pietrek's family members traveled to
the United States for the burial, six from Poland and one from Iceland.

"They were very, very moved," Novak said after the service. "They were very
thankful that so many people actually cared and came out to show their respect
and support. It was important for us to show that level of respect to the family
and make sure they remember this forever."

Pietrek's mother wanted two things, Novak said. She wanted him to be buried at
Arlington and be granted citizenship. Shortly before the funeral service began,
the latter came true, as an official from the Department of Homeland Security
presented her with her son's certificate of posthumous citizenship.

Pietrek joined the Marine Corps in June 2007, enlisting in Bensenville. This was
the rifleman's first deployment, said 1st Lt. Curtis Williamson, spokesman for
the 1st Marine Division. In just over a year, Pietrek had received numerous
awards, including the Afghanistan Campaign Medal and the National Defense
Service Medal.

Also killed with Pietrek were Sgt. Michael Toussiant-Hyle Washington, 20, of
Tacoma, Wash.; Lance Cpl. Layton Bradly Crass, 22, of Richmond, Ind.; and Pfc.
Michael Robert Patton, 19, of Fenton, Mo. The four Marines were assigned to the
2nd Battalion, 7th Marines, 1st Marine Division, 1st Marine Expeditionary Force,
based at Twentynine Palms, Calif.

In a note sent to his mother and sister in Police, Poland, after arriving in
Afghanistan, Pietrek talked about what he was accomplishing.

"We are helping and protecting these people and providing them with schooling
and medicine," he said in the note, excerpts of which were printed in the
Herald. "If something should happen to me remember -- this was my decision.
We're defending people here and fighting terrorists."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Susan Biddle -- The Washington Post; Family members are shown
to their seats at the Arlington National Cemetery service for Marine Pfc. Dawid
Pietrek. From left, his fiancee, Magdalena Bartoszewicz, his sister, Emilia
Pietrek, and his mother, Dorota Pietrek, all of Poland.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 3, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Police Chief Honored for Outreach to Immigrants;
Force Targets Behavior, Not Status, Rohrer Says

BYLINE: Michael Laris; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA01

LENGTH: 708 words


When the District-based immigrant-rights group Ayuda honored Fairfax County
Police Chief David M. Rohrer at its recent birthday gala, it marked something of
a departure.

In recent years, the group has recognized President Elias Antonio Saca of El
Salvador and Rep. Hilda L. Solis (D), a four-term congresswoman from Southern
California.

"It's not the typical honoree," said Mauricio Vivero, Ayuda's executive
director, "but he deserved it."

Rohrer, Vivero said, has been effective at one of the toughest tasks in
community law enforcement: setting a welcoming tone that encourages
sometimes-wary immigrants to seek police help when they need it. And at a time
when a charged debate over illegal immigration has buffeted Prince William
County and other areas, Vivero said Fairfax's efforts at outreach have been a
welcome counterpoint.

"He has been, number one, very proactive in making sure that immigrant
communities are aware of how to interact with the police in a positive way. That
includes witnesses and victims of crime," Vivero said. Rohrer and the
department's Spanish-speaking and other officers show up frequently at
neighborhood meetings to build ties.

Moreover, Rohrer is sensitive to the history that many Fairfax residents bring
with them, Vivero said. About 30 percent of the county's population is
foreign-born.

"He understands many people from Africa or Latin America who come to this
community have a fear of police . . . like they have general apprehension about
their governments as well," Vivero said, because in the societies where they
used to live those institutions often don't work.

"He has been very clear that he is about policing behavior and not policing
status," Vivero said.

Rohrer was recognized as part of Ayuda's 35th anniversary celebration last month
at the headquarters of the Organization of American States in the District.

Immigrant groups and others voiced concerns when the Prince William Board of
County Supervisors instructed police last year to check the immigration status
of suspects when there was probable cause that the individual was in the country
illegally. The policy has evolved, and now authorities in Prince William check
immigration status on all those who are arrested.

People arrested in Fairfax are asked whether they are U.S. citizens as part of
booking procedures, Rohrer said. "If I go to the jail, I get checked," Rohrer
added. "That to me is fair and impartial."

"I don't believe we should be involved in everyday immigration enforcement, and
most police chiefs feel the same way," Rohrer said. "I'm fortunate. My Board of
Supervisors believes the same as I do. We target behaviors."

The real challenge  -- working to persuade crime victims in immigrant
communities to come forward -- remains, Rohrer said.

Domestic violence is a major concern, as are robberies, which increased in
recent years, he said. Some immigrants still are reluctant to talk to officers.

"They think that our first question is going to be, 'What is your status?' "
Rohrer said. But he said that his officers don't care about the answer to that
question and don't ask it. "My focus is to make [immigrants] safe. . . . I want
them to call us, and think, 'I can trust the police.' "

Criminals sometimes see immigrants as easy targets, Rohrer said.

"People think quite often that Latinos in particular have cash in their pockets.
They are kind of easy prey," he said, referring to immigrant workers who carry
their weekly earnings in cash rather than go to the bank. Perpetrators think, "
'We'll get easy money, and they're not going to call the police,' " Rohrer said.

To build relationships, Rohrer and his officers have gone to meetings at
churches and other places where people feel comfortable, he said. They teach
people how to file complaints against police if they think they have been
profiled or mistreated. And the department has created small citizen police
academies targeting immigrants, in which residents spend a couple of weekends
learning what officers do.

When police need information about robberies or about gang recruiting, those who
live in immigrant communities are often the best sources, he said.

"The only ones who know who those people are are the people who live in those
neighborhoods," Rohrer said.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Police Chief David M. Rohrer has built ties with immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 3, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Lawsuit Leads to Release of Immigrant;
In Jail, She Was Denied Timely Medical Care

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein and Dana Priest; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 720 words


A South Korean immigrant who was repeatedly denied timely medical care while in
the immigration detention system was released from an Arizona jail yesterday.

Federal immigration officials released Yong Sun Harvill, 52, as part of a
settlement of a federal lawsuit against the Department of Homeland Security's
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. The suit, filed in June, alleged
that ICE's top administrator and a half-dozen other officials "deny basic human
needs, inflict unnecessary pain and suffering and put Mrs. Harvill at
substantial risk of physical injury, illness and premature death."

The government insists she received proper care.

In May, The Washington Post documented Harvill's struggle to get treatment as
part of a series of articles about poor medical care for detained immigrants
around the country. The series was based on interviews and thousands of internal
government records.

Harvill, a legal U.S. resident and the wife of an American citizen, came to the
United States as a young Army bride 32 years ago, but never applied for
citizenship. Immigration officials were trying to deport her under a provision
that allows for the removal of non-citizens who have been convicted of certain
crimes -- in her case, buying stolen jewelry more than a decade ago.

Under the terms of the settlement, Harvill, in exchange for her release, agreed
to drop her suit against ICE, including any future claims if it turns out that
her care in the jail contributed to deteriorating health. Harvill will be
allowed to remain in the United States for at least two years or until her
remaining immigration case is resolved, whichever is later. Then, ICE could
decide to deport her or to defer her removal so that she may continue her
medical care.

Harvill was flown to Miami yesterday after her release from the Pinal County
Jail southeast of Phoenix. She will live with her family outside Tampa.

"Right now my stomach feels queasy," Harvill said in a telephone interview. "I'm
both worried and excited about the whole thing. All I want to do is check into
the hospital. There's something happening to me that's not normal."

ICE spokeswoman Kelly Nantel said the settlement with Harvill "contains no
admission of any liability whatsoever," and she denied that Harvill was ever
refused medical care.

"Indeed, a careful review of Ms. Harvill's medical records reveals that she
consistently received a high level of medical care for myriad pre-existing
ailments while she was in ICE custody," Nantel said in an e-mail. "Any claim to
the contrary is simply not borne out by the records."

Harvill's medical problems are serious and complex: repeated episodes of
soft-tissue cancer over three decades, a painfully swollen leg damaged by past
radiation treatments, hepatitis, psychiatric problems and -- recently -- a lump
growing below her left knee that she was unable for months to persuade her
jailers to allow her to get tested.

ICE took Harvill into custody in Florida in March 2007 as she finished a
13-month prison sentence on a drug-possession charge. She was held at Palm Beach
County Jail, but then was transferred to a federal detention compound in
Arizona. ICE officials told her lawyers she would get better medical care there,
but several weeks later, she was moved to Pinal County Jail, one of many local
and county jails around the country that are paid by ICE to house immigration
detainees.

The jail does not have a full-time doctor on its staff, so Harvill was taken
repeatedly to a public hospital more than an hour away in Phoenix, where she
often did not receive proper care, her case documents show.

After The Post article, Harvill's case received attention from federal
officials, outside advocates and the South Korean Consulate in Los Angeles.
Harvill's health, meanwhile, continued to deteriorate.

In late May, she was taken to Maricopa Medical Center for surgery that, four
months earlier, she had been told she needed to remove uterine polyps. A doctor
found a suspicious spot and ordered a biopsy, but Harvill still is not certain
of the results. She has developed hearing loss in her one, good ear.

In her final days in custody, Harvill became lightheaded, briefly blacking out,
and was taken to Maricopa's emergency room. She was taken back to the emergency
room again last week after becoming dizzy.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Michael Strader Marko -- The Washington Post; Margaret
Kersey, left, hugs daughter-in-law Yong Sun Harvill after Harvill's release from
jail. Harvill, who was profiled in The Washington Post, is a legal U.S. resident
and the wife of an American citizen.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 3, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Protest Fueled by Detention of 45 in Immigration Case

BYLINE: William Wan; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. AA03

LENGTH: 577 words


In one hand, Irma Gonzalez held a picture of Anne Arundel County Executive John
R. Leopold (R) with a line drawn through his head. The other hand, she balled
into a fist and shook in anger and frustration in front of the U.S. immigration
office.

A day after federal authorities, with assistance from county police, captured 45
illegal-immigrant suspects in orchestrated raids across Annapolis, families,
friends and advocates for those detained gathered Tuesday to protest the action
in front of the federal building in downtown Baltimore.

"They took my neighbor. He has a family, and still they took him away," said
Gonzalez, 51, one of more than two dozen who traveled from Annapolis for the
protest.

Pastors and priests from several local churches showed up for the event, as did
lawyers and activists from a coalition of immigrant advocacy groups. After half
an hour of shouting and demonstrating, many lingered in the plaza in front of
the federal building, trading notes on the events of the day before and their
plan going forward.

For most, Monday began with a flurry of phone calls shortly after 6 a.m.

That was when authorities executed 11 simultaneous search warrants at the
offices of an Annapolis company, Annapolis Painting Services, and at least 10
other sites related to the business, which investigators say was hiring and
housing illegal immigrants.

"They broke down the door and grabbed people from the home," said Nicolas Ramos,
48, whose cousin Eduardo Delgado was seized. "His wife called me at 6 a.m. and
said she didn't know what to do, that their three children were crying."

The agents did not take his cousin's wife because she has a tourist visa, Ramos
said. But the family was unsure what to do and did not know whether Delgado
would be sent to an out-of-state detention center during the deportation
process.

The immigrants are being held by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials in Baltimore while their status is reviewed, said Scot Rittenberg, an
assistant special agent in charge in Baltimore. The 45 people detained, 35 men
and 10 women, came from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nigeria and
Panama, federal investigators said.

Five additional workers' cases have been entered into the illegal-immigrant
removal process, but ICE agents did not take them into custody for humanitarian
reasons. Some  have children, one needs medication and another is pregnant.

Guy Johnson, an attorney for Casa de Maryland, said his organization had been
working since the raids to establish who was taken into custody and which
families were left behind. "It's difficult in a lot of cases because some of
them don't know what their rights are, they don't know how to get in touch with
their family or what to do next."

Word has also begun to spread among the county's Hispanics that another raid may
be imminent, causing some families to go in hiding or shuffle into other homes,
advocates at Tuesday's protest said.

As of Tuesday, no charges had been filed against the owner of the painting
company, Robert Bontempo Jr., because the investigation has not been completed.

Many at the protest had sharp words for Leopold, who has held up the raid as a
symbol of his administration's tough stance against illegal immigration.
Leopold's office said he did not have any statement regarding the protest in
Baltimore, but he has said he hoped Monday's raid would act as a deterrent to
other county businesses from hiring illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Anne Arundel County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By William Wan -- The Washington Post; David Perechocky, left,
of the Capital Area Immigrants' Rights Coalition leads a group protesting the
detention of immigrants seized Monday. Irma Gonzalez, right, was among those
critical of County Executive John R. Leopold.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 4, 2008 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Mud-Hut Muddle: Visas Denied for Museum Workers

BYLINE: Neely Tucker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 675 words


On this red-white-and-blue national holiday, we bring you a simple news story to
assure you that our borders are safe from immigrants coming over to work on
construction projects and build things in 'murca. Even when it's a couple of mud
huts. Even when it's for a museum. Even when an actual U.S. senator gets
involved.

See, you probably thought that there were, like, millions of immigrant men and
women in this country legally or illegally, gainfully employed in the
construction trades. You may have noticed entire groups of said workers at
pickup sites around the Washington metropolitan region, looking for daywork. You
may have read stories about this as being sort of an issue.

To which we can only respond: Not if the U.S. consulate in Nigeria can help it!

The Frontier Culture Museum of Virginia is finding this out the hard way. As
Deputy Director Eric Bryan explains it, the outdoor museum in Staunton was
looking to add a couple of 18th-century African mud huts to its collection of
housing that various American ancestors once might have lived in. This would be
an addition to the German exhibit, the Irish exhibit, etc., etc.

The museum tries to bleed authenticity. It features original buildings that have
been dismantled in their home countries, brought over to the commonwealth and
restored. The German exhibit, for example, dates to the 1600s and is from the
village of HÃ¶rdt. It is there to show American schoolchildren on field trips
the casual freedom they enjoy to not live in a town with an umlaut in its name.

No, actually, the exhibits are to "increase public knowledge of the diverse Old
World origins of early immigrants to America, of how these immigrants lived in
their homelands, how they came to America, and how the way-of-life they created
together on the American frontier has shaped the success of the United States,"
the museum's Web site says.

To recognize the ancestry of African Americans, the museum staff went to western
Africa to search out what the average family might have lived in before slave
traders showed up. They came up with a simple mud hut with a thatch roof.

Working in Nigeria, they got a consultant to vet several workmen who were
conversant with the old ways and implements. This resulted in three apparently
impoverished rural men, all apparently over the age of 45, who were from the
Igbo region of the country, Bryan said. They had never left the country before.

The museum sent letters of invitation, asking them to come over this summer and
build a compound of three huts and a boundary wall and then return home. They
helped them get Nigerian passports.

The office of Sen. John Warner (R-Va.) supported their visa applications by
making the U.S. consulate in Nigeria aware of the importance of the museum's
project, Warner's spokeswoman, Bronwyn Lance Chester, said yesterday. (No one
made the men's names available because of privacy concerns.)

Applications were filed about three weeks ago, Bryan said. There was confusion.
And then the word came down: Rejection!

The Associated Press yesterday quoted U.S. consulate official Debra Heien as
saying one of the men couldn't describe the building project and another filled
out his paperwork incorrectly. She said two of them were unable to make a
living.

"They ruled 'denied' because the interviewers did not think these men showed
sufficient socioeconomic ties to Nigeria in order to assure their return," Bryan
said.

Now the museum is scrambling to get their consultant and an architect familiar
with the old ways to construct the exhibit. The materials -- the tools, the
thatch for the roof -- are already en route. The buildings will be in place by
the end of the year, Bryan said. They'll even have real goats wandering the
compound, of the same breed that would have wandered such courtyards 200 years
ago.

And so our little story ends this way: Real mud, real thatch, real goats, no
real rural workmen.

Somehow, we are not surprised. Bryan sums up the state of modern America this
way: "We were naive in assuming there wouldn't be any problems."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Frontier Culture Museum Of Virginia; The Frontier Culture Museum
in Staunton planned to re-create these Nigerian mud huts.
IMAGE; Frontier Culture Museum Of Virginia; A drawing of the mud huts planned
for the Frontier Culture Museum, which was unable to hire workmen from Nigeria
for the project.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 5, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

RELIGION BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B09

LENGTH: 682 words

UNITARIAN UNIVERSALISTS

Assembly Backs Gay, Immigrant Rights

 Unitarian Universalists ended their annual General Assembly meeting in Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., with a call to oppose ballot measures in Florida and
California that would outlaw same-sex marriages.

Delegates also called for an end to what they called the "present day slavery"
of undocumented immigrants. The five-day meeting ended Sunday.

"Our vision of justice is not limited to concern for one oppressed group," said
the Rev. William Sinkford, president of the Unitarian Universalist Association,
at a rally. "It's a vision of justice in which all American families are valued.
We say that the Beloved Community must have room for all of us."

In addition to the resolutions supporting immigrant and gay rights, the assembly
passed resolutions advocating a higher minimum wage, alternative energy sources
and a single-payer national health-care system, as well as opposing military
engagement with Iran.

-- Religion News Service

CHURCH CLOSURE TALKS

Angry Parishioners Storm Out of Meeting

 With food rations and toiletries stacked on a back pew, defiant parishioners of
a New Orleans church scheduled for closure as part of a post-Katrina downsizing
plan angrily rejected all talk of closing their parish.

But after a heated meeting on Monday, parishioners returned to their homes
without seizing the church in protest, as they had said they might.

The Archdiocese of New Orleans had summoned parishioners of St. Henry Catholic
Church to meet with three volunteer facilitators who were to help the church
fashion new leadership as their 152-year-old parish closed and merged with two
others.

But the meeting broke down within moments. The facilitators were unable to
generate any discussion of the mechanics of merger; one after another,
parishioners, most of them elderly, lifelong Catholics, rose to denounce the
closure plan and vowed not to abandon their church.

"If I have to sit on the front step and put on a hunger strike, I'll do it,"
85-year-old Anthony LaRocca, a parishioner for 60 years, told the facilitators.
"We're not moving, and that's final."

Archbishop Alfred Hughes has ordered that St. Henry be closed and merged with
two nearby parishes. The archdiocese says it can no longer staff small, closely
spaced parishes because of a growing shortage of priests.

But parishioner Alden Hagardorn and other lay leaders have asked Hughes and his
aides to consider alternative solutions, including a cluster arrangement in
which the three parishes remain open under some kind of priest-sharing
arrangement.

Hagardorn and others have said the archdiocese has refused even to acknowledge
the suggestions, much less discuss them, which has infuriated parishioners all
the more.

-- Religion News Service

COPTIC CHRISTIAN

U.S. Appeals Court Reviewing Deportation

Lawyers for a Coptic Christian are asking a U.S. court to consider his claim
that he would be tortured if he's sent back to his native Egypt.

Sameh Khouzam, a Coptic Christian who was convicted in absentia of killing a
woman in 1998, says he was beaten and sodomized for refusing to convert to Islam
in Egypt.

His attorneys say he's innocent of the murder.

U.S. officials told the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit in
Philadelphia that Egypt has offered "diplomatic assurances" that Khouzam won't
be tortured if he's sent home.

But Khouzam's lawyers say Egypt has violated such assurances in the past.

-- Associated Press

HOLY WATER FOR CARS

Priest Blesses Congregants' Vehicles

A Tennessee priest has blessed the cars of his parishioners.

It was the fifth annual blessing of the cars at St. Augustine Catholic Church in
Memphis.

After Mass on Sunday, the Rev. John Geaney stood outside the church, flicking
holy water onto a long line of vehicles driving slowly past him.

Geaney is a Boston native who got the idea from the New England custom of
blessing boats. He says people spend a lot of time in their cars, so blessing
them seemed like a good idea.

Rosalyn Whitaker, 17, said she wanted her new car blessed because she "bumped
into something."

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 5, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Anne Arundel's Stance on Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 175 words


The July 1 Metro article "Authorities Detain 45 in Immigration Raid at Painting
Company," regarding the June 30 U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement raid in
Anne Arundel County, did not  give a complete picture of the county
administration's position  on legal and illegal immigrants.

The article  said the administration "cut county grants to nonprofit agencies
that offered social services to Spanish-speaking residents."

This action applied to the fiscal 2008 budget. The fiscal 2009 budget contains
funding for the Center for Help, which provides assistance to immigrants who
play by the rules and seek citizenship through legal channels.

My administration has also conducted seminars for our business community to help
employers comply with federal and local employment requirements.

These actions demonstrate that the county has a fair and balanced approach to
immigration issues, cracking down hard on illegal immigration while assisting
legal immigrants and  those who hire them.

JOHN R. LEOPOLD

County Executive (R)

Anne Arundel County

Annapolis

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 5, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Charges for Meatpacking Managers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 476 words

Immigration Charges for Meatpacking Managers

DES MOINES -- Two supervisors at an Iowa meatpacking plant that was raided by
immigration agents in May were arrested and charged with encouraging people to
live in the United States illegally.

Juan Carlos Guerrero-Espinoza, 35, and Martin De La Rosa-Loera, 43, were also
charged Thursday with aiding and abetting the possession and use of fraudulent
identification. Guerrero-Espinoza was charged with aiding and abetting
aggravated identity theft.

Federal immigration officials raided Agriprocessors, the nation's largest kosher
meatpacking plant, on May 12. Nearly 400 workers were detained and dozens of
fraudulent permanent-resident alien cards were seized from the plant's human
resources department, court records said. Critics have asked federal officials
why no top executives at the plant had been arrested, even though more than a
third of the plant's employees faced immigration charges.

An Agriprocessors spokesman said the company and its attorneys were reviewing
the paperwork from the federal action and couldn't comment.

Shooting in Crowd Kills 4 in Wis.

MILWAUKEE -- At least one person fired a gun into a crowd in a street early
Friday, killing four people and sending panicked revelers running for cover,
police said. Two women, ages 23 and 27, and two men, ages 34 and 28, were killed
at about 2:30 a.m. on the city's north side, police spokeswoman Anne E. Schwartz
said. Two people were injured. More than 100 people were on the street when
shots were fired, some possibly from a party, Schwartz said. No suspects are in
custody, she said, and police were having difficulty getting cooperation from
witnesses.

Rainbow Family Pelts Police

CHEYENNE, Wyo. -- About 400 members of the Rainbow Family threw rocks and sticks
at 10 federal officers as they tried to arrest a member of the group who was
described as being uncooperative, the U.S. Forest Service said Friday. Five
members of the group were arrested, and one officer was slightly injured. The
Rainbow Family is a loose affiliation of eccentrics who choose a forest each
year in which to hold a week-long gathering. About 7,000 members are camping
this year on Forest Service land near Big Sandy.

Lady Liberty's Crown May Reopen

NEW YORK -- The National Park Service is considering reopening the Statue of
Liberty's crown for the first time since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks,
according to documents released Friday by Rep. Anthony Weiner (D-N.Y.). The Park
Service requested bids last month to study what it would take to safely open
Lady Liberty's headpiece and its interior observation deck to the public,
according to the documents. While other parts of Liberty Island have reopened
since 2001, the crown has remained closed because the Park Service said there is
no way to evacuate it safely in an emergency.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 9, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

The Candor Gap

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 874 words


It is one of our fondest political myths that elections allow us collectively to
settle the "big issues." The truth is that there's often a bipartisan consensus
to avoid the big issues, because they involve unpopular choices and conflicts.
Elections become exercises in mass evasion; that certainly applies so far to the
2008 campaign. A case in point is America's population transformation. Few
issues matter more for the country's future -- yet it's mostly ignored.

Two changes -- aging and immigration -- dominate, and they intersect. In 2005,
12 percent of the population was over 65; by 2050, that will be almost 20
percent. Meanwhile, immigration is driving population growth. By 2050, the
population may exceed 430 million, up from about 300 million now. About
four-fifths of the increase will reflect immigrants and their children and
grandchildren, estimates the Pew Hispanic Center. The potential for conflict is
obvious. Older retirees and younger and poorer immigrants -- heavily Hispanic --
will compete for government social services and benefits. Squeezed in between
will be middle-class and middle-age workers, facing higher taxes.

What do the supposedly plain-spoken John McCain and Barack Obama say about these
looming problems? Well, not much. Of course, they're against poverty and fiscal
irresponsibility. They oppose illegal immigration and favor "reform." But beyond
these platitudes, they're mostly mute. It's not that the problems are secret.
Dozens of reports have warned of population aging, which affects most wealthy
societies. Global aging is "a demographic shift with no parallel in the history
of humanity," argue Richard Jackson and Neil Howe in "The Graying of the Great
Powers."

By their estimates, U.S. government benefits for retirees (mainly Social
Security and Medicare) will rise from 9 percent of national income in 2005 to 21
percent by 2050. The outlook is worse for many other rich nations, some of which
face shrinking populations. In Germany, retirement spending is projected at 29
percent of national income in 2050; in Italy, it's 34 percent.

Similarly, immigration is widely studied. Pew projects that immigrants will
constitute 19 percent of Americans in 2050, up from 12 percent in 2005. The
Hispanic share of the population will double, from 14 percent to 29 percent. If
most immigrants assimilated rapidly, this wouldn't be worrisome. But many,
especially low-skilled Hispanics, don't.

Consider a new study of Mexican Americans by sociologists Edward Telles and
Vilma Ortiz of UCLA. Compared with their parents, the children of immigrants did
make progress, they found. Incomes increased; English-language skills spread;
intermarriage rose. But after the first generation, additional gains were
grudging. Third-generation Mexican Americans were only 30 percent as likely as
non-Hispanics to have completed college. In the fourth generation, about 20
percent still had incomes below the government poverty line. "Assimilation,
where it occurred, was far slower than it was for European-Americans," write
Telles and Ortiz.

Because government policies might mute these problems, they ought to be subjects
of campaign debate. We could lighten the burden of aging by curbing government
benefits for wealthier retirees and raising Social Security and Medicare
eligibility ages to reflect longer life expectancies. These changes would move
federal retirement programs back toward their original purpose -- a safety net
for the most vulnerable. We could refashion immigration policy to favor skilled
over unskilled immigrants, because they contribute more to the economy and
assimilate faster.

What we do, or don't do, about these issues will profoundly affect the character
of the country in 10, 20 and 50 years. Doing nothing is a policy -- a bad one.
That's what Obama and McCain essentially offer. It's easy to explain why. To
discuss these issues frankly might be political suicide. It could alienate
crucial blocs of voters: retirees, Hispanics. Blunt talk would expose a
candidate to charges of being mean-spirited (against retirees) or racist
(against Hispanics). What political consultant would advise such a course?

People complain about governmental gridlock. But what often obstructs
constructive change is public opinion. The stalemates on immigration and
retirement spending are typical. We avoid messy problems; we embrace
inconsistent and unrealistic ambitions. We want more health care and lower
health costs; cheap energy and less dependence on foreign energy; more
government spending and lower taxes. The more unattainable our goals, the more
we blame "special interests," "lobbyists" and other easy scapegoats.

In this campaign, we have a candor gap. By and large, Americans want to be told
what government will do for them -- as individuals, families, consumers -- and
not what it will do for the country's long-term well-being, especially if that
imposes some immediate cost or inconvenience. Grasping this, our leading
politicians engage in a consensual censorship to skip issues that involve
distasteful choices or that require deferred gratification. They prefer to
assign blame and promise benefits. So elections come and go, there are winners
and losers -- and our problems fester.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 9, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

In Chicago, Art That's Yearning to Breathe Free

BYLINE: Sophia Tareen; Associated Press

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C12

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


A window washer  dressed as Spider-Man scales a building. A nanny clad as
Catwoman attends to children. A pizza delivery man wearing Superman garb rides a
bike with pies in the basket.

The humorous photographs by Mexican artist Dulce PinzÃ³n depict real immigrant
workers in their everyday jobs. But the images also proclaim them as superheroes
who work grueling hours to make a better life for their families.

It's an idea linked to the immigrant experience in the United States and one
that echoes throughout a new exhibit at the National Museum of Mexican Art in
Chicago.

The collection, called "A Declaration of Immigration," is designed to challenge
U.S. immigration policies and call attention to unsuccessful attempts at reform,
according to the museum's president, Carlos Tortolero.

"Immigration affects the whole world," he said. "Immigrants are human beings who
live in this country and contribute to this country. To be pro-America, you have
to be pro-immigrant."

The approximately 100 paintings, photographs, sculptures, quilts and artifacts
cover  a range of  immigrant experiences.

Quilts tell the story of Hmong immigrants from Laos. Photographs show a Korean
family's appreciation of Elvis Presley and soccer. A retablo, or lamina, of
carved figurines depicts the harrowing journeys that some immigrants make to
arrive in the United States.

Tortolero got the idea for the exhibit about two years ago when Congress
approved a fence along the U.S. border with Mexico. He said he was disturbed
that  presidential candidates  John McCain and Barack Obama voted for the fence.
He considers the exhibit  a way to open a discussion about immigration reform,
particularly in a presidential election year.

A large sign at the entrance of the exhibit mimics the Declaration of
Independence, proclaiming that the country is "a nation of immigrants."

It also says that "the construction of the wall along the United States-Mexico
border would stand as a symbol of persecution, much like the 20th century Berlin
Wall."

Several pieces criticize the Department of Homeland Security, particularly such
immigration policies as fingerprinting foreigners at airports.

Portraits by Danish artist Anni Holm feature the faces of three women from
India, Colombia and Italy; their faces  consist of fingerprints.

Other works are haunting.

In a series of oil paintings by Ana Teresa Fernandez, a woman completes menial
tasks in outdoor landscapes. In one, she vacuums the border at San Diego and
Tijuana, Mexico. Written on the border wall is, "No puedo pasar indiferente ante
el dolor de tanta gente," which translates roughly as, "I cannot cross [the
border] indifferently without acknowledging the pain of so many people."

Other paintings and drawings depict non-citizen immigrants who have fought in
U.S. wars abroad.

A comic-book-style  drawing by Eric J. GarcÃ­a shows a "G.I. Jose" poised with a
gun. A line underneath him reads, "Always treated as foreigners except when
needed to kill foreigners." Nearby, an Uncle Sam figure says, "Se Habla
EspaÃ±ol."

The exhibit also reflects the lighter side of immigrant life.

One installation, called "Phone Home" by Mario Ybarra Jr., is a glass case full
of colorful international calling cards. A piece by Alejandro Diaz shows a
series of facetious handwritten signs. One reads: "No Mexicans / No Tacos / You
Better Think Twice America."

Also included  is a photograph of a 2006 immigrant rights march in Chicago  for
which more than 100,000 people took to the streets. There's also a portrait of
immigration activist Elvira Arellano, who defied a deportation order and lived
in a Chicago church for a year with her young son, a U.S. citizen. It's called
"Sorrowful Mother."

The exhibit runs through Sept. 7 and will not travel.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Images Courtesy Of National Museum Of Mexican Art Via Associated
Press
IMAGE; "SueÃ±os Humedos (Wet Dreams)" by Juan Carlos MacÃ­as, top, and "C Jane
Run" by Consuelo J. Underwood, above, are part of an exhibit at the National
Museum of Mexican Art. "To be pro-America, you have to be pro-immigrant," museum
President Carlos Tortolero said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 14, 2008 Monday
                                 Every Edition

Hispanic Radio Hits Rough Wave;
Ads Decline With Lagging Economy

BYLINE: Alejandro Lazo; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1228 words


The International Media Academy, a storefront language school located below the
studios of Radio Fiesta 1480 AM, shuttered its doors earlier this year. With
that, the Spanish-language station lost  an advertiser.

When the Vilchez & Associates realty company closed its Woodbridge office a few
doors down from Radio Fiesta, with an African market opening in its place, the
station lost another.

The nearby Asesoria SalvadoreÃ±a, which helps immigrants get power of attorney
and make land transactions in their home countries, saw its customers begin to
dwindle last year. It cut out most of its advertising budget, including its
account with Radio Fiesta.

For years immigrant entrepreneurs have taken over small stations with relatively
weak signals, providing what for many Caribbean and Latin American immigrants is
a key source of information about their local communities, U.S. life and
politics, and news from the homeland. When Carlos Aragon, a native of El
Salvador, founded Radio Fiesta six years ago on the second story of a strip mall
in Woodbridge, he intended it to play just that role for Hispanics in Prince
William County.

"The intention was to create a bridge between the Hispanic and the Anglo
community, interviewing politicians and informing the community and creating a
radio station that serves the community," Aragon said.

But these days the subprime mortgage meltdown has hit many Spanish-language
radio stations hard. Real estate companies that targeted the Hispanic community
have closed their doors or cut back on advertising and sponsorships. Aragon has
lost most of the real estate agents who once advertised with him. In Prince
William, where authorities are cracking down on illegal immigrants, many
Hispanic-owned businesses have also slashed their ad budgets as fewer customers
walk through their doors. Radio Fiesta's ad revenue from Hispanic businesses has
declined by about 40 percent over the past year; it's down 10 percent from
non-Hispanic businesses, Aragon said.

Mercedes Hernandez, who used to advertise with Aragon, stood outside her
Asesoria SalvadoreÃ±a last week as workers began bringing in piles of clothes to
a new shop she is opening.

"People are abandoning homes, businesses are closing and unemployment is high
because people are afraid to walk around," she said. "We are opening a
used-clothes store because people can't afford anything else."

The Washington area has 11 Spanish-language radio stations, though only El Zol
at 99.1 FM, which took over the alternative rock station WHFS three years ago,
has a market-wide signal. That station has gained in audience share over the
past three years and now captures 3.7 percent of the market. Hispanics make up
11.7 percent of the entire market, according to figures from the research firm
Arbitron. Numbers are not available for the other stations.

"The rest of the stations are locally focused and depend highly on the business
of the communities they serve," said Steve Passwaiter, a vice president with
research firm BIA Financial Network.

As the housing market took off, Spanish-language radio and real estate companies
-- two businesses that are highly locally focused -- became increasingly
intertwined. Jose Luis Semidey, a real estate agent who catered to the Hispanic
community, ran Radio Latina at 950 AM in Potomac and 810 AM in Annapolis. He's
no longer an agent, and he ceased operating the stations in 2006. The realty
firm Vilchez & Associates was a principal sponsor of Radio Universal in Manassas
at 1460 AM, which no longer exists. It was shut down last year to be reopened
this year as La Kaliente, with a new format and a new owner.

Peruvian native Ronald Gordon, whose Arlington-based ZGS Communications operates
11 Telemundo television station affiliates and three radio stations, including
VIVA 900 AM in Laurel, said the housing bust has hit Spanish-language radio in
the area, much like it has hit the whole Hispanic community.

"I think in terms of the mortgage and real estate industry, we were over-indexed
in terms of advertising," Gordon said.

With a pair of headphones over his brushed-back black hair, his lips never far
from a suspended microphone, Aragon can be found weekday mornings in his studio,
pumping out a steady diet of Spanish-language news, talk, and Mexican and
Central American tunes on his show "Buenos Dias Washington."

Aragon began renting his station's signal from JMK Communications of Los Angeles
in 2002, changing its format from country to Mexican regional. Those days, the
housing boom was just getting underway and an influx of Hispanics that would
change the county's demographic mix had begun.

The station began throwing an annual Fiesta Hispana in its parking lot. It
promoted Mexican and Central American bands. And when the latest immigration
debate heated up, the station served as a place for information about
demonstrations and meetings.

At the height of the housing boom, Aragon had as many as 15 real estate agents
advertising with him, he said. He got his own Realtor's license three years ago
and began advertising his services on his show -- which he still does today.
Only one other real estate agent remains as an advertiser. The Fiesta Hispana
has also been canceled for the second year in a row because many Hispanics in
the area remain fearful of the ongoing crackdown in the county, Aragon said.

Despite the harsh environment, Aragon is optimistic. He said the station remains
profitable and that he plans for it to remain a fixture in the community. He is
weathering the storm by seeking out advertisers and listeners outside of his
Prince William base. The station's 5,000-watt signal can reach Arlington,
Fairfax, Alexandria and Fredericksburg, as well as some parts of the District
and Maryland.

Soccer team D.C. United, which has advertised on Radio Fiesta for four years,
finds the station to be a good vehicle for reaching fans  along the I-95
corridor.

"We try and target that Latin fan base that lies down south," said Boris Flores,
director of Hispanic marketing for the club. "We see [Radio Fiesta] as a good
vehicle for reaching people in that part of the market."

Changes are in the works at Radio Fiesta. In January, Aragon hired his
28-year-old daughter, Melissa Gieras, as the station's business development
executive. She has been drawing up revised programming plans and pitching the
station to more advertisers outside of the county. She has also been laying the
groundwork for a nonprofit group intended to be a resource for the county's
minority-owned businesses.

Meanwhile Aragon's show remains a venue for the area's Hispanic population to
discuss some of the most pressing issues of the day. One recent morning, Aragon
hosted Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), the chairman of the Prince William Board
of County Supervisors and one of the county's principal protagonists in the
immigration crackdown.

Stewart defended the resolution, saying illegal immigrants were still not
welcome in the county. But there should be more legal immigration allowed in the
United States, and the resolution was not specifically aimed at Hispanics or any
other group, he said on Radio Fiesta.

"They certainly serve the Spanish-speaking community, and to that extent, it is
very helpful to us when we want to reach out to the community," Stewart said of
Radio Fiesta. "I know there have been some hurt feelings there."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Gerald Martineau -- The Washington Post; Despite the harsh
environment Spanish-language stations face, Radio Fiesta founder Carlos Aragon
is optimistic.
IMAGE; By Gerald Martineau -- The Washington Post; At the height of the housing
boom, Carlos Aragon's station had as many as 15 real estate agents advertising
with him. Only one remains today.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 17, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Owners Warned Over Pro-Immigrant Sign;
Manassas Threatens Legal Action if Noncompliance Continues

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW02

LENGTH: 275 words


The owners of a pro-immigrant sign at 9500 Liberty St. might face more legal
woes if they fail to respond to a second letter sent by Manassas officials,
which says they are continuing to break city codes and ordinances.

On July 11, a letter was sent to property owners Delia Alvarez and Gaudencio
Fernandez stating that conditions and activities observed on their property
violated provisions of the city's zoning ordinance.

Violations included parking cars on the grass and using the property as a camp
site.

The letter said that it was not the first time the owners had been warned or
told that they needed a special-use permit if they planned to continue holding
public gatherings on the property, which is zoned residential.

If the owners fail to comply with the "notice of violation and order of
correction," the letter said, further legal action will be taken. The owners
have 30 days to appeal the notice.

The city also sent a letter to the owners May 15.

Fernandez said he opened the property up last week to a group of Native
Americans who were walking across the country to raise awareness about how they
are treated. The group, which was part of the Longest Walk 2, wanted to show
support for the 12-by-40-foot sign that denounces the treatment of immigrants by
Prince William County and Manassas. Fernandez declined to comment further,
citing pending legal issues.

Fernandez and Alvarez are to appear in Prince William General District Court in
September.

Manassas officials said that Fernandez failed to get a building permit before
fortifying the sign in October and that trash and debris remain on the property.
Both violate local regulations.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 24, 2008 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

A Shameful Ban;
The United States should end a prohibition against HIV-positive visitors and
immigrants.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 445 words


APLAN THAT would direct about $50 billion over the next five years to halt the
spread of HIV-AIDS in developing  countries has dodged multiple challenges from
Republican lawmakers and is set to become one of the Bush administration's
finest  accomplishments. The Senate voted overwhelmingly last week to approve
the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), and the House is
expected to do the same as early as today. But one of PEPFAR's most significant
provisions, the elimination of a 21-year-old ban on HIV-positive visitors and
immigrants that puts the United States in the company of countries such as Libya
and Sudan, may not take effect even if the legislation passes. The bill leaves
to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)  the decision as to whether
HIV-positive visitors  may enter the country. HHS officials have previously
expressed a willingness to remove the ban but may delay a decision until the
next administration takes office.

The ban is a relic of the myth and hysteria surrounding HIV-AIDS in the late
1980s, and HHS officials should not hesitate to remove this   blot from  the
country's immigration history. In 1987, the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC)  added HIV  to a short list of  dangerous, contagious diseases,
including leprosy and tuberculosis, that  disqualify visitors from  admission to
the country. The CDC announced in 1991 that HIV is not transmitted casually and
that "admission of people with HIV would not significantly increase the risk of
HIV infection to the U.S. population." But two years later, there was an AIDS
scare, and Congress amended the Immigration and Nationality Act to turn the ban
into  law.  HIV-AIDS is the only  medical condition specifically named in U.S.
immigration law as a bar to admission to the country. Offsetting the billions
spent on AIDS relief, the ban has diminished the United States' humanitarian
reputation abroad.

Opponents of PEPFAR have expressed concern that an influx of HIV-positive
immigrants would increase public health outlays. They have a point. The
Congressional Budget Office has estimated that lifting the restriction would
cost the government $83 million over the next 10 years. But PEPFAR raises
immigration fees by a few dollars to cover the cost. Making private health
insurance a requirement for HIV-positive immigrants  would be another way to
lower government costs.

President Bush has an impressive legacy of combating HIV-AIDS. If PEPFAR passes,
he could further burnish that legacy by urging  the Department of Health and
Human Services to end the ban on U.S. admission for would-be visitors and
immigrants who are HIV-positive.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 27, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Letters To the Editor

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW02

LENGTH: 585 words

Editorial on Immigration Crackdown Seems Familiar

 After reading the editorial "Prince William, a Year Later" [July 22] regarding
the one-year anniversary of the rule-of-law resolution and the "crackdown's
toxic effects" on the community, I contend The Washington Post makes the same
point as a seminar I recently attended.

I base this assumption on the fact that I recently attended a mandatory
sensitivity, tolerance and diversity seminar titled "Channeling Transgression --
Acceptance of Change, Influx and Harmonization for Angry White Males."

I learned through the seminar that "acceptance of all peoples and harmonization
within includes the acceptance of measures certain people take, either lawful or
unlawful, to become whole as all other people."

The thesis was that once certain people become "whole," they'll follow laws, but
until then society must accept and tolerate whatever action they take to become
equal with all others.

The Post's belief that the unlawful behavior of undocumented immigrants must be
accepted for these people to become whole is exactly on par with what the
seminar taught.

It's through harmony and self-revitalization that perhaps acceptance of unlawful
behavior will occur.

Robert T. Molleur

Manassas

Roads Grind to a Halt In the Legislature

The Washington Post recently published an editorial titled "A Roadblock in
Bethesda" [July 20]. The roadblock will be caused in part by the movement of
Walter Reed Army Medical Center to the National Naval Medical Center.

Similarly, we have two roadblocks in Northern Virginia. One will be caused by
the addition of some 16,000 personnel from the Pentagon area to Fairfax and
Prince William counties. Again, the government is leaving much of the added
infrastructure costs to area taxpayers.

The other roadblock is caused, in my opinion, by Northern Virginia Republican
members of the House of Delegates. One thing that both parties agreed to this
year was that the funding of the Northern Virginia Transportation Authority
would cost money.

Unfortunately, the Republican members supported a masking of the costs -- added
fees and hidden taxes -- hoping that taxpayers wouldn't notice. The Democrats in
the Virginia Senate, on the other hand, are willing to raise the gas tax by 6
cents over the next several years.

They are not hiding behind such things as the preposterous "abusive-driver" fees
that the Republican members of the House of Delegates pushed through last year,
trying to fool their own constituents. Their sleight of hand this year again
would do little or nothing to place some of the burden on the millions of
vehicles from other states that use our highways -- they, too, would share the
costs of the added gas tax.

Because of these ridiculous machinations by the House of Delegates, the road
program is halted again. This will have a disastrous effect on families and the
economy throughout the region.

We need a reality check. In the past week, the price of gasoline for me
fluctuated from $4.19 a gallon to $3.85 -- 34 cents! What, then, is the big deal
about 6 cents? And this would provide a more reliable funding source to support
new road bonds than the things the Republicans tried to slide through again this
year.

Virginia has among the lowest gas taxes in the nation -- 17.5 cents a gallon,
compared with a nationwide average well over 20 cents.

Residents may wish to contact their delegates in the General Assembly and remind
them that they represent us, not their intractable ideologies.

Kevin M. Raymond

Dale City

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Marine Raised Flag at Iwo Jima And Profile of Immigrants' Service

BYLINE: Ben Hubbard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 606 words


The 1945 photograph of six U.S. servicemen raising the flag over Iwo Jima won a
Pulitzer Prize, served as the model for the Marine Corps War Memorial in
Arlington County and has become one of the most enduring images of World War II.

But until this year, the U.S. Marine Corps wasn't aware of the immigrant
background of one of the men in the photograph, Marine Sgt. Michael Strank,
thinking he was born in Pennsylvania. He was born in Czechoslovakia.

The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services tried to rectify the oversight
yesterday by presenting Strank's younger sister, Mary Pero, 75, with a
certificate of citizenship in a ceremony in front of the statue that bears his
likeness. Pero accepted the certificate on his behalf, smiling proudly in front
of the towering bronze statue.

During the ceremony, Jonathan Scharfen, acting director of CIS, said Strank
hailed from "a long line of famous American immigrants who served their county
in a time of war."

Strank was born in Jarabenia, Czechoslovakia, and immigrated to the United
States in 1922, where he lived with his family in Conemaugh, Pa. Strank became a
citizen when his father, Vasil, was naturalized in 1935, although the younger
Strank never received a certificate. Strank's mother, Martha, was naturalized in
1941.

After graduating from high school and spending a year and a half in the Civilian
Conservation Corps, Stark joined the Marines and served on various bases in the
United States and in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, before sailing for combat in the
Pacific in 1942.

Four days after landing on Iwo Jima, Strank, four other Marines and a sailor
raised the flag atop Mount Suribachi. Strank's sister recalled seeing the image
in her local paper, although at the time she had no idea her brother was one of
the men.

Almost 7,000 U.S. military personnel, mostly Marines, died in the 36-day
assault, and nearly 20,000 were wounded, making it one of the war's bloodiest
fights. Strank, 25, died in combat a week after the flag raising, and Pero, who
lives in Davidsville, Pa., remembered that her mother knew what had happened as
soon as she saw the man with the telegram approaching their house.

The family didn't learn Strank was one of the men in the photo until after his
funeral, Pero said, when reporters called their home. In 1949, Strank was
reinterred in Arlington National Cemetery.

The Marine Corps was unaware of Strank's immigrant history until this year,
Scharfen said, when a Marine security guard at the U.S. Embassy in the Slovak
Republic who was researching Strank's background found no record of Strank being
a U.S. citizen. This year, he filed an application for posthumous naturalization
for Strank, Scharfen said.

CIS investigated, finding that Strank had been naturalized but never received a
certificate, Scharfen said.

He said Strank's story represents the contributions that immigrants have made to
the United States throughout its history, adding that new immigrants can apply
for citizenship after their first day of military service. He said almost 40,000
people have become citizens this way since the rule was created in 2001.

After the ceremony, Pero posed for photos in front of the monument with her
husband and six other family members. The family had always known Strank was a
citizen, she said, "but I didn't realize he didn't have any papers."

"I feel so proud," she said, gazing up at the bronze face of her brother. "It
makes me feel that this is history."

She pointed to her 9-year-old grandson, Tommy Pero, who carried a
black-and-white photo of Strank. "I think about as he grows up and has a
family," she said, "this will all still be here."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Susan Biddle -- The Washington Post; Mary Pero says
she knew her brother Michael Strank was a citizen, "but I didn't realize he
didn't have any papers."
IMAGE; Marine Sgt. Strank was posthumously awarded a certificate of U.S.
citizenship.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 1, 2008 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Let's Seal the Borders

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 51 words


What is the point in shipping home illegal immigrants who are jail inmates ["Va.
Jails to Report Foreign Inmates," front page, July 28]?

They will merely come back  to the United States and commit more crimes.

The solution is to seal our borders so that no one gets across who isn't
supposed to.

ALLEN DOBEY

Fairfax

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 3, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Deportation Snarls Racketeering Case;
Homicide Suspect Expelled Before Indictment

BYLINE: Del Quentin Wilber; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 620 words


An alleged member of  Mara Salvatrucha who was under investigation in connection
with a homicide and a shooting in the District was deported a few weeks before
he and three other men were indicted on federal racketeering charges.
Prosecutors now face the frustrating process of trying to have him extradited to
the United States for trial.

The deportation of William Osorio-Rivas, 20, to El Salvador has thrown a wrench
into the prosecution of the men charged in a racketeering indictment filed in
June that in a news release U.S. Attorney Jeffrey A. Taylor hailed as a "wake-up
call" to gang members.

Authorities had been investigating Osorio-Rivas's alleged connection to an April
2007 homicide and shooting since at least late last year, law enforcement
sources said.

The deportation problem arose after Osorio-Rivas was taken into custody by U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement in January and charged with immigration
fraud. Authorities found fraudulent Social Security cards and green cards in the
Forestville home where he was staying, court records show.

Law enforcement sources said authorities charged Osorio-Rivas to ensure that he
remained in the United States pending an indictment in the investigation of the
gang, also known as MS-13.

In April, when a U.S. magistrate judge threw out the charges for lack of
evidence, Osorio-Rivas was returned to ICE custody, court records show.

He remained under investigation in the racketeering case, but neither
prosecutors nor ICE agents expected Osorio-Rivas to be deported before they were
able to obtain an indictment, according to three law enforcement sources
familiar with the investigation.

But Osorio-Rivas was deported May 23, according to an ICE spokesman. The
spokesman, Brandon Alvarez-Montgomery, said the agency had to deport
Osorio-Rivas because he was not charged with a crime and an immigration judge
had ordered his removal.

At a hearing last week, prosecutors told U.S. District Judge Richard Leon that
they needed more time to extradite Osorio-Rivas. They declined to comment after
the hearing.

But Salvadoran officials may be reluctant to do that, even if they are able to
find and arrest Osorio-Rivas. Osorio-Rivas and the other defendants are eligible
to face the death penalty if convicted, and some countries have expressed
concerns about extraditing citizens in death penalty cases. A spokesman for the
El Salvador Embassy did not return phone messages seeking comment.

Prosecutors said they had not determined whether they will seek the death
penalty.

Former prosecutors and defense lawyers not working on the case said the
prosecution of the other three men could be hampered if authorities cannot
extradite Osorio-Rivas. Their attorneys could question why Osorio-Rivas is
missing and what role he may have played in the alleged incidents, they said.

"They can do the 'trying the proverbial empty chair,' blaming the guy who is not
there," said Preston Burton, a longtime D.C. criminal defense lawyer.

Osorio-Rivas was charged along with William Cordova, 23, Jose Gutierrez, 19, and
Melvin Sorto, 21, with being part of a racketeering conspiracy, in the federal
indictment filed June 10 in U.S. District Court.

The indictment alleges that the men conspired to kill rival gang members and
those who tried to interfere with MS-13, a violent street gang that has its
roots in El Salvador.

The four were charged in the April 2007 shooting death of Edwin Ventura and
wounding of Nelson Maldonado in the 2900 block of Sherman Ave NW. Osorio-Rivas
was the driver and Sorto was a passenger in a Ford Expedition that Cordova and
Gutierrez jumped into after shooting Ventura and Maldonado, the indictment
alleges. The group then sped away, the indictment says.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 7, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

In the Under-5 Set, Minority Becoming the Majority

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 766 words


A surge in Hispanic immigration over the past decade has dramatically altered
the racial and ethnic composition of the region's youngest residents, according
to U.S. Census Bureau figures released today.

As with minorities in general, immigrants tend to be younger than non-Hispanic
whites and still in their childbearing years. As a result, in five suburban
Washington counties, more than half of children age 4 and younger were
minorities when the annual Census Bureau survey was taken a year ago.

In three of the counties -- Prince William, Montgomery and Charles -- the share
reached about 60 percent. And in Prince George's, where Hispanic immigration has
supplemented an even larger African American population, more than 90 percent of
these children are minorities.

The implications for governments and communities are wide-ranging, demographers
said. As the current crop of youngsters reaches kindergarten age, school systems
that would otherwise be losing students will continue to grow or remain stable.
They will also need to accommodate an ever-larger number of students who were
raised in immigrant households where English was not spoken.

In addition, although most Hispanic children younger than 5 are native-born U.S.
citizens and therefore eligible for government health care and other benefits,
research indicates that if their parents are not U.S. citizens, they will be
less likely to claim assistance, said Michael Fix, director of studies at the
Washington-based Migration Policy Institute.

"All of this really reinforces the importance for counties to increase their
investment in early childhood development now," Fix said. "If you don't make
that investment, one of the penalties you pay down the line is that you have
kids in school who don't speak English well and whose overall performance lags
behind."

Fix pointed to studies indicating that as many as 75 percent of elementary
school children learning English as a second language were born in the United
States.

"Even more worrisome is that over half of the English-as-a-second-language
learners in high school were native born," Fix added.

As these minority children mature, counties that until fairly recently were
dominated by non-Hispanic whites are likely to shift to majority-minority
status, said William Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution.

"The bubbling up [of minorities] that we're now seeing at the younger ages will
continue to move up through the age range, through the teenage years, the
working-age years and then the housing-buying years," he said. "The child
population is really a microcosm of the future."

Minorities had already grown to 47 percent of the population in Charles and 48
percent in Prince William in July 2007, up from about one-third in 2000.
Montgomery, at 46 percent minority, is also getting close.

Demographers cautioned, however, that the extreme ethnic and socioeconomic
diversity of area minorities makes it difficult to make broad predictions about
the impact of the region's impending shift to majority-minority status.

In Prince George's, for instance, 62 percent of children younger than 5 are
non-Hispanic blacks, and they include a substantial share born to affluent
families.

Similarly, in Fairfax County, Asian children account for 17 percent of those
younger than 5. Often born to upwardly mobile immigrant professionals who
encourage them to supplement regular schoolwork with additional classes, Asian
students are disproportionately represented among the county's top-performing
students. And last month it was announced that for the first time Asian
Americans will outnumber whites at the county's most prestigious public magnet
school, Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology.

Nor can Hispanic immigrants, who hail from a wide range of nations, be easily
categorized.

"You cannot necessarily predict that just because they'll become
majority-minority, all these schools will become low-income," Fix said. "The
Washington area has one of the most diverse foreign populations in the nation."

Adding to the complexity of the picture is that the Census Bureau collected its
data through July 2007, before the current economic downturn and before Prince
William and other counties adopted initiatives against illegal immigration.

In Prince William, the percentage of students enrolled in classes for English as
a second language dropped nearly 5 percent from a record of 13,404 in September
to 12,775 by the end of the school year. The impact of the downturn and
immigration restrictions will be reflected in Census Bureau data to be released
next year.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 8, 2008 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Texas Executes 2nd Prisoner This Week

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 194 words

DATELINE: HUNTSVILLE, Tex., Aug. 7


An illegal immigrant from Honduras who maintained  his treaty rights were
violated when he was arrested for a robbery-murder near Dallas was executed
Thursday evening. It was the second  case of its kind this week in Texas.

"God forgive them, receive my spirit," Heliberto Chi said in English. In
Spanish, he told a friend watching through a window that he loved him. Chi was
pronounced dead nine minutes later.

Chi's lawyers argued that he should have been told he could get legal aid from
the Honduran Consulate after being arrested.

The Supreme Court, ruling about 2 1/2  hours before his scheduled execution
time, rejected his appeal without dissent. The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals,
the state's highest criminal court, rejected a similar appeal Wednesday.

The arguments in Chi's case, focusing on rights of foreigners under
international treaty, were similar to those used Tuesday by lawyers for
condemned Texas prisoner Jose Medellin. In that case, the Supreme Court, with
four of the nine justices dissenting, rejected his appeal and the Mexican-born
Medellin was executed for participating in the gang rape and murders of two
Houston teenage girls 15 years ago.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                Bulldog Edition

Corporations Take Lead In Immigrant Integration

BYLINE: Pamela Constable and N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1285 words


Jose Trivelli, a graying engineer from Peru, spends his days fixing Internet
connections at a Tysons Corner hotel and his evenings listening to a laptop
computer program with cartoon characters and a chirpy voice that helps him
pronounce such phrases as, "I'd like to open an account" and "Let me call my
manager."

At 52, he admits to being slightly embarrassed by the simplistic instructional
program, but he says his U.S.-born children, who speak perfect English, are so
enthusiastic about his efforts that they help him with difficult words and dream
of the day he will be promoted to manager.

Trivelli's employer, Marriott International, has a more ambitious motive for
offering thousands of foreign-born housekeepers, cooks and maintenance workers
its no-cost "Thirst for Knowledge" program, which simulates conversations in
banks, hospitals, shops and schools as well as in hotel kitchens and lobbies.

Marriott and another Bethesda-based company, Miller & Long Concrete
Construction, are among several dozen major U.S. corporations spearheading a
campaign to turn the divisive national debate about immigration in a more
positive direction.

"This is a mission for us," said Andy Chaves, a human resources manager for
Marriott and a member of the White House Task Force on New Americans. "When our
employees become proficient in English and assimilate into our society, it
benefits the company, the community and the individual. Everyone gains."

Amid increasing public hostility to immigrants and intensifying efforts by local
and federal authorities to crack down on illegal immigration, these business
leaders hope to counter criticism that immigrants steal jobs and burden public
services by highlighting the contributions they make to the U.S. economy and
improving their ability to integrate.

The initiative is supported by a bill recently introduced in Congress. Sponsored
by Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) and three representatives from
California, Florida and Texas, it would provide $350 million for immigrant
family literacy programs, individual tax credits for teachers and corporate tax
breaks for firms that offer educational workplace programs like "Thirst for
Knowledge."

In addition to support from private firms that employ thousands of immigrants
from Latin America and elsewhere, the bill is backed by the Americas Society and
Council of the Americas, which recently issued a report called "U.S. Business
and Hispanic Integration: Expanding the Economic Contributions of Immigrants."

The report points out that Hispanics make up more than 14 percent of the U.S.
workforce, own more than 2 million businesses and have a collective purchasing
power of more than $800 billion a year. It says that foreign-born workers have
much to offer but need more help to master English and become more invested in
American society.

It concedes that many Hispanic immigrants arrive with limited educations and
that the immigration wave of the past two decades has slightly depressed wages
among unskilled American workers. It also argues that immigrants "complement"
the overall labor force as more native-born Americans earn degrees and seek
higher-level jobs.

The report also asserts that if immigrants are given more opportunities to
learn, earn and engage, they will repay the investment as better workers,
parents, consumers and participants in public life. Although not endorsing
illegal immigration, the report accepts it as a fact of life that needs to be
addressed through legislative reforms.

The report lists corporations that have offered their large immigrant workforces
a variety of skill-building programs. These include scholarships at Wal-Mart,
English classes at United Parcel Service, financial literacy programs at Western
Union and bilingual skills development at Northrop Grumman shipbuilders.

Some companies that employ immigrants have been reluctant to associate
themselves with the effort, however, citing fears of public criticism and
government scrutiny amid increasingly aggressive federal efforts to track down
illegal immigrants and punish their employers.

"Businesses feel cowed by the rhetoric," said Christopher Sabatini, a policy
director at the Americas Society and Council of the Americas. "There is a fear
of being labeled as aiding and abetting undocumented immigrants." He said some
companies have curtailed programs aimed at helping immigrant workers because of
community disapproval.

One company that has taken a strong public stance in favor of helping immigrant
workers is Miller & Long. Myles Gladstone, the firm's personnel director, said
that it once hired mostly African Americans but that since the early 1990s,
fewer U.S.-born workers have applied, and they have been largely replaced by
immigrants. Today, the firm employs more than 2,000 Hispanics, mostly
foreign-born.

Gladstone said the firm started offering safety instruction in Spanish but
gradually expanded into "broader life skills" for workers and their families.
Today, it offers 65 free classes, including English, Spanish literacy, job
safety, lifesaving, financial skills and health promotion. He said there are
plans to expand the program to help immigrants keep their children out of
trouble, with seminars on gangs and substance abuse.

He noted that not all immigrants are able to learn English and that of about 500
who have taken the company's language classes, "not a lot" have become truly
bilingual. He said that if construction workers are trained well and understand
safety, "they don't really need to have fluency in English," although without it
they cannot become foremen or crane operators.

Antonia Diaz, 42, has advanced steadily at Miller & Long since she emigrated
from Honduras six years ago. She began as a laborer, earning $10 per hour and
speaking almost no English. Now, after taking corporate English classes for
several years, she is a construction site safety worker and earns $18.50 an
hour.

"If I had known I would be talking like this, I wouldn't believe it," Diaz said
yesterday in passable English as she built wooden safety barricades around a
construction site in Silver Spring. Although she converses with her mostly
Hispanic crew in Spanish, she said learning English had other merits. "It helps
me in my personal life," she said. She said she loves her job and plans to stay
with Miller & Long but added: "If I know English and I get laid off, I can find
other work. I am prepared for anything."

At Marriott, where some hotels have employees from as many as 25 countries,
Chairman Bill Marriott calls immigrants the backbone of his business and
frequently talks about the virtues of diversity and assimilation in his personal
blog.

"We would hire a native-born person any day, but in most cases they don't want
to do the lower-level labor we need in our business," he said in a telephone
interview this week. "Probably the most important thing we can do is offer our
employees the opportunity to learn English and grow and become part of our
society."

At the Tysons Corner Marriott, much behind-the-scenes work is conducted in
Spanish among immigrant employees. Most who have taken the "Thirst for
Knowledge" class do not speak perfect English; Trivelli still confuses
"chopping" with "shopping" and tends to drop his consonants. But he and the
others said they have gained something else: a stronger sense of confidence and
belonging in their adopted environment.

"Until now, I was always working too hard to study," said Trivelli, who was
practicing vocabulary on his laptop in a workroom filled with tools and wires.
"Now my kids are so happy I am learning. They help me with my pronunciation, and
they tell me if I learn enough English, I can replace my boss one day."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2008



CORRECTION: Â· An Aug. 9 Metro article on companies with programs that help
immigrant workers assimilate gave an incorrect title for Myles Gladstone of
Miller & Long Concrete Construction. He is the company's vice president of human
resources.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; Jose Trivelli, a
Marriott repairman, listens to a program to learn English.
IMAGE; Photos By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; Jose Trivelli, a
Tysons Corner Marriott repairman who came from Peru, studies English in a
maintenance room using the company's free "Thirst for Knowledge" program.
IMAGE; The Marriott program provides a laptop-like device for immigrant workers
wanting to learn English.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Aftershocks Follow Immigration Raid;
More Scrutiny for Slaughterhouse

BYLINE: David B. Caruso; Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 952 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Two decades ago, the Rubashkin family of Brooklyn opened up a kosher
slaughterhouse amid the cornfields of Iowa.

The bearded, fedora-wearing strangers quickly transformed Postville, Iowa, into
its own small-town melting pot. Immigrants from Guatemala and Mexico began
arriving in great numbers to work at the slaughterhouse.  The town was soon home
to churches and temples, and grocery store shelves were stocked with tortillas
and bagels.

Lately, though, the Rubashkins' grand cultural experiment seems to have lost any
chance at a feel-good ending.

The family's Iowa business, Agriprocessors -- the nation's biggest supplier of
kosher meat -- was raided by immigration agents in May. Nearly 400 workers,
mostly Guatemalans, were swept up and jailed, and they will probably  be
deported as illegal immigrants.

Labor organizers and workers have accused the company of exploiting  employees
and tolerating managers' abusive behavior.

On Tuesday, the Iowa Labor Commissioner's Office accused Agriprocessors of 57
cases of violating child-labor laws. The alleged violations included having
minors working in prohibited occupations and with prohibited tools, and
exceeding allowable working hours.

A few Jewish groups have questioned whether the plant, given its problems,
should keep its kosher certification.

It all adds up to a mess for a family that has never sought attention, and now
feels it is being attacked unfairly, especially by the media.

"The press? Terrible!" the family's patriarch, Aaron Rubashkin, told a reporter
with the Jewish news service JTA during a rare interview in June. He disputed
allegations that the company knowingly hired illegal immigrants and children and
also tolerated abusive conditions, calling them all lies.

"I wish everybody would be treated like we treat people," he said.

Aaron Rubashkin and his wife, Rivka, fled the Soviet Union after World War II
and settled in Brooklyn, a world center of Hasidic Judaism. Rivka's uncles, the
family has said, had been imprisoned in Siberia because of their religious
beliefs.

In the 1950s, Aaron founded a kosher meat market in the city's Borough Park
section. The family prospered in America.

Then, in 1987, the Rubashkins made an unusual  leap: Looking for a way to
bolster an unreliable supply of kosher beef, the family bought an abandoned
nonkosher meatpacking plant in tiny Postville.

Two of Aaron's sons moved to Postville to oversee the plant, and a steady stream
of Hasidic families followed. Soon, Postville, then a town of around 1,500
people, was  drawing immigrant laborers, too.

Suddenly, the town was infused with rabbis and other Jews, Guatemalans and
Mexicans, expatriates from former Soviet republics -- and a host of new ethnic
tensions.

The town became a regular stop for out-of-town reporters looking for a story
about America's diversity. A documentary crew visited. National Geographic did a
pictorial. Journalism professor Stephen Bloom wrote a book, "Postville: A Clash
of Cultures in Heartland America."

Amid it all, the company was a huge success, with popular brands such as Aaron's
Best and Rubashkin's. By 2006, Agriprocessors had a second plant in Nebraska,
run in partnership with the Oglala Sioux Tribe, and annual revenue of $250
million.

In 2004, however, the animal rights group PETA recorded a gruesome video of the
company's operation that showed cattle staggering about in apparent pain after
their throats had been slit and their tracheas partly removed. Agriprocessors,
while defending its techniques as a religious ritual, agreed to change some
practices.

Agriprocessors also faced a lawsuit filed by a bankruptcy trustee overseeing the
remnants of a New York health and beauty supply company.

The trustee said the company, Allou Distributors, had a host of suspicious
transactions on its books, including $2.9 million in unexplained payments to
Agriprocessors. The lawsuit demanded Agriprocessors return the payments, which
it asserted  were part of the scheme to hide Allou's assets.

Agriprocessors insisted it did nothing wrong and had been supplying Allou with
surplus meat, but it agreed last summer to pay $1.4 million to settle the case.

Aaron's son, Moshe Rubashkin, pleaded guilty this year to storing hazardous
waste without a permit at a defunct, family-owned textile plant in Allentown,
Pa. His son pleaded guilty to lying to federal agents during the investigation.
They have yet to be sentenced.

Aaron Rubashkin, 80, could not be reached for an interview. Supporters say he
and his family are  just unsophisticated businessmen who made some mistakes as
their company grew.

"These are simple people. They are a family of butchers," said Dovid Eliezrie, a
California rabbi who has been assisting the family with the media.

Scott Frotman, a spokesman for the Food and Commercial Workers union, has a
different take. He called  the company's treatment of its immigrant work force
"morally reprehensible."

"They blame the media. They blame us. They refuse to accept responsibility for
anything that is going on in that plant," he said.

State and federal investigators are looking into  alleged violations at the
company, such as not paying workers, improperly using hazardous chemicals and
not having alarms that employees could hear. The Rubashkins have not been
charged.

"We are God-fearing people, and we believe in the American system and we believe
it will ultimately turn out okay," Getzel Rubashkin, 24, a grandson of the
family's patriarch and an employee at Agriprocessors, said in a recent
interview.

He also said the family has not  given up on Postville, which he has called home
since age 10.

"There are people who would like to see us leave, but on the whole we have very
warm relations," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Charlie Neibergall -- Associated Press; Hundreds of people in
Postville, Iowa, marched for immigrants' rights in late July. An immigration
raid in May resulted in nearly 400 arrests.
IMAGE; By Spencer S. Hsu -- The Washington Post; Agriprocessors Inc., the
nation's largest kosher meat producer, has struggled to resume operations after
the raid.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 12, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

MARYLAND BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 529 words

IMMIGRATION

Fund to Help Those Held in Raids

A Boston financier yesterday officially debuted his National Immigrant Bond Fund
and launched a fundraising campaign during a news conference at Casa de
Maryland, a statewide immigrant advocacy group in Silver Spring.

Illegal immigrants who are arrested in raids and do not have outstanding
criminal violations may apply for help through the bond fund, established by
Robert Hildreth about three months ago. Churches, legal organizations or groups
such as Casa help connect detainees with the fund, which provides half the bail
money.

The fund aims to ensure that immigrants have access to the court system.
Advocates say the fund is also a way to build public opposition to raids, keep
families together and bring another voice to the debate over immigration reform.

A New York-based nonprofit, Public Interest Projects, oversees the fund, which
is supported by several national advocacy groups and religious leaders,
including three Catholic bishops.

Organizers aim to raise $500,000, said Hildreth, owner of International Bank
Services, which buys and sells loans worldwide.

So far, the fund has helped about 100 people, he said. Their bonds ranged from
$1,500 to $38,000.

-- Associated Press

MONTGOMERY COUNTY

Mosquito Check Finds West Nile

Mosquitoes infected with the West Nile virus have been found in Gaithersburg,
the Maryland Department of Agriculture has announced.

The infected mosquitoes were found by Montgomery County Department of Health
workers July 22 and 29. Laboratory tests completed last week determined the
presence of the virus.

Less than 1 percent of people bitten by a mosquito carrying West Nile virus will
become ill, but officials urge residents to take precautions.

They offered the following health tips: Get rid of standing water around the
house; use insect repellent; wear long sleeves and pants outdoors at dawn and
dusk, when mosquitoes are most active; and flush pet bowls regularly.

-- Lori Aratani

Therapist Fights Massage Rules

A Montgomery County woman is suing two state agencies, saying regulators are
unfairly barring registered massage therapists who want to practice on animals.

Mercedes Clemens is certified to massage people, but she says the state is
keeping her from her first love: Massaging horses. She shut down her equine
massage practice in Damascus after state officials told her that the law only
allows veterinarians to perform such services.

In a March letter to Clemens, the Maryland Board of Chiropractic Examiners told
her that state law specifically bars massage therapists from practicing on
animals. The board also included a note from Maryland's state veterinary board
reminding chiropractors and massage therapists of the restrictions.

The Institute for Justice, an Arlington-based libertarian public interest law
firm, has taken up Clemens's case.

An attorney for the state chiropractic board said the agency is asking the court
to dismiss the case, citing Montgomery County as an improper venue because the
order was issued from Baltimore. The state veterinary board also wants out of
the lawsuit, saying it never ruled specifically on Clemens's practice.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 14, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

42 Workers Detained In ICE Raid At Dulles

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 589 words


Forty-two workers suspected of being in the country illegally were detained
yesterday at Dulles International Airport as immigration authorities checked the
identities of people entering one of the employee entrance gates.

Although  immigration officials were still investigating, they say the
detainees, all of whom are men, were Latin American construction workers
involved with some of the extensive building projects underway at the airport.

"There's no indication that any of the aliens were involved in any terrorist
activity at all," said Mark McGraw, deputy special agent in charge with the
Department of Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

McGraw said the operation began about 5 a.m., when ICE agents working in
conjunction with airport and transportation authorities set up a checkpoint at
one of the southern drive-through entrances.

"ICE agents were stationed at the security gate, and we reviewed all the
identity documents of all the people entering at that moment," McGraw said.
"When we determined that the alienage or identity of someone inside a vehicle
was in question, we recommended further inspection."

A similar operation at the airport in June 2006 resulted in the arrest of 55
workers.

McGraw said that although such large-scale checkpoint inspections are
infrequent, they are part of the agency's wider, daily efforts to guard the
nation's airports.

"This is a critical, sensitive facility so . . . of course we pay particular
attention to it," he said. "It's one of the highest priorities of the Department
of Homeland Security."

The workers were being detained administratively on immigration violations,
McGraw said. Federal officials were trying to determine whether criminal charges
were warranted against the workers and their employers.

Advocates for immigrants, with the National Capital Immigrant Coalition,
complained that ICE officials refused to grant the detained men access to a
lawyer even though the advocates arranged for one as soon as they were contacted
by some of the workers'  relatives.

According to Kimberly Propeack, advocacy director for CASA de Maryland, a member
of the coalition, the lawyer reached ICE's office in Fairfax City in the
afternoon, after the men were detained, but was told that because they had not
been fully processed, they could not be informed that he was willing to
represent them.

"Our understanding is that [ICE] has been interrogating the workers without
legal counsel, despite the fact that an attorney has been literally knocking on
the door to get in to help them," Propeack said.

Advocates, who held a protest in front of ICE's Fairfax office last night, were
also concerned that officials might decide to move the men quickly to detention
facilities in a distant state, as often happens to immigrants picked up by ICE.

"Some of these workers are likely to have viable legal claims to stay in the
United States," Propeack said. "They may qualify for asylum; they may have
pending immigration applications. But if they are moved away from their
families, who are the only ones likely to find them legal help, the likelihood
that they will find legal representation is very slim."

McGraw said that it was not clear where the men would be detained but that if
they are moved from Virginia, it would  be because of a lack of bed space. He
said ICE intended to grant the men access to their families and a lawyer as soon
as they were fully processed.

"No one is being threatened or interrogated," he said. "They are all being given
due process."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 16, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Is Snaring U.S. Citizens In Its Raids

BYLINE: Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 935 words


Marie Justeen Mancha was at home alone when she heard strange voices inside the
house. As she crept down a hallway to make sure she wasn't hearing things, the
voices erupted into shouts.

" 'Police! Illegals!' "

Testifying in a House subcommittee hearing, Mancha recalled the words she said
the immigration agents shouted during the September 2006 raid on her home. She
was 15 at the time, a Mexican American, born in Texas but living in Reidsville,
Ga.

"I walked around the corner from the hallway and saw a tall man reach toward his
gun and look straight at me," Mancha, now 17, said in a thick Southern accent.
"My heart just dropped."

As the Department of Immigration and Customs Enforcement compiles a record
number of arrests through household and work-site raids seeking illegal
immigrants, a growing number of U.S. citizens such as Mancha say they have
gotten caught in the net.

The agency, known as ICE, a division of the Homeland Security Department,
recently reported that its arrests in the current fiscal year have surpassed
last year's record total of about 4,900. The number of arrests has soared since
2005, when a Government Accountability Office report concluded that work-site
enforcement was not a priority for ICE.

An ICE spokesman did not respond directly to a question about complaints that
U.S. citizens and legal residents are getting swept up in the raids. "We target
egregious employers, those who have built their business model on hiring an
illegal workforce," spokesman Brandon Alvarez-Montgomery said in a statement
this week. "This practice undercuts legal, law-abiding companies and can create
an environment where employee welfare and labor standards are not enforced."

But there have been significant missteps. More than 100 citizens and legal
residents were snared along with nearly 140 illegal immigrants in a raid on a
software company in Van Nuys, Calif., early this year. Five citizens in Texas
joined a lawsuit against the department, asserting that they were subjected to
unreasonable search and seizure when agents raided a meatpacking plant where
they worked last year. An African American worker said in a hearing that he was
handcuffed and detained for hours without food and water during a raid on an
Iowa meatpacking plant in 2006.

Immigration officials and anti-illegal-immigrant advocacy groups say the raids
have proved effective, forcing Mexican nationals and others to think twice
before sneaking across the border, and have instilled fear in illegal immigrants
already here.

Critics say the raids and arrests have also led members of Congress to launch
investigations and to a mounting number of lawsuits.

On its Web site, the American Immigration Law Foundation has summarized at least
10 lawsuits stemming from the raids, including the case of 7-year-old Kebin
Reyes, a U.S. citizen who was held for hours when agents raided his home in the
San Francisco Bay area and held his father, Noe, on suspicion of entering the
country illegally. In June, the government agreed to a $30,000 settlement,
according to the foundation.

Critics also point out that detention facilities used to hold suspected illegal
immigrants and legal immigrants convicted of crimes are overflowing. The number
of immigrant inmates has  surpassed 40,000, and officials are struggling to find
money to detain them and pay for medical expenses. The American Civil Liberties
Union and news reports by The Washington Post and others have tracked cases of
detainee illnesses that have gone untreated and cases in which inmates may have
died for lack of treatment.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), who chairs the immigration subcommittee before
which Mancha testified, said aggressive enforcement and arrests will not work
without changes in the law to allow illegal immigrants to work legally and get
on a path to citizenship.

"At this record rate of arrests, it would still take 2,943 years to deport the
estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants," said Lofgren. During a recent
raid at a kosher meatpacking plant in Pottsville, Iowa, she noted, ICE put those
it had detained in a cattle barn. "That's where the majesty of the judicial
system and the deportation process was dispensed, there in the cattle barn,"
Lofgren said.

Lofgren also cited the case of Pedro Guzman, a U.S. citizen who was turned over
to ICE by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and removed to Tijuana.

In testimony about the case in February, attorney Rachel E. Rosenbloom of the
Center for Human Rights and International Justice at Boston College, said
Guzman, 29, had a significant cognitive disability and could not read or write,
but the police agencies accepted his signature on a document consenting to be
transferred.

"The . . . removal of Mr. Guzman is not an isolated incident," Rosenbloom said.

Mancha said she feared that she might be deported until she convinced the agents
in her home that she was a citizen. "They asked me if my mom was a Mexican and
if she had her papers or a green card. I answered all their questions, telling
them my mama didn't need a green card, that she was born in Florida."

At the same hearing in February, Mike Graves, a U.S. citizen who has worked at a
Swift meatpacking plant in Marshalltown, Iowa, for 21 years, testified that he
was swept up in a 2006 raid "that felt like an attack."

Meatpackers at Swift plants in Cactus, Tex., joined a class-action lawsuit filed
last year by the United Food and Commercial Workers against the DHS and ICE that
seeks to prevent agents from conducting mass raids. Several plaintiffs said they
were subjected to unreasonable searches and seizures.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Alfredo Duarte Pereira -- El Tiempo Latino; Sara Ramirez and
others protest at an Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Fairfax this
week. Agents have been arresting U.S. citizens and legal residents, as well as
illegal immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 2, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

HIV Rates Spur Outreach to African Immigrants

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 1329 words


Jeanne Tshibungu imparts her lessons wherever African immigrants agree to listen
-- at apartments, hair braiding salons, taxicab stands and, on one particular
rainy morning, inside a steamy garage at a Silver Spring day-labor center packed
with Cameroonians. Standing with a plastic bag filled with condoms, she began
explaining in lilting French how they could contract HIV and especially how not
to.

Tshibungu, a Congolese-born HIV outreach specialist, was there to emphasize that
the disease that has killed millions in Africa affects Africans in the United
States, too. It is a message health researchers say is growing in importance as
they become increasingly concerned that the AIDS epidemic ravaging sub-Saharan
Africa is following migrants from that continent to America.

Some local studies elsewhere in the United States have found greatly
disproportionate infection rates among Africans, and care providers in the
Washington region are seeing similar trends. But they are running into a common
obstacle as they try to gauge the scope of the problem: Because many health
departments do not ask patients where they were born, most HIV-positive African
immigrants are typically categorized -- obscured, experts say -- in surveys as
"black" or "African American."

African immigrants are a relatively small group. In the Washington region, one
of the nation's top destinations for African immigrants, they make up about 3
percent of the population, and those with HIV are a small subset of that group.
The danger, experts say, is that outreach efforts are missing immigrants because
they are not counted, allowing the problem to grow.

"Quite frankly, many providers don't distinguish between Africans and African
Americans," said Garth Graham, deputy assistant secretary for minority health at
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which is hosting a seminar
this month on Africans and HIV in Rockville as part of a new nationwide
initiative. "It doesn't take into account the different cultural backgrounds and
perceptions of wellness and disease that these individuals have . . . that's one
of the glaring challenges that we're facing."

Providers said the problem is exacerbated by stigma, language barriers and fears
of deportation. Many African immigrants are unacquainted with the concept of
preventative medicine, providers say -- and don't realize that early diagnosis
can mean long life, not a death sentence.

"You have to be sick to go to the doctor in Africa," said Ashenafi Waktola, an
Ethiopian-born District physician who treats many HIV-positive patients. "That
is disastrous with AIDS."

There are no precise national HIV or AIDS data for African immigrants. But
studies in places that include Minnesota and the Seattle area, both home to
relatively large African immigrant populations, have found vastly higher rates
among Africans, as have surveys in Canada and Europe.

In the Washington region, information on country of birth varies so much by
jurisdiction and is so spotty that it provides only a blurry snapshot. But a
recent District Health Department survey of groups providing HIV-related
services to poor clients in the region found that 10 percent of those clients
were African-born.

Of 31,256 AIDS cases reported in Maryland through last September, African
immigrants accounted for 716, or 2.3 percent, slightly higher than their
percentage of the population, which is about 2 percent. But in Montgomery, 392,
or 15 percent, of all reported AIDS cases were among Africans, who represent
about 4 percent of the population.

Officials with the state's AIDS Administration are unsure how to explain the
disparity between the statewide and Montgomery figures because country-of-origin
reporting by health-care providers is "often inconsistent or incomplete," said
William Honablew Jr., an administration spokesman. It is possible that
health-care providers in Montgomery offer HIV testing to immigrants more
routinely and record their national origin more reliably, officials said.

The vast majority of Maryland AIDS cases among African immigrants have been
reported in Montgomery and Prince George's counties, a pattern that has prompted
the state's AIDS Administration to plan an HIV-prevention program targeting
African communities in those counties, Honablew said.

In Virginia, country of origin was recorded for just 26 percent of 1,062 new HIV
infections reported in 2006, according to the state Health Department. Even so,
African immigrants, who represent less than 1 percent of the population,
accounted for 5 percent of all 1,062 cases. They almost certainly would account
for a higher share if national origin were consistently recorded.

In 2003 and 2004, African immigrants accounted for at least 13 percent of the
639 new HIV infections in nine Northern Virginia counties, according to a study
by a Seattle-King County epidemiologist, "HIV Among African-born Persons in
Selected Areas of the U.S.: A Hidden Epidemic?"

Many providers and researchers interviewed said they thought most HIV-positive
African immigrants were infected in their homelands, in part because in many
cases the virus is diagnosed in later stages. Studies have found that most
African immigrants contract HIV through heterosexual contact.

Tshibungu's organization, the Ethiopian Community Development Council in
Arlington, is the main group educating African immigrants in the region about
HIV. Its brochures are printed in French and Amharic, and outreach workers speak
those languages and others spoken by Africans.

But because few educational materials targeting African immigrants are
available, outreach workers sometimes rely on those written for native-born
black residents and have little cultural relevance for Africans. Among the
English-language stories used to teach the value of protected sex, one begins,
"Yo, my name is Tre . . . On the real, I consider myself an equal opportunity
lover -- Black, White, whatever." Outreach workers do their best to translate.

The worst obstacle is stigma. African immigrant communities are segmented and
tight-knit. Although Spanish-speaking patients often prefer Latino doctors or
interpreters, providers say it is just the opposite for Africans. They fear that
they would know a doctor or interpreter from the same community and that word of
their condition would spread.

At the Inova Juniper program, the largest HIV-AIDS care provider in Northern
Virginia, most African clients will communicate through an interpreter only via
speakerphone, and many wait for appointments in private rooms because they fear
seeing someone they know in the waiting room, said the director, Karen Berube.

One of the program's clients, an HIV-positive Sudanese woman, who did not want
her name published, understands such fear. The woman, 36, said she was infected
13 years ago by a Sudanese soldier who raped her. She learned her status a few
years later during a medical exam at the Kenyan refugee camp where she lived.

She arrived in the United States in 2001 on a refugee waiver. Now she is a file
clerk, and anti-retroviral drugs are keeping her healthy. But a Sudanese social
worker who used to visit her stopped after he learned that she was HIV positive,
she said. She has told few of her friends and no one at her mosque.

If they knew, "they would stay far away," she said on a recent day, her face
surrounded by a black headscarf. "Some people think that just by greeting [you],
you can give it."

To even gain access to the various African communities, Tshibungu and her
colleagues recruit "gatekeepers" -- volunteers who arrange meetings with people
from their native countries, ethnic groups or villages.

At the Silver Spring day-labor center, the gatekeeper was Rabelais Batchaji, one
of the many Cameroonians who gather there.

"In my country, to talk about AIDS is not easy," said Batchaji, a tall and
affable man who said he has a fondness for community service. "They read it in
the paper, but I don't know if they discuss it."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Marvin Joseph -- The Washington Post; Jeanne Tshibungu, left,
and Asheber Gebru, safe-sex outreach workers, make a presentation to Cameroonian
day laborers in Silver Spring. Disproportionate HIV rates have been found among
African immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 2, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

How Many Americans?

BYLINE: Steven A. Camarota

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 818 words


When the Census Bureau released its new population projections last month, most
of the media focused on the country's changing racial composition. But this was
almost certainly not the most important finding. The projections show that the
U.S. population will grow by 135 million in just 42 years -- a 44 percent
increase. Such growth would have profound implications for our environment and
quality of life. Most of the increase would be a direct result of one federal
policy -- immigration. If we reduced the level of immigration, the projections
would be much lower. The question we have to ask ourselves is: Do we want to be
a much more densely settled country?

Native-born Americans have only about two children on average, which makes for a
roughly stable population over time. But with an estimated 1.5 million legal and
illegal immigrants settling in the country each year, and about 900,000 births
to these immigrants each year, immigration directly and indirectly accounts for
at least three-fourths of U.S. population growth.

An increase of 135 million people by 2050  is equivalent to  the entire
populations of Mexico and Canada moving here.  Assuming the same ratio of
population to infrastructure that exists today, the United States would need to
build and pay for 36,000 schools. We would need to develop enough land to
accommodate 52 million new housing units, along with places for the people who
lived in them to shop and work. We would also have to construct enough roads to
handle 106 million more vehicles.

Of course,  our country can "fit" more people. But such a dramatic increase
would affect many issues about which Americans are concerned, including the
environment, traffic, congestion, sprawl and the loss of open spaces. Technology
and planning could help manage this situation, but there is no way they could
offset all of the impact of 135 million more people.  This massive increase also
would have implications for the size and scope of government; more densely
settled societies almost always are more heavily regulated societies.

Another important finding in the census projections is that, even with record
levels of immigration for the next four decades, the U.S. population will still
grow significantly older. Immigration makes  our society only slightly younger
than it would otherwise be. (Consider that, on average, the overall fertility
rate in the United States is about 2.1 children per woman. If immigrants are
excluded from the data, it's still about 2.0 children per woman. This compares
with 1.4 children in Western Europe. Immigration makes for a much more densely
settled country; it does not make for a much younger country.) As the Census
Bureau stated in its 2000 projections, immigration is a "highly inefficient"
means for addressing the problem of an aging society in the long run. The new
projections show the same thing.

Some people think that immigration creates large economic benefits. But the
economic research is pretty clear: While immigration does significantly increase
economic activity in the receiving society, almost all of that increased
activity go to the immigrants themselves in the form of wages and benefits. The
gain to natives is tiny. When the National Research Council, which is part of
the National Academy of Sciences, examined this question, it concluded that the
benefits for native-born Americans were equal to only about one- or two-tenths
of 1 percent of their income. The two economists who did the work for the
council described the effect as "minuscule."

Moreover, this tiny economic benefit was entirely erased by the fiscal drain
immigrant households imposed on taxpayers. Perhaps worst of all, the researchers
found that to generate this small  gain, immigration reduced the wages of the
least educated and poorest American workers.

There is no question that immigrants benefit by coming here. But it is difficult
to argue that immigration is a well-targeted way to lift up the world's poor.
Many immigrants to the United States were not poor in their home countries. More
important, although immigration causes an enormous increase in the overall U.S.
population, it still represents an infinitesimal fraction of the world's
low-income population. We can do more to help poor people in developing
countries through trade policies and development assistance.

The United States may well decide to continue to allow the settlement of 1.5
million immigrants (legal and illegal) each year. But legal immigration is a
federal program like any other and could be reduced below the 1 million
currently allowed to enter annually. Greater resources could also be devoted to
reducing illegal immigration. It's important to understand that the new
projections show us one possible future. We must decide as a country if this is
the future we want.

The writer is director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 4, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Issue Gets Little Attention On Convention Floor

BYLINE: Ben Pershing; washingtonpost.com Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 798 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, Minn., Sept. 3


During the heat of the primary season late last year, Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa)
said it was imperative for his party to nominate a candidate who was tough on
illegal immigration and didn't parrot President Bush's centrist stance on the
issue.

"If we don't," King said in December, "then we're in for another four to eight
years of the squabbling we've had."

Yet as Republicans prepared to ratify Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) -- author, with
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), of the comprehensive immigration measure that
died in the Senate last year -- as their presidential nominee this week, little
of that squabbling has been on display in the Twin Cities.

Immigration has received scant mention in speeches on the convention floor, and
King conceded Wednesday that "the number of people who have come up to me to
complain about this, so far it's zero."

King and other critics of McCain's record on immigration attribute the relative
silence on the issue to two factors: The Arizonan has shifted to a more
conservative stance since his reform measure died; and the convention's
attention has been diverted, by Hurricane Gustav and, subsequently, by the furor
over the selection of McCain's running mate, Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin.

"I think it's probably a combination of both of those things," said Ira Mehlman,
spokesman for the conservative Federation for American Immigration Reform. The
group has suggested that "McCain didn't want the public to understand how
horrific" the "McKennedy Bill" was.

McCain has reassured some of his critics by saying that he understood the
widespread opposition within the Republican base to any proposal that couples
border security with the idea of a path to citizenship, or what critics call
"amnesty."

"I got the message," McCain said at a campaign stop in South Carolina in
November. "We will secure the borders first and then go on to other issues."

Rep. Tom Tancredo (Colo.), who mounted a bid for the Republican presidential
nomination based almost entirely on his strong opposition to illegal
immigration, said he was pleased that McCain had "modified his position." Most
of the battles over immigration, Tancredo said, were won by his allies during
deliberations of the GOP platform committee before the convention began.

The party platform includes language calling for tougher enforcement of laws,
including a crackdown on employers who hire illegal immigrants, punishment for
"sanctuary cities" and quick completion of a fence along the border with Mexico.

"We oppose amnesty," the platform says. "The rule of law suffers if government
policies encourage or reward illegal activity. The American people's rejection
of en masse legalizations is especially appropriate given the federal
government's past failures to enforce the law."

Tancredo said nearly everything he wanted "was pretty much accepted [by the
platform committee], and that's where the fight was. There's no purpose in doing
anything at the convention to raise hell about it."

But while Republicans are pleased to have averted an internal immigration
squabble, the nomination of McCain might rob the party of one of its most potent
issues in congressional races in November.

Last year many Republicans viewed immigration as a potential ace in the hole,
thinking the vast majority of the public opposed the comprehensive plan backed
by most Democrats, as well as McCain. Now, Democrats argue, that avenue is
closed for the GOP.

"You've got the co-author of the Kennedy-McCain bill at the top of the ticket,
so that's taken the edge off the attack for Republicans," said Rep. Chris Van
Hollen (Md.), chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. "What
we're also seeing is it's become less of an issue in a lot of congressional
races."

Rep. Tom Cole (Okla.), chairman of the National Republican Congressional
Committee, agreed that the immigration issue is no longer "as potent as it was.
. . . The real issue is energy and the economy."

Although McCain might have mollified his internal critics for now, he has tried
during the campaign to maintain his identity as a moderate on the issue. In an
ad his campaign aired in July in three Western states, McCain is shown at a GOP
primary debate praising the contributions of Hispanic members of the military,
including those "willing to risk their lives in its service in order to
accelerate their path to citizenship and enjoy the bountiful, blessed nation."
The ad featured a shot of a stone-faced Tancredo watching McCain speak.

Tancredo and others on his side of the debate say they will watch McCain for any
signs of backsliding.

"The point he uses over and over again is that he has gotten the message. I
guess we all wonder exactly what that means," Tancredo said. "This issue's not
going away. That is one thing I can assure you."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By David Mcnew -- Getty Images; People take the oath of
citizenship during naturalization ceremonies at the Los Angeles Convention
Center. The immigration issue is unlikely to feature prominently in November.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 6, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Overblown Fears of Immigration?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 355 words


Steven A. Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies argues for less
immigration despite the fact that the graying of our workforce will cause severe
labor shortages ["How Many Americans?" op-ed, Sept. 2].

This is not just a flawed policy prescription; it also turns a blind eye to the
contributions immigrants make to our economy. Immigrants generate some $700
billion in economic activity, mostly by doing low-wage service jobs. Immigrants
-- those here legally and otherwise -- pay taxes that go to schools,
infrastructure and public programs such as Medicare and Social Security.

The ratio of retirees to working-age citizens is forecast to increase by 67
percent in the next 20 years. With retirement draining our labor supply,
immigrants not only help keep our economy strong, they also are  indispensable
to keeping our economy running in the long term.

MICHAEL FISHMAN

President, Local 32BJ

Service Employees International Union

New York

Â·

"Frightening" is the only apt description of the prospect of adding  135 million
people  to our present population of 305 million by 2050, as Steven A. Camarota
noted. The strain on our environment and other resources -- already so stretched
-- is unimaginable.

DONALD A. COLLINS

Washington

Â·

It's alarming that The Post decided to publish an opinion piece  from the Center
for Immigration Studies. CIS is a spin-off of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform (FAIR), an organization that has been designated a hate group
by the Southern Poverty Law Center. FAIR and CIS  share a founder as well as
some board members, advisers and funders.

Groups such as CIS have proved themselves successful at manipulating and
obscuring the truth with repercussions manifested in the nativist,
anti-immigrant sentiment that has incited attacks against immigrants and
native-born Latinos in their workplaces and communities.

If The Post wants to foster  an  intellectually honest debate on the sensitive
topic of immigration, it has to be more balanced and careful when selecting its
opinion pieces.

HECTOR E. SANCHEZ

Director of Policy and Research

Labor Council for Latin American Advancement

Washington

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Barrie Maguire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 7, 2008 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

In California, Federal Immigration Agents Join Fight Against Gangs

BYLINE: John Ellis; Fresno Bee

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 870 words

DATELINE: FRESNO, Calif.


Law enforcement officials in California's Central San Joaquin Valley are using a
new weapon against gangs: deportation orders.

Officials say the tactic is already proving to be a success. Nearly three dozen
gang members who were in the United States illegally have been sent back to
their home countries since the program's first arrests in February.

But the approach has risks -- especially in small farm towns where predominantly
Hispanic populations are wary of federal immigration authorities.

One example is Huron, Calif., where federal agents have helped with a growing
gang problem, said Huron Police Chief Frank Steenport. But the mayor of the tiny
town is still steamed about a July raid that included federal agents,  something
he learned about only after  the operation was over.

The idea started with federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents,
stationed in Fresno, who offered to help police. It was part of Operation
Community Shield, a program the agency launched three years ago in major
metropolitan areas to target violent transnational street gangs -- specifically
Mara Salvatrucha-13, or MS-13, formed in Los Angeles by immigrants from El
Salvador.

ICE agents can take someone into custody for immigration violations, said Brian
Poulsen, the resident agent in charge of Fresno's ICE office.

"Most of these gang members have come into the U.S. illegally," he said. "They
have already violated federal law. We don't need a criminal charge."

In the past, Poulsen said, his office lacked the staff to help with gang raids.
But as the agency focused more on homeland security, officials turned their
attention to the street gangs that terrorize communities, he said.

The operation started in the valley with the Feb. 13 arrest in Mendota of Brian
Rivera, a member of MS-13. Federal agents tracked down Rivera based on
information provided by a consortium of gang officers from local agencies. He
has since been deported to his native El Salvador.

A week later, federal agents were in Selma, participating in a gang sweep with
local police.

Now, six months later, 35 gang members in the country illegally have been
deported from the valley, sent home to Mexico, Central America and Southeast
Asian nations such as Laos, as part of the Operation Community Shield sweeps.
Oftentimes, federal authorities say, ICE has agents in these countries who keep
an eye on the gang members after their return to their native land.

Law enforcement officials say they expect some deported gang members to return.
Already, two gang members deported from here have returned and been rearrested.

But this time, they face a different outcome. Returning to the United States
after being deported is a felony. A conviction can mean a sentence of up to 20
years in federal prison, possibly in a distant state where the gang member is
unlikely to have any ties with fellow inmates.

That, officials say, is another reason federal prosecutions are more effective
than those by the state, which  may send convicted gang members to a prison
already housing fellow gang members.

But despite the success claimed by law enforcement officials, there is still
unease about the enforcement strategy.

Huron Mayor Ramon Dominguez said he was unaware of his city's coordinated action
with ICE agents until the following day. He criticized the sweep because he said
it might ensnare hardworking people who aren't gang members. And those who were
deported, he added, were denied their due process.

"If they're gang members, send them to jail and let the judge handle it,"
Dominguez said.

But Steenport, the Huron police chief, said those arrested were known gang
members who participated in criminal activities.

"These guys are crooks," he said. "They are illegals who have never worked in
the fields. They've embraced the American criminal lifestyle."

Selma Police Chief Tom Whiteside agreed.

He said Selma has "tried to use every resource that we can to be effective in
dealing with our gang problems. We realized, as a community, we did not want
gangs to get out of control like they have in other places."

One challenge recognized early on, Whiteside said, was dealing with "illegal
alien gang" members. Many members of the SureÃ±os, a Hispanic gang found
primarily in Southern California that has been a problem in Selma, are in the
country illegally, he said.

Whiteside looked to the Los Angeles area for assistance with Selma's SureÃ±o
gang members. Police agencies in places  such as Cerritos, in turn, touted the
effectiveness of Operation Community Shield.

Selma has now conducted two sweeps. The first netted seven SureÃ±os.

But Whiteside, like Steenport, is careful in his dealings with ICE because he
knows about the potential for controversy.

"We're not going to become immigration agents. We're not after illegal aliens.
We're going after criminal gang members," Whiteside said.

Poulsen, in ICE's Fresno office, understands the concern.

Police officers need to establish a rapport and have cooperation from residents
of their towns -- even those who may be fearful of interacting with police
because they are undocumented, he said.

But this, he said, is different. This is about fighting criminal gangs.

Said Poulsen: "They don't do anybody any good."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 9, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Midwife Delivery Can Lead to Passport Denial

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 632 words


The State Department is denying passports to people born in southern Texas near
the border with Mexico if they were delivered by midwives, citing a history of
birth certificate forgeries there for Mexican-born children dating to the 1960s,
according to U.S. officials.

In a lawsuit, the American Civil Liberties Union alleges that the government is
systematically discriminating against U.S.-born citizens on the basis of
ethnicity and national origin. Attorneys for the plaintiff assert that such
arbitrary bans disproportionately affect rural and poor people who have less
access to doctors.

Federal authorities "have adopted and applied blanket suspicion toward one group
of passport applicants . . . effectively denying the passports of many for the
apparent sins of a few," the ACLU states in a complaint to be filed today in
U.S. District Court in McAllen, Tex.

The civil liberties group is seeking class-action status on behalf of tens of
thousands of Mexican Americans of all ages delivered by midwives in border
states, alleging violations of constitutional due process and equal protection
guarantees.

Steve Royster, spokesman for the State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs,
and Bill Wright, spokesman for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, a
successor agency to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, declined to
comment, citing the litigation.

It is not clear when U.S. officials began viewing midwife certificates with
suspicion. State Department spokesman Cy Ferenchak confirmed the policy to the
Brownsville Herald in Texas earlier this summer. The paper quoted him as saying,
"Normally, a birth certificate is sufficient to prove citizenship. . . . But
because of a history of fraudulently filed reports on the Southwest border, we
don't have much faith in the document."

The federal government won convictions against dozens of South Texas midwives
from 1967 through 1997 for fraudulently registering births that they did not
deliver, a U.S. official said, with most convictions coming after 1980.

An INS list last updated in October 2002 identifies at least 65 midwives who
have been convicted of fraud since the 1960s. U.S. officials previously said
cases in the 1990s uncovered forgeries for about 15,000 people born in Mexico.
By comparison, about 21,000 Texas births were certified in 2004 by midwives, an
integral, though shrinking, part of South Texas culture.

The issue is receiving new urgency because of the Western Hemisphere Travel
Initiative, which requires a passport to cross the U.S.-Mexico land border
starting in June. A similar requirement for air travel last year led to a surge
in applications for passports and a massive processing backlog.

The nine ACLU plaintiffs include David Hernandez, 43, of Harlingen, Tex., a
hotel worker who grew up in the Rio Grande Valley and served four years in the
U.S. Army but was denied a passport after a wait of nearly a year.

The State Department rejected his birth certificate, requiring him to provide
other proof. Hernandez submitted his baptismal certificate, state immunization
records, public school records, affidavits from his mother and another woman who
had witnessed his birth, and his Army discharge certificate.

But in a letter dated April 8, the department told Hernandez that he had "not
fully complied with the request for additional information and/or documentation"
and that his application was being "filed without further action."

U.S. officials would not say how many passport applications are handled this way
without explanation to applicants, under a February rule change.

"I felt heart-sickened," Hernandez said in an interview, adding that his mother
is a legal permanent resident and that her mother was a U.S. citizen. "I've
always been told I'm a citizen, all my life," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Plant Faces Child Labor Charges

BYLINE: Henry C. Jackson; Associated Press

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Sept. 9


The owner and managers of the nation's largest kosher meatpacking plant were
charged Tuesday with more than 9,000 misdemeanors alleging that they hired
minors and in some cases had children younger than 16 handle dangerous equipment
such as circular saws, meat grinders and power shears.

They are the first criminal charges against operators of the Agriprocessors
plant in Postville, where nearly 400 illegal immigrants working at the facility
were arrested in May in one of the largest single-site immigration raids in U.S.
history.

The complaint filed by the Iowa attorney general's office said the violations
involved 32 illegal immigrant children under  18, including seven who were
younger than 16. Aside from handling dangerous equipment, the complaint also
says that children were exposed to dangerous chemicals such as chlorine
solutions and dry ice.

The attorney general's office said the violations occurred from Sept. 9, 2007,
to May 12, 2008, when the plant was raided by federal immigration agents.

Charged are the company itself,  plant owner Abraham Aaron Rubashkin, former
plant manager Sholom Rubashkin, human resources manager Elizabeth Billmeyer, and
Laura Althouse and Karina Freund, management employees in the company's human
resources division.

Each defendant faces 9,311 individual counts -- one for each day a particular
violation is alleged for each worker. Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller said at a
news conference on Tuesday that he would not elaborate on what evidence led to
the indictment.

"All of the named individual defendants possessed shared knowledge that
Agriprocessors employed undocumented aliens. It was likewise shared knowledge
among the defendants that many of those workers were minors," the affidavit
said.

The charges are simple misdemeanors, each carrying a maximum penalty of 30 days
in jail and a fine of $65 to $625.

Chaim Abrams, a manager at the plant, said in a statement that Agriprocessors
"vehemently denies" the allegations. He said the underage workers -- not the
company -- are to blame.

"All of the minors at issue lied about their age in order to gain employment at
the company," he said. "At the time of hiring, all of the minors, like all job
applicants, presented and signed documents stating that they were over 18. They
knew that, if they told the truth about their age, they would not be hired."

Abrams said the state wouldn't be able to back up its case.

Sonia Parras Konrad, an attorney representing more than 20 of the children, said
her clients were as young as 14 when they started working at the plant.

She said minors in the plant were treated the same as adults and often worked in
the same uncomfortable conditions.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Charlie Neibergall -- Associated Press; Iowa Attorney General
Tom Miller, with Labor Commissioner Dave Neil, left, and Division of Criminal
Investigation Director John Quinn, right, alleges that Agriprocessors
meatpackers exposed children to danger.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 11, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA19

LENGTH: 373 words


Fellowship Baptist Church, 5936 Rolling Rd., Springfield, will begin a
Bible-centered youth program for children ages 3 through sixth grade at 5:30
p.m. Sunday. 703-569-5151 or http://www.honoringgod.org.

Northern Virginia Hebrew Congregation, 1441 Wiehle Ave., Reston, will host a
meeting of the Potomac chapter of Hadassah at 7 p.m. next Thursday. The group
will offer information on the organization and serve dessert. 703-437-7733 or
http://www.nvhc.org.

St. Luke's United Methodist Church, 76 28 Leesburg Pike, Falls Church, is
holding a food drive and asking for donations of nonperishable food to dropped
off at the church between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. Sept. 20. 703-893-9220 or
www.stlukestysons.org.

Oakton United Methodist Church, 2951 Chain Bridge Rd., will offer an
introductory presentation on Christianity as practiced by Methodists between
morning services at 9:45 a.m. Sept. 21. 703-938-1234 or www.oaktonumc.org.

St. Mary of Sorrows Church, 522 Sideburn Rd., Fairfax, will host a three-part
series on immigration issues at 7:30 p.m. Sept. 25, Oct. 9 and Oct. 23. Topics
will include Catholic views on immigration, the history of immigration and
social challenges presented by immigration. 703-978-4141.

Pohick Regional Library, 6450 Sydenstricker Rd., Burke will be the site of a
program on spiritual approaches to conquering fear, offered twice, from 7 to
8:30 p.m. Oct. 2 and 2 to 3:30 p.m. Oct. 5. The event is sponsored by the
Eckankar religious movement and the Virginia Satsang Society. 703-916-0515.

The Church of the Good Shepherd, 2351 Hunter Mill Rd., Vienna, will hold a
Christian writers workshop from 8:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Oct. 4. The featured
guest is Mary Lou Redding, editorial director of the magazine the Upper Room.
Registration forms should be submitted by Sept. 24. 703-281-3987 or
www.goodshepherdva.com.

-- Compiled by C. WOODROW IRVIN

To Submit an Item

E-mail: fxextra@washpost.com

Fax: 703-273-2836

Mail: Religion Notes, Fairfax Extra, The Washington Post, 4020 University Dr.,
Suite 220, Fairfax, Va. 22030

Details: Items are published weekly on a space-available basis. Include the
address of the event and a telephone contact number for publication. Items
should be submitted at least two weeks in advance.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 15, 2008 Monday
                                 Every Edition

Hispanic Businesses Get Out the Vote;
Recruitment Campaigns, Immigration Debate Spur Latinos

BYLINE: Alejandro Lazo; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 680 words


Hispanic businesses and Spanish-language media, galvanized by the immigration
debates of recent years, are sponsoring a bevy of civic engagement and
get-out-the-vote efforts in the Washington area.

Some are part of larger national campaigns, spurred both by discussions of
immigration policy and by Republican and Democratic interest in recruiting
Hispanic voters. The majority of the efforts are nonpartisan and aimed at
getting Hispanics to register and show up on Election Day.

The Ayuda Business Coalition runs one such campaign, focusing on Northern
Virginia, particularly Prince William County. The nonprofit was formed last year
by business owners opposed to the county's crackdown on illegal immigration,
calling it bad for the local economy. It consists of more than 100 local,
Hispanic-owned businesses.

Ayuda has set up registration booths at some members' grocery stores and at
soccer matches. It also plans to conduct demonstrations on how to use voting
machines and run spots on Spanish-language radio  with the tagline, "Si no
votas, no cuentas," or, "If you don't vote, you don't count."

JosÃ© Marinay, the owner of a real estate settlement company in Annapolis,
joined the Ayuda coalition last year when he saw sales at his Smart Choice
Settlements office in Prince William County plummet. Marinay said he had donated
to Democratic campaigns in the past but had not been involved in lobbying or
voter mobilization efforts.

"Immigration was having a tremendous effect in Prince William County because
nobody wanted to buy there and it was like they were shutting the door down on
us," Marinay said. "There was nothing I could do, and I was trying to find a way
to make a difference."

Both Republicans and Democrats are courting the Hispanic vote. The Service
Employees International Union, which has endorsed Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.),
has been getting its members to register Hispanic voters by phone and on the
streets. The Republican National Hispanic Assembly, on behalf of Sen. John
McCain (R-Ariz.), plans to hold its own roundtable discussions for Hispanic
business owners before the election, emphasizing tax issues. It also plans to
host Hispanic happy hours.

"The Hispanic vote in Virginia could be pivotal," said Raul "Danny" Vargas, the
founder of Herndon marketing company VARCom Solutions and chairman of the
assembly. "What you will see is that there are a number of business leaders that
are engaged in the political process, whereas they had not been before."

Hispanic media are also playing a stepped-up role, donating air time and
advertising space to get Hispanic voters to the polls. Local newspapers
Washington Hispanic and El Tiempo Latino, a publication of The Washington Post
Co., are donating ad space to the campaign called "Ya Es Hora," or "It's Time,"
run by the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials in Los
Angeles.

That campaign, backed nationally by the Spanish-language media giant Univision,
has been encouraging immigrants to gain citizenship and vote this year.

Alberto AvendaÃ±o, associate publisher and editor in chief of El Tiempo Latino,
said the campaign was born out of the demonstrations by immigrants in 2006.

"This year, the community is really energized," AvendaÃ±o said.

The local affiliate of Telemundo is partnering with the nonprofit Voto Latino,
which will run public service announcements and give political analysis, said
Maria Teresa Petersen, director of the Voto Latino campaign.

The U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce plans to launch get-out-the-vote efforts
in October to try to mobilize voters through its member chambers, including ones
in the District, Rockville, Germantown and Herndon. It is the first time that
the chamber, which has also stepped up its lobbying and policy efforts in the
past two years, has attempted to mobilize voters, said David Ferreira, vice
president of government affairs for the commerce.

"We decided to get involved in this election once we saw that comprehensive
immigration [legislation] failed," he said. "We knew we needed to activate the
Hispanic community."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Linda Davidson -- The Washington Post; Mirna Urias mans a
phone for the Service Employees International Union's push to get Hispanics to
register to vote. Other local groups are making similar efforts.
IMAGE; By Linda Davidson -- The Washington Post; Christian Gonzalez, right,
recruited Claudia Amurrio to Barack Obama's campaign. Volunteer efforts
targeting Hispanic voters are on the rise.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 22, 2008 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Illegal Immigrants Held As Witnesses for Trial

BYLINE: Tom Jackman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 895 words


Five men have been sitting in the Fairfax County jail for nearly a month now,
although none is charged with a crime. Rather, they might have witnessed a
killing. Some of them.

The men are being held as witnesses after the fatal stabbing of Adulio
Morales-Bonilla, 36, in Fairfax City last month. Everyone in the case -- the
victim, the suspect, the witnesses -- was in this country illegally. Fairfax
City police enlisted the help of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents
and had the witnesses detained.

But then ICE told police that the witnesses were going to waive deportation
hearings and might be returned to their native Honduras within a week. Faced
with the possible collapse of their case, police obtained "material witness"
warrants against the men and had them jailed without bond, even though the trial
might not occur for another year.

Legal experts and attorneys for the witnesses expressed outrage that the men
were being held to secure their testimony.

"What are we, in Guantanamo?" asked Abbe Smith, a Georgetown University law
professor and expert in criminal defense. "They are simply witnesses. They
happened to be someplace where something happened. That should shock the
conscience of any American citizen."

Fairfax prosecutors say that increasingly, immigrants who are in this country
illegally -- from victims to witnesses to suspects -- are failing to show up for
trial. And when the Morales-Bonilla slaying presented the same potential
problem, said Fairfax Commonwealth's Attorney Raymond F. Morrogh, prosecutors
turned to Virginia's material witness law and simply locked up the witnesses
indefinitely.

"We've got to do everything we can," Morrogh said, "especially in a murder case,
to make sure the victim's rights are protected."

Prosecutors in Virginia said that they rarely use material witness warrants but
that when they do, the witnesses usually are released on bond. No one could
recall a similar situation, but several said they thought that Morrogh had done
the right thing.

"As a prosecutor, you never particularly want to have a witness who doesn't like
you," said Arlington County Commonwealth's Attorney Richard E. Trodden. "But if
they're telling you he's going out the door, you've got to do something."

Trodden and others said there is an alternative to holding the men in the
Fairfax jail: custody or supervision by ICE. He said he hoped that ICE would
realize "there's a greater good here" and not deport the men if they are
released from jail.

Fairfax City Police Chief Rick Rappoport said police were trying to work with
ICE on a compromise. Ernestine Fobbs, an ICE spokeswoman, could not discuss the
Fairfax case but said that when illegal immigrants "are in our custody, we will
work with the local law enforcement. But we can't hold them indefinitely."

Originally, six witnesses were detained. But defense attorney Michael J. Lindner
persuaded Fairfax Circuit Court Judge Jane Marum Roush to release one of the
witnesses, Luis A. Rodriguez, on Wednesday. Roush looked at the affidavit
written by Fairfax City Detective Michael D. Boone and found that none of the
six witnesses was identified as having any information about the case.

All the witnesses "were possibly inside the residence at the time of the
murder," Boone wrote. "One of the occupants of the house was a witness to an
argument between the victim and the defendant shortly before the murder
occurred."

The defendant, Juan de Dios Morales, 37, of Fairfax City, "admitted killing the
victim," Boone wrote. He is scheduled for a preliminary hearing on Oct. 27.

Roush dismissed the witness warrant against Rodriguez, who faces deportation
proceedings but who might be eligible to be released on bond in that case. He
has no criminal record and has been working in this country for several years,
Lindner said.

"The idea that in this country," Lindner said after the hearing, "that someone
could sit in jail for a year without being charged with a crime, that's just
insane. And I don't think the U.S. Constitution permits it."

Attorneys for the five men said they will fight to get their clients released.
At hearings on Thursday and Friday, Fairfax General District Court Judge Penney
J. Azcarate said she would release two of the men on $1,000 bond, but they
remain jailed.

Three are being held without bond, including Jorge A. Moreno Rincon. His
attorney, Lavonda Graham Williams, said her client is not planning to leave the
country and planned to contest deportation.

In the affidavit, Boone said an immigration agent told him that all six men had
waived their rights to deportation hearings and would be deported in a week.
That created the sense of urgency among police and prosecutors that something
needed to be done before all of their witnesses were shipped out of the country.

Lindner and Williams said that their clients had not waived their deportation
rights and that Boone was misinformed. Lindner and William Pickett, an attorney
for another witness, said their clients had no information about the crime.

The deportation would not have been an issue had Fairfax City police not
summoned ICE in the first place. Rappoport said detectives needed the agency's
help in sorting out who might have been involved in the slaying and what their
immigration status was. Defense attorneys believe that they were brought in to
pressure the witnesses to cooperate.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Data Show Big Dip in Migration To the U.S.

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 665 words


The number of immigrants coming to the United States slowed substantially in
2007, with the nation's foreign-born population growing by only 511,000,
compared with about a million a year since 2000, according to Census figures
released today.

In 14 states, the foreign-born population declined, including in such
traditional immigrant gateways as New Jersey and Illinois and such newer
destinations as Nebraska, South Dakota and Kansas.

The Washington area's immigrant population continued to grow, but much more
slowly, increasing by 25,916, compared with average yearly increases of 37,091
since 2000.

Demographers said the data, which were part of a diverse release of social,
economic and housing characteristics, reflected the economic slowdown.

"I think this shows that immigrants are keeping an eye on the economy when they
make their decision on whether to come or where to live in the United States,"
said William H. Frey, a researcher with the Brookings Institution who analyzed
the numbers. "When the economy appears to be in decline -- particularly for the
kind of construction, retail and service jobs that immigrants are inclined to
take -- they are less attracted to us."

Although the slowdown coincided with a step-up in federal enforcement actions
against illegal immigrants and their employers, Frey cautioned against drawing
too close a connection. He noted that the influx of Asian and African immigrants
slowed by more than 60 percent, compared with 36 percent for Hispanic
immigrants, who are statistically more likely to be in the country illegally.

Even with the slowdown, the number of foreign-born people in the United States
reached a high of 38.1 million in 2007, accounting for 12.6 percent of the
population.

The Census data also offered some unexpected insight into the driving habits of
U.S. residents. Despite rising gas prices, growing concern about global warming
and a proliferation of carpool-only lanes, the percentage of U.S. workers who
drove to their jobs on their own remained at 76 percent from 2000 to 2007.
During the same period, the share who carpooled dropped from 12 percent to 10
percent because of a slight increase in the number of those working from home.

The statistics were only slightly better for the Washington region. About 68
percent of area workers drove alone in 2007 -- up from 67 percent in 2000 -- and
11 percent carpooled. (Perhaps it's not surprising, then, that a Car Free Day
sponsored by the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments yesterday drew
only 5,269 pledges not to use cars.)

Mark Mather, a researcher at the District-based Population Reference Bureau,
said the national aversion to carpooling was probably due to the nationwide
shift toward suburban counties where housing is cheaper but access to public
transportation is more limited and jobs are further away.

"If you're living outside the Beltway, you really do need a car to get around,"
Mather said. "So even when there's an increase in gas prices, people just don't
have a lot of other options."

But Lon Anderson, spokesman for AAA Mid-Atlantic, predicted that this summer's
price spike would cause a "sea change."

"Hitting that $4 at the pump was a psychological turning point," he said.
"People are finally saying, 'It's time to change the kind of car I'm driving, or
to take mass transit or to work from home.' . . . In the first seven months of
this year, Americans have already driven 58 billion miles less compared to last
year."

As in previous years, the Census data confirmed the Washington area's status as
one of the wealthiest in the nation. Loudoun and Fairfax counties ranked first
and second among all counties, with median household incomes of $107,207 and
$105,241, respectively. Howard County ranked third, and seven other local
counties were in the top 20.

The region also remains among the nation's most educated, with almost 38.3
percent of Arlington County adults over 25 holding advanced degrees, the highest
share for any county in the nation.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 28, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Topic of Immigration Displays a Knack for Migrating Into Other Areas

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW03

LENGTH: 727 words


Even the routine has become politicized in Prince William County.

The recent appointment of a vocal critic of illegal immigration to a panel that
will craft the county's human services policy has become a conversation about
the crackdown, intolerance and freedom of speech.

Robert L. Duecaster, a lawyer and leader of Help Save Manassas, was approved to
sit on the strategic goals task force by a split vote of the Board of County
Supervisors.

Normally, appointments take place with little notice or discussion. The board
makes hundreds of appointments each year, with up to 700 residents serving on
boards, committees and commissions at a given time. Yet a group of residents
spoke against Duecaster's appointment before the vote and later demanded board
members publicly explain their decision.

Supervisor W.S. Covington III was the only one to take them up on their request.
Covington addressed the appointment without mentioning Duecaster by name or his
vote in favor of the nomination.

"I am very disquieted over the recent public discourse over whether or not a
citizen is qualified to serve as an appointee of this body on behalf of Prince
William County based solely upon a transcript of words, whether written or
spoken," Covington (R-Brentsville) said at last week's board meeting before
giving a brief history lesson on freedom of speech.

"A forum in which to discuss ideas, however radically perceived by opposing
viewpoints, is also guaranteed by our U.S. Constitution."

When people with opposing viewpoints come to the table for dialogue, change
takes place, he said, adding that it is not in his "purview to quash that
potential growth."

The board's eight appointments to the task force also include former supervisor
Hilda M. Barg, who gained the moniker "human services supervisor," and
Supervisor Martin E. Nohe's wife, Kris Nohe, who is a court-appointed special
advocate for children.

Some residents have suggested that guidelines be established to determine
qualifications to serve, rather than deferring to the judgment of supervisors.

In a later interview, Covington said he regretted that Duecaster's nomination
process had become personalized.

"He wouldn't have been my choice, but I don't think anyone proved he was so
outrageous that he shouldn't have served on an advisory committee," Covington
said. "I've never seen my vote as being supportive of his agenda or ideas."

Duecaster has referred to illegal immigrants as the "scourge that's plaguing
neighborhoods" and an "invasion of this country."

"Fear does exist throughout the illegal community. It's overdue," he said at a
board meeting this year. "The resolution hasn't put fear into the illegal
community. Their own act of illegally entering this country and staying here
illegally is the source of their fear."

Duecaster, 58, was nominated by Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville)
to serve on the human services strategic goals task force. Each supervisor
appoints a resident of his or her district to serve on one of four task forces,
which are charged with "composing the community outcomes and strategies,"
according to a resolution the board adopted. The strategic goals will guide
policy and budget decisions for four years.

Task force members have six weeks to do their work. In the meantime, several
supervisors have said they find it troublesome that almost every policy decision
the board makes has been drowned out by immigration talk.

The board's next mission will be moving on to the "next big thing, without
having [illegal immigration] become a part of the conversation," said Nohe
(R-Coles).

The topic's pervasiveness was almost inevitable this past year, as the board
embarked on its hallmark illegal immigration enforcement. It was an addition to
the budget, and the numbers kept changing based on how the board implemented it.
The policy that has been in effect since July requires officers to run the name
of everyone arrested through a federal database to determine residency status.

Illegal immigration is likely to be less of a focal point during this year's
budget cycle, as the county faces revenue shortfalls attributed to the housing
crisis.

"We keep revisiting this issue, but we've got a lot of other problems to fix,"
said board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large). "The illegal immigration
policy is in place, and it's working. My view is: Let's move on."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Courtesy Of W.s. Covington; Supervisor W.S. Covington III
defended the appointment of a critic of illegal immigration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 4, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Jews Who Could Have Been Saved

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 222 words


Geoffrey Wheatcroft [Outlook, Sept. 28] recalled that in the 1920s, Congress
slammed the door on "immigrants (even desperate Jews fleeing Nazi Europe)."

That's true, as far as it goes. But immigration quotas were only part of the
story. Many more Jews could have been saved if President Franklin D. Roosevelt
-- without changing a single law -- had simply permitted the existing quotas to
be filled.

The quota for immigrants from Germany and Austria would have allowed 27,370
refugees to enter the country each year. But the Roosevelt administration
encouraged U.S. consular officials abroad to create bureaucratic obstacles to
reduce refugee immigration to levels far below what the law allowed. Thus,
during Hitler's first year in power, 1933, less than 6 percent of the German
quota was filled. The following year, less than 14 percent of those spaces were
filled. During Hitler's entire reign, 1933-45, less than 36 percent of the
German-Austrian quota places were used.

During the years that the Nazis were slaughtering 6 million European Jews (1941
to 1945), nearly 190,000 quota places from Axis-controlled countries sat unused.
That is 190,000 lives that could have been saved, had FDR shown even a minimal
amount of humanitarian interest in their plight.

RAFAEL MEDOFF

Director

David S. Wyman Institute

for Holocaust Studies

Washington

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 8, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Around the Nation

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 594 words

Immigration Agents Raid S.C. Processing Plant

 GREENVILLE, S.C. -- Federal agents swept through a chicken-processing plant
Tuesday, detaining more than 300 suspected illegal immigrants, sending panicked
workers running and screaming through the hallways. Worried relatives collected
outside, fearful that their loved ones would be deported.

Police and agents during a shift change ordered all workers at the House of
Raeford's Columbia Farms to show identification, according to officials and
witnesses.

Immigration officials kept the workers inside the plant and spent most of the
morning trying to interview them and figure out how many are in the United
States illegally, Assistant U.S. Attorney Kevin McDonald said.

A recent review found that immigration paperwork for more than 775 of 825
workers at the plant had false information, McDonald said.

Circumcision May Not Protect Against HIV

 There is not enough evidence to say circumcision protects men from being
infected by the AIDS virus during sex with other men, even though studies show
the surgical procedure protects men when having sex with women, researchers
said.

A review of 15 studies involving gay and bisexual men in the United States,
Britain, Canada, Australia, India, Taiwan, Peru and the Netherlands failed to
show a clear benefit for those who were circumcised, said researchers from the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Circumcised men were 14 percent less likely to be infected with the human
immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, than those who were uncircumcised, but the
finding was not statistically significant, the CDC researchers said.

Studies involving men in Africa, where the AIDS epidemic is primarily spread by
sex between men and women, showed that male circumcision halved the risk of
female-to-male HIV infection.

Experts say this reduced HIV risk may be because cells on the inside of the
foreskin, the part of the penis cut off in circumcision, are especially
susceptible to HIV infection.

Police: Teen Tried to Bomb Family

PITTSBURGH -- A suburban Pittsburgh teenager is accused of trying to kill his
sleeping family by placing homemade chlorine bombs in their beds. Police say
16-year-old Christopher Janney built "compression bombs" that he placed near
five family members. A police affidavit says his mother called police and showed
officers six bottles containing chlorine. Janney is charged with five counts of
attempted homicide and other offenses.

Harvard Receives $125 Million

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- A Harvard Business School alumnus has given the university
its largest individual donation: $125 million to start a bioengineering
institute. The mission of the Hansjorg Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired
Engineering is to discover the engineering principles nature uses to build
living things, then use that information to create devices and technologies to
meet medical needs. The institute will bring together experts from disciplines
that include robotics, biology and surgery.

Spent Uranium Returned to U.S.

Germany has returned more than 20 pounds of highly enriched uranium fuel to the
United States for safeguarding from terrorists or potential misuse, the National
Nuclear Security Administration said. Agency spokeswoman Casey Ruberg said the
material was secured at the federal Savannah River site near Aiken, S.C., on
Sept. 23. Nearly 115 pounds of spent fuel, originally provided by the United
States for use in research reactors, has been returned from Argentina, Portugal,
Romania and Germany during the past year, the agency said.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 15, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

A Strong Record on Deportation

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 211 words


The Post continued an unfortunate pattern of selective reporting with the Oct. 5
front-page article "ICE Slow to Deport Detained." The one-sided accounts of
individual cases in this article were likely to leave readers with an inaccurate
impression of the deportation process.

ICE has made many improvements in detention management and detainee care of
which we are justifiably proud: The number of aliens removed from the United
States has increased from 174,296 in fiscal 2004 to more than 338,000 so far in
fiscal 2008. The 2008 results include the removal of approximately 105,000
criminal aliens. Overall, the average length of stay for ICE detainees has
decreased from 89 days in fiscal 2003 to just 38 days in fiscal 2008.

We vigorously disagree with the assertion that ICE is somehow delaying
deportations. Similarly, we question the underlying premise that illegal aliens
who are challenging their removal in immigration court are being denied the
ability to leave the country.  But we do agree with the article's depiction of
the strain that illegal immigration places on our criminal justice system; more
than anything, this points up the need for comprehensive immigration reform.

KELLY A. NANTEL

Press Secretary

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

Washington

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 23, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Md. Suffers Shortage Of Literacy Volunteers;
Immigrants Aren't Only Ones in Need

BYLINE: Miranda S. Spivack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. GZ03

LENGTH: 541 words


Maryland communities are seeing a growing need for volunteer tutors to help
adults read and write, with an increased demand from  immigrants who struggle
with English and native-born residents who left school without fully mastering
the skills.

In Montgomery County,  the local literacy council has about 600 tutors but needs
an additional 200 to 300. The county is home to about half of Maryland's
foreign-born population and has residents  from 86 countries.

In Prince George's County, the literacy council has about 55 tutors and a
waiting list of students who want instruction. Demand has also increased in
Charles County   and other Maryland jurisdictions.

The free services throughout the state rely on volunteers, who are trained by
the local councils and usually work one-on-one with students. The tutoring
sessions often are held in local libraries.

The programs are aimed not only at those for whom English is not their first
language but also at native-born adults who need help in reading and writing to
fill out forms or read instructions and other materials at work, said Loreta
Jordan, who matches tutors with students in Prince George's.  Such adults might
want to help their children with homework but cannot, or they might have signed
up for a class to help them  obtain a high school equivalency diploma and find
that they cannot read at the required level.

Montgomery's   literacy council served about 900 people  last year, among them
about 70 U.S.-born adults who needed help with basic reading and writing. As of
2005, the last year data were available, 92,000 county residents, or about 10
percent of the population,  were older than 25 and lacked a high school diploma,
said Pam Saussy, head of the county's literacy council.

"Even in a county as well educated as Montgomery, and with a top-performing
school system, there are native-born individuals, who, for any of many reasons,
age out of the school system without having learned to read and write," Saussy
said.

"That education doesn't work for them," she said. "They are the outlyers."

Students who attend the literacy council's programs also might have undiagnosed
disabilities or might have had to interrupt their education because of illness
or family responsibilities.

The need is also acute in Charles, said Marlene Cleaveland, head of that
county's literacy council,  via e-mail. "The need is growing because of the
influx of a more diverse population in Charles County," she said.

Cleaveland also said that increased media attention to literacy has helped some
native-born residents realize that they need help. "Individuals who may have
been passed on in school are realizing their own need to reach out for help,"
she said.

Saussy, of Montgomery's literacy council, said potential students are sometimes
reluctant to seek help.

"When we say they are largely invisible, we mean it," she said. "I suspect that
there are more who need the service than are coming to us."

If you need assistance or want to volunteer, here's how to contact the literacy
councils in Maryland: Go to
http://www.mdhc.org/programs/maryland-center-for-the-book/literary-resources/,
scroll down to literacy organizations and Maryland literacy councils and click
on the name of your local council.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 23, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Churches Reach Out As County Diversifies;
New Congregations Entice Immigrants

BYLINE: Patricia M. Murret; Gazette Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. GZ05

LENGTH: 645 words


Three years ago, JosÃ© Mercado was a businessman attending Grace Community
Church in Virginia, where he led a small Bible study group. He loved his church,
but praying there did not always come naturally.

"The hardest thing for me to do in English is pray; it's extremely hard,"
Mercado said. "It's something that comes so deep from [within] you that your
language just wants to be part of the flow of it."

So when church leaders approached him about a possible pastoral calling, the
Puerto Rican-born Mercado said he would like to lead a church of
Spanish-speakers.

Grace Community Church and Covenant Life Church in Gaithersburg, a congregation
with more than 3,000 members on Muddy Branch Road, sponsored Mercado through
pastoral college. Last month, the congregation helped him found Iglesia Gracia
Soberana, a "church planting" three years in the making.

As Montgomery County's population changes, Christian churches are adding
facilities and reaching out to the international community and immigrants in
various ways, church leaders and observers said. According to 2006 U.S. Census
Bureau estimates, the county's population is about 14 percent Hispanic and 13
percent Asian. An abundance of new faces from West Africa, South America, Asia
and other parts of the world signifies for some a chance to spread the Gospel.

"We're seeking to do what we can to serve the community that we're a part of,"
said Kenneth Maresco of Gaithersburg, executive pastor of Covenant Life, citing
Gaithersburg's large Hispanic population. "That's part of our calling, and the
Old Testament is very clear about 'serving the international in your midst.' "

Iglesia Gracia Soberana is the second Spanish-speaking church in the United
States founded by Sovereign Grace Ministries, an international missionary effort
for evangelical, Reformed and continuationist Christian churches. The new
Gaithersburg church started with about 40 Covenant Life members and some old
friends, Mercado said. About 100 people attended the second meeting.

Cultural needs played a big part in founding Disciples Fellowship International,
a Southern Baptist church that meets Sundays at Forest Oak Middle School in
Gaithersburg and is raising money for its own facility, the Rev. Paul Mulani
said. The Kenyan-born pastor founded the church four years ago after he saw
studies showing a "number of people who needed to be reached."

"We use English. The language is not an issue at all, but the context is an
issue," Mulani said. "For many Africans . . . there is a cultural aspect that
does not get fulfilled in a Western-style church."

Christian Africans uncomfortable with the in-and-out one-hour worship schedule
in some Western churches welcome having a church where services are more
"dynamic," Mulani said, referring to 11 a.m. ceremonies that can last into the
afternoon.

"They've been brought up with a communal type of aspect, a sense of belonging,"
he said. "Time is not an issue for many of them. They want somewhere to be
socially fulfilled, too."

New Covenant Fellowship Church, a nondenominational evangelical Christian church
on Waring Station Road in Germantown, was founded in fall 1990 to reach out to
immigrant Koreans and the community at large. Nearly 20 years later, the church
still holds services in Korean and English.

"Just like any other immigrants in the past, there's a language gap between the
first generation, second generation, third generation and so forth," said Senior
Pastor Jamie Kim. "But by providing different services in different languages,
they can still come and share the common background that transcends language."

For many immigrants, the church becomes "almost like a community center," Kim
said. "We not only keep our identity as Korean Americans, we can foster the
sense of community where they can belong and kind of share common history,
culture, background, tradition."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Laurie Dewitt -- The Gazette; Assistant Pastor Linje Nankhuni
worships at Disciples Fellowship International, which has African-style
services.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 23, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Untapped Talents of Educated Immigrants;
20% With Degrees In Unskilled Jobs or Jobless, Study Finds

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1216 words


One in five college-educated immigrants in the United States is unemployed or
working in an unskilled job such as a dishwasher, fast-food restaurant cashier
or security guard, depriving the U.S. economy of the full potential of more than
1.3 million foreign-born workers, according to a study released yesterday.

Immigrants in the Washington area are among the most educated in the country,
and the plight of those who are underemployed is familiar to anyone who has
gotten a ride from D.C. cabdriver with an engineering degree from Ethiopia or
had a car parked by a garage attendant who used to practice law in El Salvador.
However, the report by the Washington-based Migration Policy Institute is the
first to quantify the extent of the problem.

Highly educated Latin American and African immigrants fare far worse in the job
market than Europeans or Asians, the authors said. Almost half of recently
arrived college-educated Latin Americans hold unskilled jobs, as do more than
one-third of those who have been in the country for more than 10 years. The
problem persists even when only immigrants who are in the country legally are
considered.

Construction worker Grego Pineda, who fled politically motivated death threats
in his native El Salvador seven years ago, said his difficulty learning to speak
polished English is the only obstacle to resuming his former career in law and
banking. Pineda, 45, who has won international literary prizes for his essays in
Spanish, was once on the board of a public bank and was the owner of a
flourishing law practice, a house in one of the San Salvador's most exclusive
neighborhoods and a vacation place by the beach.

So it came as a shock when the only job he could find in the Washington area was
as a laborer with La Plata-based Facchina Construction Co. "The first year was
incredibly hard," Pineda said in Spanish. "You work in everything from the snow
to the extreme heat, and there were two or three times that I honestly found
myself tearing up at the thought that I was doing this hard labor that had
nothing to do with my studies."

To keep up his spirits, Pineda said would try to recite scraps of poetry and
operas while he worked. "It was a way to stimulate my mind while my body was
doing this rote work."

Pineda is grateful to managers at Facchina for recognizing his potential and
paying for him to take the technical classes necessary to rise through the
ranks. Today, he is a regional safety manager and speaks proudly of helping
prevent accidents.

Still, he said yesterday, shouting above the clang of metal at a construction
site in Rosslyn: "I'm not satisfied. I love the law, and my heart will be
constricted until I can practice again."

Although African immigrants are more likely to hold high-skilled jobs than Latin
Americans, they have the highest unemployment rates of all foreign-born groups.
By contrast, employment patterns of well-educated Europeans are virtually
indistinguishable from their U.S.-born counterparts, regardless of how long they
have lived in the United States. Asian immigrants educated abroad do only
slightly worse.

Michael Fix, a co-author of the study, said discrimination against Latinos and
Africans might affect how they do in the job market, compared with Europeans and
Asians. But he said much of the gap can be explained by the language skills and
immigration circumstances common to people from each region.

For instance, highly skilled immigrants who speak only limited English are twice
as likely to work in an unskilled job as those who are proficient in English.
And 44 percent of Latin Americans educated at foreign colleges speak English
poorly or not at all, compared with 32 percent of Europeans and 23 percent of
Asians.

Africans have the best language skills of any group. Only 15 percent speak
English poorly or not at all. But it appears that this advantage is swamped by a
disadvantage: Only 10 percent of the Africans are sponsored for entry by
employers. By comparison, 42 percent are sponsored by family members, and almost
a third are admitted through a government lottery program. Immigrants entering
on such visas often lack the professional networks needed to find a job in their
field.

This is also a challenge for college-educated Latin Americans, who are the least
likely to be sponsored by employers -- with only 6 percent receiving such visas,
compared with 16 percent of Europeans and 35 percent of Asians.

High school teacher KalÃ© Koene, a native of Togo, said that if he had known
someone in the education field, he would probably have acquired certification
and resumed teaching within a year of seeking political asylum in the United
States in 2004.

"It's not just that I didn't know the process [of becoming certified]. I didn't
even know to find the information," he said.

So Koene, who started with the District school system as a French teacher in
August, spent his first four years in the United States working at a wide
variety of jobs, including busboy and cultural consultant to the U.S. Marines.

Cultural barriers also hamper newcomers, said Jane Leu, executive director of
Upwardly Global, a nonprofit organization that helps highly educated immigrants
find work in New York, San Francisco and Chicago. Foreign-born job seekers often
have difficulty engaging in the self-promotion and personal revelation required
in many American job interviews, said Leu, whose group links applicants with
mentors in their fields and offers interview training and help with rÃ©sumÃ©
preparation.

"A typical interview question is, 'Tell me about a time you made a mistake and
how you learned from it,' "she said. "That's not a question asked in other
countries. You don't talk about mistakes."

Refugees often face the highest hurdles because they lack even the cushion of
financial support from family. Vu Dang, director of the International Rescue
Committee's Washington area refugee resettlement office, said this obstacle has
proved particularly vexing to Iraqi refugees arriving in recent months. They
receive a three-month stipend from the U.S. government, at best.

The resettlement office has "to acclimatize them to the reality that whatever
they were in their home country is irrelevant," Dang said. "They need to find a
job right away just to pay their rent, and those kind of jobs are going to be
jobs in hotels and restaurants that pay a little bit over minimum wage."

Fix and co-author Jeanne Batalova suggest that federal and state officials could
do more to ease the way for highly educated immigrants by providing more
assistance with English classes, offering loans to offset the cost of preparing
for professional certification exams, and working to harmonize assessment
systems to make it easier, when appropriate, for immigrants to make use of
foreign academic and professional credentials.

As an example, the authors cited a Maryland plan to relieve the state's chronic
shortage of nurses by helping about 150 immigrants trained as nurses in their
home countries obtain certification to work in the state.

Maryland's labor secretary, Thomas E. Perez, said the program was a no-brainer.
"The cost is roughly $5,000 per person," he said. "When you compare that to the
cost of training a nurse from scratch, that's about the most cost-effective
investment I can think of."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Bill O'leary -- The Washington Post; Grego Pineda, who was a
bank official and lawyer in El Salvador, sought political asylum in the United
States, where he took a job as a construction worker. Today, he is a regional
safety manager for a construction company, but he longs to practice law again.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Noncitizens Embrace Political Process

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 959 words


Aicha Bensaid Samrhouni has been almost single-minded in her desire to see
Barack Obama elected president. She speared the yard of her Herndon home with
blue campaign signs. She donated hundreds of dollars toward his efforts. She is
taking Election Day off to work the polls.

But she will not be casting a ballot Tuesday, for Obama or anyone else. An
immigrant from Morocco, she is not a U.S. citizen and therefore is not eligible
to vote. It was a reality that washed over her one recent evening as her husband
spoke of Obama's chances.

"She had tears in her eyes and she said, 'I wish I could vote,' " Hassan
Samrhouni recalled. "I thought, 'Oh my goodness, I can't believe this.' "

Aicha Samrhouni is a legal permanent resident, one of about 12 million in the
United States, according to Department of Homeland Security estimates. They
enjoy almost all the benefits of citizenship -- except the right to vote.

Less than half of the almost 1.1 million foreign-born residents in the
Washington area are citizens, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Although a
sizeable but unknown number are believed to be illegal immigrants, thousands are
legal but have not been naturalized. They include foreign students, temporary
workers, people granted political asylum and permanent residents such as
Samrhouni, among others.

Although noncitizens can't vote, they are not barred from participating in
elections in other ways. Those with green cards, who have achieved legal
permanent status, are permitted to make campaign contributions. And anyone can
knock on doors, hand out fliers or register voters.

The number of donors and volunteers who fall into the noncitizen category is not
known. The Federal Election Commission does not keep track of donors by
citizenship status, and the campaigns say they accept volunteers without asking
about status.

Steve Camarota, director of research for the Center for Immigration Studies, a
think tank that advocates for stricter immigration policies, estimates that the
number of foreign citizens influencing U.S. elections is tiny and not troubling.

"The whole point of immigration is to create future Americans," he said. "So if
people are participating in a legal fashion and they're here legally, that can
be seen as a step toward successful assimilation."

Still, many noncitizens have been energized by this year's historic race. Some,
such as Samrhouni, were inspired by Obama's oratory and his unlikely success as
the child of a Kenyan immigrant.

Others, such as Isabel LeÃ³n, were drawn to Sen. John McCain because of socially
conservative values and a desire for a strong national defense. LeÃ³n, 60, a
retired teacher who lives in Richmond, said through an interpreter that she
immigrated to the United States in 1991 to flee violent conditions in her home
country of Peru.

"The values of the Republican Party are similar to the values of the Hispanic
community," said LeÃ³n, a staunch Catholic who opposes abortion and same-sex
marriage. "I came from a country where I saw terrorism, and I don't want that to
happen in the United States."

This year, she has knocked on doors in neighborhoods with large Spanish-speaking
populations for the McCain campaign and registered voters at Hispanic churches.

U.S. immigration authorities received a flood of citizenship applications last
year, partly because of a fee increase for permanent residents to renew their
status, but also because of interest in the election. Hundreds of thousands of
applicants were expected to be delayed beyond the election because of the
backlog; exactly how many did not make it will not be known until later this
month.

Some groups have sought to emphasize to noncitizens that they can sometimes make
a greater impact by volunteering than by casting a single vote.

Officials with the Service Employees Union International branch that represents
janitors and security guards in the Washington area estimated that a majority of
its members were not U.S. citizens, although the union does not explicitly ask
its members about their immigration status. But they have mobilized dozens of
workers -- some of whom make less than $11 an hour and work multiple jobs -- to
take time off to canvass and make calls for Obama. Many have even been persuaded
to donate money, as little as a dollar a week.

Jaime Contreras, area director and district chair for SEIU Local 32BJ, tells a
story of a conversation he witnessed about a year ago to emphasize to workers
the value of volunteering.

"One worker said, 'I'm not a U.S. citizen. I can't vote. Why should I do
anything for the election?' " he recounted. "The other said, 'I'm not a citizen,
either, but I took 20 people to the polls on Election Day. So I voted 20 times.'
That's the type of message that we're trying to convey, that you can still have
an impact even if you can't vote."

Aicha Samrhouni's journey into political activism began earlier this year when
she read Obama's book "The Audacity of Hope," which she said revealed the
candidate to be "a great thinker and a great man."

Before that, she said, becoming a U.S. citizen did not seem important, even
though her husband is naturalized and her two children were born in the United
States. Now, with the chance that Obama might win, and with Virginia in the rare
position of being up for grabs, it hurts her even more that she did not apply
for her citizenship as soon as she had a chance.

A copy of the memoir was on the sofa next to her as she explained that, although
she visits her family in Morocco almost every year, her connection to the
country grows weaker each year.

"After we are there for some time, we want to come back here. This is home,"
Samrhouni said. "I just feel that I have more in common with the Americans. I
feel like I am American."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 155 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 3, 2008 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Area Immigrants With Wounds That Won't Heal;
Mutilated Women Seek Asylum in U.S.

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1637 words


The women's stories all begin with a searing childhood memory they cannot
describe without weeping.

The stories stretch back to villages in North and West Africa, where tribal
traditions include various rites to protect family honor. For generations,
mothers there have passed on the practice of genital circumcision to their
daughters, believing it will make them respectable and chaste for marriage.

The stories leap to present-day America, where foreign-born victims of forced
circumcision have been allowed to apply for political asylum since a landmark
immigration ruling in 1996, but where, in the past year, some immigration courts
have been trying to narrow the grounds on which they can receive legal
sanctuary.

Only a few hundred women have sought or won such asylum claims. A handful live
quietly in the Washington area, working in hospitals and offices and beauty
salons. All carry deep physical and mental wounds. Five agreed to be
interviewed, but none was willing to be identified. No one at their jobs or in
their neighborhoods knows their secret. In court documents, they are referred to
as "A-T" or "H-M." Yet they live in fear that a distant, smothering culture can
reach out and harm them again.

"I was 7. They put a large fabric on the floor. There were about 50 other girls
there, too. The people danced and beat drums. The grown-ups held me down. My
mother was screaming, but they beat her and held her away. Then they cut me and
I was bleeding. It hurt and I was crying and bleeding and crawling. I crawled
for a whole week."

That is Eliza speaking. She is poised and articulate, but tears well up as she
describes the childhood ordeal in her native Senegal, then her escape to the
West and a harrowing visit home when the clan tried to force her to marry an
elderly cleric, shaved her head and fed her charcoal as punishment when she
refused.

Now living in the United States as a tourist with a long-expired visa, Eliza is
awaiting her asylum hearing and could be deported. Divorced, she lives with her
mother and has two small daughters who are U.S. citizens. If her case is denied,
she says, she will have to choose between leaving the daughters behind or taking
them home to face near-certain circumcision.

Today, despite world condemnation, legal bans in many nations and years of
educational efforts, female circumcision is still widely practiced in Africa. In
nine countries -- Egypt, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Somalia, Mali, Eritrea,
Gambia and Djibouti -- more than 75 percent of women have been circumcised.

During the brief procedure, known in the West as female genital mutilation, part
or all of the external genitals are cut off. The subjects are usually
pre-pubescent. In many cases, health organizations report, they suffer lifelong
problems with urination, menstruation, childbirth and sexual relations. The
practice cuts across religions, classes and borders, but is far more prevalent
in rural areas than cities.

Senegal has made significant strides to reduce the practice, with about 28
percent of women undergoing circumcision. Women's groups there said more than
2,000 villages have abandoned it in the past 20 years after a process of
community education and discussion. But they also said cultural pressure can
outweigh laws against genital mutilation, and that its practitioners are
motivated by a sincere desire to see girls become proper wives and mothers.

"It has been going on for 2,000 years, and it is deeply engrained social norm.
If a girl is not cut, she will not get a good husband," said Molly Melching, an
American who heads a women's advocacy organization in Senegal. "If you live in
certain villages, everyone tells you this is the way to become respectable. If
you stand up and object, you are ostracized," she added in a telephone
interview. "Women do not do this to harm their daughters. They do it to help
them succeed. They do it out of love."

Eliza comes from a family in which three generations of women -- her
grandmother, her mother and herself -- represent a difficult evolution from
ardent belief in the practice to confused resistance and finally adamant
rejection of genital cutting.

Back home, her grandmother was a village elder in charge of coming-of-age
ceremonies for girls. When Eliza's mother was old enough, the grandmother
planned the celebratory rite that would make her presentable for marriage. She
gathered the trusted relatives who held the girl down. Then she took a razor
blade and mutilated her daughter.

Eliza's mother fled her native land long ago. Despite the powerful bonds of
culture and family, she says she grew up with an awareness that was different
from other girls in her tribe and felt cheated by what had been done to her. She
obtained some education and eventually fled with her father to the United
States. Several years ago, she was granted asylum on the grounds of female
genital mutilation. She lives in Virginia and says she is determined to help
prevent more girls from being cut.

But despite her convictions, Eliza's mother can not bear to have anyone know it
happened to her. Even after 40 years, when she tries to describe that day and
the painful inner conflicts it unleashed, she breaks down in uncontrollable
sobs.

"I love my mother, yet she did that to me." Her voice fails, and she tries
again. "I know she thought it was the right thing to do. I know it came down
from her mother's mothers. I know people are ignorant and need to be educated. I
know she loved me. But it is not loving someone to cut them and make them
bleed," she says. "I had to stand up and stop it, or it will go down to my
daughters' daughters."

* * *

Of the millions of rural African women who face circumcision, most submit and go
on with their lives. Only a few, usually those with money and education, defy
their tightknit cultures and flee to the anonymity of larger African cities or
abroad. Even those who immigrate to the United States, however, remain largely
silent, accepting of tradition and enveloped in conservative emigre microcosms.

But a handful of women have sought protection from U.S. immigration courts since
the law recognized female genital mutilation as grounds for asylum 12 years ago.
Some circumcised women have won asylum by proving they feared further
persecution; others have convinced judges that their daughters would face the
same ordeal if forced to return to their native regions.

A year ago, two court rulings began to roll back those grounds, alarming women's
rights activists. In the case of a woman from Mali, known as "Matter of A-T,"
the Board of Immigration Appeals found last October that because genital
mutilation "generally is inflicted only once," that meant the victim "no longer
has a well-founded fear of persecution" that would entitle her to be sheltered
as a refugee.

In a second ruling, the board found that an illegal immigrant from Senegal was
not entitled to asylum solely over concern that his U.S.-born daughters would be
circumcised if they returned home with him. The court said the daughters could
remain safely in the United States and that the pain of family separation was
not enough to prevent his deportation.

Five weeks ago, the Attorney General's office ruled that the decision in "Matter
of A-T" had been "flawed," and it ordered the board to reconsider the Malian
woman's case. The order said genital mutilation is "only one aspect" of
persecution that women in certain social groups can face, specifically including
forced marriage.

"This is a very important development, because FGM is never a single act. It is
part of a set of broader cultural practices that can affect women for life,
especially in ways that restrict their personal freedom," said Layli Miller
Muro, director of the Tahirih Justice Center in Falls Church, which helps abused
immigrant women.

One African-born Tahirih client described how relatives accused her of bringing
a curse on the family by refusing to circumcise her daughter, then tried to
kidnap the girl and exorcize her to remove the curse. Another client said the
day her husband died, his tribe planned to force her to marry his brother and
circumcise her daughter. She said she barely escaped with help from relatives.

Even when such women obtain legal sanctuary in the United States, experts say
they often feel isolated and depressed -- separated from the families and
cultures that raised them, and unable to find confidantes in a new foreign
society. Eliza and the other women interviewed also said they were fearful that
their identities and whereabouts would become known, shaming them among African
communities here and exposing them to pressure by persistent relatives to send
their daughters back.

"At home, when you are to be circumcised, you are part of a system that honors
and celebrates you. Here, when you get asylum, you are legally safe but alone.
You have rejected what you are, and what do you replace it with?" said Zeinab
Eyega, a Sudan-born activist who runs Sauti Yetu, a group in New York that
offers mutilation victims a substitute for the social embrace that accompanied
their circumcision. "We bring women together. We celebrate their birthdays and
Mother's Day," she said. "Our message is: You are not alone."

Eliza and her mother participate in a women's group at the Tahirih center, where
they can talk freely about their struggles. But both said they still feel
uncomfortable revealing their stories, guilty and confused about the family ties
and tribal beliefs they fled, and permanently damaged by their long-ago ordeal.

"It is not a scar. It is a wound that never goes away," Eliza's mother said. "I
heard that the courts said once you are cut, then it is over and you are fine.
But how can you be fine when what makes you a woman is missing? How can you be
fine when you have a hole in your body and your soul?"

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Lois Raimondo -- The Washington Post; "The grown-ups held me
down," says Eliza, who was sexually mutilated when she was a girl in keeping
with tradition in her native Senegal. Eliza is seeking safe haven for herself
and her daughters in the United States.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved
