
                               1 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 7, 2009 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Officials Weigh Less-Restrictive Detentions

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 558 words


The United States will review the procedures under which it detains about
380,000 illegal immigrants a year, exploring the use of converted hotels and
nursing homes as it seeks to transform a prison-based system into one tiered
according to the risk posed by individual detainees, Obama administration
officials said Tuesday.

Detailing an overhaul announced in August, Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano and John T. Morton, assistant secretary for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said the measures are intended to make the much-criticized, $2.6
billion-a-year immigration detention system safer and more efficient without
adding to its costs.

The changes come as advocates for immigrants pressure President Obama to improve
detention standards and legalize millions of illegal immigrants. At the same
time, Obama has said tough enforcement policies are essential to winning
approval from Congress for any deal to grant legal status.

"We accepted that we were going to continue to have -- and increase, potentially
-- the number of detainees," Napolitano said. Among the review's goals, she
said, is improving federal oversight of more than 300 local jails, state prisons
and private facilities.

By next October, ICE will rank detainees on the basis of flight risk and public
danger, set new requirements for detention facilities based on those risk levels
and issue bids for two new-model detention centers, Napolitano said.

Morton will meet with contractors this month to explore converting residential
facilities to house non-criminal and nonviolent detainees, such as
asylum-seekers, which could be cheaper to operate and less restrictive for
occupants.

On Sept. 1, ICE housed about 31,075 illegal immigrants. About half of them were
felons, of whom 11 percent had committed violent crimes.

Morton said ICE will implement a medical classification system within six months
to identify detainees with special health needs.

The agency also vowed to expedite efforts to provide an online detainee-locator
system for lawyers, relatives and others, and to provide Congress this fall with
a nationwide plan for less restrictive facilities.

In an interview after the news conference, Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.)
called the focus on detention misguided, saying that about half of ICE detainees
have no criminal record and await deportation for administrative violations.

"It would be more cost-effective to track these individuals with an electronic
monitoring device than to build brand-new facilities to detain them," Schumer
said.

Amnesty International, Human Rights First and the American Civil Liberties
Union's Immigrants' Rights Project released statements saying that they were
encouraged but that fundamental reforms were still needed, such as guaranteeing
the right to a bond hearing.

Julie Myers Wood, who led ICE from 2006 to 2008, warned that alternatives to
detention can be expensive and, because some illegal immigrants may flee, would
not have the same deterrent value.

"I certainly want to be supportive of ICE, but it seems a little unrealistic,"
Wood said. ICE detention "is becoming the new drop house," she said, referring
to the temporary quarters where some smugglers drop off their customers before
they disperse into the country, and "that's what smugglers are going to plan on
if you set up facilities that are less secure."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

U.S. to Expand Immigration Checks to All Local Jails;
Obama Administration's Enforcement Push Could Lead to Sharp Increase in
Deportation Cases

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1174 words


The Obama administration is expanding a program initiated by President George W.
Bush aimed at checking the immigration status of virtually every person booked
into local jails. In four years, the measure could result in a tenfold increase
in illegal immigrants who have been convicted of crimes and identified for
deportation, current and former U.S. officials said.

By matching inmates' fingerprints to federal immigration databases, authorities
hope to pinpoint deportable illegal immigrants before they are released from
custody. Inmates in federal and state prisons already are screened. But
authorities generally lack the time and staff to do the same at local jails,
which house up to twice as many illegal immigrants at any time and where inmates
come and go more quickly.

The effort is likely to significantly reshape immigration enforcement, current
and former executive branch officials said. It comes as the Obama administration
and Democratic leaders in Congress vow to crack down on illegal immigrants who
commit crimes, rather than those who otherwise abide by the law.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has made it "very clear" that her
top priority is deporting illegal immigrants who have committed crimes, said
David J. Venturella, program director at U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

"We mean this, we're serious about it, and we believe we need to put in an
all-out effort to get this done," said Rep. David E. Price (D-N.C.), chairman of
the House Appropriations subcommittee for homeland security. He has led calls to
remove illegal immigrants convicted of crimes after their sentences are served.

The program began as a pilot effort in October and operates in 48 counties
across the country, including Fairfax County. This year, fingerprints from 1
million local jail bookings will be screened under the program. It also operates
in Los Angeles, Dallas, Houston, Miami, Boston and Phoenix, according to ICE,
and will expand to nearly all local jails by the end of 2012.

The effort differs from programs in several Northern Virginia counties where
local law enforcement officers have been deputized to question suspects about
whether they are in the country legally. In Montgomery County, police provide
immigration authorities the names of those arrested on charges of violent crimes
and handgun violations.

Under the new program, the immigration checks will be automatic: Fingerprints
currently being run through the FBI's criminal history database also will be
matched against immigration databases maintained by the Department of Homeland
Security. The effort would not catch people who have never been fingerprinted by
U.S. authorities.

Based on the pilot program, the agency estimates that if fingerprints from all
14 million bookings in local jails each year were screened, about 1.4 million
"criminal aliens" would be found, Venturella said. That would be about 10 times
the 117,000 criminal illegal immigrants ICE deported last year. There are more
than 3,100 local jails nationwide, compared with about 1,200 federal and state
prisons.

The program, known as Secure Communities, "presents an historic opportunity to
transform immigration enforcement," said Julie Myers Wood, who launched it last
year while head of ICE.

In his proposed 2010 budget, President Obama asked Congress last week for $200
million for the program, a 30 percent increase that puts it on track to receive
$1.1 billion by 2013.

The program could help answer for the first time a question that has been
intertwined with debates over immigration policy: How many illegal immigrants in
the United States are convicted of non-immigration crimes?

But even some supporters of the program wonder whether it can be implemented
smoothly and whether there will be sufficient funding. A surge in deportation
cases, noted Stewart Baker, former assistant secretary of homeland security for
policy, would require more prosecutors, immigration judges, detention beds and
other resources.

Venturella also acknowledged that integrating federal, state and local databases
is complex and that the capabilities of local jurisdictions vary. Some counties
may take several years to be linked in.

"It's a good program. It's a very expensive program," said Jessica Vaughan,
director of policy for the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington think
tank that advocates tighter immigration controls. "I don't know if it's feasible
or sensible for all state and local governments."

Venturella said ICE will give priority to deporting the most dangerous
offenders: national security risks or those convicted of violent crimes. Based
on initial projections, the agency estimates that 100,000 of these are "Level 1
offenders" and that deporting them would cost $1.1 billion over four years.
Removing all criminal illegal immigrants would cost $3 billion, ICE estimated
last year.

Critics say that deporting the worst criminal illegal immigrants, by itself,
does not go far enough because it would not fully address the estimated 11
million illegal immigrants already in the United States or deter further illegal
immigration.

"If the Obama administration abandons immigration enforcement in all but the
most serious criminal cases, then they will create a de facto amnesty for
millions of illegal immigrants and will encourage even more illegal
immigration," said Rep. Lamar Smith (Tex.), the ranking Republican on the House
Judiciary Committee.

He said the Obama administration should complete construction of a border fence,
enforce laws against hiring illegal workers and deport illegal immigrants before
they commit crimes.

Amnesty International and immigrant advocates warn that the change could lead to
immigration checks in other arenas and the "criminalization" of illegal
immigration.

Tom Barry, an analyst for the Center for International Policy, a nonprofit
research and policy institute in Washington, said the initiative could sweep up
foreign-born U.S. residents who have served time for offenses but were not
deported.

"Many, many legal immigrants are going to be pulled into this net even for minor
violations that they're booked for -- traffic violations, drunk driving,
whatever -- and after they've lived here 10 or 20 years, they're going to be
deported," Barry said.

By checking all people who are booked, supporters say, the program avoids racial
profiling. It also could stem what some see as overzealous efforts by some local
authorities who, through a $60 million-a-year ICE training program, have stepped
up their pursuit of illegal immigrants through measures such as neighborhood
sweeps and traffic stops.

"The administration should reassert the primacy of the federal government's role
in enforcing immigration law," said Donald Kerwin, vice president for programs
at the Migration Policy Institute, a think tank in Washington. He said, however,
that  such action should be coupled with efforts to find lawyers for immigrants
in deportation proceedings. Unlike in criminal courts, the immigration court
system does not provide public defenders.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: May 20, 2009 Wednesday



CORRECTION: A May 19 Page One article incorrectly said that Los Angeles is among
the jurisdictions participating in a program of federal immigration checks at
local jails. The program will begin there later this year.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

One-Sided Immigration 'Strategy'

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 215 words


The May 8 Style article "No Turning Back," on the efforts of Rep. Luis Gutierrez
(D-Ill.) to change immigration laws, outlined his strategy, which was "designed
to project the most sympathetic image possible" of illegal immigrants by arguing
that immigration enforcement separates families.

That strategy ignores the impact on families of failing to enforce our
immigration laws. Hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who have committed
crimes are in state jails for murder, assault, gang activity and drug charges;
more than 15 percent of federal inmates are illegal immigrants. Many of these
crimes could have been prevented if our immigration laws had been enforced
before the crimes occurred.

The strategy also ignores the fact that families can stay united if children
travel to their parents' home countries with them. Also, many illegal immigrants
initially come to the United States alone, leaving families behind. If they want
their families to be with them, they can return home.

Illegal immigrants knowingly broke our laws and entered our country illegally.
They need to take responsibility for their actions, not blame others for the
situation they caused.

LAMAR SMITH

U.S. Representative (R-Tex.)

Washington

The writer is the ranking Republican on the House Judiciary Committee.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Little New in Obama's Immigration Policy;
While Embracing Bush's Programs, President Says Nuance Makes the Difference

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 939 words


Although President Obama has spent much of his time in office moving away from
the policies of his predecessor, on immigration enforcement, he has embraced
several Bush administration initiatives, and the changes he has promised to make
are couched in nuance.

In recent days, for example, the administration has announced it will expand a
$1.1 billion program begun under President George W. Bush to check the
immigration status of virtually all people booked into local jails over the next
four years. Obama will continue a "zero-tolerance" program that charges and
jails any illegal immigrant caught crossing parts of the U.S.-Mexico border. And
the administration will resume construction of a $8 billion "virtual" fence of
tower-mounted sensors and cameras along the border.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has announced only one formal
change from Bush administration policy: limiting controversial raids at
workplaces. Under the new policy, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
investigators must give priority to prosecuting employers and can arrest workers
only when officials have secured indictments, warrants or a commitment by
prosecutors to target managers first.

At a news conference April 29, Obama said a stay-the-course strategy on
aggressive border enforcement is needed to build public support for his pledge
to overhaul the nation's immigration laws and deal with the estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants living in the United States.

"If the American people don't feel like you can secure the borders, then it's
hard to strike a deal that would get people out of the shadows and on a pathway
to citizenship who are already here," Obama said. "The attitude of the average
American is going to be, well, you're just going to have hundreds of thousands
of more coming in each year."

Obama advisers say more changes are coming to Bush's immigration policies, which
they argue were ineffective because they were heavy-handed and lacking nuance.
Still, Obama's effort to chart a course through the political minefield of
immigration -- as Americans are losing hundreds of thousands of jobs a month --
risks offending both sides, angering immigrant advocates who expected more
tangible changes while failing to satisfy those who want tighter immigration
controls.

The Bush administration drove up deportations of illegal immigrants to record
numbers in recent years -- to 358,000 in 2008 -- partly by rounding up ordinary
workers, while the portion of those deported who were criminals fell.

But Obama's vow to focus on employers, smuggling networks, and criminals or
illegal immigrants who repeatedly violate the law means he is taking on the
groups that are harder and costlier to catch. And that means the overall number
of deportations could fall, which could be seen as backsliding.

"Deporting illegal immigrants convicted of crimes is not the only important part
of our overall immigration enforcement strategy," said Rep. Lamar Smith
(R-Tex.), senior-ranking Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, who warned
that a decreased emphasis on deporting noncriminals would amount to a "de facto
amnesty" for illegal immigrants already here and encourage more illegal
immigration. "Having to choose between criminal aliens and other illegal
immigrants is a false choice. The administration can and should do both."

Doris Meissner, a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute who has been
an influential voice among Obama advisers, said she faced similar choices as
head of Immigration and Naturalization Services during the Clinton
administration.

"There's a tension between quality and quantity, and it may very well be that in
order to get more criminals or cases involving dangerous people, it may actually
mean that you're handling less cases," Meissner said. "And then that simply has
to be explained."

Marshall Fitz, director of advocacy for the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said "the jury is out" on how much will change under Obama.

Advocates are waiting to see how Napolitano's stated priority of removing the
"worst of the worst" is carried out through regulations and guidelines and to
see whether the administration succeeds.

"They're laying down all the right markers, but ultimately we need evidence,"
Meissner said. "We don't have the evidence yet to document whether there's in
fact going to be any difference."

ICE Chief of Staff Suzie Barr said one reason for delays is that Obama's
nomination to head the agency -- John T. Morton, a career Justice Department
official who built his career on prosecuting immigration crime, smuggling and
human rights abuses -- was confirmed by the Senate only last week.

Still, Napolitano said the Department of Homeland Security is pushing ahead with
plans to emphasize deporting illegal immigrants found at jails, not workplaces.
Today, police chiefs from several major U.S. cities and the Police Foundation, a
national law enforcement research group, will call on ICE to limit a program
under which it has enlisted the help of 67 state and local agencies to catch
illegal immigrants.

The groups say that the program should be limited to pursuing serious criminal
offenders and illegal immigrants at jails and that police should not arrest
people who are not suspected of committing non-immigration crimes, arguing that
those activities divert scarce resources, alienate minority communities and
trigger racial profiling complaints.

Barr said the changes ICE is proposing will bolster oversight "significantly,"
ensure that local agreements reflect ICE priorities and "strengthen the overall
effectiveness of the program nationally."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By J. Scott Applewhite -- Associated Press
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Change or Continuity?

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 227 words


President Obama has endorsed several immigration enforcement tools used by his
predecessor but emphasizes cracking down on illegal immigrants who commit
non-immigration crimes and on employers who hire illegal immigrants.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has reviewed these Bush
administration policies:

--  Operation Streamline. A "zero-tolerance" program that charges all people
caught illegally crossing parts of the U.S.-Mexico border. This program will
continue.

--  Secure Communities. Seeks to deport dangerous illegal immigrant criminals by
checking the immigration status of all people in local jails. This program will
expand.

--  Work site raids may continue, but the government will give priority to
prosecuting employers, and workers will not be detained without indictments,
warrants or a commitment from prosecutors to target managers.

--  No-match letters are intended to pressure companies to resolve discrepancies
over 8.7 million workers with suspect Social Security numbers or fire those
workers. This program was put on hold by a federal judge, and the Obama
administration has not indicated it will revive it.

--  E-Verify. An electronic system employers can use to check workers' documents
against government databases. This system will be required of federal
contractors with contracts over $100,000 unless Obama halts the expansion.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 25, 2009 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Senate Democrats Address Immigration

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 720 words


Senate Democrats outlined plans yesterday to overhaul the nation's immigration
laws, including a requirement that all U.S. workers verify their identity
through  fingerprints or an eye scan.

Speaking on the eve of a White House summit with congressional leaders on
immigration, Sen. Charles E. Schumer (N.Y.) said a national  system to verify
work documents is necessary because Congress has failed to crack down on
unscrupulous employers and illegal immigrants with fake documents.

"I'm sure the civil libertarians will object to some kind of biometric card --
although . . . there'll be all kinds of protections -- but we're going to have
to do it. It's the only way," Schumer said. "The American people will never
accept immigration reform unless they truly believe their government is
committed to ending future illegal immigration."

By announcing his plans, Schumer, who chairs the Senate's main immigration
subcommittee, ushered in what President Obama has signaled will be his next
major legislative campaign, after the economic stimulus plan, health care and
energy.

Schumer said legislation should secure control of the nation's borders within a
year and require that an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants register with
the government and "submit to a rigorous process to convert to legal status" or
face immediate deportation. Rejecting the euphemism "undocumented workers," he
said: "Illegal immigration is wrong -- plain and simple."

A senior White House official said Obama is open to all of Schumer's proposals,
including his ID plan, saying that "he wants to listen, he wants to talk. All of
it is on the table."

Hispanic leaders and immigrant advocates have pressed Obama to fulfill a
campaign pledge to tackle the issue this year. In response, House and Senate
Democratic leaders voiced new optimism this week that a deal can be struck
before election season heats up next spring.

"I think we have the floor votes to do it," Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid
(D-Nev.) told reporters Tuesday. House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.)
added that action could begin "as early, perhaps, as this fall."

Seeking to build momentum, Obama will meet today with at least 20 House and
Senate members from both parties, officials said. But White House aides have
worked to lower expectations, noting Congress's inability to deliver legislation
to former president George W. Bush in 2006 and 2007, and vowing to proceed with
debate this year only with strong bipartisan support.

"The president wants to make it clear he is serious," a senior White House
official said yesterday. "He also wants to make it clear he's going to need
strong partnership and leadership on both sides of the aisle to get the right
policies moving."

Key Republicans reacted cautiously, saying they would work with Obama if he
thinks a deal is possible.

"What we need now is not another photo op at the White House," Sen. John Cornyn
(Tex.), the ranking Republican on Schumer's panel, said Tuesday. "What we need
is a plan from the president of the United States."

In pushing Congress to tackle the subject for the third time in four years,
advocates say a bigger Democratic majority, Republican unease over the party's
waning support from Hispanics and public demand for solutions will deliver a
filibuster-proof 60 votes in the Senate.

But the plan faces obstacles, opponents said, including rising competition for
jobs in a collapsing economy, and continued resistance to granting "amnesty" to
illegal immigrants.

"Every Democrat that's in a competitive district knows that will be the question
next year: Why did they vote for more foreign workers while 14 million workers
are unemployed?" said Roy Beck, founder of NumbersUSA, a group that advocates
for limiting immigration.

Also unclear is what backing might come from business groups. Schumer's
priorities did not include expanding a guest-worker program, which employers
sought. Instead, Schumer said that any deal must also create mechanisms to
attract highly skilled immigrants, control the flow of low-skilled immigrants
and protect native-born workers.

A system to access legal workers "is non-negotiable from a business point of
view," said Tamara Jacoby, president of the ImmigrationWorks USA lobby, adding:
"But we're open to a discussion of what that legal mechanism should be."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 11, 2009 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

DHS Alters Its Illegal Immigrant Program

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 319 words


The Department of Homeland Security will rein in a controversial program that
deputizes state and local police agencies to enforce federal immigration laws by
targeting illegal immigrants who commit major drug or violent crimes, Secretary
Janet Napolitano said yesterday.

Civil liberties groups and immigrant advocates have alleged that some police
officials have engaged in racial profiling, using their authority to conduct
indiscriminate traffic stops or neighborhood sweeps aimed at Latinos and other
ethnic groups.

In May, Congress's audit arm faulted U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
for improperly supervising the enforcement program. It cited cases in which
police arrested illegal immigrants for minor infractions such as speeding or
urinating in public.

ICE officials said 66 participating agencies, which receive federal grant
dollars for their participation, will have 90 days to accept new terms or be
dropped from the program.

The newly stated purpose of the program is to catch "criminal aliens who pose a
threat to public safety or danger to the community," ICE said. The changes set
priorities for the identification of illegal immigrants who are convicted of or
arrested for, respectively, major drug or violent crimes; then, those involving
minor drug or property crimes; and those linked with other crimes.

Critics said the changes will undermine local efforts to help enforce federal
immigration laws.

"This is another example of the administration making it harder to find and
deport illegal immigrants," said Rep. Lamar Smith (Tex.), the ranking Republican
on the House Judiciary Committee.

For example, the new rules require that participating agencies commit agents to
perform immigration duties for at least two years and to pursue all charges
filed against illegal immigrants to their completion, he said.

"It is counterproductive to bully them now with this kind of ultimatum," Smith
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 23, 2009 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

'Better to Be Deported Alive Than to Be Dead';
For undocumented residents, a call demanding ransom for a kidnapped loved one
can lead to an equally fear-inducing call to federal immigration authorities.

BYLINE: Josh White and Dagny Salas; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2399 words


Ulises Martinez received the first call on a cold January morning, a stern voice
shocking him through his cellphone. His in-laws had been taken hostage after a
grueling border crossing from the Mexican desert into Arizona. Martinez would
have to pay $3,000 to secure their release.

"I am not responsible for what will happen to them if you do not pay the money,"
the voice said. He would dismember the in-laws and dump them in the desert if
Martinez didn't pay up. It was $3,000 Martinez, a 40-year-old Alexandria
mechanic with a wife and toddler, didn't have and couldn't get.

As demands quickly increased to $5,400, Martinez's in-laws cowered in their
underwear in a dark, squalid room in Phoenix and were told that their fingers
would be cut off and their organs harvested if the cartel's demands weren't met.

Desperate and confused, Martinez, himself an undocumented immigrant, called U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the Washington area, touching off an
intense federal investigation. It was one of dozens of such search-and-rescue
missions spurred by similar menacing calls over the past year, and one of two
cases in Northern Virginia in recent months.

As U.S. control of the border has strengthened since the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, it has become harder for people to cross illegally. That has
spawned a boom in hostage-taking as smuggling cartels have realized that they
can extort money from illegal immigrants' families in the United States, many of
whom wire the ransom instead of risking their own deportation by contacting
police.

Although the cartels hold captives in the southwest border states, the crimes
have reached into the Washington region, where established immigrant communities
include undocumented people who left their families behind in Central America.
The kidnappers prey on working-class, Spanish-speaking immigrants because they
are especially vulnerable: They would do almost anything to free their loved
ones, and they are sometimes equally fearful of U.S. authorities.

Two recent cases, involving victims who received extortion calls in Alexandria
and Prince William County, highlight how reporting such crimes can lead to
daring rescues. ICE officials and local police hope the cases encourage others
receiving extortion calls to come forward, both to save lives and to help them
make inroads into the sprawling criminal organizations.

"Nobody deserves to be held against their will, regardless of their immigration
status," said James Dinkins, special agent in charge of ICE investigations in
the District and Virginia. "Nobody deserves to be abused or tortured or to have
their life threatened. . . . The hostage takers must think the loved ones aren't
going to call the cops."

The extortion demands -- which also have been reported in places including
Washington state, California, Illinois and Florida -- have led ICE agents to
work with victims to record and trace the calls. Officials estimate that more
than 1,000 captives have been rescued in raids after victims such as Martinez
come forward. But ICE officials say countless other kidnappings have gone
unreported as victims quietly pay millions of dollars in ransom.

'They Sold Us Like Chickens'

 Hostage rescues have become almost a weekly occurrence on the southern U.S.
border, according to ICE officials and police. ICE agents have been discovering
an increasing number of "drop houses" in Arizona and Texas linked to complex
human smuggling operations that they say are similar to violent Mexican drug and
weapons cartels.

"Human smugglers think nothing of engaging in hostage taking and extortion to
generate more profit for their illegal activities," said John Morton, Homeland
Security assistant secretary for ICE.

Even Martinez, as desperate as he was, never intended to call ICE. He called an
immigration advocacy group, which passed along a phone number that turned out to
be ICE. Ultimately, he realized it might be the only way to save his wife's
parents, whom he had heard crying and begging in one of numerous tense cellphone
conversations with their armed captors.

ICE agents working at their Prosperity Avenue offices in Fairfax County were
able to trace the calls to a house in west Phoenix within hours of Martinez's
coming forward Jan. 9. Local and federal authorities raided the house 2,400
miles away 34 hours later, freeing 21 immigrant hostages -- including Martinez's
in-laws. They were sent back to El Salvador.

"It's better to be deported alive than to be dead and dropped in the desert,"
Martinez said in Spanish in a recent interview, sitting with his wife, Teresa,
and son, Alexis. "If I didn't call, maybe they would have killed them, and it
would have been my fault."

As Martinez was receiving the extortion calls in January, his in-laws, Walter
Flores, 42, and Sonia Maribel Valdez-Navas, 47, were squatting in the corner of
a crowded and stinking bedroom at 8821 W. Palm Lane in Phoenix. The windows were
covered with plywood, the hostages were stripped of their clothes, shoes and
belts, and talk of escape was wistful and unrealistic. A guard flashed a 9mm
handgun.

"They said terrible things," Valdez-Navas said in Spanish from El Salvador. "I
worried a lot. I cried a lot. I didn't eat. They said if they didn't get the
money, they would take out our organs and sell them. I cried a lot."

Valdez-Navas and her husband had made their way to the United States via Mexico
on a journey to the Washington area to meet their grandson. They earned enough
money in Mexicali to pay for what they expected would be a $1,500 trip. After
walking in the desert for three days and crossing into Arizona near the dusty
town of Sasabe, they were rushed to a U.S. highway and shoved in the back of a
vehicle before arriving at the Phoenix house.

"They sold us like chickens," she said. She and her husband were in a room with
about 10 other hostages, occasionally eating soup and sleeping on a dingy gray
carpet.

Officials said hostages are treated like any other illicit commodity. Some are
sold or bartered between groups, even stolen by rivals in carjackings and raids,
according to federal court records. Martinez said he spoke to multiple callers
demanding money and said he would have paid if he could have.

Court records and interviews show the terror extending across the country after
the captors demand phone numbers of relatives. Often, the calls include hostages
pleading for help or being tortured.

"We've had everything from people taking a brick and smashing the hostages'
hands to tying them up with barbed wire to using a car battery to administer
electrical shocks to get the relatives to bring the money," said Phoenix Police
Chief Jack Harris. "And the conditions in these houses are absolutely atrocious.
People are dehydrated, they're tied up, they're beaten."

Matthew Allen, special agent in charge of ICE investigations in Phoenix, said
his office gets 40 to 50 referrals a year for such cases. Some of the houses
he's raided have as many as 100 hostages crammed inside.

"We get these calls from all over the country," Allen said. "We see this as
something we need to deal with urgently. There are victims out there that we
need to find."

Allen's office worked on 40 hostage cases in fiscal 2008 alone, rescuing 584
people from their captors in Arizona, according to ICE data. From October 2006
through June, ICE handled 6,157 human smuggling cases resulting in 3,596
criminal convictions and seizures of more than $34 million. ICE does not compile
national data on hostage cases.

Although ICE officials recognize that everyone involved -- the immigrants and
the kidnappers -- have broken the law, they say they want to save lives first
and sort out immigration status second. Allen said the victims are part of the
criminal conspiracy, "but at the same time, most of them didn't sign up for what
ended up happening."

"The victims are universally grateful," Allen said, adding that most are removed
from the country but some remain to testify in court or assist investigations.

In Martinez's case, authorities arrested six men in a nighttime raid on the
house in west Phoenix, recovering a Browning 9mm handgun and ledgers cataloguing
smuggling activity. Six were convicted in U.S. District Court in Arizona and are
serving sentences ranging from 24 to 46 months.

'I Risked So Much'

ICE agents and local police have been working to break into the organizations
that smuggle and take hostages, expecting to peel back layers of management that
mirror a drug organization. The hostages -- also known as "pollos," Spanish for
chickens -- are guarded by armed men at the lowest level of vast organizations
that authorities say rely on smugglers ("coyotes"), muscle, drivers, financiers
and others to carry out extortion schemes.

Francisco Javier Quinones-Soriano, a slight man who himself was smuggled into
the United States from Mexico, was one of the guards at the house and was
sentenced to 30 months in prison in June. But his attorney said Quinones-Soriano
was a prisoner of the smuggling system, someone who didn't have contacts in the
United States and couldn't pay off his debt to the cartel. Out of options, he
became a guard who did not relish his role.

Jim Park, a Phoenix attorney who represented Quinones-Soriano, likened smuggling
operations to drug cartels, with organizers supervising recruiters, guards,
money collectors, those who arrange drop houses and those who make the extortion
calls.

"You have a 'pollo' who started out as a victim and they become the guards, and
they work as a guard or a cook and they work their debt off. You rarely, if
ever, find the guy who organized it all at these houses," Park said. "I think
[the authorities] are going after the guys they can find. They're putting out
fires left and right. I think they're trying to go up, but it's very difficult.
There is a lot of protection for the higher-ups because they are insulated.
People don't want to talk. They'll do their time because they don't want to face
the repercussions."

Dinkins, the top ICE official in the Washington field office, said the agency is
following organizations that smuggle drugs, money, weapons and people, groups
that want to get "the biggest bang for the least risk." Allen said ICE is
working to get deep into the cartels: "Our job is to get beyond these people to
the organizers."

ICE is using ongoing hostage cases to make those inroads. One such case arose
out of Prince William County in April.

Just as Juana, 22, of Manassas, was expecting her brother to be crossing into
the United States, her cellphone rang. Violent smugglers had Felix, and they
wanted $800 in cash to set him free.

So Juana scraped $800 together and wired the money to Texas. Then more urgent
calls came, demanding $5,000 more in cash. If she didn't comply, they said, they
were going to chop her 18-year-old brother into pieces and send them to her, one
by one, in the mail.

At one point, a woman warned Juana: "You're starting trouble with the wrong
people."

Unable to pay, Juana, an undocumented immigrant, called Prince William police.
Within 48 hours, authorities tracked the kidnappers to a house near McAllen,
Tex., and freed 17 hostages who had been bound, gagged and beaten.

"If I had the $5,000, I probably would have sent it to them," Juana said in
Spanish through an interpreter. She spoke on the condition that her last name
not be used because she is considered a witness to the violent crime. "I didn't
know what to do, so I called the police."

Prince William's policy of turning illegal immigrants over to ICE has caused
police officials to worry of a chilling effect, causing immigrants who are
victimized to choose not to report crimes.

"I'm very pleased she called, and I'm sure she was desperate because of her
brother's situation," said Prince William Police Chief Charlie T. Deane. "Our
policy is that we're committed to protecting crime victims regardless of their
immigration status. Time was of the essence, and our urgent response was
critical. This case had grave potential."

Officers Donald Hoffman and Juan Sanchez Jr. responded to Juana's initial call.
Armed with the phone numbers Juana had jotted down, Sanchez linked them to south
Texas and set up a call with the kidnappers in which Juana agreed to make the
payment.

"We believed that by 5 p.m. that day they were going to kill him," Sanchez said.
Hoffman added: "While we were hopeful we could help Felix, we had no idea how
many people were at risk."

Working with ICE officials in Texas and Washington, police pinpointed the Texas
drop house within hours. Felix, who was sent back to El Salvador, told his
sister that he was bound and gagged for three weeks, he barely ate, was made to
sleep standing up and was beaten with fishing rods.

"He was very grateful when he was rescued," Juana said. "They sent him home, but
he's thankful to God that he's alive."

Valdez-Navas, who endured days of captivity in Phoenix and was removed to El
Salvador after speaking with authorities, said she continues to have nightmares.

"I wanted to know my grandson," Valdez-Navas said, crying. "I was sad I wouldn't
get to realize my dream. I risked so much. I almost died."

Juana, whose brother also survived because of her phone call to authorities,
said he has no desire to try to come back into the United States because "he's
scared now even to think about it."

In the days after her brother was rescued, Juana received calls from the cartel,
some bluffing that they still had her brother and wanted payment. At one point,
cartel members asked to meet Juana at a fast-food restaurant in Manassas -- near
her home -- to exchange cash. It was another bluff, but one that led police to
fear for Juana's safety.

Juana and Martinez continue to live in the Washington area, and they say they
are not in ICE removal proceedings. ICE tends to pursue illegal immigrants with
criminal problems but would not comment on their individual circumstances.

Police and ICE officials want people like Juana and Martinez to call, because
lives are on the line. They also urge people wishing to come to the United
States to follow the rules and not put their lives in the hands of violent
cartels.

"We want to make sure that [people] who have made a decision to be smuggled into
the U.S. understand that they are putting their lives at risk, perhaps more so
than ever," Allen said.

Staff researcher Meg Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; Ulises Martinez of
Alexandria got a ransom demand for his in-laws, who were trying to meet his son,
Alexis.
IMAGE
IMAGE; Immigration And Customs Enforcement; ICE officials found a stash of
clothes, shoes and belts -- taken to discourage hostages from trying to escape
-- inside the Phoenix drop house.
IMAGE; By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; Undocumented resident Ulises
Martinez, his wife, Teresa Gaudalupe Escobar, and their son, Alexis, 20 months,
found themselves asking ICE for help when Teresa's parents were kidnapped and
held hostage by smugglers in Phoenix.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration, Health Debates Cross Paths;
Activists on Both Sides Step Up Efforts

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 933 words


As Congress's debate over health-care legislation lumbers toward a defining test
for the Obama presidency, partisans on both sides of another issue --
immigration -- escalated their own proxy war this week, concluding that the
fates of the two issues have become politically linked.

Trying to beat back a furor over whether President Obama's centerpiece
initiative would subsidize health care for illegal immigrants, liberal
supporters of an immigration overhaul on Monday called a main proponent of that
claim a "hate group," citing its founder's ties to white supremacists and
interest in racist ideas, such as eugenics.

The counterattack comes as opponents of illegal immigration plan a Capitol Hill
lobbying push, starting when 47 conservative radio hosts hold a "town hall of
the airwaves" in Washington on Tuesday and Wednesday to highlight the costs of
illegal immigration.

Strategists on both sides said the clash underscores how Republican activists
have stirred populist anxiety against not only Obama's health-care effort but
also other parts of his agenda, and how core Democratic groups have concluded
that it is time to return fire.

In an ad published in the Capitol Hill newspaper Roll Call and a teleconference
with reporters, America's Voice, an umbrella group of immigrant advocacy
organizations, accused the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a prime
lobby for reduced immigration, of leading xenophobic efforts to lower the number
of Hispanic people in the United States.

Allies of America's Voice, including leaders of the National Council of La Raza,
a Latino civil rights group, and Media Matters, a news watchdog group, alleged
that FAIR and related organizations play on nativist, racially charged fears to
drown out debate.

"The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) is designated a HATE
GROUP by the Southern Poverty Law Center," the ad reads, citing a December 2007
listing by an independent group based in Montgomery, Ala., that monitors racist
organizations. "Extremist groups, like FAIR, shouldn't write immigration
policy," the ad concludes.

Dan Stein, president of FAIR, called attacks on the group's founder, John
Tanton, false and outdated.

"Saying something that's not true or telling a lie 50 times doesn't make it more
true than the first," Stein said, noting that the SPLC began its attacks earlier
this decade. "They've decided to engage in unsubstantiated, invidious
name-calling, smearing millions of people in this movement who simply want to
see the law enforced and, frankly, lower levels of immigration," Stein said.

Ongoing Attacks

Supporters of immigration reform usually stopped short of such blunt attacks
when Congress debated the issue in 2006 and 2007.

Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, said conservative activists
have been trying to intimidate Congress by tapping into a thin but vocal vein of
populist anger. Sharry acknowledged that the best scenario for a successful
legalization push would be "a comeback victory for health-care reform." Obama
has said he will turn to immigration next after energy legislation.

"We didn't call them out last time, we thought we were in a political debate.
Now we realize it's part political debate and . . . part culture war," Sharry
said. "These talk-show guys and FAIR, this isn't about immigration policy, as
much as they think there are way too many Latinos in this country and they want
to get rid of a couple of million of them."

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
think tank spun off FAIR, said Obama and congressional Democrats have lost
credibility in the dispute over health coverage for illegal immigrants and
probably were surprised by its intensity.

"Right now there are a lot of members of Congress who might have thought the
immigration issue wasn't as hot for opponents as it was a couple of years ago,"
Krikorian said. "They were disabused of that notion."

Focus on FAIR Founder

Republican Rep. Joe Wilson's shout of "You lie!" during Obama's speech to
Congress last Wednesday night dramatized the dispute, in which critics say
Democrats are not doing enough to verify that illegal immigrants will not
receive expanded health coverage at taxpayers' expense. The White House said
Obama's plan would tighten restrictions and require more verification of legal
residency. Supporters say research indicates that abuse is rare, that
enforcement costs outweigh savings and that U.S. citizens may be improperly
denied help.

In a series of reports, the Southern Poverty Law Center and the Anti-Defamation
League have focused on Tanton, who founded FAIR in 1979. The groups quote from
Tanton's correspondence with Holocaust deniers and white nationalist thinkers,
his expressed interest in anti-Semitic writers and the study of eugenics, and
concerns about the "educability" of Hispanics and the loss of a "European
American" majority.

"We want to keep that drumbeat going so politicians know when FAIR lobbyists
speak to them, this is who they represent," said Heidi Beirich, an SPLC
researcher.

Stein defended FAIR's track record, cited its diverse membership and said the
group "stands four-square against discrimination based on race, ethnicity or
religion." He said attacks on Tanton are taken out of context and "simply do not
reflect the true character of the person," whom Stein described as a
"Jeffersonian or Renaissance man or intellect" whose interest and writings span
a wide range of issues.

He criticized America's Voice and allied groups as "juvenile mud throwers who
seem unprepared to engage in serious public debate."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 16, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

DHS Reshapes Its Immigration Enforcement Program

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1020 words


A controversial federal program that deputizes state and local law enforcement
agents to catch illegal immigrants is expanding under the Obama administration,
despite changes announced this summer intended to curb alleged racial profiling
and other police abuses.

The Department of Homeland Security is expected to report Friday morning that a
small number of the 66 participating agencies have dropped out because of the
new federal requirements, officials said. And those losses are offset by
applications from 13 additional police and sheriff's departments, a federal
official said, speaking on condition of anonymity before the formal
announcement.

In the Washington area, sheriff's offices in Frederick, Loudoun and Prince
William counties intend to continue to participate, according to local
officials.

Nationwide, the program identified about 60,000 illegal immigrants for
deportation over the past year, the highest number since the program was
expanded nationwide in 2006. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano in
July said agencies that receive federal grants and training under the program
would have 90 days to agree to new terms aimed at ending controversial police
practices identified by congressional auditors and civil rights groups. Critics
cited cases in which police conducted roadside stops and neighborhood sweeps
aimed at Latinos and other ethnic groups, often arresting minorities for traffic
and other minor offenses in pursuit of illegal immigrants.

Changed Focus

Instead of scaling back the program, as its critics wanted, DHS has reshaped it.
The agency has reined in local police units that target illegal immigrants at
large, directing the units instead to focus on those who commit major drug
offenses or violent crimes, especially those already incarcerated.  Most
prominently, the agency cut back authority it had given to Maricopa County
Sheriff Joe Arpaio, according to Arpaio. His operations in the Phoenix
metropolitan area had led to charges of racial profiling and three federal
investigations.

Although those and similar tactics had drawn the most controversy, they
accounted for a small fraction of the 135,389 illegal immigrants caught under
the program, according to new federal data obtained by The Washington Post. The
vast majority -- 94 percent -- were found by checks at local and state jails.
DHS is moving to expand jail checks, adding such agreements with eight new
agencies, a federal official said.

"We've refocused the program on identifying and removing serious criminal
offenders, whether in jail or on the street," said a U.S. official who spoke on
the condition of anonymity because final decisions had not  been made. The
official said the new rules show that the Obama administration is intent on
enforcing immigration laws against dangerous illegal immigrants and upholding
civil rights.

DHS has determined that in Maricopa County, for example, the program to identify
illegal immigrants already in jail -- accounting for nearly 90 percent of the
county's total arrests under the program -- may continue, the sheriff said. But
the agency found that the county's task force aimed at finding illegal
immigrants in the community was not being operated "in a manner consistent with
our law enforcement policies," the U.S. official said.

ICE spokeswoman Kelly Nantel declined to comment on the status of any
participating agency.

Critics on Both Sides

Jessica Vaughan, an analyst with the Center for Immigration Statistics, which
seeks greater immigration restrictions, said the administration needs local
agencies to be satisfied with the new federal rules to maintain its credibility
over immigration enforcement. Nevertheless, the changes did not please the most
vocal critics on either side.

Supporters of tougher enforcement have championed Arpaio.

"This unbelievable move by the Obama administration represents a politicized
attempt to hinder one of our most effective illegal immigration enforcement
mechanisms," Rep. Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) and Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), ranking
member of the House Judiciary Committee, said in a statement.

Arpaio, whose, 4,000-employee department has caught more illegal immigrants
under the program than any other agency -- more than 20 percent of the
nationwide total -- vowed to defy the new U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement rules and continue arrests in the community. He said deputies will
conduct another "crime suppression" raid Friday and turn over illegal immigrants
found violating traffic laws or other civil offenses to federal authorities. If
ICE refuses to take them, Arpaio said, he will take them to the next closest
federal agency, probably the U.S. Border Patrol at the Mexican border.

"I can't understand why they are bullying this law enforcement agency for
political reasons when we've been so successful," Arpaio said in an interview.
"We're going to go out again [Friday] -- the same way we've been doing it."

A coalition of more than 500 local and national civil liberties and immigrant
groups have opposed the federal program, saying it hampers public safety by
intimidating immigrant communities from reporting crimes to the police and
diverting police from investigating more serious crimes.

Reps. Nydia Velazquez (D-N.Y.) and Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.) wrote President Obama
last month on behalf of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, calling on the White
House to terminate the program.

Omar C. Jadwat, staff attorney with the ACLU Immigrants' Rights Project, cited a
report last month by the University of California at Berkeley School of Law as
evidence that the administration's shift to jail checks would  encourage some
local police to arrest and book more minorities so their immigration status
could be determined once they were behind bars. That study found that police in
Irving, Tex., working with a separate ICE program, increased arrests of
Hispanics  for minor offenses by nearly 150 percent between April and September
2007.

"Focusing on jail programs as opposed to these [investigative] task force
programs doesn't eliminate the serious problems we've seen with profiling,"
Jadwat said.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Ross D. Franklin -- Associated Press; Maricopa County Sheriff
Joe Arpaio says DHS has cut back his authority in federal immigration
enforcement.
IMAGE; By David Wallace -- Arizona Republic Via Associated Press; Members of the
Maricopa County Sheriff's Posse detain Armando Garcia, 18, after he failed to
produce proper identification during a traffic stop in Mesa, Ariz. The stop was
part of a "crime suppression" immigration sweep.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Prince William, Loudoun Stay In Immigration Program;
Deals Include New Rules, More Power for ICE

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ03

LENGTH: 703 words


The Prince William Board of County Supervisors authorized the police chief
Tuesday to enter into a new agreement with the Department of Homeland Security
that will effectively give federal officials more authority over the local
illegal immigration enforcement program.

The board's decision came just three months after changes were made to the
federal 287(g) illegal immigration program. The changes are meant to standardize
the program after a U.S. Government Accountability Office report concluded that
some of the agencies in the program had overstepped their authority.

All participating agencies were told to accept the new agreement by mid-October
or be dropped from the program. Of the 79 agencies nationwide, 67 have signed
the new agreement so far, including law enforcement officials in Manassas and
Loudoun County.

"The i's haven't been dotted and the t's haven't been crossed, but we've sent it
for final approval," Loudoun County sheriff's spokesman Kraig Troxell said.

Prince William entered into the 287(g) program in 2007, revising its immigration
policy last year so local police question the citizenship or immigration status
of all people under physical arrest for a violation of a state or local law.
Five officers and one supervisor are in the county's immigration enforcement
unit.

"I'm convinced what we did on illegal immigration is probably one of the most
popular things this board has done, at least while I've been on it," said board
Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large). "Unfortunately, we have to move on this
or [lose] the program entirely."

Prince William Police Chief Charlie T. Deane said the new agreement generally
gives more control to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement when dealing only
with immigration matters, something that does not happen often in the county.

"In Prince William, the criminal alien unit focuses primarily on individuals who
lack legal status and commit crimes," Deane said. "We don't routinely arrest
solely on immigration status."

Under the new agreement, immigration cases will be prioritized based on
severity, with the focus on major drug offenses and violent crimes.

The new agreement adds a provision that says all local agency personnel are
bound by federal civil rights laws and puts penalties in place for agencies that
fail to follow the agreement. It requires ICE to do background checks on all
Prince William police officers participating in the immigration enforcement
unit.

The new agreement also could place a greater financial burden on the county. But
Deane said that isn't the case, at least for now. ICE will continue to pay for
aspects of the program including training costs and computer equipment until its
funding runs out. After that, the burden will shift to the county, and the
program will need to be readdressed, he said.

"Overall, I don't think these changes will significantly impact how we operate,"
Deane said. "We have been working with ICE to come up with an agreement we think
is acceptable."

Col. Peter A. Meletis, the superintendent of the Prince William-Manassas
Regional Adult Detention Center, said the jail board has signed off on its new
partnership with Homeland Security.

Under the new agreement, the actions taken against "level one," or the most
serious, offenders will not change. The jail will put a detainer on inmates in
the country illegally, and once they finish their sentence, ICE will pick them
up. From when the jail began its agreement with ICE in July 2007 through this
September, it has put detainers on 2,041 people, transferring 1,923 of them to
ICE, Meletis said.

People who commit less serious crimes, including larceny, burglary and fraud,
and have never come in contact with ICE before, will "most likely" be released
after serving their sentence and will have a federal court date, Meletis said,
adding that ICE will, however, hold them if resources are available.

Meletis said the new process differs only slightly. Previously, ICE picked up
those who committed less serious crimes and transported them to its Fairfax
County facility and "possibly" released them from there before a hearing, he
said. Now, Meletis said, they will be released from the local jail and will
probably have a court hearing.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 13, 2009 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

D.C. to help U.S. identify illegal immigrants in jail;
Federal program checks fingerprints of local crime suspects

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 421 words


D.C. police will be the next department to  take part in a federal program whose
ultimate aim is to check the immigration status of every person booked into a
local jail, homeland security officials announced Thursday.

The program, known as Secure Communities, matches inmates' fingerprints against
a federal database so that federal authorities can identify and possibly remove
deportable illegal immigrants before they are released from custody.

Similar checks are done at all 1,200 federal and state prisons. But authorities
have lacked the ability to do them across the nation's 3,100 local jails.

The Bush administration launched the program as a pilot project in October 2008,
and it is being expanded under President Obama as part of an effort to focus
enforcement on illegal immigrants who commit crimes, rather than those who
otherwise obey the law.

"We're excited," said Kevin Palmer, a D.C. police spokesman. "It's going to
enable our officers to have real-time information about the individuals they
have in custody and to help facilitate the removal of dangerous felons from our
communities."

Fairfax County is one of 95 jurisdictions that participate in Secure
Communities, which differs from  a national program that deputizes local police
to question suspects about their immigration status. Several county police
departments in Northern Virginia and Maryland participate in that program.

Similarly, Montgomery County police provide immigration authorities with the
name of anyone arrested for a violent crime or handgun violation.

The checks conducted through Secure Communities are automatic. Fingerprints of
suspects arrested by local authorities, already run through the FBI's criminal
database, are also matched against an immigration database maintained by the
Department of Homeland Security. The system does not flag illegal immigrants who
have not been fingerprinted.

Homeland Security officials announced Thursday that the program had identified
in its first year more than 111,000 criminal illegal immigrants in local
custody. More than 11,000 were convicted of serious crimes such as murder, rape,
and kidnapping. About 1,900 of those immigrants have been removed from the
United States.

Richard Rocha, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the
agency planned to remove the remainder after they have completed their
sentences.

Immigrant advocates have expressed concern that Secure Communities will ensnare
many illegal immigrants who are convicted only of minor crimes or  of nothing at
all.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 14, 2009 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Obama presses Congress to rework immigration laws

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 464 words


The Obama administration expects Congress to begin moving to overhaul the
nation's immigration laws early next year, Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano said Friday, adding that improved border security and a drop in
migration caused by the economic downturn make such changes "far more
attainable" than in 2007.

"When Congress is ready to act, we will be ready to support them," said
Napolitano, President Obama's "point person" on immigration policy issues. "The
first part of 2010, we will see legislation beginning to move," she said.

Napolitano's speech, delivered at the liberal-leaning Center for American
Progress, was aimed at Latino advocates who have expressed skepticism that Obama
would fulfill a campaign pledge to push for a "comprehensive" immigration
package.

Napolitano reaffirmed Obama's support for a "tough but fair" path for legal
status for an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

"We will never have fully effective law enforcement or national security as long
as so many millions remain in the shadows," Napolitano said.

At the same time, Napolitano sought to reframe the debate from past years,
saying lawmakers' earlier demands that the government improve "enforcement
first" have been met. She argued that the time to work on immigration issues is
when a sluggish economy is dampening illegal migration.

In recent years, the U.S. government has built more than 600 miles of fencing
and pedestrian barriers on the 2,000-mile border with Mexico, and more than
doubled the ranks of the U.S. Border Patrol, to 20,000 officers, Napolitano
said. Meanwhile,  because of a shrinking job market and increased enforcement,
Border Patrol arrests last year were less than half the 2005 level of 1.2
million.

"These are major differences that should change the immigration conversation. .
. . We have gotten Congress's message she said. "Trust me: I know a major shift
when I see one, and what I have seen makes reform far more attainable this time
around."

Republican critics say that changing laws to allow more foreign-born workers is
foolhardy at a time when U.S. unemployment is nearing 10 percent.

"It is ironic that a poor economy is their justification for amnesty," said Rep.
Lamar Smith (Tex.).  "How can they claim that enforcement is 'done' when there
are more than 400 open miles of border with Mexico, hundreds of thousands of
criminal and fugitive aliens and millions of illegal immigrants taking American
jobs?"

Immigrant advocates said they were pleased the administration is approaching
"the moment of truth" for a debate, but said they were still watching to see it
and Congress commit real political capital. Congressional watchers also say the
issue faces a crowded calendar in the Senate, which is set to take up health
care and climate legislation.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 23, 2009 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

A Balanced Immigration Policy

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 175 words


Jorge G. Castaneda and Tamar Jacoby made the compelling point that no
immigration reform plan will work unless it recognizes that, in normal economic
times, demand for immigrant workers has exceeded supply ["Immigration Pitfall,"
op-ed, July 21].

But they focused too narrowly on a big new temporary worker program as the
solution to that problem.

Temporary worker programs are only one of many elements of a reform package. The
United States needs new legal avenues for both skilled and unskilled workers;
effective and comprehensive workplace verification; stringent border security;
and some means to adjust immigration levels to economic demand -- not simply an
open invitation to temporary worker status for all who might otherwise try to
come here illegally.

A balanced approach would better serve U.S. interests and is more likely to
build support for the urgent task of reforming our outdated and dysfunctional
immigration policies.

EDWARD ALDEN

Project Director

Independent Task Force

on U.S. Immigration Policy

Council on Foreign Relations

Washington

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Arrests on Southern Border Drop;
27% Decline Marks Fewest Seizures by Agents Since 1976

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 475 words


The number of arrests at the U.S.-Mexico border has dropped 27 percent this
year, a decline that could put the figure at its lowest level since the early
1970s, federal officials said yesterday.

The decline accelerates a three-year-old trend that experts attribute to the
economic downturn, with stronger U.S. immigration enforcement measures also
playing a role.

U.S. Border Patrol Chief David V. Aguilar released the data to the Senate
Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, refugees and border security, noting that
the number of Border Patrol agents has more than doubled from 9,000 in 2001 to a
projected 20,000 by September. The government also has completed 626 miles of
fencing and vehicle barriers. It plans 661 miles of barriers on the 2,000-mile
frontier.

"By several measures, the border is far more secure than it has ever been and,
with our help, will soon be even more secure," said Sen. Charles E. Schumer
(D-N.Y.), chairman of the panel, which held the first of four hearings scheduled
to take place before the August recess. Aides said the hearings are meant to
build a case for overhauling immigration laws.

President Obama has invited advocates to hammer out a legislative approach and
has set a June 8 meeting at the White House for a small, bipartisan group of
Senate and House leaders, a spokesman said yesterday, "with the hope of
beginning the debate in earnest later this year."

The committee's senior Republican, Sen. Jeff Sessions (Ala.), noted that the
Border Patrol made 723,000 arrests last fiscal year.

That is "still a lot," he said. "That is not a lawful border. . . . We're not
there yet."

Arrest figures only partially measure illegal immigration because authorities do
not know how many immigrants evade capture and because one person can be
arrested many times.

But the trend is corroborated by declining rates of remittances sent by
immigrants to their native countries and by Mexican census data. More than 11
million illegal immigrants live in the United States, and experts do not see
evidence that many are leaving.

The Border Patrol reported 354,959 arrests from October 2008 to May, down from
486,735 over that period a year ago. About 97 percent of the arrests were on the
southern border.

The figure for fiscal 2008 is less than half the 1.7 million in 2000 -- the peak
-- and is the lowest since 1976, the Department of Homeland Security said.

Spending on U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the patrol's parent agency, has
climbed 82 percent since 2004, from about $6 billion to about $11 billion.

Douglas S. Massey, a professor at Princeton University, said the crackdown has
increased the average cost of border crossings from $600 in the early 1990s to
$2,200. But he noted that the cost of each arrest has also risen. The number of
fatalities also has climbed as migrants seek more remote areas to avoid capture.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By John Moore -- Getty Images; Illegal immigrants rest in a
holding cell at a U.S. Border Patrol station after being caught in August
crossing from Mexico near Laredo, Tex. The Border Patrol reported 354,959
arrests from October 2008 to May, down from 486,735 over that period a year ago.
About 97 percent of the arrests were along the border with Mexico.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Precedent Reinstated In Deportation Cases;
Holder Says Immigrants Can Appeal Removal Orders Over Lawyer Errors

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 572 words


Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. yesterday overturned a Bush administration
ruling in January that immigrants do not have a constitutional right to
effective legal counsel in deportation proceedings.

In vacating the decision his predecessor, Michael B. Mukasey, issued two weeks
before President George W. Bush left office, Holder restored one of the most
common grounds cited by immigrants for appealing removal orders: that their
attorneys were incompetent.

The nation's immigration courts are separate from the judicial branch and
operate under the Justice Department, which makes the U.S. attorney general the
final arbiter for immigration proceedings. Immigrants are not entitled to public
defenders but can hire their own lawyers. Immigrants can appeal deportation
rulings to the federal court system, and thousands have, relying on legal
precedent established by the immigration courts in 1988 and reaffirmed in 2003.

However, during Bush's second term, the Justice Department argued in the federal
courts that neither the Constitution nor any federal law or regulation "entitles
an alien to a do-over if his initial removal proceeding is prejudiced by the
mistakes of a privately retained lawyer," as Mukasey wrote.

The Bush Justice Department argued successfully in recent years against that
right, winning decisions covering the U.S. Courts of Appeals for the 4th and 8th
circuits. If there is no constitutional right to counsel in immigration cases,
there is no such right to effective counsel, Mukasey ruled.

Holder's three-page decision restored immigration court procedures and legal
precedents in place before January, but he added that "litigating positions of
the Department of Justice will remain unaffected" -- leaving open the
possibility that the government or future administrations might still continue
to press such claims in federal courts, depending on the circumstances in the
case. Holder also announced plans to initiate federal rulemaking to cover how
immigration courts decide claims of ineffective legal representation, saying
Mukasey's ruling did not thoroughly consider the issues involved.

"The integrity of immigration proceedings depends in part on the ability to
assert claims of ineffective assistance of counsel, and the Department of
Justice's rulemaking in this area will be fair, it will be transparent, and it
will be guided by our commitment to the rule of law," Holder said.

Nadine Wettstein, director of the American Immigration Law Foundation's Legal
Action Center, said in a statement that the advocacy arm of the nation's
immigration law bar was "very encouraged that Attorney General Holder
appreciates the importance of immigrants' rights in deportation proceedings."

Lee Gelernt, deputy director of the American Civil Liberties Union's immigrants'
rights project, called the decision "an important first step" but added: "We
think that if the attorney general is intending to ensure that immigrants have a
right to reopen their deportation hearings where there has been an egregious
mistake by their attorney, the Justice Department should not be simultaneously
trying to limit that right in the courts."

H. Thomas Wells, Jr., president of the American Bar Association, said in a
statement, "It is fundamentally American to treat fairly those who come to our
country, especially when their future and their freedom may be at stake. . . .
This decision is important, and we applaud it."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; 2006 Photo By Khampha Bouaphanh -- Associated Press; A Border
Patrol agent monitors the fence along the U.S.-Mexico border in Nogales, Ariz.
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. yesterday vacated a Bush-era ruling and
restored legal protections for immigrants in deportation cases.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Hot-Button Topic on Back Burner

BYLINE: Derek Kravitz; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 627 words


One in a series of articles about issues being discussed by the Democratic
candidates for governor of Virginia, who will stand for the primary Tuesday.

After the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, Virginia embraced some of the
nation's toughest anti-illegal immigration measures, from ramped-up driver's
license requirements to a policy in Prince William County that allows police to
conduct on-the-spot checks of suspected illegal immigrants.

But as the economy soured, the issue fell to the back burner. That has enabled
the three candidates seeking the Democratic nomination for governor -- state
Sen. R. Creigh Deeds (D-Bath), Terry McAuliffe and Brian Moran -- to avoid
taking a firm stance on the topic. Instead, they've walked a fine line between
supporting comprehensive immigration reform and stressing that the issue is one
for the federal government to tackle. Former Virginia attorney general Robert F.
McDonnell, the Republican candidate, has also shied from the hot-button issue.

"Several states seem to be getting the idea that there are stricter parameters
in place [than] what they could act on," said Ann Morse, program director for
the Immigration Policy Project at the National Conference of State Legislatures
in Washington. "Now you're seeing many states and political candidates deciding
to step back."

In 2003, the General Assembly passed legislation requiring applicants for
drivers licenses to provide proof of citizenship or legal presence in the United
States, along with proof of Virginia residency. Culpeper and Virginia Beach have
enacted tougher zoning and enforcement laws in recent years regarding
undocumented immigrants. In Prince William, officials passed sweeping
immigration-related measures in March 2008, curtailing government services to
immigrants who lack documentation.

Since then, Virginia lawmakers have retreated from the hard-line approach.

"Illegal immigration is probably not an issue the candidates are going to bring
up unless it's brought up to them," said state Sen. John C. Watkins
(R-Chesterfield), the chairman of the governor-convened Virginia Commission on
Immigration. "I'm a Republican, so I can say this: Let's face it, the
Republicans do not want a witch hunt about the Hispanic population."

The three Democratic candidates have tip-toed around the topic. Most notable is
McAuliffe, a former national Democratic Party chairman, who was criticized in
January 2007 for comments about shutting "these borders down" on a California
radio station.

"I don't care if you're a Democrat or a Republican, we all agree you've got to
shut the borders down," he said at the time. "People who are coming into this
nation taking our jobs."

Since then, McAuliffe has softened his rhetoric. During a News Channel
8/Washington Post-sponsored debate last month, McAuliffe said he believed an
"inviting environment" should be fostered in Virginia for immigrants.

"We don't want the word going out that we are shutting our counties down," he
said.

At the same debate, Deeds and Moran criticized Prince William's immigration
policy, with Deeds asking, "Who in the world is going to do the work . . . the
jobs necessary in Prince William County?"

Moran, a former state delegate from Alexandria, might be taking the most
immigration-friendly approach of the three candidates, supporting a plan that
would allow undocumented immigrants access to state colleges and universities at
the full tuition rate.

As attorney general, McDonnell supported local Virginia jurisdictions entering
into 287(g) agreements with the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement. But
in the wake of party defeats in vote-heavy Northern Virginia, McDonnell has
adopted a more centrist approach -- one that leaves out ideological issues such
as immigration.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

GOD IN GOVERNMENT The Best From This Week's Blog

BYLINE: The Best From This Week's Blog

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 470 words

Christian Leaders Push Immigration Reform

In advance of the White House's big meeting next week on immigration, a
coalition of Christian groups launched a Web site and statement of principles.
In a telephone conference, they called for President Obama and Congress to
tackle comprehensive reform on immigration in the next few months and emphasized
the spiritual arguments for humane treatment of undocumented immigrants.

The teleconference by the group, Christians for Comprehensive Immigration
Reform, featured heavyweights in the arena of faith and politics, including
three members of the president's new faith-based advisory council. Because
Obama's meeting Wednesday on immigration appears so far to be by invitation only
for members of Congress, the group wanted to weigh in on the debate ahead of
time.

Report: Gay Rights Groups Ignored Religion

Gay-rights groups made a major strategic error in their failed effort to stop
California's Proposition 8, which outlawed gay marriage, by ignoring the faith
community and trying to make their case purely on secular grounds, a report
said.

The little-noticed paper released last week by a gay-rights group was sharply
critical of the gay community's campaign against Proposition 8. It says that
gay-rights groups appear "significantly limited" in their ability to work in
partnership with religious leaders and "unable or unwilling" to incorporate
religious leaders who support gay rights.

During the Proposition 8 campaign, the report said, pro-gay religious leaders
who opposed the measure were told not to use the religious language of their
traditions to voice their opposition, and, when they were finally encouraged to
speak out as people of faith, it was too late.

SBC Repudiates Prayer for Obama's Death

The Southern Baptist Convention, the nation's largest denomination, has been
embarrassed by the comments of the Rev. Wiley Drake, a former officer in the
convention, who said he is praying for the death of the president.

Drake, a former SBC vice president who ran for president last year, said in a
recent interview on Fox News Radio that he is praying an "imprecatory prayer"
against the president. Those are prayers that ask for evil or misfortune. Asked
whether he was seriously praying that the president of the United States would
die, Drake said, "If he does not turn to God and does not turn his life around,
I am asking God to enforce imprecatory prayers that are throughout the Scripture
that would cause him death, that's correct."

SBC officials have moved quickly to disavow the comments. SBC spokesman Sing
Oldham told the Associated Baptist Press that Drake is out of the denomination's
mainstream. Oldham said he believes that most Southern Baptists are committed to
praying for the president's well-being, which he said is called for in
Scripture.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Actress Emmy Rossum attends a march after the California Supreme
Court upheld Proposition 8.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 26, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 580 words


WHITE HOUSE

Obama, Lawmakers Discuss Immigration

A bipartisan group of lawmakers emerged from a White House meeting with
President Obama on Thursday confident that the president is ready to put his
political weight behind an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws.

"I don't think he could have be clearer today or more committed today that he
wanted to make comprehensive immigration reform a reality," said Rep. Luis V.
Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who had previously expressed disappointment with Obama's
commitment to the issue. "He led today."

Obama and members of his administration met with the lawmakers to begin mapping
a plan to build support for an immigration measure that the president has said
he would like to pass later this year or early next year, according to a senior
White House official.

Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Obama said he  is committed to pushing
reform, even though similar efforts failed during the presidency of George W.
Bush and sharp differences on immigration separate members of Congress,
particularly as the economy continues to struggle.

"It's going to require some heavy lifting," Obama said. "It's going to require a
victory of practicality and common sense and good policymaking over short-term
politics. That's what I'm committed to doing as president."

-- Michael A. Fletcher

Impeached Federal Judge Resigns: A federal judge from Texas who was impeached by
the House has resigned ahead of his Senate trial. U.S. District Judge Sam Kent
turned over a letter of his resignation to a Senate official who was serving a
subpoena on the judge at the Massachusetts prison where he is serving a 33-month
prison sentence. Kent has pleaded guilty to lying to federal judicial
investigators about sexually assaulting two women who worked for him.

U.S. Seizes Generics: Authorities seized generic  medications made by Caraco
Pharmaceutical Laboratories at plants in Michigan after repeated violations of
manufacturing standards, regulators said. The seized drugs included generic
versions of heart, pain and psychiatric medications, Food and Drug
Administration officials said. A Caraco spokesman could not immediately be
reached for comment.

N.J. Candidate Testifies at Hearing: Chris Christie, a former U.S. attorney and
New Jersey's Republican gubernatorial candidate, defended an arrangement in
which former attorney general John D. Ashcroft's consulting firm made millions
of dollars monitoring a controversial deferred prosecution agreement. In a
sometimes-tense exchange with congressional Democrats, Christie told the House
Judiciary Committee that the choice of Ashcroft was acceptable to the company,
Zimmer Holdings. But the testimony from Christie, who once worked for Ashcroft,
was at odds with e-mails that surfaced before the hearing showing the company
was unhappy with the fees it had to pay Ashcroft's firms.

Woman Allegedly Changed Daughter's Grades: Pennsylvania prosecutors say a high
school secretary illegally changed grades in a school computer system to improve
her daughter's class standing. Attorney General Tom Corbett said Thursday that
Caroline Maria McNeal used co-workers' passwords without their knowledge to
access the system at Huntingdon Area High School in Pennsylvania.

Bail Is Denied for N.J. Blogger: A judge denied bail to New Jersey blogger
Harold "Hal" Turner, who was charged with threatening to assault or kill three
Chicago-based federal judges who refused to overturn handgun bans.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 5, 2009 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Dithering on Immigration Reform

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 715 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


President Obama recently reignited the immigration debate when he told reporters
that congressional leaders of both parties were ready to "actively get something
done and not put it off until a year, two years, three years, five years from
now, but to start working on this thing right now."

In the months ahead, keep an eye on two things: the calendar and the issue of
guest workers.

The calendar: "Right now" might not be soon enough. The conventional wisdom is
that the longer Obama waits, the harder it will be to pass any immigration
reform legislation. One immigration activist I spoke with even had a deadline in
mind: March 2010. Congress has to discuss the bill this fall, he said, and pass
it no later than next spring. His thinking -- and that of many others -- is that
the 2010 midterm elections might cut into the Democratic majority in Congress,
and then the chance for immigration reform could slip away.

The flaw with such reasoning is that it assumes Republicans are the main
obstacle to reform, and that, conversely, Democrats must be the main
facilitators. Yet Republicans are under a lot of pressure from business groups
to fix the immigration system so companies can more easily hire workers. As for
Democrats, they were the ones carrying the ball in 2007, the last time Congress
fumbled the chance at reform.

In fact, in this go-round, it is the Democrats -- specifically, Blue Dog
Democrats -- whom Obama has to worry about most. An estimated 40 House Democrats
are thought to be either too conservative to support a pathway for illegal
immigrants to become legal, or at risk of losing their seats if they vote for
such a measure.

This makes it all the more important that Obama win over at least some
Republican votes to offset the Democratic ones he can't count on. But the
problem stretches back to why Democrats had trouble passing reform two years
ago. You see, the Democratic Party is beholden to organized labor, which
supports immigration reform but with an important caveat. While it has no
problem with legalizing workers it hopes will become card-carrying, dues-paying
union members, it continues to resist the idea of allowing businesses -- as part
of the bargain -- to bring into the United States hundreds of thousands of
temporary foreign workers.

Guest workers: In 2007, Democrats were caught in a tough spot between trying to
please Hispanic voters who wanted immigration reform and unions willing to kill
the deal if they couldn't manage to remove the language on guest workers. This
time, Democrats have figured a way out. They're prepared to simply steer clear
of the whole issue of guest workers and propose legislation that focuses only on
enhanced border enforcement and a pathway to legalization.

This was the take from a speech that Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York -- the new
chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration -- gave last month
at an event sponsored by the Washington-based Migration Policy Institute.
Schumer is going to write the immigration bill. And in laying out what he
considered to be key elements, he omitted any reference to guest workers.

Yet if guest workers are off the menu, don't expect Republicans to sit down at
the table. Even immigration moderates such as Sen. John McCain of Arizona and
Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina have drawn a line in the sand and assured
the White House that if guest workers aren't part of the final bill, they won't
support it.

But wait. Didn't I say earlier that Obama needs Republican votes because he can
expect to lose a big chunk of Democratic support? So Schumer would be foolish
not to throw the GOP a bone on this one, and perhaps -- as a state legislator in
Texas recently suggested to me -- create a guest worker plan that is tied to
market forces. When unemployment goes up, the number of guest worker visas goes
down, and vice versa.

Should that language get in, you can expect organized labor to panic and put the
screws to Democrats again to oppose the bill. Then, before you know it, we're
back where we started: with a broken immigration system and a Congress that
doesn't have the skills or the guts to fix it.

And they call this reform?

Ruben Navarrette is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His e-mail
address is ruben.navarrette@uniontrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 18, 2009 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Time to End an Asylum Limbo for Abused Women

BYLINE: Esta Soler and Karen Musalo

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 888 words


Rody Alvarado PeÃ±a, a victim of brutal domestic violence in her native
Guatemala, sought refuge in the United States in 1995. An immigration court
judge granted her asylum the next year, but almost 14 years later Rody remains
in limbo. She is working in a convent in California and hoping that the Obama
administration will finally resolve her case and take steps to protect women who
flee their countries to escape certain death from gender-based violence.

The administration recently sent a positive signal about these types of cases,
but it needs to do much more. The plight of Alvarado PeÃ±a -- an indisputably
peaceful woman at risk for deportation -- underscores both the dysfunction in
our immigration system and the fact that our nation's promise of mercy and
refuge is still applied erratically, even capriciously.

Nobody disputes the facts of this case. At age 16, Alvarado PeÃ±a married a
career soldier. He raped and beat her with abandon, breaking mirrors over her
head, causing a miscarriage by kicking her until she hemorrhaged and viciously
beating her until she lost consciousness. With divorce impossible without her
husband's consent, and no shelters or supports available, Alvarado PeÃ±a fled to
the United States.

Initially, she was granted asylum, but because  a dispute continues over whether
gender-based persecution is a basis for asylum, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service appealed the case. A few years later, the Board of
Immigration Appeals, the nation's highest immigration court, denied her asylum.
The judges did not dispute what had happened to Alvarado PeÃ±a, and they
recognized her husband's violence as "deplorable." Still, they found no basis in
law to grant Alvarado PeÃ±a asylum.

During the Clinton administration, as one of her last acts in office, Attorney
General Janet Reno vacated that ruling and issued regulations recognizing
gender-based persecution as a possible basis for asylum. Reno ordered the court
to reconsider Alvarado PeÃ±a's case when the regulations were finalized. That
never happened, in part because responsibility for asylum law is now split
between the Justice Department and the Department of Homeland Security -- a
complication, no doubt, but one federal agencies surely could overcome.

In 2003, Attorney General John Ashcroft took the case with the intention of
deciding it himself, but he dropped it when Secretary Tom Ridge's Department of
Homeland Security filed a brief stating the obvious: Alvarado PeÃ±a is no threat
and should be granted asylum.

Alvarado PeÃ±a remained in limbo for years, though, because the Bush
administration failed to finalize the regulations that could shape the outcome
of her case. Last year, Attorney General Michael Mukasey ordered the Board of
Immigration Appeals  to decide the case without waiting for the regulations to
be finalized. (The board sent it back to an immigration judge in San Francisco,
who will decide her fate.) Without those regulations, Alvarado PeÃ±a could be
deported to Guatemala, where all semblance of law has collapsed and the danger
has escalated dramatically.

To those of us who have been paying attention all these years, it's almost
inconceivable that another administration left office with Rody's case
unresolved. Ten years ago, on this page, one of us urged the Bush administration
to finish what the Clinton administration started by finalizing the rules
addressing gender-based violence ["Denying Asylum to a Battered Woman," Nov. 8,
1999]. The response to that opinion piece was enormous: Senators called us,
constituents flooded congressional offices with calls, attorneys wrote more
briefs and generous donors sought ways to help. But the system defied the
pressure to act.

Sadly, cases like this aren't going away. Violence against women and girls is a
global crisis. In the past year, rape has been used as a weapon of war in
Zimbabwe, grandmothers have been hacked to pieces in the Democratic Republic of
Congo, and a 13-year-old rape victim was stoned to death in Somalia. Every day,
there are "honor" killings, acid attacks, bride burnings, and horrific domestic
and sexual violence worldwide.

There is reason once again to be hopeful. The Department of Homeland Security
filed a brief this spring -- which became public this week -- in the case of a
severely battered woman from Mexico; the brief  acknowledged that such claims
could be accepted under law. But the filing of one brief is no substitute for
clear national policy.

It's time we put our regulatory house in order and assured victims of
gender-based violence that they can count on justice in the United States. As
the Obama administration sets its priorities, this one should be easy. Diverse
groups -- from conservative Christians to  liberal feminists --  agree that Rody
Alvarado PeÃ±a deserves asylum and that it's time to finalize the regulations
affecting cases like hers. If federal agencies don't do it through regulation,
it's time for Congress to do it through legislation.

We need Obama administration officials to do the job and do it right. Unless
they do, Rody and others fleeing brutal gender-based violence will spend more
years -- or even decades -- in limbo. We can do better.

Esta Soler is president of the Family Violence Prevention Fund. Karen Musalo
directs the Center for Gender and Refugee Studies.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration Pitfall;
Why 'Legalization Only' Won't Fly

BYLINE: Jorge G. Castaneda and Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 883 words


President Obama looks to be gearing up to make good on his campaign promise of
comprehensive immigration reform. But unlike in 2006, when Democratic and
Republican reformers agreed on what was needed in an overhaul, this year there's
a new fault line.

It surfaced last month when Obama called lawmakers to the White House to discuss
immigration, and Sen. John McCain led pro-reform Republicans in pushing back
against the president. Obama had said little about what he wants in a bill -- in
fact, he has been studiously vague. But McCain knew enough about what has (and
has not) been said recently by immigration experts close to the White House and
those pushing Obama to take up reform that he felt it necessary to launch a
preemptive strike.

This year, in contrast to 2006, organized labor and many Latino advocates are
thinking about slicing up the reform package and moving forward with a piecemeal
approach: a bill that legalizes the unauthorized immigrants already in the
United States -- call them the "stock" -- but makes no provision for those who
will want to work north of the border in years ahead, the future "flow."

The reasoning is clear: With unemployment edging toward 10 percent, it's hard to
argue that the United States needs foreign workers. And organized labor,
particularly the AFL-CIO, has seized on the opportunity to graft its larger
agenda onto the immigration debate.

But this view is shortsighted. Just as it would have been a mistake in a
Republican era to pass an expanded temporary worker program but leave out
legalization and a path to citizenship, so, too, would it be a mistake now to
legalize immigrants who are here without creating a way for future workers to
enter the United States legally.

To understand why, consider U.S. politics. With no pipeline for future workers,
McCain will not vote for the bill. Without him, there will be no other Senate
Republicans. And without Senate Republicans, there won't be enough Democrats,
given the inevitable defections among Blue Dogs, New Democrats and other
moderates.

Then there is Mexican politics. This is not discussed much on Capitol Hill, but
the United States can't hope to implement an immigration overhaul without help
from Mexico -- help administering legalization and dissuading future illegal
immigration. And no Mexican government can afford to cooperate with Washington
unless the reform includes a significant increase in temporary worker visas.
This was true during the administration of  President Vicente Fox, and it's even
truer today for the beleaguered President Felipe CalderÃ³n.

But ultimately, the problem with "legalization only" is bigger than politics in
either country. The economic downturn may have cut the traffic from Mexico -- as
much as 25 percent, by some estimates. Yet once the economy begins to recover,
demographic and economic reality will kick in again on both sides of the border.

When the economy begins recovering, U.S. housing starts will climb, restaurants
will fill up again, Americans will take the vacations they've been putting off
and more. Revitalized businesses will once again need foreign workers for jobs
that increasingly educated Americans do not want.

Meanwhile, in Mexico, for five to 10 more years at least, the working-age
population will continue to grow faster than the number of decent-paying jobs,
and young workers will continue to want to go where they can make a better
living. It's supply and demand  -- to the benefit of both countries.

The United States can recognize this reality and harness it -- or pretend it
doesn't exist and live with the costs of denial. If these workers cannot enter
the United States legally, they will find ways to enter illegally, no matter how
much border and work-site enforcement is in place, no matter how dangerous the
trip or how high the price. Hoping that people will stop coming is as illusory
as thinking that those already in the United States will pack up and go home.

The bottom line is that the only way to stop illegal outflows from Mexico is to
legalize them, adapting the law to reality, not the other way around.

Some have suggested a "third way": creating a commission to determine how many
workers are needed in the United States. But it's hard to see how that would
work. Discredited as markets are today, they're still the best way to match
supply with demand. Though markets must be regulated, they don't work very well
when they're micromanaged. Will a commission be able to determine how many
Mexican workers are needed from month to month -- and then ensure that only that
number enters the country? Not very likely.

Comprehensive immigration reform makes sense for the United States and for
Mexico for economic and ethical reasons; it's good foreign and domestic policy.
What doesn't make sense is a seemingly expedient but ultimately unworkable
piecemeal approach. Neither legalization without future flows nor future flows
without legalization will solve the problem. Only the two together can get the
job done.

Jorge G. Castaneda was foreign secretary of Mexico from 2000 to 2003 in the
government of Vicente Fox. He teaches international relations at New York
University. Tamar Jacoby is president of Washington-based ImmigrationWorks, a
national federation of employers advocating immigration reform.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 24, 2009 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Troubles With Immigration Enforcement

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 280 words


Lee Hockstader was right in his July 19 On Point commentary "Immigration's
Sideshow" that enforcement is  "part of the problem." Unfortunately, he
mischaracterized the Department of Homeland Security's recent moves to mandate
that federal contractors use E-Verify to check their workers' legal status and
to expand local police enforcement of federal civil immigration laws as merely
"modest and reasonable steps."

DHS's requirement that federal contractors use E-Verify is a monumental change
for the worse. Among other problems, employers in Arizona and elsewhere report
that E-Verify sometimes fails to electronically approve lawful workers. Even
under the most optimistic estimates of error rates, if the new rule goes into
effect, some 38,000 U.S. workers will need to take time off work, typically
unpaid, to try to get the bureaucracy to correct their records -- affecting not
just those lawful workers but also their American employers.

DHS's announcement that it will expand local police enforcement of immigration
law cannot be described as "reasonable," when, as Mr. Hockstader acknowledged,
the DHS program "has led to racial profiling and deepened mistrust between
police departments and immigrant communities."

DHS has not meaningfully changed the terms of the program. In particular,
previous DHS agreements with local police included an "expectation" that
localities pursue the criminal charges that prompted an arrest, just as the new
agreement does, so it is unlikely that this provision will minimize abuses, as
Mr. Hockstader claims it will. DHS must do better to achieve real change.

MICHAEL W.

MACLEOD-BALL

Interim Director

Washington Legislative Office

ACLU

Washington

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Pakistani VOA Journalist Held at Dulles Is Released;
Immigration Case Remains Unresolved

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 584 words


U.S. immigration officials released a visiting Pakistani journalist employed by
the U.S.-sponsored Voice of America news service Wednesday, 10 days after taking
him into custody on his arrival at Dulles International Airport.

Rahman Bunairee, 33, was hoping to find refuge in the United States after
receiving threats in recent weeks from Islamic militants displeased with his
reports about their activities in Pakistan's restive North-West Frontier
Province.

The militants destroyed Bunairee's family home in the province, then came
looking for him at his office in the port city of Karachi several hundred miles
south, where Bunairee is also bureau chief for the privately owned Pakistani
broadcaster Khyber TV.

Concerned for his safety, officials at VOA quickly arranged to bring Bunairee to
the United States on a J-1 visa, often used by research institutions to sponsor
scholars on temporary exchange programs. Bunairee was to work on expanding VOA's
Pashto language service, which serves the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region.

Bunairee's attorney, Paul Virtue, whose law firm, Hogan & Hartson, is
representing Bunairee for free, said that during his initial interview with a
customs officer at Dulles, the officer learned that Bunairee had reason to fear
returning to Pakistan.

There might have been some confusion because of Bunairee's limited English,
Virtue said, but "essentially the officer determined that [Bunairee's] principal
purpose for coming to the United States was to get out of Pakistan . . . and
that the exchange program at VOA was only incidental or secondary. . . . So they
found him not to be admissible under J-1 status."

At that point, under the provisions of immigration law, Bunairee was placed in
"expedited removal proceedings," which required that he be detained until an
asylum officer could interview him to determine whether he had a "credible fear"
of being harmed if he were deported. If the officer determines the fear is
unfounded, detainees can be deported immediately without the chance to make
their case before an immigration judge.

However, an officer who interviewed Bunairee on Tuesday determined on Wednesday
that his fear is credible, making him eligible for parole while he requests
asylum or several other forms of relief from an immigration judge. Reapplying
for the J-1 visa is not an option.

Virtue, who once was general counsel of the former Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said he was not sure which approach Bunairee would take.

Virtue did not fault VOA for sponsoring Bunairee under a J-1 visa under the
circumstances, saying that although the organization was partly motivated by a
desire to help him leave Pakistan as quickly as possible, it had a genuine need
for a journalist with Bunairee's experience and language skills. The plan to
expand the Pashto language service predated the threats against Bunairee, he
said.

Virtue declined to comment on whether immigration officers acted fairly in
detaining Bunairee but said: "I think the government is responsible for
administering a statute that is very rigid and doesn't leave them with a lot of
options for dealing with these kinds of cases. . . .There are some changes that
could be made to the statute that would offer other ways of helping people come
to the United States who are at risk in their home country."

A spokeswoman at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, whose officers
conduct credible-fear interviews, said privacy concerns prevented her from
discussing Bunairee's case.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 7, 2009 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Losing the Latino Vote;
In the Long Run, the GOP Must Be Inclusive

BYLINE: Michael Gerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 766 words


Mel Martinez's recent resignation from the U.S. Senate was for personal and
family reasons. But the departure of the Republican Party's most visible
Hispanic leader crackles with political symbolism.

Martinez does not consider himself disillusioned, but he is "frustrated." "There
are lots of Hispanics to the right of you and me on immigration," he told me,
"but they think, 'Republicans just don't like us.' " Martinez makes clear that a
number of his Senate colleagues were "conservative, but not inflammatory." Other
elected Republicans, however, made "pretty divisive use of immigration policy.
It is more a matter of tone, of how you talk about immigrants. It has made
Hispanics feel unwelcome, unwanted."

In ethnic politics, symbolism matters. And recent Republican signals to
Hispanics have often been crudely unwelcoming. During the 2006 congressional
debate on immigration reform, Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) grabbed the Republican
microphone to call Miami a "Third World country." The same year, Rep. J.D.
Hayworth (R-Ariz.) darkly warned of illegal immigrant murderers as a "slow
motion nightmare" greater than Sept. 11. A provision of the House immigration
reform bill would have made it illegal for priests, ministers and volunteers to
"assist" illegal immigrants -- criminalizing a religious duty. Republican
presidential candidates conspicuously avoided Hispanic forums during the 2008
primaries. Conservative shock radio, on its frightening fringes, can be overtly
racist, referring to Mexican immigrants as "leeches," "the world's lowest
primitives" and diseased carriers of the "fajita flu" who may "wipe their
behinds with their hands."  Pat Buchanan sells books with this title: "State of
Emergency: The Third World Invasion and Conquest of America."

As Martinez points out, many Republicans who oppose his pro-immigration views
are not divisive or inflammatory. But other, angry voices crowd them out. As a
result, Republican support among Latinos is collapsing. In Martinez's home state
of Florida, for example, 56 percent of Hispanic voters cast ballots for George
W. Bush in 2004. Four years later, 57 percent voted for Barack Obama.

Now hearings are beginning on another immigration reform bill, with a
legislative debate likely to ripen in 2010. For Democrats -- pledged to
comprehensive reform but weighing union opposition to a temporary-worker program
-- the immigration debate will be difficult. For Republicans, it may be an
invitation to political suicide.

Some conservatives dismiss electoral considerations as soiled and cynical. They
will make their case, even if that means sacrificing Florida, Colorado, New
Mexico, Nevada and . . . Indiana. Yes, Indiana, which had supported Republican
presidential candidates for 40 years before Obama captured it on the strength of
Hispanic votes. This is a good definition of extremism -- the assumption that
irrelevance is evidence of integrity. In fact, it is a moral achievement of
democracy that it eventually forces political parties to appeal to minorities
and outsiders instead of demonizing them. The scramble for votes, in the long
run, requires inclusion.

By 2030, the Latino share of the vote in America is likely to double. Some
Republicans seem to be calculating that this influence can be countered by
running up their percentage of support among white voters. But this is not
eventually realistic, because non-college-educated whites are declining as a
portion of the electorate. And it is disturbing in any case to set the goal of a
whiter Republican Party. This approach would not only shrink the party, it would
split it. Catholics and evangelicals, who have been central to the Republican
coalition, cannot ultimately accept a message of resentment against foreigners.
Their faith will not allow it.

In considering illegal immigration, many talk appropriately about the rule of
law. But there is also the imago dei -- the shared image of God -- that does not
permit individual worth and dignity to be sorted by national origin. This
commitment does not translate simplistically into open borders and amnesty. It
does mean, however, that immigrants should not be used as objects of organized
anger or singled out for prejudice and harm. If Republicans head down this
dreary path, many could no longer follow.

Which is why the departure of Martinez is unfortunate. Most elected Republicans
bring serious arguments and good motives to the immigration debate. Fewer
leaders, however, are willing to confront the extremists in their midst. And now
one more of those principled leaders is gone.

mgerson@globalengage.org

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 8, 2009 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Jail Steps Up Screening For Illegal Immigrants;
Homeland Security Database Is Added

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW03

LENGTH: 564 words


Prince William regional jail officials have joined a federal system to tighten
their screening of inmates' immigration status and potentially deport those in
the United States illegally.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Secure Communities initiative
provides jurisdictions across the nation access to more comprehensive federal
records, ICE officials said.

"Secure Communities is a Department of Homeland Security initiative to more
broadly manage and modernize the processes used to identify and ultimately
remove dangerous criminal aliens from our communities," said Marc Rapp, acting
executive director of Secure Communities. "Our goal with this effort is to use
information sharing to prevent criminal aliens from being released back into the
community, with little or no additional burden on our local law enforcement
partners."

Under Secure Communities, the Prince William-Manassas Regional Adult Detention
Center can access Homeland Security's biometrics-based immigration records.
Previously, the jail accessed only the FBI's criminal records during booking as
part of what is known as the 287(g) program.

Col. Peter A. Meletis, the jail's superintendent, said that officials launched
the program locally last week and that it does not cost the 12 state and local
law enforcement agencies that use the jail anything. Booking officials at the
jail simply run the fingerprints of an arrestee simultaneously through the FBI
and Homeland Security systems; one largely identifies a person's criminal
activity, and the other better identifies immigration status.

If fingerprints match a set found in the Homeland Security system, ICE will be
immediately notified. ICE officials said they will then evaluate each case and
take "appropriate action" after offenders complete their sentence.

"With the 287(g) program, we have most of our bases covered, but this will give
us an additional tool," Meletis said. "This system will help us catch anyone who
gets by the first system."

From when the jail began its agreement with ICE in July 2007 through this
August, it issued 1,964 detainers and transferred 1,870 people to ICE, Meletis
said. Detainers allow jails to hold people suspected of immigration violations
until ICE can pick them up. The jail typically processes 1,000 to 1,100 arrests
a month.

Meletis said Secure Communities will allow the jail to catch an additional
"handful" of illegal immigrants, especially since jail officials can now access
visa information.

ICE officials said the agency launched the first Secure Communities program in
Houston last October and has expanded it to 80 jurisdictions, with Fairfax and
Prince William counties the only two in Virginia.

ICE officials said they first are deploying the program to areas with the
highest concentrations of what they deem the most dangerous illegal immigrants,
then expanding to nearly 30,000 local jails and booking facilities by 2013.
Congress has appropriated $1.4 billion to ICE for enforcement efforts against
illegal immigrants who commit crimes.

Fairfax, which doesn't participate in the 287 (g) program, joined Secure
Communities in March. The Fairfax County Adult Detention Center has 237 ICE
detainers, Fairfax sheriff's office spokesman Basilio "Sonny" Cachuela said,
noting that doesn't necessarily mean the detainees are illegal. Eight people
without charges are also waiting to be picked up by ICE.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 11, 2009 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Lawsuit targets immigration enforcement;
Racial profiling alleged in Salvadoran's arrest in Frederick

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 676 words


Immigrant advocates filed a federal civil rights lawsuit Tuesday on behalf of a
Salvadoran woman who was detained by Frederick County sheriff's deputies in a
case they say illustrates the problems with a federal program that has deputized
dozens of state and local police departments nationwide to catch illegal
immigrants.

The suit, filed in U.S. District Court in Greenbelt, alleges that Roxana
Orellana Santos, now 29, was eating lunch alone at a pond near Buckeystown Pike
in Frederick on Oct. 7, 2008, when two deputies approached her, asked for
identification, then detained her and turned her over to immigration authorities
for possible deportation. Orellana Santos, who came to the United States in 2005
and has a son who was 1 at the time, spent 46 days in federal custody before
being released on humanitarian grounds pending the resolution of her immigration
case.

According to the suit, neither of the deputies who arrested Orellana Santos was
among about 26 members of the sheriff's force trained under the federal program
known as 287g after the legal provision that created it. Orellana Santos's
lawyers said the deputies' actions amounted to racial profiling and reflect a
broader anti-immigrant agenda that Sheriff Chuck Jenkins has fostered since
enrolling his force in the 287g program in 2008.

"Since there was never any suggestion of criminal activity by Ms. Orellana
Santos, her questioning and detention were clearly based on one element: her
ethnic appearance," said Jose Perez of LatinoJustice PRLDEF, a New York-based
nonprofit civil rights organization. "This is the essence of racial profiling."

The immigrant advocacy group CASA of Maryland is also representing Orellana
Santos.

A spokeswoman for Jenkins said he had no comment on the suit because he has not
read it.

A vocal crusader against illegal immigration, Jenkins has often pointed to the
287g program as a crucial tool for keeping the community safe and recently
touted the force's 500th arrest of an illegal immigrant. He has also stated that
his deputies are "not pulling over people because they look Latino. . . . We
need probable cause to make a traffic stop or an arrest."

But advocates say the incident involving Orellana Santos proves otherwise. And
they say it explains why, according to the most recent data provided by Jenkins,
less than 10 percent of the illegal immigrants his deputies arrested through
287g were charged with felonies. About half were arrested for driving without a
license and another 10 percent were charged with misdemeanor traffic offenses.

The lawsuit also alleges that Jenkins is motivated by a separate arrangement he
has made with federal authorities to be reimbursed for housing illegal
immigrants detained by area police in the county's detention center. The federal
government pays the county $83 a day for each detainee, but Jenkins told a House
committee in March that the actual cost is $7 a day.

"Jenkins' anti-immigrant rhetoric and . . . financial incentive to arrest and
detain as many undocumented foreign nationals as possible . . . has fostered an
atmosphere that is conducive to and has encouraged and/or tolerated selective
enforcement of local laws and discriminatory practices in [the sheriff's
office]'s implementation of 287g," the lawsuit contends.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano reshaped the program earlier this
year to focus it more sharply on targeting illegal immigrants who commit violent
crimes or major drug offenses. Still, critics contend that the new guidelines
lack teeth.

Orellana Santos, who declined to be interviewed, is asking for $1 million in
damages. The lawsuit names Jenkins and the arresting deputies, Frederick's Board
of County Commissioners, officials in the Baltimore office of U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, and Julie Myers, who was assistant secretary of ICE at
the time.

Even if Orellana Santos wins in court, she is not necessarily protected from
deportation. In contrast to criminal cases, evidence obtained unconstitutionally
is often admissible in immigration courts.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

U.S. antiterrorism laws causing immigration delays for refugees;
More than 18,000 people affected since 2001, report says

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 742 words


U.S. antiterrorism laws are being applied so strictly that thousands of refugees
who fled persecution in their home countries and appear to pose no threat to the
United States have had their asylum and immigration applications denied or
indefinitely delayed, according to a report released Wednesday.

The study, by Human Rights First, a nonpartisan organization based in New York
and Washington, documented cases in which people have been inexplicably labeled
terrorists.

Sachin Karmakar, a Bangladeshi advocate for the rights of religious minorities,
was recently granted asylum after facing political and religious harassment. But
his application for permanent residency faces indefinite delay because he took
part in his nation's successful struggle for independence in 1971.

A teenage girl who was forced to become a child soldier at 12 in the Democratic
Republic of Congo and who faces threats for speaking out against her captors has
had her asylum application snagged on the grounds that during the period she was
kidnapped, she was a member of a terrorist group.

A refugee from Burundi, whom Human Rights First identified only by his first
name, Louis, was detained for 20 months, although an immigration judge thought
he qualified for asylum because he had provided "material support" to a
terrorist organization when an armed rebel group robbed him of $4 and his lunch.

The report found that more than 18,000 refugees and asylum-seekers have been
affected since 2001. Of those, at least 7,500 cases remain unresolved. Most
involve people already in the United States who have filed for permanent
residency or are trying to bring over family members. The Department of Homeland
Security has placed their cases on indefinite hold rather than deporting those
involved.

However, an undetermined number of people in similar circumstances who, for
technical reasons, are pursuing their cases in immigration courts are at risk of
being deported.

The report's author, Anwen Hughes, found that efforts by Congress and the Bush
and Obama administrations to address the issue by creating a waiver system have
moved at a glacial pace and continue to leave out huge categories of immigrants.

"It's been a very slow and unworkable process," Hughes said. Meanwhile, she
said, "for a lot of people, the delay is not harmless. We have clients who are
here but whose wives or children are stranded in very difficult, dangerous
situations."

Brandon Prelogar, special adviser for refugee and asylum affairs in the
Department of Homeland Security, is scheduled to speak about the issue on a
panel in Washington on Thursday. He could not be reached for comment Wednesday.

The current situation is rooted in legal provisions dating to 1990. However, the
Patriot Act of 2001 considerably expanded the scope of those affected by barring
entry to refugees and asylum-seekers who were supporters not only of terrorist
groups designated or listed by the State Department but also of "undesignated
terrorist organizations." The term can be applied to almost anyone who has used
force in self-defense against a military regime that does not permit peaceful
opposition.

Immigration officials have broadened the provision even further by applying it
retroactively to organizations that no longer exist or that renounced violence
decades ago.

Those caught in the net have included members of Afghan militias that fought
against the Soviet invasion with U.S. support; groups that fought the ruling
military junta in Burma; virtually every Ethiopian and Eritrean political party
past and present; the South Sudanese armed opposition movement that, after years
of civil war, is the ruling party of an autonomous area; and the main democratic
opposition party in Zimbabwe, whose leader has been praised by President Obama
for his courage in standing up to that nation's strongman.

Although the government has offered waivers in some cases, the law continues to
entangle even people who engaged in nonviolent activities on behalf of
undesignated terrorist organizations -- such as giving speeches, distributing
fliers or offering medical care -- or who provided minimal contributions, such
as taking food to a relative in jail.

Hughes said that other immigration laws prohibit entry to immigrants who have
violated human rights or are a danger to the United States. She said she hopes
the report will persuade Congress to remove the "undesignated terrorist
organization" provision from the law.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Clearer Rules Urged For Asylum Seekers;
System Fails to Protect Women, Study Says

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 814 words


Women seeking political asylum in the United States based on gender-related
persecution can get mired in a legal labyrinth that can leave their cases
unresolved for years, according to a report being released Thursday by the
Tahirih Justice Center, a nonprofit group in Falls Church that works to protect
immigrant women and girls from violence.

The center is among several advocacy groups calling for congressional
legislation or regulatory action by the Obama administration to clarify the
status of women fleeing their home countries to escape gender-specific dangers,
such as forced marriage, genital mutilation, honor killings and domestic
violence.

Tahirih and two other groups held a briefing on the issue Wednesday afternoon at
the Rayburn House Office Building, where Rep. James P. Moran Jr. (D-Va.) agreed
the system isn't working.

"There needs to be far more protection for women and girls. . . . We're
punishing the victim, and it really needs to be changed," Moran said.

Until the system changes, advocates say, there will be more cases such as the
one involving a 23-year-old victim of domestic violence from Honduras. The
woman, who now lives in Frederick, has strong evidence that she was beaten and
stabbed by the man she was living with, a Honduran police officer.

The woman's lawyers have compiled a thick case file that includes hospital
photographs of her face swollen with bruises, and stab wounds on other parts of
her body.

Police in Honduras would not take her complaints seriously, and a women's center
there told her nothing could be done. She fled here after the man threatened to
kill her, she told U.S. immigration authorities.

In September the woman learned that an immigration judge in Baltimore had
refused to grant her political asylum and the benefits that come with it:
monetary and medical assistance, job placement and English-language classes.
Instead, she was given a more limited Convention Against Torture protection,
allowing her to live and work in the United States as long as the threat in
Honduras exists.

Victims of domestic violence seeking asylum must prove they would not be safe in
their country. Applicants also must be a member of a persecuted race, religion,
nationality, political opinion or social group, for example, women in a country
where gender-specific violence is tolerated.

In the case of the Honduran woman, "the judge said the domestic violence was not
on account of membership in a particular social group," said Daria Fisher Page,
a senior staff attorney at Tahirih.

The woman is appealing the decision, which her supporters say illustrates the
system's shortcomings.

The United States became one of the first countries to make asylum available for
victims of gender-based persecution in 1995, but the rules for granting it have
never been clear.

In 1996, a woman fleeing genital cutting in Togo was declared eligible for
asylum by the Board of Immigration Appeals, the Justice Department body that
handles asylum appeals.

The landmark decision provided a precedent for other judges to rule in favor of
asylum for gender-based persecution.

But in 1999 the board reversed a grant of asylum to a woman fleeing abuse in
Guatemala. (She is still waiting for her case to be resolved.)

The Bush administration never acted on the regulations proposed the next year,
in the last days of the Clinton administration, affirming that such women could
comprise a social group.

Various judges have issued different rulings on similar cases.

This will continue in the absence of clear regulations, said Karen Musalo,
professor at University of California's Hastings College of the Law and director
of the Center for Gender and Refugee Studies.

This year, the Department of Homeland Security filed a brief in a California
case stating that a woman who had been abused by her husband in Mexico was
eligible for asylum.

Homeland Security spokesman Matt Chandler said Wednesday that the department
"continues to view domestic violence as a possible basis for asylum in the
United States.

The issue is highly complex, and we are moving ahead to develop regulations that
will address these cases."

The U.S. government does not keep track of how many women apply for asylum based
on gender-related persecution.

Advocates say the numbers remain low, in part because it is so hard for such
women to escape their situations and come here.

That belief is shared across the political spectrum.

"Looking at Canada and other countries [that offer such asylum], we don't see
that it opens the floodgates," said Wendy Wright, president of Concerned Women
for America, which urged the Bush administration to grant asylum to women
fleeing extreme violence.

Besides calling for more sweeping regulations, the Tahirih report recommends
removing the one-year deadline for women to file for asylum after arriving in
the United States and urges that asylum seekers not be detained.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Justices Ponder Lawyers' Obligations;
Man Facing Deportation Says Attorney Misadvised Him on Consequences of Plea

BYLINE: Robert Barnes; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 788 words


California truck driver JosÃ© Padilla was considering whether to plead guilty to
trafficking in marijuana, but first he had a question for his lawyer: Would the
plea affect his status as a legal permanent resident?

Padilla, a native of Honduras, had been in the United States almost 40 years and
had served in the Army during the Vietnam War. (He shares a name with, but is
not related to, the onetime "enemy combatant" convicted on terrorism charges.)
He said his lawyer told him that he did not have to worry about immigration
status because  he had been in the country so long.

So Padilla pleaded guilty -- and found out his lawyer was wrong.

Padilla's plea to an aggravated felony left him virtually no defense to
deportation once his jail term ends. His new attorney was at the Supreme Court
on Tuesday arguing that the first lawyer's advice deprived Padilla of his
constitutional right to effective counsel and meant he should be able to
withdraw the plea.

The question before the court goes to what kind of advice a lawyer must provide
someone charged with a crime. The Supreme Court in Kentucky -- where Padilla was
arrested -- said a lawyer is required only to advise his or her client about the
direct consequences of a guilty plea and not collateral issues, such as how it
would affect immigration status.

Padilla's lawyers argued that such advice is necessary to ensuring that a
defendant makes an informed decision about whether to enter such a plea.

The U.S. government took a middle ground. It agreed with Kentucky that the
lawyer has no duty beyond informing of the consequences of the criminal case.
But it also said that if the lawyer decides to provide advice, it cannot be
"misadvice" -- the wrong information that Padilla alleges he received.

The case is important because Congress in recent years has increased the number
of crimes for which deportation is mandatory, so the nation's nearly 13 million
legal permanent residents, such as Padilla, are more vulnerable to deportation
than they might think.

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the changes in the law are "nothing mysterious.
. . . So why wouldn't a lawyer whose client is an alien have an obligation, when
there is an aggravated felony as the charge, to say: 'This will be the
consequence?' "

Kentucky Assistant Attorney General Wm. Robert Long Jr. replied that it might be
well for the lawyer to do so, but that it is not part of the Constitution's
requirement of effective assistance of counsel.

Justice Sonia Sotomayor seemed to agree with Ginsburg. She said the threat of
deportation was an important component of a defendant's decision on whether to
go to trial and risk a longer sentence, or plead guilty to a charge that would
automatically send him back to a place where he "might starve to death."

But other justices worried that it would be impossible to limit the issue to
deportation -- a tack that Padilla's attorney Stephen B. Kinnaird suggested was
one way to narrowly decide the case.

"We have to decide whether we are opening a Pandora's box here, whether there is
any sensible way to restrict it to deportation," said Justice Antonin Scalia.
"What about advice on whether pleading guilty would -- would cause him to lose
custody of his children? That's pretty serious. What if pleading guilty will --
will affect whether he can keep his truck, which is his main means of
livelihood, or whether -- whether it would be seized by the government as the
instrument of his crime?"

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said he was sympathetic to Padilla's predicament.
"Your argument has an appeal because removal is such a harsh consequence,
particularly for someone like your client, who had been in the United States for
a long time," he said. But he wondered how to ever know whether such a
conversation had occurred between client and attorney.

Kinnaird said that it would be up to the defendant to prove and that he did not
think it would unduly burden the court system if such claims were allowed.

Deputy Solicitor General Michael R. Dreeben told the justices that the federal
courts are split on the issue, with some saying there is no duty for lawyers to
provide advice on additional consequences and others saying that if bad advice
is given, the defendant has a claim.

But even though the federal government thinks Padilla received bad advice, it is
not supporting him. It said Padilla, who was picked up with more than half a ton
of marijuana packed in coolers in his truck, had no reasonable belief that he
would have prevailed if he had gone to trial, and would thus have been subject
to deportation anyway.

Kinnaird said Padilla had a possible defense: that he did not know what was in
the packages he was hauling.

The case is Padilla v. Kentucky.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Obama Revives Bush Idea to Catch Illegal Workers

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1013 words


President Obama will abandon a controversial immigration crackdown, sought by
his predecessor, to pressure U.S. companies to fire 9 million workers with
suspect Social Security numbers, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano
announced yesterday.

Instead, Obama will mandate that federal contractors confirm the identities of 4
million workers against federal databases beginning in September, pushing ahead
under pressure from Senate Republicans with another long-stalled Bush
administration initiative.

Napolitano said her department will rescind a 2007 rule, tied up in federal
court, that would have sent Social Security "no-match" letters to 140,000 U.S.
employers. The notices were to warn companies to resolve discrepancies or fire
suspect workers within 90 days, or face criminal penalties.

Instead, she said, the Department of Homeland Security will take a "more modern
and effective" approach, ordering an estimated 170,000 federal contractors to
confirm employees' work documents against E-Verify, until now a voluntary
electronic government system for companies to check new hires' immigration and
Social Security data.

Combined with a renewed emphasis by the DHS on targeting companies that hire
illegal immigrants with civil fines and audits instead of high-profile raids,
the moves mark the clearest sign yet of Obama's efforts to chart a middle course
on immigration enforcement, analysts said.

The administration's announcement appeared aimed at satisfying law-and-order
conservatives on Capitol Hill, where Senate Republicans successfully amended
Homeland Security's $43 billion 2010 budget yesterday to extend E-Verify to
federal contractors and to expand construction of fencing on the U.S.-Mexico
border.

"The American people have made it clear that immigration reform should start
with better enforcement of the laws already on the books," said Sen. Jeff
Sessions (Ala.), the ranking Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee.
"Making [E-Verify] permanent and mandatory for federal contractors would be a
big step toward meeting the public's expectations."

At the same time, Obama has told immigrant advocacy groups that Congress should
try to overhaul the nation's immigration laws within the coming year with the
support of business groups and organized labor, all of whom had bitterly opposed
the no-match rule.

"The Obama administration is trying to find its voice and put forward a coherent
enforcement strategy," said Angela Kelley, immigration analyst at the
left-leaning Center for American Progress. "They're looking for solid footing on
enforcement so they can move on to what is the unknown territory" of broader
legislation addressing the fate of 12 million illegal immigrants and the future
flow of foreign workers, she said.

The complexity of navigating a centrist course, however, was revealed yesterday
by the mixed reaction to Napolitano's announcement.

As expected, business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce hailed the
decision to kill the no-match rule. Since October 2007, a federal judge had held
up the rule, acknowledging arguments by critics that the Bush administration
failed to consider the impact on small businesses and that the rule could lead
to discrimination against many legal workers because of millions of errors in
the government's Social Security databases.

But Angelo I. Amador, a spokesman for the Chamber, said business groups will
continue to fight the contractor requirement in federal court, arguing that
Congress never intended to make participation in the worker verification program
mandatory.

"As of right now, our position remains that the rule as written is
unconstitutional," Amador said.

On the other hand, Sen. Charles E. Schumer (N.Y.), who is leading Senate
Democrats' efforts to draft a bill, said E-Verify does not go far enough.
Instead, Schumer has proposed using a verification system based on workers'
fingerprints, eye scans or other unique identifiers.

E-Verify cannot detect whether a person is stealing the identity of another
legitimate worker, and a proposed fix -- requiring workers who are permanent
residents or noncitizens to present photo IDs -- "invites discrimination and
creates uncertainty for employers," Schumer said in a statement.

Amador said the split between the White House and Democratic lawmakers is
confusing. "I would like to say otherwise, but . . . it's kind of unclear for
us, from the perspective of negotiating with Democrats, who we should talk to,"
he said.

Rep. Jack Kingston (R-Ga.), who supports E-Verify, called the moves "a step
forward and a step back." "How they could do this in one step and in another
abandon no-match letters is a mystery that defies all," Kingston said in a
statement. "It makes me wonder if the Administration is still playing games."

The Bush administration proposed mandatory use of E-Verify by 170,000 federal
contractors in 2007, projecting that participation in the program would double
in 10 years to cover 20 percent of annual U.S. hiring.

Business opposition stalled implementation until Obama took office, however, and
he ordered further review. Napolitano said yesterday that the administration
will push for "full implementation" for workers on contracts of more than
$100,000 awarded after Sept. 8. More than a dozen states have passed similar
legislation.

About 134,000 out of an estimated 6 million U.S. employers now voluntarily
participate in the program, which was created in 1996.

On Friday, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a DHS agency, announced
that it had issued audit notices to 652 businesses -- more than in the previous
year -- beginning what ICE director John Morton said will be a national strategy
to reinvigorate the use of civil fines as well as criminal penalties, not just
work-site raids, against employers.

"You're hearing it straight from the horse's mouth," Morton said in an
interview. "We are auditing, we are adding civil enforcement, . . . we are
adding a renewed emphasis on criminal enforcement. We are going to try to bring
every enforcement tool that we have to bear on the problem."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 29, 2009 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Md. License Confusion For Illegal Residents;
Interpretations of Driving Law Vary

BYLINE: Lisa Rein and Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 977 words


Thousands of illegal immigrants in Maryland have been scrambling in recent weeks
in last-ditch attempts to get driver's licenses before a law curtailing their
privileges takes effect Monday. But for many, the effort will have been a waste
of time, caused by confusion and conflicting interpretations over how the new
rules work.

When the window shuts at the close of business today, they will discover that
learner's permits and state-issued identification cards they obtained can't be
converted to licenses, as they thought.

"There's no question there's mass confusion," said Kim Propeack of CASA of
Maryland, the state's largest immigrant advocacy group.

For years, Maryland allowed undocumented immigrants to drive, but the system
made the state vulnerable to fraud by out-of-state motorists. After rancorous
debate, state legislators this year changed the rules to comply with the federal
security law known as Real ID. As of Monday, license applicants will have to
prove that they are in the country legally. Illegal immigrants already carrying
licenses can keep them until 2015, after one renewal.

Because of late-night changes to the bill on the final day of the legislative
session, learner's permits and identification cards issued to illegal immigrants
after April 19 can't be converted into full licenses, and licenses issued to
them after that date can't be renewed. But under a ruling by motor vehicle
officials Wednesday, thousands who obtained ID cards before April 19 will be
able to use them to get licenses, a provision some lawmakers call an unforeseen
loophole.

It took weeks for state officials and perplexed lawmakers to sort out what some
of the changes meant, and they spread some mistaken information to advocacy
groups, which in turn passed it along to immigrants. Many who managed to secure
appointments for licenses this month thought they could eventually obtain a
license if they beat the June 1 cutoff by getting a learner's permit.

House Judiciary Committee Chairman Joseph Vallario (D-Prince George's County),
an advocate for immigrants who served on the bill conference panel, called the
situation "an absolute mess" and predicted that the legal interpretation "may
have to be decided by a court."

Meanwhile, immigrants have been crowding into motor vehicle agency offices and
calling lawmakers and advocates for help. Spurred by advertisements on Spanish
language television and radio, thousands spent the past six weeks trying to
secure licenses.

Some were likely the victims of scam artists, telling The Washington Post they
paid hundreds of dollars or more to agencies promising to arrange appointments.
Others traveled far from their homes to various motor vehicle branches scattered
across the state, hoping to land walk-in appointments.

Outside the Beltsville branch this month, Omar Berrillos, a 22-year-old illegal
immigrant from Honduras, kicked at the curb, feeling the pressure of fleeting
opportunity. He had taken the written portion of the test over and over, he
said, but Berrillos, a construction worker who left school in third grade to
pick coffee and bananas in rural Honduras, said the test simply moved too fast
for him.

"I always run out of time," he said. "I only have a few more days."

Others, such as 24-year-old David Marquez, an immigrant from El Salvador, were
coming to terms with the reality of a learner's permit that would never become a
license. On Wednesday, three days before the deadline, Marquez passed the
written exam -- on his fifth try. "I'm not happy, but I'm not disappointed,
either," he said. Still, with so much uncertainty, Marquez said he wasn't
planning to get a car. "At least I'll be able to drive if someone at my church
needs me to," he said.

Behind the counter at the busy Beltsville branch, Caesar Correira has felt the
heat as he raced to sort through foreign licenses, utility bills and bank
statements with the deadline looming. Many immigrants were missing documents,
and there was no time to schedule follow-up appointments.

"They are desperate," said Correira, a document examiner. "I have to tell them
it's out of my hands."

Among those whose licenses he processed were dozens of special requests from
state lawmakers, some of whom have been overwhelmed with e-mails, calls and
visits.

Del. Victor Ramirez's law office in a Hyattsville strip mall in his Prince
George's district has been flooded with visits and requests for help. Ramirez
said he has done everything he can to get people through the system. Some
unnecessarily paid a woman named Liliana just for a referral to him, he said.

"You feel for people," he said. "We have asked the MVA to accommodate them. We
want people to have licenses for public-safety reasons."

Ramirez and his colleagues and advocates have urged anyone who failed the
written driving test to get an identification card instead and convert it later.
But it turns out that ID cards issued after April 19 will expire.

Late Wednesday, the fate of identification cards issued before April 19 finally
was decided: They can be converted to licenses after Monday, MVA Administrator
John T. Kuo said.

This, like so many other details of the new law, has surprised and disappointed
some lawmakers.

"It's a big loophole, and it wasn't what we intended," said Del. Ronald A.
George (R-Anne Arundel), who opposed allowing any illegal immigrant to keep a
license. "The bill was sloppily written." He pledged to try to change the law
when he returns to Annapolis in January.

Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery), an advocate for immigrants, was also
critical of the uncertainty.

"You don't play around with people's lives this way," she said.

Deputy Attorney General Jonathan Acton, who interpreted the law, acknowledged
the confusion.

"We have to live with and enforce the law as it came to us," Acton said. "But
with every retelling, the meaning can be misunderstood."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Andrea Bruce -- The Washington Post; Tywanda Smith, left, of
the Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration was among employees trying to handle
yesterday's swarm of customers trying to beat Monday's start of the new driver's
license law.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Tax Records' Use in Colorado Illegal-Immigrant Probe Questioned

BYLINE: Ivan Moreno; Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1007 words

DATELINE: GREELEY, Colo.


Immigrant advocates say they have seen nothing like it: thousands of
confidential tax records from an income tax preparer seized by a prosecutor
looking for illegal immigrants in this northern Colorado city.

The October seizures led to charges of identity theft and criminal impersonation
against more than 70 people.  Prosecutors allege that as many as 1,300 suspected
illegal immigrants were working using false or stolen Social Security numbers.

But the American Civil Liberties Union said the probe was the "equivalent of a
house-by-house search of innocent homeowners in order to find a suspect believed
to be somewhere in the neighborhood."

Two judges have agreed, ruling that Weld County District Attorney Ken Buck had
no probable cause to seize the records. Buck is appealing, and a ruling in his
favor could open up a new avenue for prosecuting illegal immigrants.

The charges have been ironic for immigrants such as  Horacio Arturo Cervantes,
42. The  father of four from the Mexican state of Chihuahua said he had been
honest about paying taxes, even though he was in the country illegally, because
he was hoping for a path to U.S. citizenship.

Cervantes pleaded guilty to identity theft before the judges' rulings and  now
faces deportation. He said he offered the plea because he wanted to get out of
jail and try his chances in immigration court.

"I feel like I'm up in the air, not knowing what's going on, just with a desire
to stay here," he said. His next court date is June 23.

Buck's investigation, dubbed Operation Numbers Game, marked the first time a
prosecutor used tax records to charge illegal immigrants with identity theft,
according to the ACLU and the Los Angeles-based National Immigration Law Center.
Officials with both groups said they knew of no prosecutor who has since tried
it.

Buck's probe triggered a conundrum: The people charged allegedly are in the
country illegally and were fraudulently using Social Security numbers. But the
Internal Revenue Service requires them to pay taxes, and those records are
confidential.

Buck declined to be interviewed for this article because of pending appeals. But
in a February interview, he argued:  "If you're in this country illegally, and
you're working in this country illegally, there may be a requirement that you
pay taxes but it's kind of ridiculous."

Buck has argued that the records are not  confidential because they were seized
not from the IRS but from the tax preparer.

The investigation started after a Texas man alerted Weld County authorities that
his identity was being used. The suspect in that case told authorities he had
filed his taxes with Amalia's Translation and Tax Services, a business widely
used by immigrants in Greeley, where one-third of the population is Hispanic.

To pay their taxes, Amalia Cerrillo's customers used Individual Taxpayer
Identification Numbers, which the IRS issues to people without Social Security
numbers. Foreign nationals with U.S. investment income also use ITINs. Those
charged in Operation Numbers Game allegedly used others' Social Security numbers
to work and their own ITINs to pay taxes.

ITIN filers had an income tax liability of $50 billion from 1996 to 2003,
according to the latest IRS figures available.  Then-IRS Commissioner Mark W.
Everson told Congress in 2006 that ITINs were "bringing taxpayers into the
system."

IRS spokeswoman Nancy Mathis said ITINs solely track tax returns and do not
convey or record immigration or work status. Nor do they give immigrants the
right to work in the United States.

Buck had said that more identity theft cases were possible, and that prosecutors
in other states were interested in his investigation, but Larimer County
District Judge James Hiatt halted it in April. Ruling in favor of the ACLU, he
said that  investigators violated privacy rights by seizing the tax documents
and that their search was overly broad. Hiatt likened the search to taking
medical records from a doctor's office because one patient was a suspected drug
user.

In a  similar case in March, Weld County District Judge James Hartmann Jr.
called the search warrant "nothing more than an exploratory search based upon
suspicion that some unknown person or persons" committed a crime.

Buck is appealing the rulings, and one  appeal is before the state Supreme
Court.  Although the cases he had pending were allowed to proceed, he has
dismissed 30 of them without prejudice.  The move gives him the option to file
charges against the same people again if his appeals succeed.

A Supreme Court ruling in early May could present another setback to Buck's
investigation. The unanimous ruling said undocumented workers can be considered
identity thieves only if authorities prove they knew they were using someone
else's Social Security number.

Jeff Joseph, a Denver immigration attorney with four clients who were arrested
in Operation Numbers Game, said some people will have a difficult time staying
in the United States even if criminal charges are thrown out.

That is  because immigration court imposes a tougher standard than criminal
courts. Defendants have to prove not only that the search and seizure of tax
records was illegal, but also that the conduct of those executing the search was
"outrageous and egregious," Joseph said.

"So, the real tragedy is, although the criminal cases will probably be kicked
out, there are severe collateral consequences to all of these individuals who
were simply working, supporting their families and trying to follow the law by
paying their taxes," he said.

Many of those caught in Operation Numbers Game continue to insist they did
nothing wrong.

"If it's a crime to pay taxes, then the IRS should also be charged because
they're the ones who gave us the ITIN," said Maria Eugenia Rey, 37, who is in
the country illegally, along with her husband, Luis. He has yet to enter a plea,
and his wife said he has not had charges read to him by a judge.

"He hasn't declared himself guilty, and he won't declare himself guilty because
he hasn't committed a crime," Rey said.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

What's Wrong With California

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 277 words


Harold Meyerson ["How the Golden State Got Tarnished," op-ed, May 28] omitted
one other major reason for California's financial woes: illegal immigration.

As a former California nurse, I have watched as hospitals have absorbed the cost
of treating illegal immigrants.  I have seen the cost that illegals have added
to child care programs, to English-as-a-second-language programs and to the
public schools. Illegal immigrants have added to the state's pollution, the wear
and tear on our roads and the gang activity that strains our jails. Not to
mention the houses that many of them purchased, couldn't afford and have since
abandoned.

SHIRLEY THOMAS

Owings Mills

--

Harold Meyerson traced California's fiscal problems to Proposition 13, and he
was partly right. But he didn't analyze the situation sufficiently.

Proposition 13 didn't just cut taxes; it cut property taxes, and it protected
existing owners from rising assessments while allowing new purchasers to be
subjected to up-to-date assessments. This made holding on to property,
especially land, a road to riches, while also making it harder for young
couples, or people from out of state, to afford homes.

Meanwhile, despite opposition from some Republicans, taxes did go up, sales and
income taxes especially. This created an incentive for the productive to live
and do business elsewhere.

California would have done better to tax land at high rates, to render land
speculation unprofitable, while cutting building taxes, income taxes, etc.
Instead, it has a tax code apparently written to soak the productive rich while
enriching those who merely sit on land they did nothing to make.

NICHOLAS D. ROSEN

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 19, 2009 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration's Sideshow

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 743 words


The Obama administration, moving gingerly toward what the president has said
will be a far-reaching overhaul of the nation's broken immigration system, is
trying to show at the outset that it is serious about enforcing existing laws.

A glimpse of the president's strategy came earlier this month, when Department
of Homeland Security officials said they would scrap a Bush administration
initiative, tied up in the courts, that would have used Social Security
information to force employers nationwide to fire millions of unauthorized
workers. Instead, DHS said it would require federal contractors to use a
separate government database to verify that their employees are authorized to
work here. At about the same time, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano
said the government would put new limits on local police who have been deputized
by the feds to help deport undocumented immigrants.

Immigration advocacy groups scowl at such efforts to front-load enforcement
before an overarching reform effort is undertaken, one that would grant legal
status to millions of undocumented immigrants and expand the supply of visas for
future immigrant workers. Many Republicans in Congress, meanwhile, want much
tougher enforcement measures, while opposing any strategy that smacks of what
they consider amnesty for illegal immigrants. They are all gearing up for a new
battle as early as this fall.

The ingredients of the debate are familiar from the failed Bush-era attempts to
fix immigration, including the rhetorical excess of all sides. And while the
administration's early, tentative moves have been attacked from both sides, in
fact they are modest and reasonable steps that may set the stage for the fight
ahead.

Take the employee verification program, known as E-Verify, that the Obama
administration would require for federal contractors. Business and civil
liberties groups dislike it, insisting that inaccuracies in the electronic data
make reliance on such systems unfair. In fact, E-Verify is surprisingly
accurate. Of 1.8 million E-Verify checks on workers made by employers between
October and December last year, less than 0.5 percent  of the system's initial
responses were reversed on review, according to an outside audit commissioned by
Homeland Security. And in Arizona, where businesses initially objected to the
nation's broadest law requiring employers to check new hires through E-Verify,
the state Chamber of Commerce, to its surprise, now acknowledges the system is
working relatively smoothly and accurately. The federal government is correct
that there's nothing inherently unreasonable about requiring companies to
confirm that their employees are authorized to work in this country.

Then there is the federal program to deputize local police to help deport
undocumented immigrants. Advocates of immigrant rights are correct that it has
led to racial profiling and deepened mistrust between police departments and
immigrant communities. But the DHS move last week aims to minimize abuses by
forcing police to pursue all criminal charges that prompted an arrest in the
first place; that should dissuade cops from slapping handcuffs on people
suspected of no more than lacking valid documents.

It is tempting to think that the nation's economic anemia has sapped the
immigration debate of its urgency. Given the pain of rising unemployment, why
worry about legalizing undocumented workers, let alone clearing a path for still
more immigrants to cross the border on the up and up? Why not just fine-tune
enforcement, as the government is doing, and leave the rest for later?

The answer is that the government's moves, even if they tend to rationalize and
improve on Bush administration policies, are essentially a diversion. Ditto the
ongoing efforts to reinforce personnel and fencing along the Mexican border. Any
serious solution to the nation's immigration mess will have to do more than make
employers toe the line or dissuade police from following their worst instincts.
The fact remains that enforcement by itself is only part of the problem, and it
will not magically make 12 million undocumented immigrants disappear, provide a
realistic framework for future immigrants or settle a noxious debate that has
raged in virtually every state legislature in the country. As Congress gets set
to tackle the immigration mess, the administration will need deft politicking,
and a broad strategic lens, to push for a comprehensive solution.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 27, 2009 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Immigration Partnerships Under Study;
Pr. William, Loudoun Weigh Staying With Federal Program

BYLINE: Derek Kravitz; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ03

LENGTH: 551 words


Law enforcement agencies in two Northern Virginia suburbs are reviewing sweeping
changes to a federal illegal immigration program before deciding whether to
remain involved.

Officials with the Prince William County Police Department and the Loudoun
County Sheriff's Office said they were reviewing planned changes in their
immigration enforcement partnerships with the Department of Homeland Security,
known as the 287(g) program.

Federal officials announced the revised agreements last month after a Government
Accountability Office report in March said that the program was intended to
address "serious crime . . . committed by removable aliens" but that a handful
of partner agencies had overstepped their authority.

Those agencies told investigators that they had stopped illegal immigrants for
some minor violations, such as speeding, carrying an open container of alcohol
and urinating in public, "contrary to the objective of the program."

Among the major changes to the local agreements: Cases will be prioritized based
on the severity of the suspected infraction, such as major drug offenses or
violent crimes; a provision has been clarified stating that all agency personnel
are bound by federal civil rights laws; and new penalties have been introduced
for local agencies that fail to follow federal guidelines.

Under the program, local law enforcement officers are deputized to question
suspects about whether they are in the country legally. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials said the 66 participating agencies, which receive federal
money, have until mid-October to accept the new terms or be dropped from the
program.

In Northern Virginia, Prince William police, the Loudoun sheriff's office and
police departments in Herndon, Manassas and Manassas Park are 287(g) member
agencies. In Maryland, the Frederick County Sheriff's Office is part of the
program.

Civil liberties groups and immigrant advocates said the program has caused some
police officials to engage in racial profiling, conducting indiscriminate
traffic stops or neighborhood sweeps aimed at Latinos and other ethnic groups.

Since July 2007, Prince William police have turned over about 1,600 suspected
illegal immigrants held in county facilities. The county's Criminal Alien Unit,
which was created after Prince William officials approved a number of countywide
anti-illegal immigration measures, refers seven to 12 cases a month to ICE's
Office of Investigations.

But Prince William officials have said that the county's separate and more
stringent illegal immigration policy has, at times, overwhelmed federal
officials. At one point last year, ICE discussed reducing its work with Prince
William, saying it did not "have the capacity to operate in that manner with
many jurisdictions," according to an interim report released Aug. 4 by Prince
William police.

In Loudoun County, members of the sheriff's department and county attorney's
office are reviewing the updated agreement to "sort out any potential issues,"
said Kraig Troxell, a sheriff's office spokesman.

This year, Loudoun sheriff's deputies have transferred 166 suspected illegal
immigrants arrested on other local charges to ICE custody, with 43 others being
held in the county jail on federal detainers. Last year, 135 suspects were sent
to federal facilities.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 11, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Shout Draws Focus to Illegal-Immigrant Issue;
Coverage Question Is Complex, Experts Say, but Less Ominous Than Reform Foes
Warn

BYLINE: Alec MacGillis; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 925 words


Republican Rep. Joe Wilson's shout of "You lie!" during President Obama's speech
Wednesday night brought renewed attention to swirling questions about whether
Democratic health-care legislation would extend coverage to illegal immigrants.
Although the answer is more complicated than reform proponents acknowledge, it
also does not square with the dark warnings of opponents who say the proposals
would bring waves of undocumented immigrants into taxpayer-funded plans.

To counter claims that universal health care would cover illegal immigrants,
Democrats and independent arbiters have pointed to language in the House
legislation that says the federal subsidies, or "affordability credits," that
would be the main avenue to expanding coverage would not be available to illegal
immigrants.

This language does not assuage the bill's critics, who say the proposals lack
the verification tools needed to assure that illegal immigrants do not gain
coverage either through federal credits or expanded Medicaid eligibility for the
poorest of the uninsured.

House Republicans have proposed amendments to close potential loopholes, but
those measures have so far failed in committee. House Democrats say that the
stricter rules could prevent eligible people from getting coverage and that
eligibility regulations would be drawn up by federal officials. The bill's
opponents say such a process would be inadequate.

"The other side appears to be saying, 'Trust us, [the government] will do the
right thing.' Well, the trust issue is the core problem in immigration -- the
political class is telling the public, 'We'll do the right thing,' and the
public doesn't believe them," said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, which advocates for stricter immigration policy.

But many tax and social policy experts say the concerns over undocumented
immigrants taking advantage of health-care reform are overstated, if not
unfounded. The thorniest immigration issue, they say, may be sorting out how
subsidies or Medicaid eligibility would work in families with both legal and
illegal residents.

"Will some illegal immigrant get [help]? Probably. Will it be this big problem?
Probably not," said Gerald Prante, an economist with the nonpartisan Tax
Foundation.

It is estimated that there are 6 million to 7 million illegal immigrants without
health insurance and that several million more have obtained coverage through
employers or on their own. Taxpayers already subsidize health care for illegal
immigrants -- Medicaid reimburses hospitals for emergency treatments for
undocumented immigrants, most notably for childbirth. But studies have found
that illegal immigrants spend much less on health care than others in the United
States, partly because they are wary of interacting with the medical system and
the government -- a fear that experts say would keep many of them from trying to
exploit the new system.

The Democratic proposals call for covering most of the uninsured by getting them
to buy plans on a new "exchange" where they could choose among private plans --
and possibly a government-run plan -- with the help of subsidies for those with
low and modest incomes. Illegal immigrants would neither qualify for subsidies
nor be required to buy insurance, as everyone else would be, though they could
purchase plans on the exchange.

Tax policy experts say it would be difficult for illegal immigrants to obtain
subsidies, because eligibility would be based partly on people's tax returns. It
is true, they say, that many illegal immigrants pay payroll taxes using phony
Social Security numbers, but they rarely file tax returns, and those who do
almost always use "personal identification numbers" from the IRS, which
essentially flag them as illegal immigrants. That is why it is very hard for
them to obtain the earned-income tax credit.

"It would be exceedingly difficult for undocumenteds to game the system" by
using a bogus Social Security number to apply for subsidies, said Alan Berube of
the center-left Brookings Institution.

Activists fighting illegal immigration and House Republicans pushing for
stricter rules want the legislation to mandate proof of legal status, such as
requiring a birth certificate or using the Systematic Alien Verification for
Entitlements, or SAVE, database, which tracks legal immigrants. They say such
measures have prevented large numbers of illegal immigrants from enrolling in
Medicaid.

Health-care reform proponents disagree, noting that few illegal immigrants
enrolled in Medicaid even before proof of citizenship was required and that such
requirements have disqualified tens of thousands of eligible citizens because
they lack ready birth certificates.

That is why congressional Democrats have since moved to loosen that requirement
for Medicaid. Reform proponents say adding back such rules for Medicaid or for
the subsidies on the exchange would be costly and would apprehend relatively few
illegal immigrants, at the risk of raising hurdles for those who are eligible.

They say that federal regulators may well end up using the SAVE database but
that for Congress to impose strict standards now could result in overly blunt
measures.

"Everyone agrees that [illegal immigrants] shouldn't be covered, and they're not
going to be," said Edwin Park, a health-care expert with the left-leaning Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities. "There's no clear evidence that the system is
so vulnerable, so this would be a solution to a problem that doesn't exist but
that causes problems for eligible people."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; President Obama leaves
the House chamber after his speech Wednesday night, during which Rep. Joe Wilson
(R-S.C.) yelled out his doubts on the question of coverage for illegal
immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 29, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

N.Va. Woman Aids Rescue Of Immigrants;
Reporting Ransom Led To Stash House in Texas

BYLINE: Josh White; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 974 words


Eleven undocumented immigrants who were taken hostage by a violent Mexican
smuggling cartel along the Texas border were saved last month after a Virginia
woman reported to police that the group had her brother and was demanding
thousands of dollars for his release. It was the third time this year that such
ransom demands of a Northern Virginia resident have led federal agents to rescue
hostages in secretive border stash houses, according to federal authorities.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents rescued Oscar A. Bertothy of Honduras
and 10 others who were crammed into a second-floor room -- naked and with their
mouths taped shut -- at a stash house in Houston on Aug. 29, according to
federal court documents released last week. It was just one day after Bertothy's
sister, of Springfield, called Fairfax County police to report that members of
the cartel had extorted $3,000 from her and wanted more or they would kill
Oscar.

Such hostage-taking cases have increased along the southern U.S. border in
recent years as Mexican cartels seek to boost profits by extorting the
vulnerable immigrant relatives of those they help across the border. Many of
those relatives are fearful of calling the police and know that, if they don't
pay, their loved ones could be tortured or killed.

ICE officials and local police encourage those who receive ransom demands to
report the situation immediately, as they have been able to quickly track the
whereabouts of their loved ones. A Washington Post story, published five days
before Bertothy's sister went to police, highlighted ransom victims in Prince
William County and Alexandria who reported nearly identical schemes, ultimately
saving dozens of hostages and leading to the arrest of their captors.

In Bertothy's case, his sister called the Fairfax County Police Department on
Aug. 28 and said her brother had been smuggled into the country from Mexico and
was being held against his will. Officer Don Gotthardt, a police spokesman, said
there had been a demand for money and threats to do bodily harm.

"We contacted federal authorities immediately and assisted them in the initial
investigation," Gotthardt said. "We encourage the citizens of Fairfax County to
report any criminal activity."

Although immigration officials realize that both the victims and the kidnappers
have broken the law, they say they want to save lives first and sort out
immigration status second.

After Fairfax police contacted the FBI, that agency contacted ICE in Northern
Virginia.

Bertothy's sister came forward to police after paying two ransom demands of
$1,500 each, sending the money to Mexico via wire transfer. After a third demand
-- this time for $3,000 and accompanied by beatings of Oscar she could hear over
the phone -- she called police for help. Authorities later recorded calls
between the Springfield woman and the captors and worked around the clock in
Virginia and Texas to track the calls to Houston.

Agents were at a house on Ashford Green Lane in Houston within 36 hours.

Three men were arrested there. They are alleged to have beaten hostages,
sexually assaulted them, and held them naked and at gunpoint to prevent their
escape, according to federal court documents.

ICE Special Agent Billy Bickham wrote in a criminal complaint that at least one
victim was stuffed in a trash bag and held in a closet for days and that the
victims generally were "in a state of terror" while held in the Houston home.

The defendants have been indicted on charges that could lead to sentences of
life in prison.

"It is imperative that the families of victims contact ICE or their local law
enforcement agency as soon as possible to assist in bringing the situation to a
successful conclusion," said James Dinkins, special agent in charge of the
office of investigations for ICE in the District and Virginia. "In this case,
within 36 hours of ICE receiving the tip, 11 hostages were rescued from a
deplorable situation."

One of the men charged in the case -- identified in court papers and a Justice
Department statement as Alex Julca, 24, a U.S. permanent resident of Houston --
told ICE officials that he needed cash and agreed to rent out a room in his
house for $400 a month, only later learning that the renter, known only as "el
Pelon," was keeping as many as 20 hostages in the room at a time. Julca told
authorities that two other men acted as guards, made ransom demands and carried
a gun. According to one victim who spoke to ICE, el Pelon allegedly has ties to
"the Z's," a powerful militant smuggling cartel known in Spanish as los Zetas.

Julca's attorney, Houston assistant federal public defender Peter Bray, declined
to comment on his client's pending case.

Another of the men charged in the case -- Rigoberto Vargas-Jaimes of Mexico --
told authorities that he was smuggled illegally into the United States on Aug.
15. Unable to pay his smuggling fees, Vargas-Jaimes was enlisted to help feed
and guard hostages, something authorities have said is a relatively common
occurrence. He was charged with harboring illegal immigrants.

Adrian Almaguer, a Houston attorney who represents Vargas-Jaimes, said the
cartels have "gotten a bit wise" to the fact that such crimes carry federal
penalties and have changed their tactics, often using people they have smuggled
into the country, such as his client, as guards.

"They use third parties to guard these folks and make phone calls because they
know if they get caught, they'll be the ones who go to jail," Almaguer said,
adding that his client wanted to come to the United States to get a job and
support his family back in Mexico. "It's very compartmentalized."

Those who are rescued are often returned to their home countries after they
provide officials with testimony against their captors.

Staff researchers Meg Smith and Julie Tate contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 30, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Border Deaths Are Increasing;
Rise Is Despite Fewer Crossers, U.S. and Mexican Groups Say

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 927 words


Despite a 50 percent drop over the past two years in the number of people caught
illegally entering the United States from Mexico, the number of those who died
while trying to cross the border increased this year and is the highest since
2006, according to new U.S. data and a study by human rights groups in both
countries.

The American Civil Liberties Union and Mexico's human rights agency allege that
consistently high numbers of border deaths -- hovering around 350 to 500 a year,
depending on which government's figures are used -- are a predictable but
largely unrecognized result of border security policies.

"Border deaths have increased despite the economic downturn, fewer migrant
crossers, and a steady drop in apprehensions," Mexico's National Human Rights
Commission and the ACLU of San Diego and Imperial Counties in California say in
a report set for release Wednesday and obtained by The Washington Post. The
rising fatality rates "signal an escalating humanitarian crisis that is not
going away and requires more effective governmental responses," the groups say.

The findings come as immigrants' advocates increase pressure on Washington to
overhaul immigration policies. The administration has signaled its willingness
to consider measures that would increase the flow of legal workers and to
legalize many of those already here, which some analysts say could reduce
illegal crossings.

Until Congress acts, however, the ACLU and Mexico's commission, known by its
Spanish acronym CNDH, recommend that both countries prioritize reducing border
deaths in bilateral talks, shift border patrol resources to search and rescue,
and allow humanitarian groups to do relief work in border areas. The groups also
urge that both countries set up a joint 911-type missing persons system run by a
non-governmental organization, standardize data collection on deaths and invite
international involvement.

Arturo SarukhÃ¡n, Mexican ambassador to the United States, called the deaths
along the border "a matter of utmost concern," citing both countries' efforts to
avoid fatalities and to "break the back" of human smuggling operations. However,
he added in a written statement, "at the end of the day, a secure, orderly,
legal and humane flow of migrants will be the only solution to this challenge."

David Hoffman, chief of the strategic planning, policy and analysis division of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, said Washington has taken many steps to
reduce border deaths under a 1998 national border safety strategy, identifying
dangerous areas with the Mexican government and adding rescue beacons in some
areas.

"Every death is a tragedy," Hoffman said, adding that the Border Patrol has
rescued nearly 11,000 illegal crossers in the past six years. "If there are
shortfalls, if there are things we can do better, we are open to doing that," he
said.

The debate over border deaths is drawing renewed attention to a long-standing
complaint by human rights groups, one eclipsed lately by the explosion of
drug-related violence prompted by Mexico's assault on drug cartels since 2006,
which has killed more than 12,000 people in that country.

Analysts have long acknowledged that a U.S. crackdown begun in 1994 in
California and Texas increased the hazards for illegal immigrants by driving
border crossers from urban centers such as San Diego and El Paso into more
remote areas.

The strategy, reflected in plans with names such as Operation Gatekeeper, was
intended to focus Border Patrol personnel in places where illegal crossers could
disappear quickly into neighborhoods, reasoning that authorities would have more
time to catch people trekking through the desert and that the difficulty of such
crossings would be a deterrent.

The enforcement push, however, has channeled migrants to places such as Arizona,
increasing the number of deaths in the region's inhospitable mountain ranges,
Indian reservations, military proving grounds and cactus-filled wilderness.

In the 15 years since the United States began beefing up patrols along the
2,000-mile border, deaths have occurred at a rate of one every 24 hours, the
human rights report alleges. Citing Mexico's foreign ministry and media sources,
the rights groups say  that at least 5,607 deaths occurred between 1994 and
2008.

According to the Department of Homeland Security, the Border Patrol has reported
4,111 deaths in border areas since 1998, not counting those reported first to
local authorities.

Meanwhile, the number of people apprehended while crossing the border has
dropped steeply. Border Patrol arrests for the year ending Sept. 30 are on track
to drop about 23 percent, a precipitous decline that follows a 27 percent drop
the year before. Through Aug. 31, the Border Patrol reported 519,394
apprehensions, the lowest number since the early 1970s, and less than half the
2005 level of 1.2 million.

Officials credit the decrease to the economic downturn and increased
enforcement. The number of fatalities, however,  is on pace to climb slightly
this year. Hoffman said Customs and Border Protection  is reporting 416 deaths
in 2009 so far, compared with 390 last year, 398 in 2007, 454 in 2006 and 492 in
2005, the decade's peak.

Human rights groups say that U.S. agencies typically undercount deaths because
of inconsistent classification standards. The CNDH and ACLU report faults
governments in both countries, with report author Maria Jiminez saying they lack
standards and centralized means to identify, recover and prepare the dead for
burial, determine cause of death, and notify next of kin.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 2, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Census Gets Some Latino Help and Needs It

BYLINE: Carol Morello; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 742 words


The census can be a hard sell in some Hispanic communities.

Fears that the information illegal immigrants give to the census could lead to
their deportation is partly responsible for Latinos being undercounted in the
2000 Census by an estimated 3 percent.

This year, a prominent Latino evangelical preacher with a radio show in 11
markets is encouraging undocumented immigrants to boycott the census to protest
the lack of immigration reform. And a Mexican American political organization
has called for all Hispanics to boycott it.

Against that backdrop, a coalition of prominent Latinos kicked off a nationwide
campaign Thursday urging people to fill out the 2010 Census forms.

The estimated 47 million Hispanics living in the United States make up the
nation's largest minority group. As part of an unprecedented outreach to
Hispanics, the Census Bureau for the first time will send bilingual forms to
largely Hispanic areas.

A host of Latino organizations are telling people that the census will help
their communities get more federal funds, could help them put more Latinos in
elective office and could also help them gain more say on immigration laws.

"This is the most important census ever for the Latino community," said Arturo
Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials Educational Fund, in announcing the campaign: "Ya es hora.
Â¡Hagase contar!" or "It's time to make yourself count."

The Constitution calls for a count of everyone living in the country once every
10 years. The census asks people questions about their country of birth and
citizenship, but it does not ask whether they are in the country legally or not.

By law, census workers do not share information about any individual with other
government agencies. In previous years, immigration raids have been suspended
during the census.

To counter negative perceptions, the Census Bureau is forming partnerships with
people and groups trusted in their communities. Hundreds of bilingual
Spanish-speakers have been hired to form more partnerships.

The Spanish-language network, Univision, will broadcast a 30-minute program in
late March  that will guide viewers step-by-step through the process of filling
out the forms. The Telemundo television network will  have a census worker as
one of the characters in a soap opera. Public service announcements will feature
pro-census messages from well-known news anchors, sports announcers, judges and
gossip columnists.

The TV programs  amount to donated time. The Census Bureau estimates it will
spend almost $28 million on advertising in Hispanic media for the 2010 Census,
up from $19 million for the 2000 Census.

The  census has created a deep schism among Latino groups.

The Rev. Miguel Rivera, chairman of the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and
Christian Leaders, which claims a membership of 20,000 pastors, called in the
spring for a boycott by undocumented immigrants. Now he wants to expand it to
all Latinos if immigration reform does not progress by Nov. 1.

"This is a time when radical action is needed to move forward, by showing we are
truly committed not to be counted unless undocumented immigrants are given a
path to citizenship," he said.

Rivera said he was "very disappointed" with the organizations helping the
census. "They prefer to be clients of the census and get dollars that are going
to be spent by the Census Bureau. Instead of putting up front the needs of
undocumented immigrants, they use them as an excuse to get more money from the
Washington entitlement machine."

Vargas said only the media companies are getting money from the Census Bureau.

The Mexican American Political Association, which says it has 100,000 members
and which has gotten Census Bureau awards for its past   support of the count,
has called for an all-Latino boycott. Nativo Lopez, president of the group, said
it has distributed 250,000 fliers in California with the message: "No to the
census. Before you enumerate us you must legalize us."

The boycott calls drew rebukes. "Anybody who suggests someone not be counted in
the census is fundamentally irresponsible," Vargas said. "It's an immoral
suggestion."

Vargas said that boycott  proponents are tapping into a desire of immigrants to
gain legal status and that their message will resonate among Latinos. He said
that is why "Ya es hora" emphasizes that being counted in the census will make
Congress more responsive to Hispanic concerns.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 16, 2009 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Where two contentious issues intersect;
Immigration and health House measure omits Senate panel's legal test

BYLINE: David Montgomery

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1367 words


The 31-year-old woman creeping gingerly into Adventist HealthCare's
free-standing emergency department in Germantown was obviously in pain, and
physician Orlee Panitch quickly diagnosed the problem: gallstones.

The case wasn't an emergency -- yet -- but the woman, who is an illegal
immigrant, didn't know where else to go for care.

"Her inability to access care is a problem," Panitch said. "At some point,
untreated, she'll need emergency surgery to deal with this."

That question of access to care for some immigrants, and who should pay for it,
could well become one of the most contentious sticking points in the coming
weeks as members of Congress sit down to reconcile the health-care bill passed
by the House on Saturday with the yet-to-emerge Senate version.

The controversy centers largely on whether illegal immigrants should benefit at
all under a revised health-care system. Democratic leaders had vowed that only
legal residents would receive subsidies to buy insurance. And after Rep. Joe
Wilson (R-S.C.) famously shouted "You lie" at President Obama when he made that
vow to Congress, both the White House and the Senate Finance Committee went a
step further. They pledged that undocumented workers would be barred not only
from receiving subsidies but also from buying insurance through federally
sponsored exchanges -- even if they used their own money.

Last week, when some House Democratic leaders pressed to match the Senate
Finance Committee version, Hispanic lawmakers threatened to revolt and
ultimately prevailed: Under the bill approved by the House, illegal immigrants
would not be barred from the exchanges.

That stark debate, however, has largely obscured the distinct challenge raised
by immigrant families as reformers try to provide coverage to as many Americans
as possible. Because so many of the nation's 38 million immigrants -- legal and
illegal -- live in households that include both categories, families must often
rely on a patchwork of care and funding. And while the legislation could have a
significant impact on how millions of immigrants obtain care, it is clear that
large gaps in coverage will remain, not only across immigrant communities but
also even within individual families.

Maria Salmeron, for example, is a legal resident from El Salvador who has
insurance through her job in the kitchen of a nursing home. But her husband, a
construction worker who is trying to legalize his status, has no insurance.
Their youngest child, Isabella, a 2-year-old citizen in pigtails, requires a
ventilator to breathe. Her medical needs are covered by state and federal
programs.

On a recent fall day, Salmeron took Isabella to a pediatric clinic in Falls
Church, where a bilingual pediatrician, Albert Brito, checked her for a cold and
helped her mother make an appointment with a kidney specialist for the child.

Meanwhile, the nurse who comes to the family's home to help take care of
Isabella has no insurance. J. Katan, a legal resident from Nigeria, said she
cannot afford the premiums for the plan offered by her nursing agency.

"If I need to see a doctor," she said, "I go myself, and I pay."

Locally and nationwide, roughly two-thirds of working-age immigrants who are
legal residents are insured, and more than one-third of illegal immigrants also
have insurance, according to a new study by the Migration Policy Institute, a
Washington think tank. The group estimates that as many as 2.8 million uninsured
legal residents of working age could benefit from reform, by qualifying for
expanded Medicaid or proposed subsidies to purchase insurance. Nearly 1 million
uninsured legal immigrants also work at firms that could be required to provide
insurance. And 1.8 million uninsured illegal immigrants work for firms that may
be required to provide insurance, according to the institute.

Even as lawmakers remain divided over how far to extend the new safety net, some
health providers already have fashioned multi-layered systems to match care with
the mixed needs of immigrant families.

The Falls Church pediatric clinic that treated Isabella was created by the Inova
Health System, part of a cluster strategy that includes a maternity clinic for
uninsured women, a nutritionist, a low-cost pharmacy, a lab, classrooms and
social workers to help families navigate the system.

"We're basically a community safety net as well as a medical safety net," said
Geoffrey DeLizzio, director of the clinics.

Ramiro Herbas, who came from Bolivia eight years ago, recently brought his son,
Demothi, 2, for a checkup and a flu shot to the Falls Church pediatric clinic.
American-born Demothi qualifies for Medicaid. Herbas said he has a work permit,
but his construction jobs don't offer insurance. If he gets sick he visits a
doctor's office in Seven Corners, where discount practices cater to immigrants,
$40 a visit.

For some, the emergency department will remain the only option -- especially for
patients like Susy, the illegal immigrant with gallstones, who would be excluded
from subsidies.

"The pain is strong," said Susy, a babysitter who came from Peru six years ago.
Because of her immigration status, she spoke on the condition that her last name
not be published.

As Susy lay on a bed, Marcos Pesquera, executive director of Adventist's center
on health disparities, picked up the phone and made an appointment for her with
a surgeon, who, two weeks later, removed her gallbladder at Shady Grove
Adventist Hospital.

Susy said she was initially asked to make a deposit of $3,500 to the hospital.
Ultimately she made a deposit of just $100, she said, but she added that she may
be asked to pay more.

The surgeon declined to comment, but his colleague, Jason Brodsky of Inpatient
Surgical Consultants, said in an e-mailed statement: "We are pleased to provide
this care regardless of a patient's insurance status."

Most of the cost of Susy's care will end up being absorbed by Adventist.

Like Inova, Adventist HealthCare, a $1.2 billion nonprofit provider, has
stitched together services on its Germantown campus with a cluster of clinics
and emergency care, paid for by an array of public and private players.

Next door to the emergency department where Susy was treated, Monica
PeÃ±aherrera, 53, sat in an examination room at a clinic operated by the
nonprofit Mobile Medical Care. PeÃ±aherrera is an American citizen but has had
no health insurance since her husband's construction business declined. When she
felt a pain in her breast recently, she came to the clinic she had heard about
at her church.

"I'm comfortable here," PeÃ±aherrera said after she was examined by nurse
practitioner Marylynn Gonsalves. "I think of her as my family doctor."

For PeÃ±aherrera's visit, she pays $30. Montgomery County pays $62. "That is way
less than half what our costs would be," says Bob Spector, executive director of
Mobile Med. The rest comes from cash and diagnostic support from Adventist, plus
Mobile Med's own fundraising and reliance in some cases on donated medical
expertise.

The patchwork of services is also paid for by taxpayers and people with
insurance.

"We have to try to cover for those who can't pay or won't pay with the revenues
that come from people who can and do pay," says Bill Robertson, president of
Adventist HealthCare, which provided about $51 million in uncompensated care --
to poor, uninsured patients like Susy -- in their two local hospitals last year.
The hospital covers the gap with money from other patients' insurance plans that
pay more than cost.

Downstairs from Mobile Med is a maternity clinic for uninsured women, where
Socorro Almejo, 38, an immigrant from Mexico, brought her 17-year-old daughter,
Reina, who is pregnant, for a routine prenatal exam. Reina is receiving a full
range of pregnancy checkups for $450 through a county-subsidized program. Almejo
herself has no insurance and goes to another clinic when she is sick. "I'm glad
at least my children have [coverage], even if I don't," she said.

Dianne Fisher, the county health department's nurse administrator for women's
health services, said the goal was to ensure healthy pregnancies and births.
"Otherwise," she said, "they would show up in the emergency room, with more
problems."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Sarah L. Voisin/the Washington Post; Marylynn Gonsalves, a nurse
practitioner for Mobile Medical Care in Germantown, talks to a patient. "I think
of her as my family doctor," said one Hispanic woman -- a U.S. citizen, but
without health coverage.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Social Security: The Readers Speak

BYLINE: Allan Sloan

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 891 words


I was snowed under by e-mail from readers of the Social Security article I wrote
last month, which appeared online just as I was starting my vacation and in
print a few days later. I didn't have access to reader e-mail at the beach, and
I've just now caught up with all my Social Security mail. I would like to share
some of that correspondence with you.

Before we get to specific letters, I'd like to answer three questions asked by
many writers. They involve illegal immigrants, Social Security bookkeeping --
and my picture.

--  Immigrants first. Social Security has big problems, which was the point of
my article, and readers wanted to know how much of that is attributable to
illegal residents' getting benefits.

The answer is, little or nothing. Here's why. If you're an illegal resident and
get a legitimate Social Security number, and work long enough to qualify for
benefits, you can collect if you move outside the United States. (However, you
can't collect if you stay here, under Social Security rules.) But paying those
benefits -- which illegal immigrants have earned by paying Social Security
taxes, along with their employers -- is the same as paying a legal resident who
has similar payment history. Social Security is an earned benefit -- it's not
like Medicaid or welfare -- and those who have paid into the system, whether or
not they're here legally, have earned it.

If you're an illegal immigrant with a phony Social Security number, you're
helping Social Security, because you and your employer pay into the system but
you don't get any benefits from it. The money is credited to a "no-match"
account at the Social Security Administration.

And please, don't deluge me with mail about illegal workers. I'm not taking a
position on the broader issue of immigration, I'm simply answering a legitimate
question about its impact on Social Security, which seems to be negligible.

--  Now for bookkeeping. Many people suggested that the federal income taxes
that higher-income recipients pay on their Social Security benefits should be
credited to the Social Security trust fund. In fact, they already are.

--  And, finally, the picture that ran with the article shows my real Social
Security card, but not my real Social Security number. It's a null number that
Social Security gave me to use. It's not my real signature, either. Fortune's
photo wizards deleted the signature I scrawled when I was 16 and substituted
"Allan H. Sloan" written by one of my associates, whose handwriting is better
than mine was or ever will be.

Now, to a few readers' letters, edited for brevity and clarity. I have not
verified my correspondents' names or identities, which is why I'm using only
initials of the names they signed with.

I was a bit disappointed that it wasn't until your 12th paragraph that you
finally called Social Security what it really is -- an intergenerational
social-insurance plan. Too many Americans think that it is their retirement or
their pension plan. Social Security was not meant to be someone's source of
income in retirement, yet seven decades later more than half of retired
Americans are essentially wards of the state, relying on the government for the
majority of their income. In my book that's a program failure, not a program
success.

-- M.M.

AS: An interesting point of view. Thanks for sharing it.

I don't understand the difference between my buying a Treasury security and the
Social Security Administration buying one. Aren't they both IOUs?

-- J.S.

AS: Yes. However, owning a Treasury represents savings for you, but not for the
Social Security trust fund. That's because having one arm of the government
(Social Security) owning IOUs from another arm of the government (the Treasury)
doesn't help the government as a whole cover the cash shortfall that will start
when Social Security takes in less cash than it spends. The government will have
to borrow the money to pay off the trust-fund securities so Social Security can
pay benefits. It's the same amount it would borrow if there were no trust fund.

I enjoyed your article except when I got to your proposal of raising the
retirement age to 70. I retired early this year at age 64, and let me tell you,
there is no way I could have hung on to age 70 doing my job well, and I'm not a
manual laborer. There is something about mid- and late 60s that makes it very
difficult to continue working mentally and physically. The body starts breaking
down and the mind slows down. Maybe you are an exception.

-- S.H.

AS: Would that I were -- at 64, I'm definitely getting creaky. But we have to do
some painful things to make Social Security financially secure, and raising the
retirement age for white-collar workers is one of them.

Nothing short of economic collapse will educate these congressional fools and
the ignorant American "sheeple" who elected them.

-- T.M.

Knowing the politicians here in Washington and their penchant for demagoguery on
the issue (especially liberal Democrats), I doubt anything will be done anytime
soon.

-- D.E.

AS: I hope you're both wrong. Then again -- shhh, don't tell anyone! -- most
veteran journalists like me are romantics at heart, and think that if we help
people understand what's really going on, the world can be made better.

Allan Sloan is Fortune magazine's senior editor at large. His e-mail address is
asloan@fortunemail.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 8, 2009 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Flawed health reform;
The House measure is likely to pass but needs a dose of fiscal reality.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 556 words


MUCH OF the criticism of the health-care measure before the House of
Representatives is overwrought. Another part is simply wrong. Unfortunately,
that does not mean that this is a good bill. As we have said, it does not do
enough to control costs, and it is not funded in a sustainable way. Expanding
coverage for the uninsured is imperative, but so, too, is getting the country on
a credible fiscal path.

As an example of the hyperbole, take the ludicrous assertion by Minority Leader
John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) that the Democratic measure "is the greatest threat to
freedom that I've seen in the 19 years I've been in Washington." Come on. The
proposal has been endorsed by the American Medical Association and the AARP,
hardly wild-eyed radicals.

As an example of the simply wrong, take the assertions that the measure would
result in insurance subsidies for illegal immigrants and federal financing of
abortions. The House bill explicitly states that illegal immigrants are not
eligible for federal insurance subsidies or to enroll in the public option.
Although the language is being negotiated, the bill would, unlike the Senate
Finance Committee version, permit illegal immigrants to purchase insurance on
their own through the newly created exchanges. This should be welcomed, not
discouraged. Fewer uninsured people means less uncompensated care costs dumped
on hospitals, and it would bring younger, healthier people into the exchanges.
In other words, the illegal immigrants would be helping the federal treasury,
not draining it.

The controversy over abortion funding is similarly phony. Federal law prohibits
the use of federal money for abortions except in cases of rape, incest or where
the life of the mother is endangered. The House bill would leave that
restriction in place. It would exclude abortion from the list of benefits that
plans participating in the insurance exchange would be required to offer.
Instead, the exchanges would have to include one plan that covers abortion,
along with one that doesn't. Even so, the plans that cover abortion would have
to take steps to make sure that federal funds are segregated from those used to
pay for abortions.

Now to our concerns. The measure would cover 36 million more Americans,
according to the Congressional Budget Office. That would be a major achievement.
And yet: At what cost? The CBO says that the measure would be fully paid for --
in fact, it would bring in money -- both during the first 10 years and in the
following decade. But will the planned cuts to Medicare spending be implemented
-- or will they be abandoned once they start to pinch? That is a risk, and the
measure does not include enough other ways to get health-care costs under
control. The bill would help spur needed changes in Medicare reimbursements to
reward quality rather than quantity of care. But it is missing two important
elements that the Senate Finance Committee bill begins to address: a commission
to remove at least some of the politics from the business of determining
Medicare payment policies and a tax on high-cost insurance plans. The House bill
instead taxes the rich, tapping revenue that will be needed to narrow the
overall federal deficit.

The House will probably pass the bill. But there's a lot of work to be done
before its final enactment will be possible -- or desirable.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      July 16, 2009 Thursday 12:00 AM EST

Rules and Regulations to Legally Work in the U.S.

BYLINE: Lily Garcia, Special to the Washington Post, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 572 words



HIGHLIGHT: I have a H-4 US Visa (dependent of H1B visa). What should I do in
order to get legal work here in the U.S.?


I have a H-4 US Visa (dependent of H1B visa). What should I do in order to get
legal work here in the U.S.?

According to Germaine Sobral, a veteran immigration attorney whose opinion I
sought in answering your question, an H-4 child of an H-1B visa holder cannot
legally work in the U.S.  However, if you are an H-4 spouse of an H1-B visa
holder, you may legally work in the U.S. if you apply for and are granted an
H-1B visa of your own.  If you were the spouse of a person with an E visa (which
allows you to work at a company in which you invest) or an L visa (which is
granted to intracompany transferees), for example, you would be allowed to work
by virtue of your spouse's visa.  In your case, however, you would need to
qualify in your own right for employment.

The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) offers more than 80
different types of non-immigrant visas to qualified individuals. Those types of
visas that allow people to work in the U.S. usually restrict the scope of the
work to very narrow circumstances.

H-1B visas are by far the most popular type of non-immigrant work visa because
they allow for a longer period of work and greater range of work options than
other types of visas.  Under an H-1B visa, you can work in the U.S. for up to
six years total and you can take the visa with you from employer to employer.
To qualify for an H-1B visa, your sponsoring employer only needs to demonstrate
that they need you to fill a "specialty occupation," which is one that "requires
theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialized knowledge"
and at least a bachelor's degree or its equivalent.

According to Sobral, the main limitation of H-1B visas historically has been the
cap of 65 thousand visas imposed by law.  H-1B applications can be filed
starting April 1st of each year for employment to begin in October of the same
year.  Due to the high volume of applications, the entire inventory of H1-B
visas is usually awarded to applicants that file during the first few days that
the visas become available.  For many years, legislation has been proposed to
increase the cap on H-1B visas in order to meet the high demand of U.S.
employers for professionals, especially in the field of technology.  As a result
of high U.S. unemployment, however, there are still H-1B visas remaining for
fiscal year 2010, which begins this October 1st.

Sobral explains that a popular path for foreign workers is to enter the U.S. on
a tourist or student visa and then navigate the different visa statuses until
they have exhausted their non-immigrant visa options, married an American
citizen, or found an employer to sponsor their application for permanent
residence. The primary challenge that non-immigrant workers confront, in
Sobral's experience, is remaining with a legal status while they explore
different work visa options. If a person violates the conditions of his or her
visa in any way, even unwittingly, the USCIS is usually unforgiving.

For further information on the subject of non-immigrant work visas, you can
reach Germaine Sobral at gwsobral@mslaw.pro or visit www.uscis.gov.

Lily Garcia has offered employment law and human resources advice to companies
of all sizes for more than 10 years. To submit a question, e-mail
HRadvice@washingtonpost.com We reserve the right to edit submitted questions for
length and clarity and cannot guarantee that all questions will be answered.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2009 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 7, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Agency Plans to Improve Oversight of Immigrant Detention

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1080 words


The Obama administration announced plans Thursday to restructure the nation's
much-criticized immigration detention system by strengthening federal oversight
and seeking to standardize conditions in a 32,000-bed system now scattered
throughout 350 local jails, state prisons and contract facilities.

John Morton, director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said his goal
within three to five years is to hold noncriminal immigrants in a smaller number
of less prison-like settings. Those facilities would meet federal guidelines
ensuring access to pro bono legal counsel, medical care and grievance
proceedings, he said.

"We need a system that is open, transparent and accountable," Morton said. "With
these reforms, ICE will move away from our present decentralized jail approach
to a system that is wholly designed for and based on civil detention needs and
the needs of the people we detain."

The new approach comes after a massive detention buildup under President George
W. Bush, an increase that civil liberties and immigrant advocacy groups say led
to systemic abuse. Starting after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and
accelerating as Washington took a get-tough approach to illegal immigration,
ICE's detention system more than tripled in size. It now houses nearly 400,000
immigration violators a year.

Legal experts say detainees, most of whom have no criminal record and are held
pending removal on administrative grounds, are subject to penal system
practices, typically confined in jail cells, prison blocks or remote detention
centers. Many immigrants are held for months, some for years, facing strict
confinement and group punishment for disciplinary infractions.

Government investigators have also faulted ICE for delivering substandard and
sometimes fatal medical care, providing insufficient food and clothing, and
barring detainees from making even a single phone call to a lawyer. Many
detainees are transferred to remote facilities, hundreds of miles from lawyers,
even though some judges do not allow hearings by teleconference.

Morton will assign a federal overseer to each of ICE's 23 largest detention
centers and set up a detention oversight unit within ICE's Office of
Professional Responsibility that will report directly to him. He also will
create an Office of Detention Policy and Planning, headed by Dora Schriro, a
former Arizona corrections official and aide to Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano, to redesign detention operations.

ICE will stop sending families to the T. Don Hutto Residential Center near
Austin, a 512-bed former state prison. The Bush administration highlighted the
family detention facility as a symbol of its immigration crackdown efforts, but
it became a lightning rod for litigation over the government's treatment of
children.

ICE will instead begin relocating the 127 remaining detainees at Hutto, Morton
said. Some will be transferred to an 84-bed former nursing home in Pennsylvania,
the Berks Family Shelter Care facility, while others will be considered for
programs that do not require detention, such as home monitoring, he said. He
said no deadline to complete the moves has been set.

Morton provided no cost estimate for the changes but said the agency intends to
pay for them with existing resources.

The changes should not reduce the number of ICE detainees, he said. "This is not
about whether or not we detain people, this is about how we detain them," he
said.

What the size and makeup of the immigrant detainee population will be in five
years is unclear. Illegal migration is falling, a result of tougher enforcement
and the economic recession.

Congressional leaders have vowed to debate an overhaul of national immigration
laws that could allow many illegal immigrants to apply for legal status,
reducing the number of those subject to arrest and deportation. ICE has also
announced policies prioritizing the capture and removal of immigrants with
criminal records, who now make up 45 percent of those detained. Morton said the
agency plans to continue holding those detainees in criminal settings.

Groups such as Amnesty International, the National Immigration Justice Center,
the Women's Refugee Commission and the National Immigration Forum called ICE's
move a good first step but one that is overdue and insufficient.

They said ICE should adhere to legally enforceable detention standards,
replacing 38 nonbinding guidelines that the federal government has negotiated
with the American Bar Association. DHS has opposed binding regulations, which
could swamp the agency in litigation, but congressional Democrats have
introduced legislation to mandate them.

"DHS must issue legally binding and enforceable detention standards, which DHS
has refused to do for years, and must provide basic due process to ensure that
individuals -- including U.S. citizens -- are not being inappropriately locked
up," Joanne Lin of the American Civil Liberties Union said in a written
statement.

Rep. Lamar Smith (Tex.), the ranking Republican on the House Judiciary
Committee, said he is pleased that ICE is building on reforms it began in 2007,
but he said he is concerned that not detaining families will lead either to
separating parents from children or releasing "more illegal immigrants on the
streets of American communities."

"The wealth of evidence proves that alternatives to detention and catch and
release don't work," Smith said. "When illegal immigrants are not detained
before deportation, they never return home."

Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.), chairman of the Senate homeland security
committee and a sponsor of the bill to mandate standards, called ICE's goals
commendable but added, "the founding principles of this nation demand that we
write into law certain protections for asylum-seekers and other detainees to
ensure due process, humane conditions, and proper medical treatment."

Budget-strapped local and state governments  probably would oppose changes that
cut into their revenue. ICE pays $80 to $100 per day per bed to rent out spare
jail and prison space to house federal immigration detainees.

ICE spends nearly $3 billion a year for detention operations, much of it for
private corrections contractors including Corrections Corporation of America,
Management and Training Corp. and the Geo Group.

"We are not talking about moving to a wholly owned and operated government
structure at this point," Morton said. "We are going to continue to work with
our many state and local partners."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 23, 2009 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

A Detention Mess;
New hope of humane treatment for immigrants awaiting deportation

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 544 words


THE VAST majority of foreigners locked up on civil immigration violations and
awaiting deportation are neither criminals nor accused of any crime, but you'd
never know it from the way they are treated.

Scattered across a network of 350 local and state jails, private, for-profit
prisons and a handful of federal facilities, more than 30,000 detainees are held
on any given day in conditions that range from adequate to dirty, deplorable and
dangerous. The system, which houses five times the number of detainees it did in
the early 1990s, is riddled with violations of the federal government's own
standards for detention. It is  an embarrassment for a nation that prides itself
as a beacon of human rights.

Recognizing that the problems with the status quo are serious, U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the agency that oversees the detention system,
recently announced an overhaul. This was welcome news and a clear sign that the
Obama administration would not continue the Bush administration's indifference.
John Morton, the new director of ICE, said that the driving principle of the
reform would be to create "a truly civil detention system" in which the federal
government itself will build and manage some new facilities and professional
monitors will be stationed permanently in others. We hope that at a minimum
those steps will avert the worst abuses of the past, particularly instances in
which health care for critically ill or injured detainees has been bungled or
denied.

Another heartening move was the announcement that the government would
immediately stop holding families at the 512-bed T. Don Hutto Family Residential
Facility, a former state prison outside Austin where immigrant parents and their
children were warehoused behind razor wire in shameful conditions.

Still, no one expects that the detention system, which is expected to hold
400,000 immigrants this year, is about to disappear or even shrink. To the
contrary, although the Obama administration has curtailed the wholesale roundups
of undocumented workers at factories, it is pressing ahead with other
enforcement measures. So deportation proceedings and detentions on a large scale
are likely to continue, at least until the country gets the sweeping immigration
reform -- including a path to citizenship for the millions of people still
living in the shadows -- that it needs.

In the meantime, we worry that the detention system overhaul, while welcome,
does not go far enough to prevent abuses. In particular, the government has
rejected proposals that it make its own standards for humane detention
enforceable by allowing individual detainees and their advocates to seek relief
in court.

The administration argues that it would be too time-consuming and unwieldy to
formulate regulations governing such a huge detention; officials say that they
are better off simply monitoring violations and insisting on compliance. But
there is no better way to ensure compliance and make a sprawling bureaucracy
accountable than promulgating clear regulations and allowing those governed by
them their day in court. When that happens, then we'll know the country is on
its way to establishing the sensible and humane detention system that the Obama
administration says it wants.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 2, 2009 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

For Immigrant Detainees, a Shameful Lack of Care

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 212 words


Regarding the Aug. 23 editorial "A Detention Mess":

The Post rightly called for improvements in basic health care for immigration
detainees, and specifically for enforceable standards. But the toll of
preventable deaths will continue to mount as long as Immigration and Customs
Enforcement retains its discretionary ability to deny detainees "non-emergency"
care -- including cancer biopsies and heart surgery.

ICE denied requests for a cancer biopsy by Francisco CastaÃ±eda, characterizing
the biopsy as elective surgery. By the time the government released him, the
cancer -- treatable had it been diagnosed soon enough -- had progressed so far
that he died shortly after testifying to Congress about his treatment. Felix
Franklin Rodriguez-Torres similarly died of treatable cancer that went
undiagnosed until too late. His death in 2007 was acknowledged by the government
only last month, after it was uncovered through a lawsuit filed by the American
Civil Liberties Union under the Freedom of Information Act.

Emergency health care alone does not suffice when the government's overuse of
immigration detention has resulted in large numbers of detainees remaining in
custody for years.

DAVID SHAPIRO

Staff Counsel

National Prison Project

American Civil Liberties Union

Washington

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 11, 2009 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

Suit Puts Focus on Immigrant Workers' Rights

BYLINE: Kari Lydersen; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1134 words

DATELINE: DECATUR, Ill.


Gloria Garcia Barragan, 52, boarded a plane for the first time  this summer to
travel from her home in southern Mexico to Decatur. She came to this industrial
central Illinois town to testify in the wrongful death lawsuit concerning  her
son, who died in 2007 at age 26 of burns from an accident at the BioProducts
plant of Archer Daniels Midland.

Every week, Garcia's son, Francisco Garcia Moreno, sent money to his family. He
came to the United States as a teenager and was earning about $16.50 an hour
working for a contractor at the ADM plant, which makes lysine and other
additives. Besides helping Garcia and his father, Antonio Garcia Valencia, an
unemployed field worker with health problems, the funds  helped support
Francisco's five adult siblings in a town near Guadalajara.

ADM, whose global headquarters are in Decatur, offered the family $500,000 to
settle. Attorney Donald Shapiro thought the family  deserved more.

Shapiro knew declining ADM's offer and going to a jury trial would be a gamble,
especially given anti-immigrant sentiment apparent in the highly charged
national debate. Like many  Midwestern cities and towns, Decatur has experienced
an influx of immigrant workers in the past decade. Latinos make up only about 2
percent of Decatur's 75,000 population, but their growing presence is
noticeable. Long-time residents welcome the new Mexican restaurants, but many
resent the competition for jobs in a town with 12.4 percent unemployment, up
from 8.3 percent a year ago.

He "wants to come up here and get killed, that's one more job for an American,"
said retired locomotive engineer Kenny Smith, noting that he has friends who get
up at 3 a.m. to drive hundreds of miles to Chicago or Indianapolis in search of
work.

The Garcias decided to put their faith in a local jury, declining Archer
Daniel's $500,000 and a later offer of $1 million.

On Sept. 11, a jury awarded the family $6.7 million, among the largest such
judgments in state history for a childless man.

Shapiro said the award shows the jurors -- 11 white, one black -- "really tried
to treat this family just like any other family that had lost a son."

"I think they cut across all the lines of prejudice, both prejudice against
people who are Mexican and who are poor," he said.

Thomas Saenz, president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and  Educational
Fund, said anti-immigrant feelings are always a concern with juries, but he said
people typically sympathize with an individual even if they have negative
feelings toward immigrants as a whole.

"That's human nature," he said.

Decatur is known as a proud union town that has had more than its share of hard
knocks. In 1999, Jesse L. Jackson led high-profile protests over the expulsion
of seven African American students for fighting at a high school football game.

Many residents are still dealing with the effects of  bitter labor conflicts in
the 1990s involving  Bridgestone/Firestone, Caterpillar and the A.E. Staley
Manufacturing's starch and corn syrup plant. More than 1,500 people were laid
off when the Bridgestone-Firestone tire plant closed in 2001, blamed for the
recall of millions of tires prone to dangerously unraveling.

Archer Daniels employs 4,000 people in Decatur, a stable economic presence even
as it was plagued by price-fixing and workplace-accident scandals in the 1990s.
Some say the acronym stands for "Another Dead Man."

In 2007, Garcia was suspended 15 feet in the air when a machine malfunctioned
and blasted him with steam and hot caustic liquid. He tumbled to the ground and
co-workers dragged him into a safety shower;  nearly 90 percent of his body was
covered in third-degree burns and his skin was sloughing off. He died at a
hospital 32 hours later, on March 24, 2007.

Archer Daniels spokesman Roman Blahoski said that injury rates have been
significantly reduced at the company's facilities in Decatur and globally in
recent years, and that Garcia's is the only death at the BioProducts plant.

"The safety of employees and contractors who work at our facilities is always a
priority at ADM," said Blahoski. "All of us at ADM were deeply saddened by
Francisco Garcia's death. . . . We admitted liability. The issue at trial was
compensation for the family. We are reviewing the court's decision and
considering next steps."

Nationally, Latino immigrant workers are significantly more likely than members
of other races to die or be seriously injured on the job. A National Council of
La Raza report released in September notes that Latinos have had the highest
workplace death rate of any ethnicity for the past 15 years. In 2007, 937
Latinos, "the majority of them immigrants," died of occupational injuries, a
rate of 4.6 per 100,000. The rate was 3.9 per 100,000 for white workers and 3.8
for black workers.

Officials say  the injury-death rates are so high because Latinos tend to work
in dangerous professions such as construction, meatpacking and forestry.

Saenz  said multimillion-dollar verdicts for immigrant workers killed on the job
are rare.  Many immigrant families avoid taking legal action because of the
language barrier and unfamiliarity with the system. Garcia's estate could also
sue Archer Daniels for an amount much higher than workers' compensation law
would have allowed because he  was employed by a contractor, not ADM -- hence
ADM was not subject to workers' compensation limits.

"There's a great amount of myth about the limitations on rights of people who
are not citizens; legal and undocumented immigrants often make an assumption
they are not entitled to the same rights, when in this case they are," said
Saenz.

At the Sundown Lounge, Archer Daniels millwright Al Kramer ticked off the
circumstances of eight people killed since 1995 at the company's Decatur
facilities. They include  two killed in a fire at a  wet corn mill in 2008 and
two, like Garcia, by steam explosions in 2002 and 1995.

"What about them?" said Kramer. "[Garcia] was an illegal immigrant in the first
place. I'd like to see United States citizens have jobs before immigrants."

Blahoski said contractor ECF, which  hired Garcia, was required to verify his
legal status. ECF  did not return calls for comment.

"Six million for a dead man is fair, but sending the money to Mexico -- I don't
agree with that," said a locomotive engineer in a cowboy hat and denim jacket
who declined to give his name.

But Decatur Federation of Labor President Bill Francisco, 35, said the judgment
sends a message to firms that workers' rights should be respected regardless of
race, nationality or citizenship status.

"They come to chase the American dream, and for Francisco Garcia it was
demolished all in a day's work," he said. "The exploitation of the immigrant
worker is something that needs to cease. It seems the country is taking
advantage of them."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2009 Thursday



CORRECTION: --  A photo caption with an Oct. 11 A-section article about a
lawsuit against Archer Daniels Midland over an accident that killed a worker at
its BioProducts plant in Decatur, Ill., incorrectly said that 4,000 people work
at the plant. The company employs a total of 4,000 people at its 10 product
plants in Decatur; it employs 250 at the BioProducts facility.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Kari Lydersen -- The Washington Post; Archer Daniels Midland
employs 4,000 at its BioProducts plant in Decatur, Ill. Immigrant Francisco
Moreno Garcia was killed in an accident in March 2007.
IMAGE; A jury awarded Garcia's family $6.7 million in September.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 8, 2009 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Working to Shed Light on Very Dark Practices;
Activists Seek End to Human Trafficking in D.C.

BYLINE: Vanessa Mizell; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. DZ03

LENGTH: 647 words


Amid cool winds and occasional light showers, hundreds of people circled the
pebbly paths of Meridian Hill Park in Northwest Washington on Sept. 26 in a walk
that organizers hoped would help stop human sex and labor trafficking in the
District.

Entertainers, activists, policymakers and a human-trafficking survivor spoke to
more than 600 people. The crowd often fell silent during narratives depicting
some of the brutalities suffered by the victims.

"People are beginning to realize that immigrants, minorities and minors are
being enslaved right here in the District," said Mark Lagon, executive director
of Polaris Project, a Washington-based organization working with D.C. officials
to end coercive labor and sex exploitation.

"Whether it's Latina women found in a brothel, Chinese women found in a massage
parlor or African American teens, they're all human-trafficking victims," Lagon
said.

Over the past decade, organizations have been joining forces to end what they
are calling modern-day  slavery in the District.

The D.C. Human Trafficking Task Force, which has been investigating human
trafficking since 2004, said that in the first six months of this year, it
identified more than 50 victims of trafficking in the District, about 15 of whom
were minors. Most of the victims were found through reports from nonprofit
groups or law enforcement operations.

Inspector Brian Bray, commanding officer of the D.C. police's Narcotics and
Special Operations Division and a member of the task force, said the District is
not considered a hub city for human trafficking but is more of a destination
city.

"Trafficked persons are generally transported to D.C. from other areas like New
York City and Baltimore," Bray said. New York and Miami are considered to be the
main East Coast hub cities for human trafficking, and the most common form in
the District is commercial sex trafficking, he said.

"This walk is really highlighting an issue that hits close to home," said Tina
Frundt, 35, a sex trafficking survivor and founder of Courtney's House, a
D.C.-based organization that assists victims.

The walk was organized by D.C. Stop Modern Slavery as a local expression of a
national campaign spearheaded by Stop Child Trafficking Now. Frundt recently
formed a team to do late-night street outreach work on weekends. She said that
in the past 2 1/2  months, the Courtney's House crisis hotline has received 100
phone calls and identified 85 suspected traffickers.

Frundt and other activists are awaiting revisions to the District's Prohibition
Against Human Trafficking Act of 2009 that, if passed, would make human
trafficking a separate crime and increase penalties for offenders and support
for victims.

"The current law is not as clean as it should be, because it wasn't written with
human [sex] trafficking in mind," said D.C. Council member Phil Mendelson (D-At
Large), the author of the bill, which was introduced in January. Mendelson said
that, for example, without human trafficking being considered a crime in itself,
someone who is forcing a child or adult into commercial sex or labor acts might
be charged with kidnapping or pimping and pandering, which carry a lesser
punishment than would a human-trafficking violation.

EleSondra DeRomano, 43, another survivor of the sex trade, said she had traveled
from Ohio to attend the walk. She said she had been exposed to sex and drug
trafficking since birth. She said that her mother was a prostitute and her
father was a pimp and that she was forced into sex trafficking at 11. After
escaping the system 15 years ago, she, too, launched an organization that
provides services for sex-trafficking victims.

She said that she thinks the D.C. bill would serve the city well but that more
needs to be done. "We need as many bills as we can get, but along with
prosecuting the pimps, we need to also be prosecuting the Johns," DeRomano said.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 22, 2009 Monday 12:00 PM EST

Metro: People and Issues

BYLINE: Robert McCartney, Washington Post Metro Columnist, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 3705 words



HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post Metro columnist Robert McCartney was online Monday,
June 22, at Noon ET to talk about his new column and take your questions about
anything from Michelle Rhee to immigration issues in the region to Metro service
to D.C. voting rights and more.


Washington Post Metro columnist Robert McCartney was online Monday, June 22, at
Noon ET to talk about his new column and take your questions about anything from
Michelle Rhee to immigration issues in the region to Metro service to D.C.
voting rights and more.

From McCartney: "For 27 years, The Washington Post has paid me to keep my
opinions out of the newspaper. Now it's going to pay me to put them in. I'm the
Metro section's newest columnist. I'll be writing Sundays and Thursdays about
all kinds of issues in the greater Washington region, which I'm taking the
liberty of defining as every place from Richmond to Baltimore and Ocean City to
West Virginia. This assignment represents a big change for me, because until now
I've been a hard-news journalist rather than a commentator. I've striven to
report facts and other people's opinions, but not my own. As an editor since
1992, most recently heading the Metro staff for nearly four years, I've even
labored at times to wring other journalists' opinions out of stories. Now I'm
putting all that even-handedness behind me. After a reasonable amount of
reporting and analysis, I'm going to say what I think."

____________________

Robert McCartney:

Hi everybody. This is my first Web chat in my new role as a columnist for The
Post's Metro section. As I said in my first column yesterday, I'll be writing
Sundays and Thursdays about all kinds of issues in the greater Washington
region. I expect to be writing in particular about local politics and
government, social issues, development and transportation, crime, education and
the environment. Think that's enough? I'm going to try to be fresh, analytical
and objective, while still expressing my views forcefully.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: After 27 Years, I Have a Lot On My Mind (AP, June 22)

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Hi Robert:

Your unequivocal support for D.C. equal rights is, well, absolutely refreshing,
especially as it comes from a source not exactly predisposed to championing
equal political rights for D.C. residents in recent years -- The Washington
Post.

Your principled position on this issue is of critical importance, particularly
in light of the fact that the sun is now setting on the so-called Davis bill,
which was, in my opinion, the political equivalent of Plessy v. Ferguson, prior
to the Supreme Court's finding in Brown v. Board of Education.

Welcome to the D.C. fray.

Robert McCartney:

My support for D.C. voting rights prompted more questions than any other
subject, so I'll start with that. To recap, I believe it's not enough to give
D.C. residents a vote in the House of Representatives, as the bill now stalled
in Congress proposes. They should get 2 senators as well, just like Wyoming,
which has a smaller population.

The battle to grant equal voting rights to the entire population is one of the
most important in American history. It's about as vital as it gets when we talk
about building and preserving democracy.

It took the Jacksonian era (early 1800s) to extend the vote to white men with
little or no property. It took the Civil War, the nation's greatest trauma, to
extent the vote (in theory, at least) to black men. It took the Suffragist
movement to extend it to women (early 1900s). It took the civil rights movement
(1950s and 1960s) to ensure that blacks actually were able to exercise their
legal right to vote.

But residents of the District of Columbia are still excluded.

Unfortunately, I have to say the prospects aren't great for resolving this
historic shortcoming.

I believe it's probably going to require a Constitutional Amendment to give full
representation to the District. That requires support from 3/4ths of the state
legislatures. I think it's going to be hard to get that kind of majority. Given
how Democratic the District is, I think it'll be hard to get enough Republicans
to support it to get an amendment.

_______________________

Gaithersburg, Md. : So you've lived in the D.C. area almost as long as I have?
At least that gives you some memories on how some things got the they are around
here. My real question, will your bosses allow you to dig beneath the veneer of
liberalism and good government image in Montgomery County, and shine some light
on the waste, and hypocrisy there?

Robert McCartney:

My family moved to the D.C. area in 1959 when I was in first grade. I've come
and gone several times, but graduated from B-CC high school (Class of '71, go
Barons!) and have lived in Bethesda for 15 of the last 17 years.

If there's "waste and hypocrisy" in Montgomery County, then I will certainly do
my best to expose it. My bosses will not only allow me to do so, but they will
encourage me in the process.

If people have suggestions for exposing waste and hypocrisy in Moco, or anywhere
in the region, please email me your ideas at robertmccartney@washpost.com

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: I've always been amazed how little attention is paid to
Arlington, a classic good government jurisdiction where most everything seems to
work. Columnists seem to be more interested in the horrors of D.C. and PG
County, class cases of mismanagement, where not even your dogs are safe from the
sheriff and where Marion Barry is still good for a column or two. Isn't good
management worth a column or two?

Robert McCartney:

You have a valid point. Good civic management is worth covering, both to give
credit where credit is due and to highlight examples of solutions that others
can follow.

I said yesterday that I'll applaud when local officials do well, and that
applies to the private sector, too.

Still, one of our top priorities in journalism is serving as watchdogs, and
holding authorities accountable to the public for their failings. This is not
only a vital civic role, but, we have found, it typically engages the audience
more effectively than "happy news."

We journalists like to say: "We don't cover the airplanes that land safely. We
cover the ones that crash."

So expect some of both from me, but with more of an emphasis on what is NOT
working.

_______________________

Dunn Loring, Va.: Having spent 27 years in the protective cocoon of the Post's
newsroom where everyone has the same political outlooks and world view, what
makes you think you understand the real world?

Robert McCartney:

Well, first of all, I have NOT spent 27 years in the "protective cocoon of The
Post's newsroom."

From 1983 to 1986, I was The Post's Mexico City bureau chief. I spent a lot of
time covering civil wars in El Salvador and Nicaragua.

From 1986 to 1989, I was The Post's correspondent based in Bonn, then-West
Germany, where I covered central Europe including the fall of the Berlin Wall in
November, 1989.

From 1989 to 1992, I was based in Manhattan, where I covered Wall Street
including Donald Trump's first round of bankruptcies.

And from 2001 to 2003, I was managing editor of the International Herald Tribune
in Paris (when The Post still owned half of it).

I have reported from the Middle East and Arab world, both for The Post and
earlier for the Associated Press, and have interviewed (in press conferences)
both Moammar Ghadafy and Saddam Hussein. I came under Iraqi artillery fire on
the front line of the Iran-Iraq war in the late 1980s. I got thrown out of a
town by police in Kosovo for reporting about brutal beatings of ethnic
Albanians.

Is that enough "real world" for you?

However, as you can see, most of that experience out in the field was before
1992, when I became an editor. So I AM out of practice hustling out to do
on-scene reporting. I am already getting out of the office much more than in
recent years, and will be trying to get to know the D.C. region in all its
variety from as much first-hand experience as possible.

_______________________

From Dr. Gridlock:: Welcome, fellow columnist. You said in your debut column
Sunday that you'd like to see us build a Metro transit beltway around
Washington. That sounds swell, and I'd love to see it, too. But how do you think
we can convince anyone to cough up about $30 billion for transit? MD and VA now
have their hands full financing the Purple Line and Rail to Dulles.

Robert McCartney:

Here's a question from my friend and fellow Post columnist Bob Thomson, better
known as Dr. Gridlock.

It will indeed be a big, long-term commitment to get the local community
(taxpayers and especially developers), and the state and federal governments, to
come up with the very, very high cost of building a Metrorail-quality "Circle
Line" around the city, parallel to the Beltway.

But we need to do it anyway. It will take decades, but we should start planning
it now.

I don't have time here to list all the reasons, but here are a few:

1) We've got to link up the spokes of the existing Metrorail line, to make
commuting by transit more attractive and get cars off the road. It's absurd that
taking the Red Line from Silver Spring to Rockville requires going downtown.

2) With gasoline prices headed higher, we've got to reduce dependence on cars.

3) With the climate endangered by greenhouse gases, we've got to reduce
dependence on cars.

4) With traffic so clogged that the region risks getting in a position where
people don't want to come work in the region because of the congestion, we hae
to reduce dependence on cars.

A good first leg would be connecting the Red Line in Montgomery County with the
new Silver Line to run through Tysons Corner. Let's get a Metrorail link between
Montgomery and Fairfax counties! Shoppers can go by train from Montgomery Mall
to Tysons Galleria!

Yes, that means we need to run a Metrorail line across the Potomac north of
downtown. We can do it across the American Legion bridge, or we can build a new
bridge.

We'll want to run Metrorail across the Wilson bridge at some point, too.

Dr. Gridlock, I look forward to your support.

_______________________

Chantilly, Va.: Robert: will your purview extend out to Loudoun County? We'll
have 300,000 residents in a couple more years.

Robert McCartney:

Yes, my purview extends to Loudoun County and other outer counties such as
Prince William and Charles. As I said in my first column yesterday, I define my
coverage area as every place from Richmond to Baltimore, and Ocean City to West
Virginia.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: The United have been trying to get a local government to build
them a new soccer stadium; what are your views on public funded stadiums such as
Nationals Park and the $50 million gift to Abe Pollin?

Robert McCartney:

I look at public financing of stadiums on a case-by-case basis. A major factor
to weigh is whether the new stadium will promote healthy economic development.

So, I was supportive of using tax dollars to pay for Nationals Park, because it
was a centerpiece of efforts to develop the long-neglected Anacostia waterfront.
However, it does seem that the cost ended up being higher than it should have
been.

I haven't studied the $50 million "gift" (your word) to Abe Pollin enough to
make a judgment now. But the Verizon Center has played an enormous role in the
very welcome redevelopment of the 7th Street N.W. - Penn Corridor community. So
I don't begrudge him that.

I believe Jack Kent Cooke deserves tremendous credit for paying out of his own
pocket to build FedEx field. Even though taxpayers picked up some associated
costs, it was a gift to the community.

It irritated me considerably when I went to the Ravens' stadium in Baltimore
last season to cheer for the Redskins, and suffered various indignities and
insults from rival fans enjoying a first-class stadium that MY tax dollars
helped buy. It irritated me even more when the 'Skins lost.

_______________________

Robert McCartney:

I'm going to keep answering questions for another half-hour or so. Normally
these chats last an hour, but my ace producer Rocci Fisch says I can keep going.

_______________________

13th St. S.E.: Welcome. Now what are your views on: A new Soccer stadium for
D.C. United? Dog ownership? School Vouchers? Food on the Metro? And whatever
else Fisher railed about.

Thanks for doing the chat.

Robert McCartney:

I'm for a new soccer stadium for D.C. United. Soccer is an up-and-coming sport,
our kids increasingly play it, and our region is attracting legions of Central
Americans and other immigrants for whom the game is their most popular pastime.
I haven't studied it enough to know where to build it or how much to spend.

Dog ownership? What kind of a question is that? My family has a dog. We love it
dearly. She's getting kind of old. We walk her regularly. We pick up her, er,
droppings in empty Washington Post delivery bags (very convenient for that
purpose). Everybody should clean up after their dogs. Owners should restrain
their dogs if they're violent.

I like cats, too.

School vouchers: That's a tough one. I will be writing about that, but I need to
think about it more. I start with competing perspectives. On one hand, I'm for
spending education money where it will have the most benefit. School vouchers
can help with that. However, because of my support for separation of church and
state, I object to tax dollars being spent for religious education.

Don't get me wrong. I am not at all anti-religious. In fact, as an editor, I
supported devoting resources to coverage of religious issues. I think religion
and religious people often get short shrift from journalists, who tend to be
more secular in their outlook than the rest of the population.

So, I will be looking at the extent to which taxpayers' dollars in the form of
vouchers are paying for kids to receive religious training. I'm opposed to that,
on First Amendment grounds.

And you can remind me later of other things about which Marc Fisher (who just
gave up his excellent column to return to editing) railed.

I know I agree with Marc on one issue. I don't think judges, or anybody else,
should be allowed to waste the courts' time with multimillion-dollar lawsuits
over dry-cleaning.

_______________________

Olde Town: Will same-sex couples be able to get a civil marriage license in your
coverage area before the end of this calendar year?

Robert McCartney:

I don't think so. I believe it will happen in the District, but not by the end
of this year. There are too many hurdles. The D.C. Council has to approve it,
and then Congress and/or the courts will be weighing in.

I do believe the District will begin this year to recognize same-sex marriages
that took place in other states.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: What do you say about the constitutionality of D.C. Voting
Rights?

It's pretty clear to most scholars that the only way to get true voting
representation in DC would be to write an amendment to the Constitution, which
would require a referendum by all 50 states. I certainly would concede to a
superior argument, but no a single columnist, politician, or talking head has
been able to argue that voting rights could come through any other means than a
Constitutional Amendment.

Robert McCartney:

Yes, I agree that D.C. voting rights probably will require an amendment to the
Constitution. But that doesn't require a "referendum" by all 50 states. If I
recall the Constitution correctly, it requires a two-thirds majority in each
house of Congress, and then ratification by 3/4th of state legislatures.

I think it'd be tough today to get a two-thirds majority in the Senate, and
virtually impossible IN THE CURRENT POLITICAL CLIMATE to get approval of 3/4th
of state legislatures.

The only way to get voting rights for the District, in my view, is to wage a
long-term political campaign that shames the rest of the nation into granting
this essential democratic right.

That's what did it for women. That's what we'll have to do for the District.

_______________________

Temple Hills, Md.: Do you think that by firing teachers and  administrators any
chancellor can fix the  educational problem of D.C.? Or is it better and wiser
to re-instruct those  educators?

Robert McCartney:

I think that fixing D.C.'s schools certainly does require firing some
low-performing teachers and administrators. Private companies do that all the
time. Why should a school system, or any government agency be different?

Of course nobody likes firing people. So it'd be preferable to "re-instruct"
those educators, as you say, if training and reeducation raises their
performance.

A key factor to weigh is the method used to evaluate whether the teacher or
administrator is performing well. The method should be transparent and
consistently applied, and the teacher or administrator should have an
opportunity to improve his or her performance before getting axed.

_______________________

Northern Virginia: Welcome! Do you plan to cover foibles and fun stuff as well
as serious politics? After many years, I hope we can retire Marc Fisher's
obsession with snow days (short version: he's against them) but perhaps you have
similar observations on what makes our region unique. I would like to hear them.

Unfortunately, for me, the all-consuming traffic has begun to swamp anything
else that's special about our area. We sold something on Craigslist and a guy
took two hours to come up 95 on Saturday, getting here an hour late after 15 and
20 mph stop and go, hot and bothered. A few days earlier we also found ourselves
trapped on 95, going south this time, and also not during rush hour. It takes
the fun and interest out of life here when you can't get from point A to point
B. Smart growth advocates may avoid making it too much worse, but I have yet to
hear of a plan for making it better.

Robert McCartney:

Yes, I plan to write about foibles and fun stuff from time to time.

I will not pledge now to refrain from writing about snow days. I loved them when
I got off from school in Montgomery County as a kid, but even then I thought
they were too quick to shut the schools. The explanation then, as now, is that
the weather was worse "up county."

Your point about the traffic is extremely well-taken. Road congestion is a
genuinely serious threat to the future prosperity and success of the region.

_______________________

Fairfax County, Va.: Why does Metro not have a columnist who lives in Virginia
and understands Virginia? When did Metro last have a local columnist who lives
in Virginia?

Robert McCartney:

We share your concern on this issue -- to some extent.

Specifically, I cannot remember when Metro last had a columnist who lives in
Virginia.

However, we dispute that we have to live in Virginia in order to "understand"
it. Fisher, who lives in the District, wrote a lot of fine columns about
Virginia, and Dr. Gridlock covers it extensively. Jay Mathews, who lives in
Maryland, writes regularly about Virginia schools and works out of our bureau in
Alexandria.

I'm a Marylander, but I've spoken a lot about the Virginia governors' race in my
weekly question-and-answer sessions about local issues on WAMU 88.5 radio.
(Commercial break: I'm on at 8:51 a.m. Fridays.)

I've also been the top editor responsible for Metro coverage for nearly 4 years,
and we did a lot of work on Virginia. We won a, um, Pulitzer Prize for covering
the Virginia Tech shootings. In Virginia.

So we ask to be judged by our work and not our addresses.

That said, we are aware of the perception that we neglect Virginia news, and we
combat it. We want to cover events and issues in Virginia just as seriously and
comprehensively as anywhere else. We have more readers in Virginia than any
other state -- far more than in the District, and slightly more than in
Maryland. So it's important to us.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: Dear Bob --

Congratulations on your new assignment! The Post desperately needs a fresh voice
on the crucial issues dividing our communities. Your commitment to hard-hitting
critical analysis articulated in your first column is sorely needed.

C. Wright Mills (whom you quote) had vital insight into the role of the press in
serving the power elite of American society: "The hierarchy of publicity has
replaced the hierarchy of descent and even of great wealth."

Please exhibit editorial courage to deviate from pet Post political positions
like their kid glove treatment of the D.C. school superintendent and the voucher
program. Tell it like it really is, Bob, not how they want to hear it.

A fine start -- now keep up the good work!

Robert McCartney:

I have nothing to add to this delightful comment, except that I hope to live up
to the exhortation.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: I am sure you get this all the time, so let me be the one to
ask: Any relation to Paul McCartney? By the way, regardless, you should help
arrange for Sir Paul to conduct one of these discussions.

Robert McCartney:

Yes, I have been getting this question consistently since 1963. I even answered
it once in a previous Web chat on washingtonpost.com. No, I am not related to
Sir Paul. Regrettably.

_______________________

Arlington, VA: Robert, best of luck with your new column. I look forward to
reading it.

One thing we need to get out of the way - what are your thoughts on Dippin'
Dots?

Robert McCartney:

This writer is persistent. I'm not crazy about Dippin' Dots and prefer regular
ice cream, especially when it's low-fat, low-sugar, etc., and thus less
guilt-ridden.

I try to be a tolerant person, though, so Dippin' Dots fanciers will not be a
target for my wrath.

_______________________

Robert McCartney:

I'm going to wrap it up now. Despite going over the scheduled time by nearly an
hour, I haven't had a chance to get to all 99 questions.

For what it's worth, here are some other issues that people asked about: D.C.
Schools Chancellor Michelle Rhee, Fairfax recycling, the Metropolitan Police
Department, the Chesapeake Bay, TRIM in Prince George's County, how to combat
crime generally, street repaving mishaps, the Yusuf Acar case, and why can't The
Post invest more resources in local coverage.

I will try to get to some and perhaps all of these topics in future columns or
Web chats.

Thanks for reading! I look forward to many more Web chats.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2009 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 6, 2009 Monday 11:00 AM EST

Outlook: Immigration and the Statue of Liberty's Message;
'It Was Never About Those Huddled Masses'

BYLINE: Roberto Suro, Professor, University of Southern California Annenberg
School for Communication., washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1868 words



HIGHLIGHT: Roberto Suro, professor at the University of Southern California
Annenberg School for Communication, was online Monday, July 6, at 11 a.m. ET to
discuss his Outlook article titled 'It Was Never About Those Huddled Masses,'
which is about contemporary immigration and the Statue of Liberty's poetic
message.


Roberto Suro, professor at the University of Southern California Annenberg
School for Communication, was online Monday, July 6, at 11 a.m. ET to discuss
his Outlook article titled 'It Was Never About Those Huddled Masses,' which is
about contemporary immigration and the Statue of Liberty's poetic message.

Mundy is the author of "Everything Conceivable: How Assisted Reproduction is
Changing Men, Women and the World."

A transcript follows.

Archive: Transcripts of discussions with Outlook article authors

____________________

Roberto Suro: Hello all, and good morning. Thanks for joining me at the
Washington Post's online forum. And, thanks in advance for your interest in my
essay published Sunday in Outlook on the Statue of Liberty, Emma Lazarus and
immigration -- rich and difficult subjects. I'm looking forward to hearing your
thoughts, answering questions and exchanging ideas. Let's have a conversation.

_______________________

Franklin, Maine: Dear Professor Suro -- Your commentary is interesting, but like
most of the recent stories about the Statue of Liberty, it did not mention the
fact that the Statue was a gift to the United States from the people of France.
Also, I believe it is impossible to separate, completely, the concept of liberty
enlightening the world from the principle that this country has always been a
refuge for people seeking freedom -- in other words, immigrants. Except for the
Cherokee, Choctaw, Sioux, et al., we are all immigrants, and grateful for that
Open Door. So let us not discard Emma Lazarus' poem, but embrace it.

Roberto Suro: You're right I did neglect to mention that the statue was a gift
from the people of France (too much history for one short essay). I did note,
however, that one of the statute's first and most enduring meanings was as a
monument to the friendship among freedom-loving nations.

And, you make an interesting point -- that the idea of American political values
as a source of enlightenment and the idea of America as refuge are inextricably
intertwined -- and largely as a result of the mythology of the statue. I tried
to disentangled them a little so we could look at them separately. Both are
important.

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: It is my understanding that in addition to the Puritans who
sought religious refuge here, England routinely shipped prisoners, dissenters
from Scotland and Ireland, and other undesirables, e.g. Catholics, to our
shores. During the Great Potato famine, the Irish Diaspora brought several
hundred thousand to the Americas. After the revocation of the Edict of Nantes by
Louis XVI, many of the 250,000 Huguenots who fled France came to our shores.
Your comments on the demographics of these major emigrant populations seems to
be given short shrift to make your point, which I believe is somewhat overdrawn,
or have I exaggerated my own understanding off history?

Roberto Suro: The point I was trying to make is that people fleeing political
oppression have only made up one part of the immigrant flow over the years, and
in fact a relatively small part. And I was suggesting that this nation's
extraordinary political ideals and practices are attractive to immigrants, but
are only one part of the nation's appeal. Other factors, particularly, the
prospects for economic betterment, have been very powerful as well in drawing
people to our shores. My concern is that if you focuses too intently on the poem
and the statue as symbols of immigration, you lose sight of the larger picture.

_______________________

Jackson, Mich.: The comment about immigrants coming to the United States for
economic reasons, not political ones as envisioned by the presenters of the
statue, seems to ignore the theory that economic freedom is a necessary
requisite to political freedom, or democracy. So, coming to America for economic
reasons is a necessary first step to political freedom. Other than that, your
article is superior, and greatly appreciated.

Roberto Suro: This is an interesting twist. I suppose you could also argue the
opposite: that political freedom is the necessary precondition to economic
freedom. I don't know.

But on this I'm certain: the US immigration system as it has been construed in
various forms over the past 100 years or so has not made it particularly easy
for people to come here if their sole claim is the need to flee political
oppression.

And too, it is clear that the original presenters of the statue were not really
thinking about immigration much at all.

_______________________

Leesburg, Va.: Prof Suro, are you saying that we should disregard an 1883 poem
because it is no longer relevant to our society?

Roberto Suro: I'm saying that if you look to that poem as a guide to how we as a
nation should manage immigration, be cautious.

_______________________

Stevensville, Md.: You state that the original reason for being of the Statue of
Liberty had nothing to do with immigration, and I agree. However, that link was
made, and has been many times reinforced. The link is now indelible. Having just
recently toured Ellis Island and the statue (for the third time in 35 years) I
support the connection between "Lady Liberty", Ellis Island, and the historical
significance that immigration (via the lure of liberty) played in the
development of this great nation. I think you've chosen an argument that few
will agree with.

Roberto Suro: You may be absolutely correct that the link is indelible, and that
my argument won't be popular. I, too, love going to Ellis Island and the Statue.
But, let's all be clear about how the two were linked, when and by whom.
Remember that there was no immigrant station at Ellis Island when the statues
went up. The two were bound together at a time when we had effectively shut the
door which the poem celebrates.

_______________________

Nebraska: How can anything be done on immigration if the tops and bottoms of
both parties can't see eye to eye? The Republican leadership likes the cheap
labor but their base is anti-immigrant; the Democrats want to restrict the labor
force but many supporters are "bleeding heart liberals" who decry the
discrimination.

Roberto Suro: Immigration is the kind of issue that requires big and complicated
compromises. Many different kinds of interests have a stake in immigration. The
politics are messy because they don't fit ideological categories or split along
party lines. So, moving policy forward effectively requires all kinds of folks
to bend a little to find common ground. That's nothing something we as a society
have been particularly good at for some years.

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: I think a reason why the poem resonates especially in New York
City is that many of our ancestors are the "huddled masses", who escaped
oppression because of their right, or famine in Ireland and elsewhere, etc.
Maybe they were a small percentage of the total, but their stories are true.

Roberto Suro: On your last point: yes, indeed!

All the stories of how our ancestors came here, by whatever means and for
whatever reason, are true and deserve to be honored. And all have the power to
teach us.

_______________________

Bowie, Md.: Why do you suggest divorcing an icon from its iconography? Would you
knock the Gettysburg Address off the wall of the Lincoln Memorial because the
Civil War had nothing to do with the "government of the people, by the people,
and for the people"?  The fact is that the Statue does have to do with "huddled
masses yearning to breathe free." That is exactly what its French creators,
Edouard de Laboulaye and Frederic Bartholdi, had in mind. Indeed, Bartholdi, who
lost his native Alsace to the Germans in the War of 1870 in which he served for
France, made much the same connection that Emma Lazarus did about his statue:

"I will fight for liberty. I will appeal to free people. I will try to glorify
the republic there [in the United States] while I wait for us to recover it at
home."

Roberto Suro: Golly, I guess I always thought the Gettysburg Address had a lot
to do with the Civil War and in particular the way Lincoln, who was the sitting
president not a minor poet, articulated the cause at a critical moment in the
conflict.

Coincidentally, the first discussions in France about the statue occurred just
after Lincoln's assassination the inspirations for a memorial to liberty was his
freeing of the slaves. This actually predates the Franco-Prussian War.

_______________________

Miami Beach, Fla.: Prof: You say we will be held to account for how we deal with
immigrants once they're here. When I received my green card, DHS included a thin
pamphlet with info on obtaining a social security number and applying for
citizenship (after five years), but that was about it. Should the US government
play a role in "Americanizing" its immigrants?

Roberto Suro: I don't know about "Americanizing," but I certainly think it is
worth having a conversation about how much we as a society have at stake in
helping immigrants and their children succeed here. I'm not just talking about
government but also businesses, churches, schools, and community groups as well.
We have undertaken a very substantial effort here with perhaps the largest wave
of immigration in our history. And, as you point out, once most people get here,
we basically tell them, "Keep your nose clear, and good luck." Because our
immigration policy is based primarily on family reunification and employment, we
leave folks to fend for themselves. So, let me ask, wouldn't we all benefit with
some modestly larger investments in English-language education, for example?
Doesn't it make sense to ensure that people who are still learning English can
understand their rights and responsibilities when they are dealing with the
courts or government agencies?

Coincidentally, the fairly small number of people who are admitted as refugees
and the only immigrants who get substantial assistance from the government at
least while they are getting settled.

_______________________

Detroit, Mich.: Who in France paid for the Statue of Liberty (and did any
Americans pay for it), and who donated the island on which it was built?

Roberto Suro: The construction of the statue in France was paid for by
donations, charity auctions and concerts, and even a lottery. The construction
of the pedestal in New York was similarly done, through private fund raising.
Things moved faster in France than here, and a crash effort was required to get
the last of the funds for the pedestal. It was led by Joseph Pulitzer, who used
the fundraising campaign as a way to drive up circulation for his newspaper, the
New York World.

_______________________

Roberto Suro: Thank you all, we have reached the end of forum. I am grateful for
your interest and your thoughts about a subject that touches us all and that has
fascinated me for many many years. I look forward to continuing the conversation
on another occasion. All the best, Roberto Suro.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2009 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Growth of Hispanic, Asian Population Slows Unexpectedly, Census Reports

BYLINE: Hope Yen; Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 579 words


Deterred by immigration laws and the lackluster economy, the population growth
of Hispanics and Asians in the United States has slowed unexpectedly, causing
the government to push back estimates on when minorities will become the
majority by as much as a decade.

Census data being released today also showed that fewer Hispanics are migrating
to suburbs and newly emerging immigrant areas in the Southeast, including
Arkansas, Tennessee and Georgia. Instead, Hispanics are staying in traditional
gateway locations such as California.

The nation's overall minority population continues to rise steadily, increasing
2.3 percent in 2008 to 104.6 million, or 34 percent of the total population. But
the slowdown among Hispanics and Asians continues to shift conventional notions
on when the tipping point in U.S. diversity will come -- estimated to occur more
than three decades from now.

Thirty-six states had lower Hispanic growth in 2008 compared with the year
before. The declines were in places where the housing bubble burst, such as
Nevada and Arizona, which lost construction jobs that tend to attract
immigrants.

Other decreases in the Hispanic growth rate occurred in new immigrant
destinations in the Southeast, previously seen as offering good manufacturing
jobs in lower-cost cities compared with the pricier Northeast. In contrast,
cities in California, Illinois and New Jersey showed increased growth rates.

The Census Bureau projected last August that white children will become the
minority in 2023 and the overall white population will follow in 2042. It now
says it will recalculate those figures, typically updated every three to four
years, because they do not fully take into account the economic crisis as well
as anti-immigration policies instituted after the September 2001 terrorist
attacks.

The new projections, expected to be released later this year, could delay the
tipping point for minorities by 10 years, given the current low rates of
immigration, David Waddington, the Census Bureau's chief of projections, said in
a telephone interview.

According to the latest data, the growth of the Hispanic population slowed from
4 percent in 2001 to 3.2 percent last year. The slowdown in population growth
would have been greater if not for their high fertility -- nearly 10 births for
every death.

Asian population growth also slowed, from 3.7 percent in 2001 to about 2.5
percent. Hispanics and Asians still are the two fastest-growing minority groups,
making up about 15 percent and 4.4 percent of the U.S. population, respectively.

Blacks, who make up about 12.2 percent of the population, have increased at a
rate of about 1 percent each year. Whites, with a median age of 41, have
increased very little in recent years because of low birth rates and an aging
boomer population.

Minority populations became the majority in six U.S. counties, including Orange
County, Fla., the nation's 35th most-populous county and home to Orlando.
Webster County in Georgia was majority-minority in 2007 but reverted to white
majority in 2008.

In all, about 309 of the nation's 3,142 counties, or one in 10, have minority
populations greater than 50 percent. Other counties that became
majority-minority in 2008 were Stanislaus in California, Finney in Kansas,
Warren in Mississippi, and Edwards and Schleicher in Texas.

The 2008 census estimates used local records of births and deaths, tax records
of people moving within the United States, and census statistics on immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Administration Proposes Renewed Immigration Talks With Cuba

BYLINE: Matthew Lee; Associated Press

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 438 words


The Obama administration asked Cuba's communist government on Friday to resume
talks on legal immigration to the United States. Such talks had been suspended
by President George W. Bush.

The State Department said it had proposed that the discussions be restarted to
"reaffirm both sides' commitment to safe, legal and orderly migration, to review
trends in illegal Cuban migration to the United States and to improve
operational relations with Cuba on migration issues."

President Obama "wants to ensure that we are doing all we can to support the
Cuban people in fulfilling their desire to live in freedom," said Darla Jordan,
a department spokeswoman. "He will continue to make policy decisions
accordingly."

The move follows Obama's decision in April to rescind restrictions on travel to
Cuba by Americans with family there and on the amount of money they can send to
their relatives on the island.

It also comes ahead of a high-level meeting June 2 of the Organization of
American States, where Cuba's possible reentry into the regional bloc will be
discussed. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will attend the meeting in
Honduras.

Clinton, however, told lawmakers this week that the United States would not
support Cuba's membership in the organization until and unless President RaÃºl
Castro's regime makes democratic reforms and releases political prisoners.

She and Obama have also said that broader engagement with Cuba, including the
possible lifting of the U.S. embargo on the island, is dependent on such steps.

There was no immediate reaction from the Cuban government.

In Miami on Friday, the influential Cuban American National Foundation welcomed
the news, saying that resumed migration talks could be "an opportunity to
resolve issues of United States national interest."

However, three Cuban American members of Congress from Florida -- Republican
Reps. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, his brother Mario and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen --
denounced the move as "another unilateral concession by the Obama administration
to the dictatorship."

The twice-yearly immigration talks had been the highest-level contacts between
the two countries, which have no diplomatic relations. Their goal was to allow
tracking of adherence to 1994 and 1995 accords designed to promote legal,
orderly migration between the countries, and to avoid a repeat of the summer of
1994, when tens of thousands of Cubans took to the sea in flimsy boats.

The Bush administration decided to scuttle the meetings in 2003, arguing that
they were not crucial for monitoring the agreements. The suspension came during
an especially prickly period in U.S.-Cuba relations.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 29, 2009 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Priest Devoted Life To Haitian Refugees

BYLINE: Patricia Sullivan; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 688 words


The Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, 62, a Roman Catholic priest who championed the cause
of Haitian refugees in South Florida during the 1970s and 1980s and who later
was jailed in his native land for his political activism, died May 27 at Miami's
Jackson Memorial Hospital of complications from a respiratory ailment.

At a time when few were paying attention to the thousands of impoverished
immigrants who drifted roughly 800 miles to South Florida on rickety boats, Rev.
Jean-Juste fought for fair treatment of the overwhelmingly poor black Haitians.
Through a dozen class-action lawsuits, three of which went to the Supreme Court,
he helped refine the legal parameters for how the U.S. government deals with
undocumented immigrants seeking political asylum.

"He was a person who spent his whole life committed to justice for the poor,"
said Ira Kurzban, an attorney who represented Rev. Jean-Juste's Haitian Refugee
Center in those lawsuits. "What he did for Haitians ultimately resulted in
benefits for everyone."

The first Haitian ordained as a priest by the Catholic Church in the United
States, Rev. Jean-Juste set up the refugee center in Miami's Liberty City
neighborhood in the 1970s, and called U.S. policy toward Haitians "our
Holocaust." He fought the unprecedented detention of Haitian refugees, who were
held without bond behind barbed wire in a former military camp on the edge of
the Everglades. He successfully changed federal policy to allow seekers of
political asylum to obtain work permits while they awaited hearings on their
cases.

One of his greatest victories came in July 1980, when U.S. District Judge James
Lawrence King ruled that the Immigration and Naturalization Service had
systematically discriminated against Haitian refugees, and ordered new hearings
for 5,000 refugees who had been ordered deported.

A supporter of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Rev. Jean-Juste returned to
Haiti in the early 1990s, and spoke out on the radio and from the pulpit on
political and social issues. After a 2004 coup, the U.S.-backed interim
government jailed Rev. Jean-Juste on charges of involvement with a prominent
journalist's murder.

International human rights groups protested and after six months, the charges
were dropped and Rev. Jean-Juste was released. Supporters said he was imprisoned
to keep him from running for president, and he was reportedly pondering a
campaign when he died.

Gerard Jean-Juste was born in Cavaillon, Haiti. He studied for the priesthood in
a Canadian seminary and returned to Haiti briefly. After he refused to sign an
oath of allegiance to the authoritarian Duvalier regime, he fled in 1965 and
then graduated from Northeastern University in Boston. He was ordained in 1971
and settled in Miami, a year before the first Haitian "boat people" began to
arrive. By 1978, he was the volunteer leader of the Haitian Refugee Center,
which provided immigrants with food, shelter and clothing.

Only one percent of the Haitians who sought asylum between 1972 and 1979 won it,
the Miami Herald reported, and untold numbers drowned en route to the U.S.,
sometimes pushed overboard by smugglers. Rev. Jean-Juste angered church
officials by conducting funerals for non-Catholics who drowned at sea. It didn't
help his career when he called the archbishop a racist; he was denied a parish
in South Florida and lost the low-paying job as head of the refugee center.

In 1980, the Mariel boatlift brought more than 12,000 Cuban refugees to Miami.
Many were granted asylum, as were Southeast Asians and Central Americans who
immigrated after wars in those areas of the world. The Haitians, however, were
detained indefinitely at the former military center on Krome Avenue, then
deported, because they were considered economic, not political, refugees.

"The United States, one of the greatest governments in the world, is cooperating
with one of the most fascist, criminal governments in the third world," Rev.
Jean-Juste said in 1981, after President Ronald Reagan ordered the military to
intercept and turn around ships carrying illegal immigrants to the U.S.

Survivors include two sisters and two brothers.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Ariana Cubillos -- Associated Press; Supporters in
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, embrace the Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste in 2004, when the
Catholic priest was freed after seven weeks in jail.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 29, 2009 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Most U.S. Hispanic Kids Have Immigrant Parents

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 466 words


A majority of Hispanic children are now  U.S.-born children of immigrants,
primarily Mexicans who came to this country in an immigration wave that began
about 1980, according to a report released  yesterday.

The analysis of census data by the nonpartisan, Washington-based Pew Hispanic
Center charts a substantial demographic shift among the nation's 16 million
Hispanic children, who constitute one of the fastest growing child populations
in the United States and  account for more than one of five U.S. children. As
recently as 1980, nearly six of 10 Latino children were in the third generation
or higher, meaning that their parents, and often their grandparents and
great-grandparents, were native-born U.S. citizens. Only three of 10 were in the
second generation -- born in the United States to parents who immigrated.

Now those U.S.-born children of Latino immigrants account for 52 percent of all
Latino children, according to the study.

The share of first-generation Latino children, meaning those who were born
abroad and immigrated themselves, has dropped from 13 percent to 11 percent
since 1980.

The findings are particularly significant because by many measures
second-generation Latino children face significant challenges compared with
their third-generation peers and non-Hispanic whites. Forty percent have parents
who have less than a high school education, compared with 16 percent of
third-generation Latino children and 4 percent of non-Hispanic white children,
according to the study.

Similarly, 21 percent of second-generation Latino children are not fluent in
English, compared with 5 percent of third-generation Latino children. And 40
percent of second-generation Latino children have at least one parent who is in
the country illegally.

However, the study found almost no difference between the poverty rates of the
second and third generations: About one in four such children live in poverty.
And the second generation is more likely than the third to live in
married-couple households: 73 percent, compared with 52 percent.

The nation's 1.7 million first-generation immigrant Latino children, who are
more likely to be in their early teens, tend to fare the worst: One-third live
in poverty, 43 percent are not fluent in English and nearly half were born to
parents who did not finish high school.

But although the total number of first-generation Latino children is likely to
increase, study co-author Jeffrey S. Passel projected that their share of the
total Latino child population will remain low in coming decades, as more
second-generation Latinos are born and today's second-generation Latino children
start having children of their own, creating a third-generation boomlet.

By 2025, nearly one in three children in the United States will be Latino,
according to Passel.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 1, 2009 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Cuba Agrees to Resume Immigration Talks With U.S.

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 974 words

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR, May 31


Cuba has agreed to restart talks with the United States on immigration and has
signaled its willingness to cooperate on issues including terrorism, drug
trafficking and even mail service, a sign that the island's communist government
is warming to President Obama's call for a new relationship after decades of
tension, U.S. officials said Sunday.

The breakthrough was announced as Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton
began a three-day trip to Latin America, where she is expected to face pressure
to take further steps to ease the U.S. policy of isolating Cuba.

Clinton said Sunday night that she was "very pleased" with the developments and
hoped they would be well received by other Latin American countries. "We've made
more progress in four months than has been made in a number of years," she said,
"and we need to work together to continue that kind of progress, keeping in mind
the legitimate aspirations and the human rights of the people of Cuba."

Obama has promised a "new beginning" with Cuba, and his overtures have included
lifting restrictions on visits by Cuban Americans to the island and allowing
U.S. telecommunications firms to operate there. But the administration has moved
cautiously, mindful of domestic political repercussions. Obama and Clinton have
said the United States will not lift its economic embargo until President RaÃºl
Castro's government makes democratic reforms.

The announcement of the talks could take the edge off what was shaping up as a
battle over Cuba at a regional meeting of foreign ministers that Clinton is
scheduled to attend Tuesday in Honduras. The ministers have been considering
readmitting Cuba into the Organization of American States, the main forum for
political cooperation in the hemisphere, for the first time since 1962.

The United States has resisted readmitting Cuba, arguing it would violate the
OAS charter on democratic principles. But the idea has widespread support in
Latin America, where the U.S. embargo is seen as an anachronism and a symbol of
Washington's historical dominance in the region. The issue of Cuba's
participation in the OAS has put the U.S. government on the spot, especially
after Obama pledged at a regional summit in Trinidad and Tobago in April that he
would seek "an equal partnership" with Latin American leaders rather than
dictating to them.

Cuba offered its olive branch to Washington on Saturday, when the head of the
Cuban Interests Section in Washington, Jorge BolaÃ±os, formally accepted the
U.S. offer to restart talks on legal immigration that were halted in 2003 by the
Bush administration,  said a senior State Department official, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.

The talks are not expected to change significantly the number of Cubans who
legally immigrate each year to the United States -- about 20,000, the official
said. But they will be the highest-level contacts between the two governments,
and they could lead to dialogue on other topics. The Obama administration is
interested in the discussions in part because of the growing problem of Cubans
trying to enter illegally, the official said.

BolaÃ±os also expressed interest in an earlier U.S. proposal to work on resuming
direct mail service between the countries, which has not existed for decades,
the official said.

In addition, the Cuban government suggested talks on fighting drug trafficking
and terrorism, and on working with the United States on disaster preparation,
the official said. The countries currently cooperate informally to catch drug
smugglers.

No date was set for the start of the talks.

Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-N.Y.), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs subcommittee
on the Western Hemisphere applauded the announcements. But he said Cuba needs to
offer more tangible evidence of change, such as releasing political prisoners,
to show it is serious.

"I think we really need to see some meat and potatoes" before the United States
takes more dramatic steps, Engel said.

The delicacy of the Cuba issue was underlined by the effort to readmit the
country to the OAS. Such a move would be largely symbolic, because the
government in Havana has shown no interest in participating in a group it
derides as a U.S. tool.

But even the possibility has alarmed Cuban American groups and some lawmakers.
One of them, Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), has threatened to cut off the U.S.
contribution to the OAS -- about 60 percent of its budget. Last week, three
former Bush administration officials who helped shape Latin America policy --
ambassadors Lino Gutierrez, Roger F. Noriega and Otto J. Reich -- appealed to
Clinton not to give in.

"Now more than ever, any actions that confer legitimacy on the unelected regime
in Havana would be a betrayal of our Cuban brothers and sisters," they wrote.

Clinton's trip started Sunday in El Salvador with a meeting of Pathways to
Prosperity, a Bush administration initiative to encourage greater commerce with
its 12 free-trade partners in the region. The group was formed last fall, after
Venezuelan leader Hugo ChÃ¡vez started assembling a bloc opposed to free-trade
pacts with the United States.

On Monday, Clinton is scheduled to attend the inauguration of El Salvador's
president, the first from the party formed by guerrillas who battled a
U.S.-backed government in the 1980s. The new leader, Mauricio Funes, is the
latest example of the "pink tide" that has washed over Latin America. He has
said he will emulate moderate leftists like those governing Brazil and Chile,
rather than populists like ChÃ¡vez.

This is Clinton's third trip to Latin America in four months, a sign of what
U.S. officials call their reengagement in a region where U.S. influence has
waned. Many Latin American politicians have complained that they were neglected
by the previous administration as the United States focused on Iraq and
Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

In Brief

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PG02

LENGTH: 525 words

New Citizens Take Oath At Ceremony Sunday

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services will administer the oath of allegiance
to candidates seeking to become U.S. citizens during a naturalization ceremony
at 1 p.m. Sunday at the Greenbelt Community Center, 15 Crescent Rd. in
Greenbelt. For information, call 301-397-2208.

Prince George's Offers Discounted Cat Adoptions

The Prince George's County Department of Environmental Resources' Animal
Management Group is offering discounted fees for the adoption of cats and
kittens this month.

The move is part of National Adopt-A-Cat Month, which comes as shelters and
rescue groups cope with an influx of kittens. The agency's discounted fees, of
$35 for male cats and $50 for females, cover a microchip, a county license, a
rabies shot and spaying or neutering.

"June is the perfect time to promote cat adoptions since the spring and summer
months typically bring an increase of cats and kittens to our facility," Rodney
Taylor, associate director of the Animal Management Group, said in a statement.
"We encourage County citizens and residents to visit our location and meet all
the wonderful cats that are looking for loving, permanent homes."

For information, call 301-499-8300 or visit
http://www.princegeorgescountymd.gov/DER/AMG.

Conference Offers Help For Coping in Tough Times

Leslie E. Johnson, the wife of Prince George's County Executive Jack B. Johnson
(D), will host a conference June 13 to help people deal with difficult times.

Registration for the conference, "Coping in Extraordinary Times," will begin at
7:30 a.m., with the program running from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Ernest Everett Just
Middle School, 1300 Campus Way N. in Mitchellville.

Representatives from the Prince George's County Health, Family Services, Social
Services and Police departments will lead workshops, assist with questions and
provide resource materials.

Workshops include: "Managing Your Finances," "Improving Your Physical Health,"
"Emotional and Mental Health," "Parenting Issues," "Preparing to Work" and
"Recreation and Having Personal and Family Fun."

The conference is free, but reservations are encouraged at 301-883-4707.

Prince George's Signs Sister City Agreement

Prince George's County has entered a sister city agreement with the Njikwa
Council from the Republic of Cameroon, County Executive Jack B. Johnson
announced.

Njikwa Mayor Lazarious Aziah joined Johnson last month for the signing, which is
aimed at fostering trade and commerce and literary and educational activities
between the two jurisdictions.

The signing was part of a three-day forum promoting investment in Africa. The
event was hosted by the U.S. Embassy in Cameroon, the Prince George's County
Economic Development Corp.'s Africa Trade Office and the African Investment
Corp.

Hyattsville Park Hosts Event for Artsy Dogs

The Lively Arts in Hyattsville will host "Dogs for the Arts" at 9:30 a.m.
Saturday at Magruder Park, 40th Avenue at Hamilton Street in Hyattsville. The
public can bring leashed dogs for paw painting, dog tricks and an owner-and-dog
look-alike contest. For information or to register, call 301-699-5440.

-- Compiled by AKEYA DICKSON

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Reid Declares Immigration a Priority for Senate

BYLINE: Ben Pershing; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 556 words


With President Obama on a historic foreign trip, a Supreme Court nomination
pending and massive health-care and climate change bills  percolating in
Congress, Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) managed to draw
headlines on a completely separate front Thursday: immigration.

At a news conference with Hispanic leaders to tout Sonia Sotomayor's Supreme
Court candidacy, Reid said a comprehensive immigration bill is "going to happen
this session, but I want it this year, if at all possible." Reid called it one
of his three top priorities this year, along with health care and energy.

His comments drew renewed attention to the immigration issue, which has been
largely dormant on Capitol Hill since a comprehensive reform measure failed in
the Senate in 2007. Despite the hopes of Reid and other advocates, however, with
Congress and the White House preoccupied with a packed legislative calendar,
immigration reform looks unlikely to pass this year.

House Democratic leaders have already said they want the Senate to move on
immigration first, and the Senate can take weeks to process a major bill. Both
chambers have to grapple with a full complement of issues this year, including
the usual slate of appropriations bills as well as the health-care and energy
measures, both of which will be controversial.

Brent Wilkes, the national executive director of the League of United Latin
American Citizens, was standing with Reid on Thursday and said he understands
why Democrats are not committing to a firm timetable. "They're cautious about
the immigration bill, because things have a tendency to slip in Washington," he
said.

Last summer, candidate Barack Obama pledged on a LULAC questionnaire, "I will
put comprehensive immigration reform back on the nation's agenda during my first
year in office." The White House is hosting a meeting of key lawmakers and
advocacy groups to discuss immigration June 17, but the administration has given
no hint of an intensified push on the issue. Administration aides have said
repeatedly that Obama wants to "start the debate this year," but the president
has not asked for a bill to sign in 2009.

Obama himself said in April, "We want to move this process," before adding that
he does not "have control of the legislative calendar."

Reid does, and his spokesman, Jim Manley, said yesterday  he thinks an
immigration bill could pass the Senate this year, though he acknowledged the
agenda is packed. "It's an ambitious schedule, but it's doable with a little bit
of cooperation" from Republicans, he said.

But there is little evidence that such cooperation is forthcoming or that any
consensus is forming around a compromise bill, so Republicans do not think
moving a measure this year is realistic.

"The real estate is rapidly shrinking," said Don Stewart, spokesman for Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.). "Although we can always do more on
border security, there are still a number of unresolved issues before the
Congress that are going to take us well into the latter part of the year."

Despite those obstacles, Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) has said he plans to
draft and introduce a new immigration measure later this year. Wilkes said that
would get the ball rolling, and that 2010 is a more likely target for final
action on the issue.

"I think spring is realistic," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By J. Scott Applewhite -- Associated Press; Sen. Harry M. Reid
broached immigration at an event for high court nominee Sonia Sotomayor.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Prominent Cases Of Spying for Cuba

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 166 words


June 2001 Mariano Faget, 54, an acting deputy director of the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service in Miami, was sentenced to five years in prison. He
was convicted of revealing secrets to a business partner with connections to
Cuba.

December 2001 Five Cuban immigrants were sentenced in Miami to prison terms
ranging from 10 years to life imprisonment after being convicted of acting as
unregistered foreign agents and conspiring to commit crimes against the United
States. Three were also convicted of conspiracy to commit espionage. They were
among 10 Cuban immigrants accused of infiltrating militant Cuban exile groups in
Miami. Some were also accused of seeking U.S. military intelligence.

October 2002 Ana Belen Montes, a senior analyst of Cuban affairs for the Defense
Intelligence Agency, was sentenced to 25 years in prison. She was accused of
passing top-secret files to Cuban intelligence officers from 1992 to 2001.

SOURCE: Defense Personnel Security Research Center, staff research

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 7, 2009 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

JONATHAN YARDLEY

BYLINE: Jonathan Yardley

SECTION: BOOK WORLD

LENGTH: 1114 words


AMERICAN PASSAGE

The History of Ellis Island

By Vincent J. Cannato

Harper. 487 pp. $27.99

Ellis Island, through which 12 million immigrants passed between 1892 and 1924,
is a museum and tourist attraction now, "a success," according to Vincent J.
Cannato, "attracting some 2 million visitors a year." A small patch of land in
New York Harbor, known two centuries ago as Gibbet Island because so many
pirates were hanged there, it occupies a large but somewhat ambiguous place in
American history. On the one hand, it is deservedly celebrated as the country's
gateway, not the only one but the largest and most important. On the other hand,
it is the place where a deep conflict in American beliefs has been played out:

"The nation's immigration law was predicated on the idea that a self-governing
people could decide who may or may not enter the country. But that idea came
into conflict with other ideals such as America's traditional history of
welcoming newcomers. More importantly, it conflicted with the idea that the
rights guaranteed in the Constitution were universal rights. How could the
Declaration of Independence's basic creed that all individuals were created
equal mesh with the idea that some immigrants were desirable and others
undesirable? That conflict between American ideals is central to an
understanding of why Ellis Island was created in the first place."

Obviously, the story of Ellis Island remains pertinent today, for the issues it
raises still vex and divide us. In the early years of the 20th century, most
immigrants came to the United States from Europe, and the question in the minds
of many Americans was whether some of them (British, French, German) were more
"desirable" than others (Eastern and Southern Europeans). Now the great wave of
immigration is from Latin America, and because many of these people enter the
country illegally, the question is whether this makes them "undesirable," even
though many of them work productively and contribute to the national economy.

Ellis Island was established as a "sieve" through which immigrants could be
filtered, the desirable allowed to enter, the undesirable deported back to their
countries of origin. But as became plain from almost the moment it opened,
defining "desirable" and "undesirable" was difficult and often caused intense
controversy. William Williams, director of Ellis Island for many years, was a
WASP aristo who "linked undesirability to southern and eastern Europeans," just
as many Bostonians regarded the Irish as undesirable. One blue-blooded New
England Yankee, discussing the " 'masses of peasantry' from Italy, Hungary,
Austria, and Russia in the 1890s," didn't beat around the bush:

"These people have no history behind them which is of a nature to give
encouragement. They have none of the inherited instincts and tendencies which
made it comparatively easy to deal with the immigration of olden time. They are
beaten men from beaten races; representing the worst failures in the struggle
for existence. Centuries are against them, as centuries were on the side of
those who formerly came to us."

Out of such sentiments grew the Immigration Restriction League, founded in 1894
"to advocate and work for the further judicious restriction or stricter
regulation of immigration," i.e., No Italians Need Apply. These and other
efforts by Boston Brahmins and their allies stirred up noise and debate but
don't seem to have had all that much effect on the decisions made by officials
at Ellis Island, who were chiefly preoccupied with questions of physical and
mental health, the ability to earn a gainful wage and "moral turpitude," a
euphemism for everything from prostitution to adultery to premarital sex. During
World War I "alien enemies" -- "any male over the age of fourteen born in
Germany, residing in the United States, and not a naturalized U.S. citizen" --
found their rights sharply limited and were at risk of being arrested; after the
war, fear of radicals generally, and anarchists specifically, added a new
category of "undesirables."

A "recurring theme throughout Ellis Island's history," Cannato writes, is "the
chasm between immigration law as written and immigration law as enforced." Or,
as he puts it elsewhere, "The immigration problem was a conflict between
abstract laws and the individual tragedies those laws sometimes created." It was
one thing to deny admission to the "feeble-minded," but quite another when an
entire family presented itself for admission and one child was deemed to fit
that category. How were officials to respond: Deny admission to the entire
family, or admit all save the offending girl? In one such case the second course
was chosen, leaving the girl to live out the rest of her life -- how she did so
we do not know -- on her own.

Generally, though, Ellis Island tended toward the permissive. Some of those who
worked there were bigoted, and many, it seems, were simply incompetent, but
Cannato reports numerous instances in which people who were borderline
"undesirable" for one reason or another were granted admission on essentially
humanitarian grounds. President William Howard Taft, making a visit to the
island, found himself caught up in one such case, though his sympathetic
response to the immigrant under examination ultimately was overruled by
authorities directly responsible.

The immigration center was closed in 1954, by which time a quota system was in
effect and overall immigration had declined sharply. Two years later the General
Services Administration put the entire 27-acre island up for sale, but reaction
against turning over the historic site to private interests -- "the high bidder
was a New York builder . . . who wanted to turn Ellis Island into Pleasure
Island, a high-end resort with a convention center, marina, and recreational and
cultural facilities" -- was strong enough to persuade the Eisenhower
Administration to take it off the market. It deteriorated until 1981, when a
fund-raising program for its restoration was undertaken, eventually under the
leadership of Lee Iacocca, whose parents went through Ellis Island in 1921.

Cannato, who teaches history at the University of Massachusetts in Boston, has
written a popular rather than scholarly history of Ellis Island, but he resists
the temptation to sentimentalize the place. He understands that, now as then,
immigration is an issue that leaves Americans uncomfortable and contentious,
even as it continues to bring new blood and energy into the country. Ellis
Island may have been converted into something of a feel-good theme park, but the
questions it raises remain unresolved.

Jonathan Yardley's e-mail address is yardleyj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 7, 2009 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Providing a Voice for the Misunderstood

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ03

LENGTH: 1174 words


Richard Cabellos, a South Riding resident who was born in Peru and raised in
Fairfax County, has worked on behalf of immigrant communities in Virginia in
various jobs and volunteer positions. In an e-mail interview with
loudounextra.com, he discussed his involvement in hot-button immigration issues
in the region. Here are excerpts.

Q You are a director of Community Connections Outreach for the Fairfax County
Park Authority. What does the job entail?

A I am one of the two coordinators the FCPA hired in 2006 to build bridges to
the Latino and Korean communities of Fairfax County. Community Connections is a
comprehensive outreach and education strategy developed by the FCPA to listen
to, engage and build trust with increasingly diverse park users.

You have been a member of El Pueblo Unido (People United). Tell us about the
philosophy and activities of the organization.

The original El Pueblo Unido organization was started by two young Latino
community organizers from Falls Church and Woodbridge and myself. Our first
instinct in starting this organization was to bring some common sense to the
immigration debate in Northern Virginia, to educate state delegates and senators
at the General Assembly in Richmond and to bring about fair and comprehensive
laws in the commonwealth.

One aspect that many elected officials failed to address when introducing or
supporting legislation was the impact it would have on all communities. Our goal
was to provide that knowledge to our elected officials.

Which specific events or concerns caused you to become involved in immigration
issues?

The main concern was just a matter of plain social justice for the poor and the
misunderstood. I saw honest people who were just trying to feed their families.
I saw children just trying to study their hardest. I saw mothers and fathers
doing their best to teach their sons and daughters the value of what it is to
work hard in this country, because there were no opportunities for them in their
own countries. And then I saw these same people used as scapegoats in the media
for crime, political wedge issues and divisive and irrational laws.

Worst of all, I saw these people turn voiceless and afraid to defend themselves.
I thought someone needed to do something. The immigrant community was grouped
together when crime happened and was blamed for things we had nothing to do
with. That is not the United States or the commonwealth I grew up in.

The debate over how to treat immigrants who did not come here legally is
especially fierce in Northern Virginia. Some seek stringent immigration-law
enforcement and bans on government assistance, and others argue that almost all
immigrants deserve a clear path to citizenship. How would you summarize your
position on handling illegal immigration?

First, let me address the issue of the terminology of "illegal" vs.
"undocumented." I feel that when we use the word "illegal," it biases
questioning or debate about immigration. For example, when people use
"illegitimate child," yes, the child was born under diverse circumstances, but
it still is a breathing, living human being, not a criminal. Without
understanding that there is a complex immigration system that makes a person
undocumented and not an illegal person, I believe that no living, breathing
human is illegal.

I do believe there has to be a legal pathway for those individuals who have
contributed to our society that ensures that those individuals who have caused
harm to our country are not given that opportunity.

As to the issue about government assistance to the undocumented, in reality
there is a lot of misinformation out there. Laws have been in place for a long
time that reject those without permanent U.S. resident or citizen status for any
type of government assistance.

For five years, you were a member of the Virginia Latino Advisory Board. Tell us
about the board's activities and your role on it.

My role with the Virginia Latino Advisory Board was to advise and inform the
governor on issues important to the Virginia Latino community, advocate for
their interests and increase awareness about the contributions made by Latinos
in Virginia. We traveled on behalf of the governor to the Eastern Shore, the
agricultural south and the mountainous west.

While on the panel, you met with a number of Virginian police chiefs to discuss
their departments' relationships with Latino communities. What came of those
discussions?

My concerns centered on assuring that public safety officials were made aware of
cultural differences and language barriers that exist within the Latino
community. These open dialogues with police chiefs filled the gap between the
Latino community and our public service providers.

What do you think is the best model for the relationship between law enforcement
and immigrants?

We need more Spanish-speaking deputies on the streets and in the community
policing in our neighborhoods, so when a crime happens immigrant communities are
not afraid to speak up for fear of immigration status checks.

You recently launched what you are calling a Neighborhood Listens program in
Loudoun Countywith an unlikely pair of allies, two other activists whose views
on immigration differ from yours. Can you give our readers an update on how it's
going?

It's an amazing collaboration [among], as you mentioned, unlikely allies. The
Loudoun Neighborhood Agreement is a grass-roots effort by Loudoun County
residents that focuses on fostering direct, informal communication networks in
our communities to promote quality of life for everyone who lives here. We
believe the vast majority of county residents, of all cultural backgrounds,
share a similar desire to live in safe neighborhoods where community standards
are upheld.

There is nothing simpler than that, and the response from the public has been
phenomenal. We have had e-mails and calls of support to translate our Web site
into more than two languages. Currently, parts are in Spanish, but the majority
is still in English.

Is there a particular place or regular event in Loudoun that you would recommend
to friends?

I love what is booming where I reside in South Riding, which is the tantalizing
[mix] of ethnic restaurants from India, Thailand, China, El Salvador, Mexico and
Italy. But even better is the many landscaped and well-manicured foot and bike
trails and community parks in South Riding, which strives to keep its rural,
small-town appeal, and where I can burn off all the calories from those diverse
restaurants!

You're a fairly public citizen. Tell us something your friends and colleagues
don't know about you.

Well, most of me is out there in the public eye, but I think no one really knows
about my desire to run for public office in the future. I hope to do this soon,
after my wife and I have a family and have acquired the resources to run.

UP CLOSE is a feature in which Loudoun County residents talk about their jobs,
interests and experiences in the community. Have a suggestion on whom we should
interview? Send it to loudounextra@wpni.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos Courtesy Of Richard Cabellos; Richard Cabellos (walking
toward the camera) helped organize a fall cleanup event in Herndon with the day
laborer community. Here, some of the workers clear trash and debris from the
parkland behind Hutchinson Elementary School.
IMAGE; Cabellos receives the 2008 Fairfax County Outstanding Performance Award
from County Executive Anthony H. Griffin for building partnerships in the Latino
community.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 7, 2009 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Weeding Out the Weak

BYLINE: Jonathan Yardley

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 1107 words


AMERICAN PASSAGE

The History of Ellis Island

By Vincent J. Cannato

Harper. 487 pp. $27.99

Ellis Island, through which 12 million immigrants passed between 1892 and 1924,
is a museum and tourist attraction now, "a success," according to Vincent J.
Cannato, "attracting some 2 million visitors a year." A small patch of land in
New York Harbor, known two centuries ago as Gibbet Island because so many
pirates were hanged there, it occupies a large but somewhat ambiguous place in
American history. On the one hand, it is deservedly celebrated as the country's
gateway, not the only one but the largest and most important. On the other hand,
it is the place where a deep conflict in American beliefs has been played out:

"The nation's immigration law was predicated on the idea that a self-governing
people could decide who may or may not enter the country. But that idea came
into conflict with other ideals such as America's traditional history of
welcoming newcomers. More importantly, it conflicted with the idea that the
rights guaranteed in the Constitution were universal rights. How could the
Declaration of Independence's basic creed that all individuals were created
equal mesh with the idea that some immigrants were desirable and others
undesirable? That conflict between American ideals is central to an
understanding of why Ellis Island was created in the first place."

Obviously, the story of Ellis Island remains pertinent today, for the issues it
raises still vex and divide us. In the early years of the 20th century, most
immigrants came to the United States from Europe, and the question in the minds
of many Americans was whether some of them (British, French, German) were more
"desirable" than others (Eastern and Southern Europeans). Now the great wave of
immigration is from Latin America, and because many of these people enter the
country illegally, the question is whether this makes them "undesirable," even
though many of them work productively and contribute to the national economy.

Ellis Island was established as a "sieve" through which immigrants could be
filtered, the desirable allowed to enter, the undesirable deported back to their
countries of origin. But as became plain from almost the moment it opened,
defining "desirable" and "undesirable" was difficult and often caused intense
controversy. William Williams, director of Ellis Island for many years, was a
WASP aristo who "linked undesirability to southern and eastern Europeans," just
as many Bostonians regarded the Irish as undesirable. One blue-blooded New
England Yankee, discussing the " 'masses of peasantry' from Italy, Hungary,
Austria, and Russia in the 1890s," didn't beat around the bush:

"These people have no history behind them which is of a nature to give
encouragement. They have none of the inherited instincts and tendencies which
made it comparatively easy to deal with the immigration of olden time. They are
beaten men from beaten races; representing the worst failures in the struggle
for existence. Centuries are against them, as centuries were on the side of
those who formerly came to us."

Out of such sentiments grew the Immigration Restriction League, founded in 1894
"to advocate and work for the further judicious restriction or stricter
regulation of immigration," i.e., No Italians Need Apply. These and other
efforts by Boston Brahmins and their allies stirred up noise and debate but
don't seem to have had all that much effect on the decisions made by officials
at Ellis Island, who were chiefly preoccupied with questions of physical and
mental health, the ability to earn a gainful wage and "moral turpitude," a
euphemism for everything from prostitution to adultery to premarital sex. During
World War I "alien enemies" -- "any male over the age of fourteen born in
Germany, residing in the United States, and not a naturalized U.S. citizen" --
found their rights sharply limited and were at risk of being arrested; after the
war, fear of radicals generally, and anarchists specifically, added a new
category of "undesirables."

A "recurring theme throughout Ellis Island's history," Cannato writes, is "the
chasm between immigration law as written and immigration law as enforced." Or,
as he puts it elsewhere, "The immigration problem was a conflict between
abstract laws and the individual tragedies those laws sometimes created." It was
one thing to deny admission to the "feeble-minded," but quite another when an
entire family presented itself for admission and one child was deemed to fit
that category. How were officials to respond: Deny admission to the entire
family, or admit all save the offending girl? In one such case the second course
was chosen, leaving the girl to live out the rest of her life -- how she did so
we do not know -- on her own.

Generally, though, Ellis Island tended toward the permissive. Some of those who
worked there were bigoted, and many, it seems, were simply incompetent, but
Cannato reports numerous instances in which people who were borderline
"undesirable" for one reason or another were granted admission on essentially
humanitarian grounds. President William Howard Taft, making a visit to the
island, found himself caught up in one such case, though his sympathetic
response to the immigrant under examination ultimately was overruled by
authorities directly responsible.

The immigration center was closed in 1954, by which time a quota system was in
effect and overall immigration had declined sharply. Two years later the General
Services Administration put the entire 27-acre island up for sale, but reaction
against turning over the historic site to private interests -- "the high bidder
was a New York builder . . . who wanted to turn Ellis Island into Pleasure
Island, a high-end resort with a convention center, marina, and recreational and
cultural facilities" -- was strong enough to persuade the Eisenhower
Administration to take it off the market. It deteriorated until 1981, when a
fund-raising program for its restoration was undertaken, eventually under the
leadership of Lee Iacocca, whose parents went through Ellis Island in 1921.

Cannato, who teaches history at the University of Massachusetts in Boston, has
written a popular rather than scholarly history of Ellis Island, but he resists
the temptation to sentimentalize the place. He understands that, now as then,
immigration is an issue that leaves Americans uncomfortable and contentious,
even as it continues to bring new blood and energy into the country. Ellis
Island may have been converted into something of a feel-good theme park, but the
questions it raises remain unresolved.

yardleyj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Library Of Congress; A health officer examines immigrant
children upon their arrival at Ellis Island in 1911.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               63 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 12, 2009 Friday
                                 Every Edition

COMING ATTRACTIONS

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. WE31

LENGTH: 552 words


New DVDs you can watch this weekend:

MARQUEE NAMES

--  Crossing Over (R) Harrison Ford plays an immigration agent with a heart of
gold in this multi-linear story about illegal immigrants in Los Angeles. Post
critic Ann Hornaday said that Ford does his best but that the movie fails: "By
way of two-dimensional characters and billboarded plot points, it recalls other,
better movies that dealt with the same subjects far more deftly."

--  Gran Torino (R) Neither Clint Eastwood nor this film were nominated for an
Oscar, which many considered to be the biggest snub of the year, as Eastwood
received wide critical praise for his directing and acting. Hornaday agreed,
calling his performance as a Korean War vet who forges an unlikely relationship
with an immigrant family "breathtaking." Extras include featurettes on America's
car culture. Also on Blu-ray.

--  The International (R) Clive Owen is an Interpol agent on the trail of a
corrupt bank. The plot is somewhat garbled, Hornaday said, but Owen is eminently
watchable and "the movie hums along with attractive, smooth efficiency." Extras
include commentary by director Tom Tykwer and deleted scenes. Also on Blu-ray.

 OTHERS OF NOTE

--  The Jack Lemmon Film Collection (Unrated) Five of the great actor's comedies
("Phffft!," "Operation Mad Ball," "The Notorious Landlady," "Under the Yum Yum
Tree" and "Good Neighbor Sam") along with a documentary narrated by Lemmon's
son, Chris.

--  Fired Up (PG-13) In this teen comedy, two high school boys (somewhat of a
stretch for actors Nicholas D'Agosto, 29, and Eric Christian Olsen, 32) try to
avoid football camp by becoming cheerleaders. It's harmless summer fare, but
don't expect too many laughs.

--  Nobel Son (R) "Wildly implausible and occasionally fun" is how The Post's
Philip Kennicott described this black comedy starring Alan Rickman as a Nobel
Prize-winning chemist whose life is turned upside-down after his son is
kidnapped. Other critics were far less kind.

--  Spinning Into Butter (R) This plodding drama stars Sarah Jessica Parker as a
dean at a sleepy Vermont college where one of the few black students has been
the target of threats and the campus must confront its own racism. The Post's
Dan Kois said the movie "suffers . . . from a feeling of creeping irrelevance,
as if it's being delivered well after its sell-by date."

 TV to DVD

--  The Cleaner: The 1st Season Benjamin Bratt plays a recovering addict helping
others in this A&E series, which comes back for a second season late this month.

--  Father Knows Best: Season 3 Thirty-seven (!) episodes from this popular
1950s family drama.

--  Get Smart: Season 3

--  Perry Mason: Season 4, Vol. 1

--  The Shield: Season 7 -- The Final Act The final season of this cop drama
starring Michael Chiklis as crooked detective Vic Mackey.

--  Survivorman: Season 3 The final season of this Discovery Channel series
finds Les Stroud navigating the Rockies, hunting in the deep woods and running
out of airplane fuel in the Outback, among other adventures.

--  Waiting for God: Series 4 A British sitcom from the early '90s about two
rebellious residents of a nursing home.

--  The Best of Whose Line Is It Anyway?

COMING ATTRACTIONS

 Notable DVDs being released Tuesday include:

--  Friday the 13th (R)

--  Tyler Perry's Madea Goes to Jail (PG-13)

-- Amy Hitt

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE; Photos, From Top: By Dale Robinette -- Associated Press; By Anthony
Michael Rivetti/malposa Productions; By Jay Maidment; New on DVD, from top:
Harrison Ford, with Alice Braga, is an immigration agent in "Crossing Over";
Clint Eastwood, with Bee Vang, plays a Korean War vet in "Gran Torino"; Clive
Owen stars in "The International."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 17, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Debate Tied to Rise in Hate Crimes

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 255 words


U.S. civil rights leaders said yesterday that an increase in hate crimes
committed in recent years against Hispanics and people perceived to be
immigrants "correlates closely" to the nation's increasingly contentious debate
over immigration.

Hate crimes targeting Hispanic Americans rose 40 percent from 2003 to 2007, the
most recent year for which FBI statistics are available, from 426 to 595
incidents, marking the fourth consecutive year of increases.

The Leadership Conference on Civil Rights Education Fund issued a report that
faulted anti-immigrant rhetoric in the media and mobilization of extremist
groups on the Internet. The conference said that some groups advocating for
tighter immigration laws have invoked "the dehumanizing, racist stereotypes and
bigotry of hate groups."

"Reasonable people will disagree . . . but the tone of discourse over
comprehensive immigration reform needs to be changed, needs to be civil and
sane," said Michael Lieberman, Washington counsel for the Anti-Defamation
League.

The FBI reported in October that the number of hate crimes dropped in 2007 by
about 1 percent, to 7,624. But violence against Latinos and gay people bucked
the trend. The number of hate crimes directed at gay men and lesbians increased
about 6 percent,  the FBI reported.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
was criticized in the LCCREF report, said it was "another salvo against free
speech by the pro-amnesty coalition . . . to delegitimize any critic of mass
immigration."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               65 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 19, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 461 words


DRUG CRIME

ICE Given More Investigative Power

The Obama administration ended a years-long turf war between the Justice and
Homeland Security departments yesterday, giving more U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agents authority to investigate drug crimes.

Leaders of ICE and the Drug Enforcement Administration replaced a 1994 agreement
that capped the number of customs agents who could investigate federal drug
crimes and limited it to those who make seizures at border crossings.

When the Department of Homeland Security was created in 2003, ICE's size and
national presence were expanded. However, DEA and the Justice Department refused
to lift the cap, set at 1,475 agents, citing the potential for poor
coordination. ICE has about 5,000 agents overall, and the DEA has about 4,800.

John Morton, DHS assistant secretary for ICE, and Michele M. Leonhart, DEA
acting administrator, yesterday signed a new pact that permits ICE to name an
unlimited number of agents anywhere in the country to investigate federal drug
crimes linked to U.S. borders.

ICE committed to share information with the DEA.

Morton did not say how many more ICE agents he would designate, but he said the
agreement would be reviewed in one year and every two years after that.

-- Spencer S. Hsu

SECRETARY OF STATE

Clinton to Have Surgery on Elbow

Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton expects to have surgery soon to repair
a broken elbow she suffered in a fall in the State Department garage.

Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said Clinton was working from home Thursday
and had made no decision about whether to go ahead with planned overseas travel,
including a trip next week to Italy and Greece. Crowley said Clinton was walking
toward her official vehicle when she fell about 5 p.m. Wednesday. She was
examined in her office and then taken to George Washington University Hospital,
Crowley said.

-- Associated Press

Midwest Storms Spawn Possible Tornadoes: Powerful storms that rolled across the
Midwest brought heavy rain and strong winds and spawned several apparent
tornadoes, damaging homes and businesses, tossing rail cars off their tracks and
knocking out power to thousands in Minnesota, Illinois and Nebraska.

California Students Cleared From Quarantine: A group of Carlsbad, Calif.,
students and teachers was released Thursday after being quarantined for a week
in China because some of their classmates tested positive for swine flu, a
school spokeswoman said. The group will leave Saturday.

Mississippi Civil Rights Slayings to Get Historical Marker: Mississippi
officials say a historical marker can be placed on Mississippi 19, the state
highway near where civil rights workers James Chaney, Andrew Goodman and Michael
Schwerner were murdered in 1964.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               66 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Among the Huddled Masses at the Golden Door

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 247 words


There is no doubt that many immigrants to the United States were driven by
economic imperatives, as Roberto Suro noted in his July 5 Outlook commentary
about the Statue of Liberty. But that fact did not justify the conclusion
reflected in the headline "She Was Never About Those Huddled Masses."

I was one of those "huddled masses yearning to breathe free" as I stood on the
deck of the ship Nieuw Amsterdam on the morning of Dec. 15, 1938.

Also standing on the deck were hundreds of other passengers who were fleeing the
Nazis, as I was. We gazed at the Statue of Liberty as our ship brought us to the
golden door. Admittedly, the door was no longer wide open, but it had not been
"slammed shut" in 1924, as Mr. Suro contended. There were tens of thousands of
us whose lives were saved because we found refuge in the United States in the
1930s.

Mr. Suro was also mistaken when he said that the door remained shut after World
War II. Under the Displaced Persons Act of 1948, hundreds of thousands of those
who lost their homes during the war were allowed to enter the United States. And
hundreds of thousands have entered under the Refugee Act of 1980.

Our immigration laws undoubtedly need review and revision, but that does not
change the fact that no other country has been as willing to open its doors to
victims of persecution as has the United States. The Statue of Liberty should
indeed continue to symbolize that lifting of the lamp beside the golden door.

RICHARD SCHIFTER

Bethesda

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Andrew Harrer -- Bloomberg News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               67 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 12, 2009 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Outlaws in the U.S., Strangers at Home;
Downturn Strands Illegal Latino Immigrants Between Cultures

BYLINE: Steve Hendrix; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1429 words

DATELINE: CONCEPCION CHIQUIRICHAPA, Guatemala


-- Leaving Guatemala 12 years ago was the hardest thing Carlos Sanchez had ever
done.

Until he decided to come back.

Sanchez still remembers the day he left home: saying goodbye to his parents;
leaving his friends; that last tear-stained glimpse of his sweet mountain
village in western Guatemala as the bus carried him over the ridge to an
uncertain life in "the north." Painful, anxious times.

But not as hard as the return trip. When Sanchez, 36, arrived back in Central
America recently, after living a third of his life as an illegal immigrant in
suburban Washington, he stepped off the flight from Dulles International Airport
into a cultural no man's land. He had been an outlaw migrant in one country; now
he was a native-born stranger in the other.

For years, Sanchez had worked all the overtime hours he could handle as a
supervisor for a granite counter contractor in Springfield. Last year, overtime
slipped to part time and then almost no time. After months of looking for work,
he started looking at airfares.

An expatriate's longing for his native land is often searing. But Sanchez, like
thousands of Latino immigrants forced back across the border in recent months by
the sinking economy, is learning sooner than he wanted to that going home again
can be even more complicated.

Almost at once upon his return, he was felled by a bout of the turistas. His
Arlington County-born toddler, Marvin, also took sick, and Sanchez nearly
panicked at the difficulty in finding a doctor. His wife, Gladys, was no longer
comfortable in the traditional garments of Mayan women, finding them heavy and
stiff compared with the Old Navy blouses and jeans she bought at Potomac Mills.

At the airport, they were met by nieces and nephews Sanchez had never seen. Even
the elderly couple at the front of the crowd was hard to recognize.

"When I saw my parents for the first time, it was like they were different
people," Sanchez said. "I thought everything was going to be the same. I was
wrong. Everything is different, including me."

Immigrants jump back and forth across borders all the time, and the
recession-driven movement from the United States to points south is not yet
registering as a mass exodus. But it is increasingly easy to find workers who
have decided that they are better off weathering the downturn in their ancestral
homelands.

In Washington, the Guatemalan Embassy reports a substantial uptick in the number
of nationals walking in to apply for travel documents. At U.S. airports, airline
agents and government officials describe increased winking and nodding as
illegal immigrants "self-deport" with no hassle from authorities.

"When somebody is already showing that they intend to depart the United States,
it doesn't serve any interest for us to serve them a notice to appear before an
immigration court," said Lloyd Easterling, a spokesman for U.S. Customs and
Border Protection. "That isn't good stewardship of tax dollars."

At Valdemar Travel in Takoma Park, the proportion of one-way air tickets south
has reached unprecedented levels, nearing 60 percent of the firm's business
earlier this year, manager Devin Reyes said.

Some go back with substantial grubstakes, driving home through Mexico in
late-model trucks packed with Xboxes and flat-screen TVs. Others return as poor
as the day they left. Reyes recalls a haggard laborer who came in for a ticket
to El Salvador but was well short of the $400 fare. Other customers tossed tens
and twenties on the counter, closing the gap.

Sanchez, though, had been sending home extra money -- about $50,000 over six
years -- to build a cement-block house next to his parents' home. In three rooms
and a bath next to the yard where his mother grinds corn and cooks over an open
fire, he works to overcome the lingering cultural vertigo. "Sometimes I don't
know just where I am," he said.

Sanchez liked Washington life. When he arrived, he had never ridden an airplane
or even an elevator. He had never walked on carpeting. But he mastered the Metro
and liked shopping at the Chinese market on North Glebe Road in Arlington and
seeing movies at Tysons Corner. He worked six days most weeks but made time for
occasional weekend trips to Virginia Beach or Atlantic City. Family members
visited the mall often, and Six Flags once.

They had cable. Sanchez misses the History Channel. Marvin misses Elmo.

He learned English, mostly at two-hour classes at the public library in
Clarendon. And he learned to drive. He loved the orderly traffic -- a stark
contrast to Guatemala's pell-mell road culture, where old American-made school
buses, tattooed in bright colors and fitted with bellowing air horns, are
buses-gone-wild. No stop-at-every-railroad-crossing caution here.

"I still try to be careful," Sanchez said. "I stop when children are crossing
the road. And they honk at me."

He met his wife in Arlington, where he was surprised one day to see a woman
walking along dressed in a huipile, a traditional Mayan blouse, embroidered,
amazingly, in the colors and patterns particular to his home village. There, at
Pershing Drive and North Glebe, Sanchez chatted up a girl from ConcepciÃ³n in
their native Indian language of Mam.

In Washington, Sanchez lived in a Guatemalan bubble. Immigrants tend to follow
each other to U.S. cities, and a huge proportion of Guatemalans in Washington
come from certain villages of the Western Highlands. Those from Excumucha, for
example, live mostly in Langley Park. Those from next-door ConcepciÃ³n make
Arlington their base.

Carlos had no stronger link to home than his big brother, Adrian, who went north
first. Carlos followed a year later, borrowing about $5,500 to pay the coyotes,
the ruthless fixers who hid him in an empty tank truck for hours, sharing a tiny
air hole with dozens of panicked migrants.

Neither brother was eager to take a dangerous trip to an unknown future. But
their father, an education-minded tailor, needed to pay school fees for the
boys' seven siblings, and the lure of big northern wages was too tempting.
Adrian and Carlos, working together as painters, began sending home as much as
$500 a month.

That all six boys and three girls have graduated from high school is remarkable
by village standards. That two of the boys went on to medical school is spoken
of as something of a local miracle. One is finishing his residency in the
capital, Guatemala City. The other has started a rural practice, driving a 1987
Nissan pickup that Carlos shipped down for $650.

From thousands of miles away, the brothers managed to start a Red Cross chapter
in ConcepciÃ³n. Going door-to-door in Arlington and holding a dance fiesta in
Langley Park, they raised $14,000, bought a used Chevy van, fitted it with
emergency lights and shipped it to the village, where years later it still does
duty.

When Carlos, working a painting gig at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, was
invited to apply for a permanent job on the maintenance staff there, he knew he
would be sunk as soon as they asked for a Social Security number. But Adrian had
married a U.S. citizen and become one himself. So Carlos filled out the
application in his brother's name. Adrian was called in and soon landed a good
job with benefits.

Then the bottom fell out for Carlos.

His family in Guatemala still needs the cash Carlos used to send home, and he
had wanted his son to attend Arlington schools. But Sanchez felt compelled to
give up his apartment in Arlington's Buckingham Village and head south. "My goal
was always to come back one day, but I thought it wouldn't be for several more
years," he said. "I felt comfortable there, I felt safe. But I couldn't just sit
around and not work."

Slowly, Sanchez is catching his breath in his old and new world. Now he strides
up the steep streets that used to leave him panting every time he left the
house. His stomach has settled, and he delights in the fresh vegetables that
come down daily from the terraced fields. Marvin has developed a taste for
frijoles and tortillas and chasing chickens around the yard.

Sanchez teaches typing at his house each Saturday on 27 manual typewriters his
sister stockpiled for him over the years. And he landed a day job teaching
English in a local high school.

Sanchez feels lucky to be surrounded by family; his parents dote on their
Americanized son and American-born grandson. But he misses his brother. Adrian,
with his golden U.S. passport, has visited once, and they often speak by phone.
That keeps Carlos, emotionally at least, with one foot in Washington.

"As long as he is there," he said, "I feel like half of me is there, too."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post; Adrian Sanchez, above,
and his brother Carlos came here from Guatemala. Adrian is now a U.S. citizen
and remains here.
IMAGE; By Steve Hendrix -- The Washington Post; In Guatemala, Carlos Sanchez
plans to attend a meeting for his new job as a teacher and his mother, Maria
Hernandez, grinds corn for their afternoon meal.
IMAGE; By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post; Adrian Sanchez keeps a photo of
Carlos's son, Marvin. The Virginia-born youth misses some things from America
but is adjusting to Guatemala.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 19, 2009 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

An E-Solution for Immigration Issues

BYLINE: Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 789 words


There comes a time when a nation has to bite the bullet. We have known since at
least 1994, when the now-departed Barbara Jordan delivered a bipartisan
immigration commission report to Congress, that the key to regain control over
our broken immigration system is employer controls.

Arrests and border fences may have their roles, but so long as businesses offer
jobs, legal forces will lose to economic ones. Foreign workers will find a way
into the country.

Almost every expert in the contentious immigration debate agrees, and yet 15
years after the Jordan report, Republican business and libertarian leaders as
well as Democratic unions and immigration activists have risen up with lawsuits
and fierce lobbying against a decision by the Obama administration to institute
the first real employment controls, called E-Verify.

The objections are many but minor, for it has really come to this: Some are
making the perfect the enemy of the good; others will never find an enforcement
scheme they like.

The stakes were made stark last week in a report by another bipartisan
commission, this one in conjunction with the Council on Foreign Relations and
chaired by former Florida governor Jeb Bush and former Clinton White House chief
of staff Mack McLarty. The immigration system is getting worse, it said, and
concluded: "The continued failure to devise and implement a sound and
sustainable immigration policy threatens to weaken America's economy, to
jeopardize its diplomacy and to imperil its national security."

But nothing will work without employer controls. They were at the heart of what
was to have been the grand bargain of the 1986 act passed under Ronald Reagan,
in which amnesty was given to nearly 3 million unauthorized immigrants in
exchange for enforcement that would stop illegal flows. Immigrants kept coming
illegally and today number about 12 million. Fewer business owners are being
punished for hiring them than were in the 1990s. Incredibly, between 2003 and
2008, only 85 employers were fined for hiring violations. No wonder many
Americans feel had.

E-Verify is a simple enough solution. Employers electronically check job
applicants with the Department of Homeland Security, which runs the names
through Social Security, immigration and terrorism databases. The program has
flaws but has been steadily improved since its  introduction as a pilot program
13 years ago. Almost 97 percent of new hires are now cleared within minutes,
according to the department. The remaining 3 percent require corrections in
their government data or can't be hired.

The administration, picking up on the intentions of the Bush administration
before it, will now take a voluntary program and make it mandatory for about
170,000 federal contractors. Many states are requiring the same. Meanwhile,
about 134,000 of the nation's roughly 6 million employers are voluntarily
participating. This might seem a small number, but they are signing up at a rate
of 1,000 a week, according to the Department of Homeland Security. In total, the
council reports, about one in eight new hires today is being checked by
E-Verify. That's not small potatoes.

What the opponents fear is that the program will be made mandatory for all
businesses. Their objections mostly have to do with the 3 percent of hires who
don't clear immediately. Dealing with them is characterized as a bureaucratic
impediment and a deterrent to hiring immigrants. Also, legal workers are
included and can be unfairly denied a job.

Partly for those reasons, the administration says that E-Verify is not ready to
be mandatory for all businesses. But the only way to perfect it is to use it.
Requiring government contractors to do so is a good next step. Penalties remain
weak, but prosecutions are up and workplace raids are now designed to collect
evidence against employers instead of rounding up employees.

New and better technology is in the pipeline that would include biometric
measures such as fingerprints and eye scans that protect against identity theft.
But that may be years off and require new databases. The Social Security
databases were never designed for enforcement controls. A week ago, the
administration killed a program to send out notices on 9 million existing
workers with problematic Social Security numbers.

The rational solution is a national identity card, which almost all other
industrial countries have. The idea raises vehement opposition on the right and
left, but we may go there through the back door as we create job cards, move
toward universal health care and become ever more a part of massive information
systems.

Edward Schumacher-Matos is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His
e-mail address is edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Meegan M. Reid -- Associated Press; Federal agents check the
identification of a Swift meatpacking plant employee (in the white coat) during
a raid in Hyrum, Utah, in 2006.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

A Parable of Politicized Prosecution

BYLINE: Jon Entine

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 985 words


Three years ago, with TV crews rolling, police helicopters swooped down on
construction sites in northern Kentucky overseen by Fischer Homes, one of the
100 largest U.S. home builders. SWAT teams arrested 76 Hispanic-looking workers.
Armed agents handcuffed and shackled four Fischer superintendents at dawn at
their homes. Government investigators then locked down the company's
headquarters and carted off thousands of documents while workers were held in
conference rooms, forbidden even to contact their families.

"We don't randomly pick companies. We follow evidence and go where it leads,"
said a spokesman for Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
which helped arrange for the raids to be broadcast.

It was the beginning of a three-year nightmare for Fischer Homes that concluded
with its exoneration -- making it a case study in the dangers of politicized
prosecution: What are the consequences  when the wheels of justice begin to
grind, assuming a logic that sometimes precludes reason and fairness.

The raid came as the immigration debate was once again playing out in Congress.
Media reports, stoked by government news releases, portrayed Fischer Homes as a
greedy corporation cheating Americans out of jobs.

Seven Fischer associates were eventually charged with harboring illegal
immigrants. Each faced fines of up to $250,000 and as many as 10 years in jail.
The company was threatened with a felony indictment, including charges of money
laundering, under the racketeering laws designed to target organized criminals;
conviction would have ruined the company and cost the jobs of almost 500
associates and thousands more subcontracted workers. With a figurative gun at
his head, founder Henry Fischer was offered a deal: Plead guilty to a felony,
pay a $1 million fine and your employees will be off the hook.

The problem I discovered? The prosecutor's facts were wrong -- Fischer had no
undocumented workers on its payroll and the documents confiscated in the raid
showed that the company's adherence to immigration and civil rights statutes,
which limit what an employer can do even if it suspects its subcontractors have
hired illegal immigrants, was  exemplary.  But the justice system wields
enormous power, which often depends on extracting plea deals, sometimes from the
innocent and often from supposedly deep-pocketed businesses.

As the government's case against Fischer Homes and its associates disintegrated,
prosecutors increased pressure on indicted employees to agree to a plea deal --
to perjure themselves -- in return for the charges being dropped. Remarkably,
they refused.

Despite facing humiliation and possible financial ruin, Fischer gambled his
company, spending far more than the $1 million fine the government offered to
fight what appeared to be politically driven prosecutorial antagonists. "I just
couldn't bring myself to write that check when we did nothing wrong," he told
me.

We rarely think about the sheer magnitude of power in the hands of government
attorneys. They have a fundamental responsibility not to win cases but to ensure
justice. It is as much their duty to refrain from improper methods to produce a
wrongful conviction as it is to use every legitimate means possible to bring
about a just one. But that's not always what happens. Often, government
prosecutors have no intention of going to trial. They have perfected a more
powerful tactic: exploiting the threat of business losses and manipulating the
media to force capitulation.

As in the Fischer case, they use threats of guaranteed jail time under the
sentencing guidelines to try to squeeze out guilty pleas. The stakes of a formal
indictment (much less a conviction) are too high for most people or corporations
to risk. Defendants plead guilty or are found guilty in more than 85 percent of
the criminal cases handled by the U.S. attorney's office. The U.S. Court of
Appeals rules in the government's favor, at least in part, in more than 92
percent of cases. The deterrents for the accused to not argue its side -- lose
your reputation and a little money by pleading out or risk losing everything,
including your freedom -- are powerful.

What happens to the innocent when prosecutors abuse their power to further their
careers or cater to political expediency? Think of the 2006 Duke lacrosse
fiasco, which shattered the lives of many young men. Or the corruption case
against Ted Stevens, the former GOP senator from Alaska; the case was
overturned by a judge who concluded that he had never seen such mishandling and
misconduct by prosecutors. Or the prosecution of the accounting firm Arthur
Andersen, found guilty of obstruction of justice in its audit of Enron. The
criminal charges were reversed long after the company had dissolved, its 85,000
employees dispersed. All are a testament to the institutional pressures and the
personal ambition of prosecutors, with the civil liberties of individuals and
the rights of corporations compromised.

At what point do the potential public benefits of vigorous prosecution outweigh
the harm when legal protections are suspended?

Most people find it difficult to hold much sympathy for corporations, often
forgetting that we depend on a dynamic, competitive economy for our welfare. The
victims of overzealous prosecutors and ambitious government agencies are often
workers and their families, including many small-business owners who have played
by the rules yet now find themselves targets -- businessmen such as Henry
Fischer. As Fischer says, "I hope nothing like this happens to you."

Jon Entine, a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, is the
author of "No Crime But Prejudice: Fischer Homes, the Immigration Fiasco, and
Extra-Judicial Prosecution." In 2006 he worked as a consultant, researching
immigration politics, for a media relations company hired by Fischer Homes.
Fischer has no association with  his book.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 28, 2009 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Attorney Had 40-Plus Years at State Department

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 421 words


Edward G. Misey, 90, a retired senior attorney with the State Department, died
July 22 of congestive heart failure at Riderwood Village, a retirement community
in Silver Spring. He was a Rockville resident before moving to Silver Spring in
2006.

Mr. Misey was an attorney with the State Department for more than 40 years.
Early in his career, he spent 15 years as an attorney and deputy assistant legal
adviser in the international claims section of the Office of the Legal Adviser.
He handled claims of U.S. citizens against foreign governments and claims by
foreign governments or their nationals against the United States. From 1967 to
1969, he was legal adviser to the U.S. Embassy in Manila, and from 1971 to 1972
was legal adviser to the U.S. Mission to the European Office of the United
Nations in Geneva.

From 1972 to 1980, he was chairman of the State Department's Board of Appellate
Review, a position similar to that of an administrative law judge. The board was
established to hear and decide appeals made in response to adverse State
Department rulings on passports and nationality.

After Mr. Misey retired in 1979, he served until 1992 as a legal consultant to
the State Department and as a member of the review board.

Edward Gabriel Misey was born in Milwaukee. His father was an immigrant from the
Austria-Hungary town of Zubak, which later became part of Slovakia, and his
mother was the child of Prussian immigrants. At home, the family spoke Polish.
Mr. Misey spoke not only Polish, but also Italian and French.

He received his undergraduate degree in economics in 1942 and a master's degree
in political science in 1945, both from the University of Wisconsin. After
serving 14 months as a sergeant in the Army toward the end of World War II, he
received his law degree from George Washington University in 1950 and a
doctorate in public law and government from Columbia University, also in 1950.

He was interested in genealogical research related to Slovakia and was a member
of the Slovak American Society of Washington. He also was a member of St. Jane
Frances de Chantal Catholic Church in Bethesda and the Church of the
Resurrection in Silver Spring.

Mr. Misey was a tap dancer and round dancer, and he and his wife participated in
area square dance clubs. They also enjoyed a vacation cabin near Berkeley
Springs, W.Va., and summer trips to Bethany Beach.

Mr. Misey's wife, the former Rachel Long, died in 2006.

Survivors include his daughter, Johanna Misey Boyer of Silver Spring; and two
brothers.

-- Joe Holley

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               71 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 29, 2009 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 367 words


CALIFORNIA

Governor Uses Veto To Cut More Costs

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) made additional cuts to child welfare programs,
medical care for the poor and AIDS-prevention efforts Tuesday as he signed an
$85 billion compromise spending plan that he called "the good, the bad and the
ugly."

Schwarzenegger used his line-item veto authority to save an additional $656
million that will let the state balance its budget through June 30 and restore a
reserve fund he says is needed.

Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg (D), who negotiated the original
budget compromise with Schwarzenegger, immediately questioned the legality of
many of the governor's line-item vetoes.

"We will fight to restore every dollar of additional cuts to health and human
services," Steinberg said in a statement. "This is not the last word."

-- Associated Press

IMMIGRATION

Report Criticizes Detainment Practices

Immigrant advocates say the federal government has failed to meet its own
standards for detaining immigrants, making it unduly difficult for immigrants to
defend themselves in court and to fight to remain in the country.

A report released Tuesday says that detainees face limited access to phones,
mail and law libraries, in violation of federal standards.

The authors -- the National Immigration Law Center, the American Civil Liberties
Union of Southern California, and the Holland and Knight law firm -- based their
findings on inspection reports on dozens of facilities by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, the American Bar Association and the U.N. High Commissioner
for Refugees between 2001 and 2005.

The report comes after criticism of medical care in facilities and long-standing
complaints by immigration lawyers that their clients are transferred too often,
making it hard to represent them.

Dora Schriro, special adviser to the homeland security secretary on detention
and removal, said the study was thorough but outdated, because the government
has revamped its detention standards and inspection procedures.

Karen Tumlin, a staff lawyer at the National Immigration Law Center, said
detainees continue to report the same problems today as those outlined in the
inspection reports.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 31, 2009 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Worker Investigated For Fake Licenses Issued to Immigrants

BYLINE: Ashley Halsey III; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 272 words


An employee of the Maryland Department of Motor Vehicles is under investigation
in connection with a scheme to issue fraudulent driver's licenses to immigrants,
a state official confirmed Thursday.

The licenses of nearly 200 people were revoked in June after the state employee
who issued them at the MVA office in Glen Burnie was fired.

Buel C. Young, spokesman for the MVA, confirmed the investigation but declined
to identify the employee, say whether money changed hands in return for the
licenses or reveal who was conducting the investigation.

"We can't talk about it because it involves an investigation that's ongoing,"
Young said.

He said a second letter was sent in July telling the license holders that they
could continue to drive provided that they report in person to the MVA by Aug.
10.

A new law making it more difficult for illegal immigrants to get licenses took
effect June 1. Before that, foreign-born applicants could use documentation from
their native countries to establish identity.

Under the new law, they are required to provide proof that they are in the
country legally with a valid Social Security number, a U.S. birth certificate or
a U.S. passport.

The American Civil Liberties Union has intervened on behalf of those whose
licenses were revoked, saying the MVA should specify why they suspected that
each license had been issued fraudulently.

"How did they pick these applications out of all the applications that [the
employee] worked on?" ACLU lawyer Ajmel Quereshi asked. "We're not saying we're
sure that nobody has engaged in fraud, but MVA could clear this up by providing
specific allegations of fraud."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               73 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 11, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Obama Vows to Focus on Borders;
But Immigration Action Won't Come Until 2010

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson and William Booth; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 932 words

DATELINE: GUADALAJARA, Mexico, Aug. 10


President Obama, attending a North American summit with the leaders of Mexico
and Canada, said Monday that his administration will pursue a comprehensive
overhaul of the U.S. immigration system this year but that no action on
legislation will happen before 2010.

Wrapping up the two-day meeting, Obama said that there needs to be "a pathway to
citizenship" for millions of illegal immigrants in the United States, and that
the system must be reworked to avoid tensions with Mexico. Without it, he said,
Mexicans will keep crossing the border in dangerous ways and employers will
continue exploiting workers.

"We can create a system in which you have . . . an orderly process for people to
come in, but we're also giving an opportunity for those who are already in the
United States to be able to achieve a pathway to citizenship so that they don't
have to live in the shadows," Obama said during an hour-long news conference at
the CabaÃ±as Cultural Center in downtown Guadalajara. "Am I going to be able to
snap my fingers and get this done? No. This is going to be difficult."

The president said he expects draft legislation and sponsors by the end of the
year, but no action until 2010 because of more pressing issues, including
health-care reform, energy legislation and financial regulatory changes.

"That's a pretty big stack of bills," he said.

Immigration is among the most controversial items on Obama's legislative agenda,
with critics opposing what they call an amnesty for illegal workers and
businesses concerned about reductions in their labor force. President George W.
Bush twice attempted immigration reform during his second term, without success.

Asked about the prospects for immigration legislation in view of the blows to
his administration over health care and midterm elections next year, Obama
dismissed the idea that the elections would play a role, saying he would not act
"on short-term political calculations."

Flanked by Mexican President Felipe CalderÃ³n and Canadian Prime Minister
Stephen Harper, Obama also pledged to work with Mexico and Canada on controlling
emissions that contribute to global warming and on ensuring that Mexico receives
aid for its battle with drug traffickers.

"We have already seen resources transferred, equipment transferred . . . to help
President CalderÃ³n in what is a very courageous effort to deal with a set of
drug cartels that are not only resulting in extraordinary violence to the people
of Mexico, but are also undermining institutions like the police and the
judiciary system," he said, attempting to deflect criticism from Mexican
officials who have complained that U.S. aid is not coming quickly enough.

Although  Obama expressed confidence in the Mexican government's attempt to
fight drug cartels with "law enforcement techniques," he reiterated the
importance of doing so without violating human rights.

CalderÃ³n's government has been criticized by human rights organizations. More
than 45,000 troops have been deployed to fight the cartels, and soldiers have
been accused of killing, torture, rape and illegal detention. Since CalderÃ³n
began fighting the cartels after taking office in December 2006, human rights
complaints against the military have soared 600 percent, rising to 140 a month
this year, according to government statistics.

The Mexican government has begun to hire the first of 9,000 federal police
officers who are college-educated and will be trained by U.S., Canadian and
other law enforcement agencies, White House drug czar Gil Kerlikowske said.

"I am confident that as the national police are trained, as the coordination
between the military and local police officials is improved, there is going to
be increased transparency and accountability, and that human rights will be
observed," Obama said.

CalderÃ³n said his government is dedicated to guarding human rights.

"Obviously we have a strong commitment to protect the human rights of everybody
--  the victims and even of the criminals themselves," he said. "And anyone who
says the contrary certainly would have to prove this -- any case, just one case,
where the proper authority has not acted in the correct way."

CalderÃ³n asserted that any soldiers or police officers who abused their power
have been punished. According to Center Prodh, a human rights group in Mexico,
fewer than 1 in 10 of the human rights cases tried in military court result in a
conviction.

CalderÃ³n said his strategy, which includes the mass deployment of soldiers, is
working. "We know that we are destroying their criminal organizations," he said.
"We're hitting them hard. We're hitting at the heart of the organizations."

Obama, CalderÃ³n and Harper also showed support for  Manuel Zelaya, who was
ousted as Honduran president in a coup in June. The men agreed that Zelaya
should be returned to power. During a visit to Mexico City last week, Zelaya
complained that the Obama administration has offered only a tepid response to
the coup leaders. Obama has been repeatedly criticized by Venezuelan President
Hugo ChÃ¡vez for not pressing harder for Zelaya's return.

"The same critics who say that the United States has not intervened enough in
Honduras are the same people who say that we're always intervening, and the
Yankees need to get out of Latin America," Obama said. "You can't have it both
ways."

Harper agreed.

"If I were an American, I would be really fed up with this kind of hypocrisy,"
he said. "You know, the United States is accused of meddling except when it's
accused of not meddling."

Staff writer William Branigin in Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 14, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. Detains Journalist Fleeing Pakistan Threats

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 594 words


U.S. immigration officials have detained a Pakistani journalist employed by the
U.S.-sponsored Voice of America news service who was hoping to find refuge in
the United States after Islamic militants in Pakistan destroyed his house and
threatened his life.

Rahman Bunairee, 33, was taken into custody Sunday afternoon upon arriving at
Dulles International Airport, according to VOA officials.

It is not clear why Bunairee was detained.

Joan Mower, a spokeswoman for VOA, declined to comment on the particulars of
Bunairee's detention other than to say: "VOA is obviously extremely concerned.
We're really upset about what's happened to this guy."

Cori Bassett, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, confirmed
that Bunairee is in the agency's custody but said she could not release further
details because of privacy reasons.

Bunairee, in addition to filing reports for VOA's Pashto-language radio service,
is  a popular reporter with the privately owned Pakistani broadcaster Khyber TV.
He is usually based  in the southern port city of Karachi, but he is originally
from the Buner district of Pakistan's embattled North-West Frontier Province
near the Afghanistan border, where the Taliban and other Islamic militant groups
are active. He recently returned to that region to cover a series of major
offensives against the militants by the Pakistani military.

In the past, the militants enjoyed a measure of support, or at least tolerance,
among many Pakistanis. But the public mood shifted markedly against the
militants this spring, partly because of local media reports about their cruel
practices in Buner and other districts then under their control.

On July 7, Bunairee participated in a VOA call-in radio show in which he
discussed the Taliban's continued presence in Buner despite a major campaign by
the Pakistani military to oust them last May, Mower said.

Two nights later, several dozen armed militants went to Bunairee's family
compound in Buner.

Bunairee was not there. The militants told his father that because Bunairee was
"speaking against them," they had orders to destroy the house. The men allowed
Bunairee's family, including his wife and four children, to leave, then
ransacked the house and leveled it with explosives.

That night in the Buner district, militants bombed the home of another
journalist, Behroz Khan, a reporter for Pakistan's English daily, the News.

Most recently, Taliban militants flattened the houses of at least six
journalists in the neighboring district of Swat before fleeing advancing
Pakistani forces, according to Bob Dietz, Asia program coordinator for the New
York-based Committee to Protect Journalists.

Soon after Bunairee's home was destroyed, gunmen scaled the wall surrounding
Khyber TV's bureau in Karachi, several hundred miles south of Buner, and
announced that they were looking for him, Dietz said.

Alarmed, officials at VOA arranged to bring Bunairee to the United States on a
J-1 visa, often used by research institutions to bring in scholars and experts
on temporary visits.

"We're expanding our Pashto broadcasting, and he was going to be working on
that," Mower said.

Dietz stressed that Bunairee was not seeking to relocate to the United States
but wanted to spend some time outside Pakistan until matters cooled.

He added that he was particularly concerned about the message that Bunairee's
detention sends.

"It's mortifying," he said. "Here's a journalist who has performed a valuable
service by reporting from an area critical to U.S. security. And our country is
slamming the door in his face."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                Regional Edition

N.Y. Goes Dutch for Anniversary

BYLINE: Robin Shulman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 899 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Think of the immigrants of New York City, and you might imagine the Jews of
Eastern Europe, the Irish and Italians, maybe the Dominicans, the Bangladeshis,
the Senegalese.

Not so much the Dutch.

But 400 years ago this month, Henry Hudson sailed on a Dutch ship into what
became New York Harbor, a journey that inspired traders from the Netherlands to
become the first immigrants to New York and establish a tolerant, motley Dutch
settlement called New Amsterdam.

The Dutch are celebrating the anniversary this year with a $10 million series of
festivities in New York, and this week they are presenting events cultural,
gustatory, athletic, academic and commercial. Sunday is the city's inaugural
"Harbor Day."

While many New Yorkers are unaware of the festivities, five dozen Dutch
journalists have landed to cover them, and Dutch television has been airing
daily half-hour newscasts. The Dutch government has sent so many  celebrators it
seems there's nobody left to govern the Netherlands.

Along with the Crown Prince Willem-Alexander and Princess MÃ¡xima, the Dutch
defense minister, foreign minister, foreign trade minister and minister for
European affairs are all here. The mayor of Amsterdam is here. Two Dutch Navy
frigates came, and so did a fleet of flat-bottom boats.

This is about continuing economic, military and cultural ties between Old World
and New. But it is also about memory and the ways we imagine the places we live,
about proving to New Yorkers that they've always been unique in America, and to
the Dutch that they played a role in what became a powerful American empire.

Puritans the Dutch colonists were not. They brewed so much beer, the joke went,
that there was no grain left for bread; they were pirates and prostitutes as
well as merchants and farmers. One of Hudson's party had been murdered just days
after first landing on New York shores. Yet there was also something special
here. Half of the colony's residents were not Dutch. Visitors marveled at
hearing more than a dozen European and Native American languages spoken and
seeing the practice of perhaps half a dozen religions.

In short, this settlement bore all the hallmarks of a young New York City:
wilder, ruder, more open-minded and ambitious than other American outposts.

"New York takes the heat from the rest of the country for being aggressive,
greedy and inquisitive," said Kenneth T. Jackson, a Columbia University history
professor. "The idea was never to improve your soul -- it was always a city of
aspiration."

When most New Yorkers think of Dutch influence, they stop after listing the
Dutch names now part of the city, as Mayor Michael  Bloomberg did on Tuesday at
an opening ceremony for the week of 400th-anniversary festivities. Brooklyn,
Staten Island, Harlem, the Bowery -- the baseball team the Knickerbockers.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton spoke Tuesday about the bonds between the two
countries.

But the Dutch like to talk about values.

A Dutch "passion for liberty, an entrepreneurial spirit, freedom of conscience"
built the outpost of New Amsterdam, and later became central to the United
States, said Prince Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands, at the ceremony.

The emphasis on values comes in part from internal debates as anti-immigrant
sentiment rises, said Frans Timmermans, the Dutch cabinet minister for European
affairs, who worked to build support for this celebration among the rest of the
cabinet.

"The 17th century in the Netherlands is always referred to as our golden age,
and it was the only time we were a world power," Timmermans said. "Now, with
Dutch multicultural society under pressure, it's very important to point out
that when we were at the height of power, we were multicultural. This is how we
won riches and ruled the world."

The Amsterdam of Henry Hudson's time was the world's stock-trading capital. The
rapid rise of the bourgeois encouraged art patrons and painters  such as
Rembrandt van Rijn and Johannes Vermeer.

This week the Dutch period will be celebrated with bike rides on free Dutch
loaner bicycles, an old-fashioned oyster festival and beer competitions. Museums
will have special exhibits, and bilateral conferences will convene on water,
finance and the environment, and sustainable transportation. A massive show of
Dutch artists will take over Governors Island.

Pulitzer Prize-winning poets will read; a stamp exposition will feature a Henry
Hudson stamp from 1909; there will be an Amsterdam dance party with a DJ.

Regular people from Amsterdam and New York will swap jobs -- firefighters,
teachers, musicians, farmers, food bank operators, bartenders.

"I'm just fascinated to learn about the difference in our laws and the ways in
which they are enforced," said Amy Litwin, a prosecutor in the Bronx, soon to
travel to the Netherlands. "Drug laws in particular."

Times have changed since previous anniversary celebrations. In 1909, there were
two weeks of events, forming what was then the biggest citywide celebration New
York had seen with millions of participants.

In 1959, the current queen of the Netherlands, then Princess Beatrix, came to
New York for the 350th anniversary of Hudson's arrival, and celebrated with a
ticker tape parade.

"The world then was a different world," Dutch Ambassador RenÃ©e Jones-Bos said.
"Now there are far more countries. You have to work harder as a country to show
what you can do and raise your profile."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2009 Thursday



CORRECTION: --  A Sept. 9 Style article on a festival in New York incorrectly
referred to the New York Knickerbockers basketball team as a baseball team.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Spencer Platt -- Getty Images; Hillary Clinton, Dutch Prince
Willem-Alexander, Princess MÃ¡xima and Michael Bloomberg kick off the
celebrations.
IMAGE; By Stephen Chernin -- Associated Press; A replica of Henry Hudson's ship
Half Moon makes its way up the Hudson River to mark the 1609 arrival of the
English explorer in the New World.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 12, 2009 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Number of Immigrants Applying for U.S. Citizenship Is Down 62%, Study Finds

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 485 words


The number of immigrants applying to become U.S. citizens plunged 62 percent
last year as the cost of naturalization rose and the economy soured, according
to an analysis released Friday by the National Council of La Raza, a Latino
advocacy organization.

In late 2007, the application cost increased from $330 to $595, plus an $80 fee
for computerized fingerprinting. Partly in anticipation of the price increase,
1.38 million people filed applications in 2007, creating a backlog that nearly
tripled the average processing time.

Last year, the number of applicants fell to 525,786, the smallest since 2003.
The largest was 1.41 million, in 1997, just before a 76 percent fee increase.

Citing a decline in real median income among non-citizens in recent years, the
analysis said that "eligible applicants face mounting economic pressures that
threaten to place naturalization out of reach." It recommended seeking ways for
the government to help defray the cost of processing applications, which depends
on fees, and suggested freezing fees at their levels now.

Doris Meissner, a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a
Washington-based think tank, and former commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said a rise and fall in applications is typical when a
fee increase is imposed. In this case, the increase was greater than usual
because it paid for technological upgrades and improved security checks, she
said.

But she added that the 2007 spike in applications was also a response to
concentrated efforts by immigrant groups to increase the number of voters before
last year's elections.

According to a March Homeland Security Department report, natives of Mexico
account for the largest group of immigrants naturalized each year, and the
largest number of applicants live in California, Florida and New York.

But last year, the Washington area, along with Miami-Fort Lauderdale, saw the
biggest increase in naturalizations. In 2008, 40,729 residents of the Washington
region became citizens, compared with 19,364 the year before. Most had applied
before the rate increase. The largest groups to apply were natives of El
Salvador and India.

Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of the Service Employees International
Union, whose membership includes large numbers of immigrants, said the
government should do more to ease the way for would-be citizens through fee
defrayment, information workshops and English classes. "The nonprofit sectors --
churches, community organizations and unions -- have stepped in, but it
shouldn't be just put on their back," he said.

Meissner said she agreed with the report's call for new revenue models but
doubts the fee increase will deter many citizenship-seekers. "Citizenship is a
very, very valuable commodity," she said. "People do what they can to become
citizens, and they will make every effort, including saving up the money that's
needed."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 13, 2009 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration Awaits Its Turn

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 769 words


The chances of building a sane immigration system seemed unlikely enough in 2007
before they were  squashed by divisions among Democrats and a talk radio-fueled
revolt on the right. If anything, they look even worse now, given the competing
debates over health care and energy, a jobless rate edging toward 10 percent,
and a plateau or decline in the number of illegal immigrants in the country.

All that seems to have sapped the immigration debate of its urgency, while
leaving intact its potential to enrage conservatives -- as we were reminded by
Rep. Joe Wilson's dyspeptic outburst and the subsequent chorus of "You go, Joe"
from his constituents in South Carolina.

But Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) is drafting legislation to overhaul immigration,
and President Obama says he intends to make a fresh push on the issue next year.
That may not be as crazy as it sounds.

It's not that the anemic U.S. economy is going to take the problem off the
politicians' hands. Despite high unemployment and sluggish growth here, the
Mexican economy is in far worse straits: It is expected to shrink by 7 percent
this year, much more  than the U.S. economy, and both the tourism and oil
industries -- mainstays of Mexico's economy -- are in bad shape. The main
factors that have prompted millions of Mexicans to leave home for decades are
going strong.

But the recession, coupled with tougher enforcement, has slowed the flow of
Mexicans, by far the largest chunk of undocumented immigrants, who cross into
this country. And -- depending on which numbers you believe -- it may also have
prompted those already here to go home in greater numbers. The total number of
illegal immigrants in the country has either leveled off at around 11 million or
12 million or declined somewhat.

That's one reason the politics may have shifted. Another is that the immigration
issue, despite being red meat for some conservatives, has mostly been an
electoral bust for the right. In 20 of 22 competitive House and Senate races
last November, the candidates favoring broader  immigration reform -- generally
Democrats -- defeated their harder-line opponents, according to an analysis by
America's Voice, a pro-reform group.

Those results, which followed similar outcomes in the 2006 congressional
elections, should give centrist and swing-state Democrats some assurance that a
vote for a sensible immigration policy is not a career-ender.

The Obama administration has also been smart to expand the E-Verify system,
which forces employers to confirm that new hires are authorized to work here,
and to press ahead with the federal program to deputize local police to help
deport unauthorized immigrants. Those steps provide a basis for the president
and fence-sitters in his own party to argue that the administration has been
serious about enforcing existing law.

Some moderate Republicans will also have noticed the mounting long-term folly of
continuing to oppose issues that matter to Hispanic voters, the single
fastest-growing segment of the electorate. That constituency, which was critical
in helping Democrats win four swing states in 2008 -- Florida, New Mexico,
Nevada and Colorado -- has grim memories of the immigrant-bashing rhetoric of
state and local Republicans. And it has been badly hurt by a recession that took
hold during the Bush administration: Income for Hispanic households fell by 5.6
percent in 2008 compared with the previous year, a rate of decline twice that of
African Americans.

If Republicans hope to reverse what could be a generational shift of Hispanic
voters to the Democrats, they won't get there by bashing whatever immigration
reform legislation emerges in the Senate. Moderates, at least, will have to
rebrand themselves, and immigration reform is a perfect opportunity.

There is room for reframing and repackaging the immigration debate so that it
does not become a replay of the Bush administration's failed attempts of 2006
and 2007. But to be successful in reshaping the country's dysfunctional system,
any legislation needs to recognize economic realities:  that millions of
immigrant workers are here to stay; that many or most do jobs that native-born
Americans don't want; and that Mexico's comparative poverty will continue  to
drive immigrants north to a better life.

Recession or no recession, a comprehensive reform bill must provide a way out of
this mess born of neglect by offering a path to legality for undocumented
immigrants already here and a mechanism for future workers, skilled and
unskilled, to enter the country in adequate numbers to meet the job market's
demands.

hockstaderl@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

A Journalist in Limbo;
U.S. Allies Deserve Better Government Cooperation

BYLINE: D. Jeffrey Hirschberg

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 659 words


On the front lines of the battle against extremism, in places such as
Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq, fiercely dedicated journalists risk their lives
every day to report accurate news to audiences besieged by terrorist violence
and propaganda.

Rahman Bunairee, a 33-year-old reporter for the U.S.-government-funded Voice of
America (VOA), is one of those journalists. His reporting from Pakistan on
Taliban atrocities long ago made him a target. In July, the Taliban bombed his
home, chased him across the country and terrorized his family. The VOA, a
67-year-old international broadcasting service, decided sensibly to bring him to
Washington for a year to safely continue his reporting. Bunairee arrived at
Dulles International Airport on Aug. 9 with a valid U.S. visa and ample
documentation of his sponsorship by a U.S. government agency.

Rather than being welcomed to our country, Bunairee was interrogated at length
by Customs and Border Protection officials, who ultimately rejected his visa,
deemed him an "intending immigrant" and threatened to deport him. This
courageous journalist wound up in jail in Hampton Roads, Va.

Outraged by how Bunairee had been treated, the VOA's oversight body, the
Broadcasting Board of Governors, petitioned the Department of Homeland Security,
which oversees immigration matters, to free him and reinstate his visa.

Only after 10 days of exhaustive legal efforts and intervention by the State
Department was Bunairee released. But that wasn't the end of his ordeal: U.S.
authorities freed Bunairee under terms that forbid him to work.

Rahman Bunairee remains in legal limbo, invited here by a U.S. government agency
but still unable to broadcast for the VOA. He is living off of charitable
contributions and cannot support his young family in Pakistan because the terms
of his release also bar our agency from giving him money.

There are two distinct issues here. First, Bunairee's suffering has lasted too
long. He should be granted immediate authorization to work.

Second, although the fates of this man and his family are important, the overall
stakes are even higher: Bunairee's case underscores the U.S. government's
ability to wage the most potent fight possible against extremism. Key to this
effort is effective coordination across the U.S. government.

Consider: Rahman Bunairee works for Deewa Radio, the VOA's Pashto-language
service targeted to the troubled Afghanistan-Pakistan border region. Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton has said that "we are being out-communicated by the
Taliban and al-Qaeda" in the area, a circumstance she called "absolutely
unacceptable." The U.S. envoy for the region, Richard Holbrooke, has argued that
Taliban propaganda "is key to the insurgency's terror campaign" and that it must
be countered.

Deewa Radio does just that. Since 2006 it has broadcast balanced, comprehensive
local and regional news and provides on-air forums for citizen discussion to
large, appreciative audiences who seek alternatives to the insurgents' hateful
disinformation and terror campaigns.

Recognizing the value of Deewa's contribution, Congress increased its funding
early this summer to expand broadcasts. This means Deewa will need to attract
more experienced journalists, including some from Pakistan, and quickly.

Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, federal agencies have greatly increased
cooperation and coordination to confront extremist and terrorist threats and to
keep our country safe. But the legal limbo in which Bunairee remains ensnared
shows that the system needs to work better. The VOA and other news outlets must
be able to recruit the talented and courageous journalists to report about
Pakistan and other global hot spots.

Rahman Bunairee, and other allies like him, deserve our support.

D. Jeffrey Hirschberg is a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, the
independent federal agency that supervises all U.S. government-supported,
non-military international broadcasting.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Rahman Bunairee

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               79 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Number of Foreign-Born U.S. Residents Drops;
Construction, Manufacturing Job Cuts and Enforcement Cited in Loss of Hispanic
Immigrants

BYLINE: Carol Morello and Dan Keating; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 830 words


The number of foreign-born people living in the United States declined last
year, particularly among low-skilled immigrants from Mexico, according to a
Census Bureau report released Tuesday.

The immigrant losses were particularly pronounced in California, Florida,
Arizona and Michigan, all states where the recession hit early and hard. The
metropolitan Washington area gained about 1,000 foreign-born residents, but a
jump in the Asian population was offset by a significant drop in Mexicans and
Salvadorans, the largest Hispanic immigrant group in the region.

The nationwide total of about 38 million foreign-born people decreased slightly,
by just under 100,000. That brought down the share of the overall population
that is foreign-born from 12.6 percent to 12.5 percent. Although the drop is
relatively small, it was the first official decline in at least four years.

Demographers and other analysts said immigration is bound to pick up once the
economy improves, although some said stricter enforcement of immigration laws
played a role in the decline.

"This is clearly a downturn related to the economy in the U.S.," said
demographer William Frey with the Brookings Institution. "What looks like
negative immigration is something that, two or three years ago, you wouldn't
have expected at all. It shows immigrants respond to the economy."

The statistics were part of the American Community Survey, an annual Census
Bureau report that also includes data on household incomes and health insurance.
The survey, conducted year-round, is based on a sample of about 3 million
addresses.

The Washington area remains among the wealthiest places in the country. The
median household income of $85,824 last year -- up from $83,200 in 2007 -- is
second only to San Jose. Blacks, whites and Hispanics in the region are all on
average the highest earners in the nation, while Asians here are the third
highest, behind their counterparts in San Jose and Raleigh, N.C.

For the first time, the survey measured how many people do not have health
insurance. Nationally, 15 percent are uninsured, but the figure varied widely
among states. Texas had the most uninsured, at 24 percent, and Massachusetts had
the least, at 4 percent.

The Washington area reflected big disparities among adults ages 18 to 64. In
Prince George's County, for instance, 20 percent of adults in that age group
have no insurance, compared with 10 percent in the District and 9 percent in
Arlington County. About 16 percent of adults in Virginia have no insurance, as
do 15 percent in Maryland.

The new statistics on foreign-born residents confirm findings by other
researchers showing an ongoing drop-off in immigrants from Mexico, who comprise
a third of all foreign-born residents and two-thirds of all Hispanic immigrants.

The Census found about 325,000 fewer immigrants from Mexico last year, a
fall-off of 2.8 percent. Without that decline, there would have been a small
increase in the overall number of immigrants.

Latinos decreased in all regions except the Northeast, where the population
stayed flat. In the Washington area, the Mexico-born population dropped about
9,600, a net loss of 19 percent. Salvadorans were down about 10,700, a 7.4
percent drop. Together, they negated the addition of 16,500 Asians, a 4.4
percent increase.

A study this summer by the Pew Hispanic Center concluded that since 2006, there
has been a sharp decline in new immigrants from Mexico, while the number who
return home every year has stayed about the same.

Many Hispanic immigrants work in construction and manufacturing, and they have
been particularly affected by the economic downturn, said Mark Lopez, associate
director of the Pew Hispanic Center.

Some might have been deterred by stricter immigration enforcement, too, he
noted. In a 2008 Pew survey, 10 percent of foreign-born Hispanics said they had
been stopped by authorities and asked for their immigration status, as had 8
percent of Hispanics born in the United States.

"Many Hispanics worry that they themselves, or someone they know, may be
deported," Lopez said.

But Steven Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors fewer
immigrants, said his research suggests almost 1 million immigrants left the
country in the past year alone, most of them Hispanic.

"People continue to come, but significantly fewer are coming, and many more are
going home," he said. "It appears the decline began before the economy went
south. That strongly suggests increased enforcement played a significant role."

Others contend that the floundering economy is solely to blame and that the drop
is temporary.

"We've had a lot of enforcement in play for years," said Michael Cassidy, head
of the Commonwealth Institute for Fiscal Analysis, a think tank that analyzes
the impact of policy on low-income Virginians. "I think that points to the
economic reasons behind the shift, as opposed to the enforcement reasons. When
there are no jobs, people aren't coming and they're not staying."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               80 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Elbow Room Expands for International Arrivals

BYLINE: Sholnn Freeman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 353 words


Dulles International Airport will open an expanded international arrivals
building Tuesday, eliminating some of the waiting time in customs and
immigration processing lines.

Airport officials on Monday showed off the building's 41,400-square-foot
arrivals hall, which doubles the capacity of the old facility. The building
boosts the number of inspection positions from 38 to 50. It has a higher
ceiling, brighter lights, flat screens and an extended view of the rear of the
Eero Saarinen-designed main terminal. The airport said the price tag was $77
million.

James E. Bennett, chief executive of the Metropolitan Washington Airports
Authority, said Dulles needed the new building to accommodate growth in
international air service. Dulles served about 1.4 million international
travelers a year in 1991 when the original building was constructed, compared
with 6.2 million last year, he said.

The airport said the added area will allow U.S. Customs and Border Protection
Services to process 2,400 passengers an hour, up from 1,400 in the old space.
The original space used for processing will be devoted to expanding the baggage
claim area, airport officials said.

The improvements are also meant to boost Dulles as a draw for airlines seeking
to increase international service, a lucrative segment in the hard-hit travel
industry. Last spring, Dulles added nonstop service to Moscow and Geneva; last
fall, it added the Colombian airline Avianca, which flies to Bogota. Germany's
Lufthansa also opened a lounge at the airport this year. Dulles is expecting its
first A380 double-deck airliner in 2010.

"As the international market continues to grow, this will give us the ability to
handle that growth and provide better service to customers," Bennett said.

The expansion is part of a multiyear capital construction program that has added
more than $3 billion in improvements to Dulles since 2000. Last week, the
airport opened a 121,700-square-foot underground passenger screening area. The
airport is also slated to open its replacement for the mobile-lounge transit
system, called the AeroTrain, by the end of the year.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post; The new
international terminal will expedite the arrival process into the United States
with more room and more booths to service passengers.
IMAGE; The $77 million building has a higher ceiling, brighter lights and an
extended view of the rear of the main terminal.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

For Salon Owner, It's All About Roots;
A Virginia Businesswoman Helps Other Hispanic Hairstylists Gain Confidence and
Experience

BYLINE: Dagny Salas; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 895 words


Corina Cornejo never forgets how she got her start: as a "shampoo girl" in a
beauty salon in Arlington. In the mid-1980s, the owner of the salon put the
Salvadoran immigrant in charge of washing hair and sweeping clippings while she
studied for her cosmetology license. A few years later, Cornejo and her sister
saved enough to open their own salon.

Now Cornejo is a mentor to stylists throughout Northern Virginia's Hispanic
community. Her salon in Manassas and her sister's in Arlington, where Cornejo
worked before selling her share to her sister, have served as training grounds
for several aspiring salon owners to gain entrepreneurial confidence and
experience before branching out on their own. "We have to share what we know,"
Cornejo said in Spanish. "God puts people that help you in your life. Now I can
give it others."

With more than 500 foreign-born, self-reported Hispanic hairdressers in
Virginia, mostly concentrated in Northern Virginia, salons are a popular choice
in the immigrant-heavy region for newcomers who want to avoid low-paying,
day-labor jobs in favor of a career. Hair salons require little overhead, have
relatively fewer bureaucratic hurdles than some other businesses and tap into
skills that many immigrants cultivated in their home countries.

Cornejo opened the salon, expanded and hired other immigrants who later took off
on their own, a path not unlike that followed by Korean and Vietnamese nail
salon workers and other new arrivals. Her shops helped train Ignacio Rodriguez,
who operates in Alexandria; Yesenia Galdamez, who took over one of Cornejo's
salons in Warrenton; and others whose intertwined histories demonstrate how many
immigrants settle and prosper.

Cornejo's deep ties in the local community have paid off during the economic
downturn. Although her annual revenue dipped from a high of about $200,000 in
the late 1990s and early 2000s to $100,000 last year, Cornejo said she has not
had to cut hours or employees. Her Manassas shop employs six stylists and an
assistant manager.

But the economy has affected  how often patrons frequent the shop. "You can say
'I don't have the money, I'll wait another week,' " but she expects customers to
return as the economy improves. Freddy Ventura, a longtime Manassas business
owner, remembers when Cornejo opened her Manassas salon in the early 1990s.
There weren't many Spanish-speaking businesses in the area. Corina's Hair Design
was a hit.

"That place was packed. I never went because of the long line," Ventura said.
"But everyone knew the name of the business."

The Mid-Atlantic Hispanic Chamber of Commerce counts 400 businesses as members
in the D.C. region, said Jacqueline Krick, vice president of the Northern
Virginia regional office. The chamber opened its first office in Northern
Virginia in January and a second last week in Arlington. Cornejo's client list
has been built largely on word of mouth. Many of her future employees found her
that way too.

In the early 1990s, Rodriguez walked into a well-known salon in the Culmore area
of Fairfax County. The salon where Rodriguez had been working had just closed.
He struck up a conversation with a stylist who knew Cornejo and her sister and
learned that they had an open chair in their Arlington shop. Once he passed the
in-person test, he was hired. When Cornejo opened the second salon in Manassas,
Rodriguez followed her there.

During an interview he gave in Spanish, Rodriguez credits his time working for
Cornejo as instrumental in opening his own salon.

"A lot of people come here without papers and have to clean bathrooms, but I got
to work in my chosen profession," said Rodriguez, whose father had owned a
barbershop in Mexico. Rodriguez picked grapes and strawberries in California
when he first emigrated to the United States in the 1980s. "You open with a
vision of what you'll do and you're excited about having your own business."

Other shop owners say that Cornejo gave them a chance when they didn't have much
else. After losing two houses to foreclosure in 2006, Galdamez was in no
position to open a business when Cornejo approached her last year about taking
over her Warrenton shop where Galdamez worked. She had already tried running a
house-cleaning service in Arlington, a lunch-truck serving pupusas along Route 1
in Woodbridge, and a hair salon in Herndon. But Cornejo told Galdamez that she
believed in her and would support her.

"I always said to myself 'I just need one more opportunity,' " Galdamez said in
Spanish. "When I started, I said: 'This is mine; this is what I want to do. I
won't leave this.' " She said she still regularly calls Cornejo with questions
about treatments, prices, how to treat a particular client.

After nearly two decades, Cornejo's reputation remains strong. A few weeks ago,
Doris Morales burst into Cornejo's Manassas shop. She was on a mission to find
the salon a friend had recommended for her granddaughter. Was this the right
place? The granddaughter was guided to a stylist's chair as Morales sat to
relax.

A ramp agent at Dulles International Airport, Morales sees what Cornejo has done
for herself -- and for others -- as setting the kind of example the Hispanic
community needs.

"A woman who has her own business has to want to fight to come out ahead,"
Morales said. "She gives opportunities to people who want to learn. That's how
the community grows."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; Getting ready for
her first day of school, Mariah Garcia, 5, left, has her hair cut at Corina's
Hair Design in Manassas. The salon is owned by Salvadoran immigrant Corina
Cornejo, pictured below holding Gabriella Ruiz, the granddaughter of a longtime
customer.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               82 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 23, 2009 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

New Technology Used For Streamlining Data;
Government Transparency Is a Top Goal

BYLINE: Philip Rucker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 649 words


The administration began a Web program Tuesday that eliminates red tape in the
immigration process by allowing applicants to follow their status via text
message and e-mail. It is the latest example of how President Obama and his
advisers are bringing the technological innovations of his 2008 campaign to the
federal bureaucracy.

Administration officials said they also are developing a central method for
Americans to receive government emergency information, consumer product recalls
and other alerts electronically. The administration recently compiled all data
from various federal agencies onto one Web site, Data.gov, and employed new
technologies used by private businesses to run the government-sponsored "Cash
for Clunkers" auto trade-in program.

Obama created two positions -- chief information officer and chief technology
officer -- to try to make government more efficient. Vivek Kundra, the chief
information officer, said efforts such as the new electronic immigration status
system and Data.gov site are "fundamentally changing the default of the public
sector" to make it more transparent. "You're seeing a result of a transparent
and open government the president talked about," Kundra said.

Under the old immigration system, applicants had to call U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services to get status updates, chief technology officer Aneesh
Chopra said.

"There are cases where you are asked to give a fingerprint," he said. "If you
today say the fingerprint didn't take, you don't really have a direct channel of
alerts to let you know that it didn't quite work. So you may be left with the
impression that you went in and did your thing and weeks went by."

Chopra continued: "Now with these alerts, instead of you having to call and
check in on where we are, this will outbound that communication."

The program also will  keep track of average processing times in each
immigration field office and at various stages. "It creates the right pressure
for transformation, so that you can ask intelligent questions as for why  does
it take half as long in one city or state than another," Kundra said.

Obama has long been an advocate for technology in government. As a U.S. senator,
he passed a transparency bill with Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), known as "Google
for Government," that made public federal grants, contracts, loans and other
documents. During his campaign, Obama used social networking and text messaging
systems to organize supporters, provide rapid updates and raise money.

Since entering office, Obama and his advisers have tried to use technology to
help streamline bureaucracy and make government programs more consumer-friendly.
White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel calls Chopra and Kundra "the McKinsey
Kids," a reference to the blue-chip consulting company.

Transparency was a cornerstone of Obama's campaign, but despite advances,
open-government advocates have voiced frustration in recent months that too
little progress has been made.

With the Cash for Clunkers program, the administration used advanced technology
from the private sector to allow consumers to receive subsidies  -- for trading
in older vehicles for fuel-efficient models -- at the time of purchase instead
of weeks later through the mail.

Administration officials said the On Demand program, produced by Oracle, allowed
Cash for Clunkers to keep running even as consumer interest in it rose in the
initial days by more than 10 times the government's projections.

This summer, the administration announced an IT Dashboard site that provides
data about how the U.S. government spends more than $76 billion on information
technology, as well as statistics on which programs are on schedule or over
budget. Since it began operating on June 30, the site has recorded more than 53
million hits, Kundra said.

He added: "For the first time, you are able to see how every single dollar is
being spent."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               83 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 25, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

'Amreeka': Immigration Woes

BYLINE: Jan Stuart; Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 475 words


You've seen  this story before, if not lived it yourself.

An immigrant arrives in the United States from overseas, armed with a college
degree and a surfeit of life experience on her shoulders. Halfway round the game
board, she now must return to the "Go" square of her new home, scraping together
a minimum-wage income scouring toilets, standing watch at apartment house
entrances or flipping burgers for a fast-food chain.

The latter scenario sums up the plight of "Amreeka's" Muna (Nisreen Faour), a
middle-class, divorced mother who leaves her home and banking job in a
Palestinian territory with the hopes of a more secure life in small-town
Illinois with her 16-year-old son, Fadi (Melkar Muallem).

Muna's ultimately uplifting saga reflects a burgeoning industry of independent
films that illuminate the travails of immigrants. These films, most notably
"Maria Full of Grace," "Sugar" and "The Visitor,"  must themselves first pass
through the American indie version of customs, the Sundance Film Festival, where
Hollywood players bond over movies that glorify the fish out of water who
triumphs over adversity.

The Sundance-certified "Amreeka" (Arabic for "America") is the modest but worthy
debut feature of Cherien Dabis, an American of Jordanian-Palestinian parentage.
Dabis's resilient protagonist has a distinct advantage over the illegal
immigrants and non-English-speakers who populate the aforementioned films: Muna
has a green card, she and her son are comfortably bilingual, and they have
successful relatives waiting stateside to give them a leg up. What neither of
them can anticipate, however, is the burden of being Palestinian in America as
it launches its  attack on Iraq.

Chief among the film's variegated pleasures is the slow but palpable emergence
of Muna's dormant inner spirit, a transformation that the doughy-cheeked Faour
effects with a discreet and winning charm. Muna is compelled to draw upon her
survivor's instincts with increasing frequency as she toils at  White Castle for
minimum wage, intercedes as her son fends off derision from high school
classmates, and negotiates brewing tensions between her sister (the redoubtable
Palestinian actor Hiam Abass) and brother-in-law (Yussef Abu Warda), whose
successful medical practice is crumbling amid the incipient hostility toward
Arab Americans.

Inevitably, perhaps, Dabis resorts to familiar tropes of the immigrant genre (a
romantic subplot involving Muna and a deceptively starchy educator is redolent
of "The Visitor"). Abetted by an observant cast, however, she navigates
politically and emotionally fraught terrain with a warming inflection of humor
and a mother-hen's attention to the needs of all of her characters.

Amreeka (97 minutes, at Landmark's E Street and Bethesda Row cinemas) is rated
PG-13 for brief drug use and language. In English and subtitled Arabic.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; National Geographic Entertainment; Melkar Muallem's Fadi faces
derision.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               84 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 30, 2009 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Credit Where Due at Homeland Security

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 170 words


The Sept. 23 news story "New Technology Used for Streamlining Data" quoted
Aneesh Chopra, the Obama administration's chief technology officer, as saying
that under the old immigration system, applicants had to call U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services to get status updates.

This is not correct. In 2007, I successfully applied for an immigration visa,
and I very much appreciated the opportunity to go online anytime to check how
far the process had gone. This service included an e-mail alert when further
action was necessary on my part or when important documents had been mailed.
Also, the estimated waiting times for each step were easily available, and I was
surprised how precise this information turned out to be.

Since the Department of Homeland Security gets blamed for all sorts of things, I
am pleased to report a pleasant experience. And as much as I appreciate the
achievements of the Obama administration, there is certainly no need for it to
adorn itself with borrowed laurels.

UNDINE A. NASH

Washington

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               85 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Health Care For Immigrants

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 147 words


Senators considered Wednesday whether to require immigrants to present a photo
ID when signing up for health-care programs. Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa)
suggested that current law is too lax to prevent illegal immigrants from
receiving government-paid care.

Currently, most newly arrived immigrants are ineligible for Medicaid and a
related government-funded program, SCHIP, for five years. They can gain access
to emergency Medicaid services.

After five years, states can decide whether to cover immigrants, but they must
first verify with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services whether an applicant
is in the country legally.

Grassley said that without a requirement for a state-issued photo ID, immigrants
could resort to identity theft to attain federally paid health care.

All 10 Republicans voted for the amendment, and all 13 Democrats voted against
it.

-- Madonna Lebling

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               86 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 11, 2009 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

At Angel Island, the Walls Do Talk

BYLINE: Christina Talcott; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. F02

LENGTH: 860 words


I am distressed that we Chinese are in this wooden building . . . /

I should regret my taking the risks of coming in the first place.

Carved on the walls at the Immigration Station on Angel Island are hundreds of
poems like this one, etched into the wood by Chinese immigrants waiting for
permission to enter the United States between 1910 and 1940. Thanks to the
Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, some were detained there for months on end.

Though it's sometimes called the "Ellis Island of the West," the Angel Island
Immigration Station was less welcome mat and more barbed-wire fence. Recent
arrivals on America's western shores were processed there, and although some
were quickly sent on to friends and family on the mainland, others, primarily
from China, were put through serial interviews and physical exams and held until
they were either allowed to enter San Francisco or were deported. The Exclusion
Act was sparked by popular belief that immigrants were taking jobs from
native-born Americans, and it was meant to curtail their numbers.

But they continued to come, not only from China but also from Japan, Russia,
South Asia, Korea, Africa, even Portugal. When ships landed in California,
arrivals were sent to Angel Island, about 350,000 of them over 30 years.

The larger, woodsy neighbor of the infamous fortified Alcatraz, Angel Island is
part of the California state park system, with hiking and biking trails,
wildlife, tram and Segway tours, a campground and stunning views of San
Francisco, about three miles away, and the town of Tiburon, just a half-mile
offshore.  The immigration station's barracks, a two-story yellow and white
building that stood empty for decades, was slated for demolition in 1970 when a
park ranger named Alexander Weiss discovered the writing on the walls.

Last spring, after a three-year renovation project, it reopened to the public.
On a tour, ranger Casey Lee explained the island's history while pointing out
various carvings throughout the building. It was dark inside the wooden
barracks, despite the rare San Francisco sun outdoors. Some carvings were
faintly visible under up to seven layers of paint. In addition to writing, there
were pictures of birds, trees, a horse and rider, even elaborate altars carved
into the walls.

The dorm rooms have been restored to their appearance in the early 1900s. In the
women's dorm, fold-up metal bunk beds are stacked three high in long rows. It
looks as though the occupants have just stepped out for a moment: Laundry hangs
on makeshift clotheslines, chopsticks and mah-jongg tiles rest on a bed, open
suitcases and chamber pots are tucked beneath the bunks. Along the wall are more
suitcases, holding objects that people from different countries would have
brought. One representing China, Lee explained, was donated by a woman whose
mother came through Angel Island. This was her suitcase, her papers, her
clothes.

Two of the men's dorm rooms are similarly adorned, with hats and boots and
jackets strung on lines. But Room 105, where many Chinese men were held, is the
jewel of the station. The lighting is soft. The walls have been lacquered. It is
here that the poems are most easily visible, even though some are only fragments
and there are doubtless more still hidden from view. Around the room, panels
translate the poems into English, and visitors can listen to recordings of them
being read in both languages.

There are prayers, messages, pleas and political slogans. But mostly there are
poems. In 1999, the collected, translated poems were published in "Island:
Poetry and History of Chinese Immigrants on Angel Island, 1910-1940" (University
of Washington Press).

The poems are either well-known verses that the detainees knew by heart or
original compositions describing their experiences. Some are heartbreaking in
their longing for home or freedom ("I suffered misery on the ship and sadness in
the wooden building"); others decry the United States government ("I thoroughly
hate the barbarians because they do not respect justice") or thieving cellmates
("That bastard son of a turtle . . . ").

Long before blogging or Twitter, even in the absence of pen and paper, despite
the worst of circumstances, people found a way to express themselves.

This is a message to those who live here not to worry excessively.

Instead, you must cast your idle worries to the flowing stream.

Experiencing a little ordeal is not hardship.

Napoleon was once a prisoner on an island.

Ferries leave Tiburon for Angel Island several times daily through October, then
twice a day on weekends through the winter; 415-435-2131 or
http://www.angelislandferry.com. Through October, the Blue and Gold Fleet
ferries leave twice a day on weekdays from Pier 41 in San Francisco and three
times a day on weekends. Blue and Gold also has limited weekend service from
Vallejo and Alameda/Oakland; 415-773-1188 or http://www.blueandgoldfleet.com.

Room 105 at the Angel Island Immigration Station is open to drop-in visitors
most Wednesdays through Sundays from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Daily tours are at 11
a.m., 12:30 p.m. and 2 p.m. and fill up quickly. Call 415-435-3392 for
last-minute cancellations.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Jay Dater; The women's dorm at the Angel Island
Immigration Station, left, was restored to its appearance in the early 1900s.
Hundreds of writings from well-known verses to original compositions, were
carved into the walls, right.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               87 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 12, 2009 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Who's Hostile to Immigrants?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 358 words


Michael Gerson was right to criticize Republican extremists for exploiting
prejudice against Latino immigrants ["Losing the Latino Vote," op-ed, Oct. 7.]
But he failed to mention that the Democrats are doing the same. The Obama
administration has launched an unprecedented number of investigations against
employers suspected of hiring unauthorized workers, most of them Latino and
Asian.

Employers of immigrants now face heavy fines for minor paperwork violations,
while authorized workers, including U.S. citizens, risk losing their jobs
because their legal status may not show up in notoriously unreliable government
databases. Many applications from employers seeking legal permission to hire
foreign professional workers are also being rejected for unjustified technical
reasons.

Far from making more jobs available for Americans, this shortsighted policy
damages the U.S. economy. The Immigration Policy Center, for example, estimates
the combined purchasing power of Latinos and Asians in just one state, New
Jersey, at more than $65 billion.

America deserves better from a president who spoke out against scapegoating
immigrants during his campaign.

ROGER ALGASE

New York

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

--

Michael Gerson's warning to the Republican Party about committing political
suicide over immigration issues was both helpful and misplaced. It was helpful
in reminding us that the loudest must not be permitted to become the face of
legitimate debate over important issues. It was misplaced because the rants he
described are not at all representative of the concerns shared by many
Americans, including those who support the GOP.

Most Americans, and that includes Republicans, support immigration and
immigrants. However, they want the government to insist that immigration follow
an orderly and legal process. And they want immigrants to "become Americans,"
which means that they become, over time, more emotionally attached to their new
country than their old one.

These are basic, legitimate and desirable expectations, and were they to be met,
much of the anxiety underlying our immigration debate would fade away.

STANLEY RENSHON

New York

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 6, 2009 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Democrats wary of health-bill defections;
Immigration and abortion issues could cost party crucial votes

BYLINE: Shailagh Murray and Lori Montgomery

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1275 words


House Democratic leaders were struggling Thursday to contain uprisings on the
hot-button issues of abortion and immigration that have left them little margin
for error as they attempt to push through a massive health-care reform bill this
weekend.

Although confident of victory, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (Calif.) and other
Democratic leaders were working to limit defections to the roughly 25 Democrats
viewed as "hard no" votes. There will be 258 Democrats in the House by the time
the vote takes place, but to secure the 218 votes needed for passage -- and with
prospects dim for Republican converts -- Pelosi can afford to lose no more than
40 members of her caucus. President Obama had been slated to head to the Hill on
Friday to push wavering Democrats to get behind the measure, but he called off
the trip after Thursday's shooting rampage at Fort Hood, Tex.

For party leaders, setting a weekend deadline for passage represented a
calculated risk, one that could backfire if the vote -- now expected late
Saturday or Sunday -- fails or must be delayed. But they feared that if members
were given more time to consider the legislation, new issues could arise,
particularly as lawmakers digest the results from Tuesday's elections. Most
ominous for Democrats were their losses in gubernatorial contests in New Jersey
and Virginia, although the party did prevail in House special elections in New
York and California.

The legislation's prospects got a boost with key endorsements Thursday from
AARP, the American Medical Association and the American Cancer Society. But
Pelosi was still working Thursday  night to chip away resistance from
antiabortion Democrats, who worry the bill could lead to government funding of
the procedure, and from Hispanic members trying to stave off efforts to add a
Senate provision that would bar illegal workers from buying private insurance
policies through new federally established marketplaces, even with their own
money.

"We are right on the brink of passing historic legislation to provide quality,
affordable, accessible health care for all Americans," Pelosi told reporters.
Asked whether she had the votes to bring the bill to the House floor, the
California Democrat pledged, "We will."

The legislation's next stop is the Rules Committee, which is scheduled to meet
Friday afternoon to establish a framework for a historic debate on the biggest
expansion of health coverage since Medicare and Medicaid were created in 1965.
Committee Chairman Louise M. Slaughter (D-N.Y.) said that more than 50
amendments had been filed by members of both parties and that debate is expected
to consume at least five hours of floor time on Saturday. Procedural maneuvering
by Republicans could extend that period by several hours and possibly into
Sunday.

The final House bill is expected to vary only slightly from the 1,990-page
document Democratic leaders unveiled amid great fanfare last week. In addition
to a 42-page "manager's amendment" released late Tuesday, Slaughter's committee
will approve the guidelines governing the debate. That rule, she said, is likely
to contain a provision aimed at quelling a long-simmering dispute over abortion
that has slowed progress in the House for weeks.

As written, the House bill would allow plans offered through new insurance
exchanges, set up for individuals without employer coverage, to cover abortion
services. But the plans would be required to establish payment firewalls to
prevent federal subsidies from covering the cost. Democrats opposed to abortion
call that an accounting distinction and are seeking ironclad guarantees.

A compromise measure crafted by Rep. Brad Ellsworth, an antiabortion Democrat
from Indiana, would require federal health officials operating the public
insurance plan created in the House bill to hire a private contractor to pay
abortion providers, thus avoiding direct federal payments. That language is
acceptable to Democrats who support abortion rights, but not to many Democrats
who oppose abortion, and House leaders were still working Thursday night to
craft language that would win back a dozen or so of the 40 Democrats whose votes
may be on the line.

As the hours ticked away, Democrats scrutinized the House bill for other
potential landmines that could haunt them on the campaign trail next year.
Immigration, and the prospect that Republicans will identify a loophole that
could be construed as benefiting people who live in the United States illegally,
is one area that is receiving a great deal of attention.

Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (Va.), president of the Democratic freshman class, said
he wants to be able to assure his constituents that people "who are here
illegally cannot avail themselves of the infrastructure that we're creating,"
although he said he is not necessarily opposed to letting undocumented workers
buy insurance through the exchanges on their own. Connolly said he is leaning
toward voting in favor of the measure, but he added: "I want to read the
language. I can't afford to be voting for something sight unseen."

Party leaders are considering relenting on the more restrictive Senate language
on illegal immigrants, in the hope of removing a contentious issue from the long
list of concerns that must be worked out in a final House-Senate conference.
That concerns wavering Hispanic members.

"Yes, you have someone here illegally, that's a bad thing," said Rep. Charlie
Gonzalez (D-Tex.). "But they are here. And someone's hiring them, by the way,
and paying them. And they want to be responsible for their health care. We're
going to have a provision that disallows them from purchasing a private plan."

The lawmakers made their case in a meeting with Obama on Thursday afternoon, but
they said they received no commitment. Rep. Nydia M. VelÃ¡zquez (D-N.Y.) said
that the Hispanic caucus has 20 votes riding on the issue and that if the
language changes, "I guess they won't have those 20 votes." She said of Obama,
"He listened to us, and he knows where we stand."

Of Thursday's endorsements, the most significant is from AARP, the nation's
largest and most influential association of older Americans, which has vowed to
lobby House members in advance of the vote. Republicans have blasted the House
bill as potentially devastating for seniors, pointing to more than $400 billion
in Medicare cuts over the next 10 years.

AARP Vice President Nancy A. LeaMond said the House package would actually
strengthen Medicare, the federal health program for people 65 or older, by
restraining the program's costs. Congressional budget analysts have said the
proposed reductions in spending would add five years to the life of the Medicare
trust fund. Hospitals and other providers, meanwhile, have vowed to absorb the
reductions without affecting services to seniors.

"We can say with confidence that it meets our priorities for protecting
Medicare, providing more affordable health insurance for 50-to-64-year-olds and
reforming our health-care system," LeaMond said in a news briefing.

She praised House leaders for including a plan to close the coverage gap in the
Medicare prescription drug program known as the "doughnut hole." Key Democrats
said the group's backing could prove critical to pushing their vote total over
the top.

Obama called the AARP boost "no small endorsement" and told reporters at the
White House, "So I want everybody to remember that the next time you hear the
same tired arguments to the contrary from the insurance companies and their
lobbyists. And remember this endorsement the next time you see a bunch of
misleading ads on television."

Staff writer Scott Wilson contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               89 of 89 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 13, 2009 Friday
                                Regional Edition

A problem for Mr. McDonnell to tackle

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 106 words


In his Nov. 5 op-ed, "Lessons from Virginia for the GOP," former Republican
National Committee chairman Ed Gillespie said that Republicans had relied on
"anti-immigration rhetoric" in past gubernatorial campaigns and that
governor-elect Robert F. McDonnell did not.

Immigration control isn't rhetoric, Mr. Gillespie. It's the law as it should be.
And as a frequent visitor who has seen the effects of illegal immigration on
Virginia's Eastern Shore, I believe enforcement is key to protecting the state's
quality of life.

Virginians should expect their new governor to take a no-nonsense approach to
the problem.

Peter Hrycenko, Allentown, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved
