
                               1 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 7, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

A First Step on Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 399 words


TOP-LEVEL OFFICIALS from the United States and Mexico met in Washington this
week for talks on immigration policy, the first step in seeking real results
from the pledges made last month by Presidents Bush and Vicente Fox of Mexico.
The two leaders promised to develop "an orderly framework for migration that
ensures humane treatment, legal security and dignified labor conditions." Now
aides begin the hard work, but simply having the two governments address the
problem jointly is a significant step. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service had estimated that 3 million Mexicans were living illegally in the
United States; new data from the 2000 census suggest that the number may be even
higher. U.S. reliance on millions of illegal laborers is corrosive; it's right
to search for "regularity," as Mexican officials describe it, without abandoning
the notion of America's control of its borders.

One step worth considering is expanding the number of permanent visas the United
States allots to Mexicans who want to immigrate. A program of temporary work
visas is another, but only if it offers protections against exploitation, which
other guest worker programs have failed to achieve, and a way to move over time
toward permanent residency. Such a process would acknowledge the reality that
many, if not most, who come here to work will wish to stay. At the same time it
provides a way for the United States to exercise some control over the numbers
and the timing of applications. Mexico for its part offers tighter monitoring of
its southern borders as a way of cutting down on migrants from other countries
who move through Mexico into the United States. It promises aid programs
targeted on areas that traditionally send large numbers of migrants north in
search of jobs. The aim in the long run is to blunt the lure of working in
America by improving local conditions and opportunities.

The INS said this week that arrests of illegal immigrants were down all along
the border during the past six months, suggesting that the numbers attempting to
cross are also down. No one can really explain the dip, but among the factors
suggested are both new hope for the Fox administration in Mexico and a period of
watching for changes in U.S. immigration law. If either of those is playing a
part, it's just another reminder that a moment of opportunity has arrived and
should be seized.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               2 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 8, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A First Step on Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 399 words


TOP-LEVEL OFFICIALS from the United States and Mexico met in Washington last
week for talks on immigration policy, the first step in seeking real results
from the pledges made last month by Presidents Bush and Vicente Fox of Mexico.
The two leaders promised to develop "an orderly framework for migration that
ensures humane treatment, legal security and dignified labor conditions." Now
aides begin the hard work, but simply having the two governments address the
problem jointly is a significant step. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service had estimated that 3 million Mexicans were living illegally in the
United States; new data from the 2000 census suggest that the number may be even
higher. U.S. reliance on millions of illegal laborers is corrosive; it's right
to search for "regularity," as Mexican officials describe it, without abandoning
the notion of America's control of its borders.

One step worth considering is expanding the number of permanent visas the United
States allots to Mexicans who want to immigrate. A program of temporary work
visas is another, but only if it offers protections against exploitation, which
other guest worker programs have failed to achieve, and a way to move over time
toward permanent residency. Such a process would acknowledge the reality that
many, if not most, who come here to work will wish to stay. At the same time it
provides a way for the United States to exercise some control over the numbers
and the timing of applications. Mexico for its part offers tighter monitoring of
its southern borders as a way of cutting down on migrants from other countries
who move through Mexico into the United States. It promises aid programs
targeted on areas that traditionally send large numbers of migrants north in
search of jobs. The aim in the long run is to blunt the lure of working in
America by improving local conditions and opportunities.

The INS said last week that arrests of illegal immigrants were down all along
the border during the past six months, suggesting that the numbers attempting to
cross are also down. No one can really explain the dip, but among the factors
suggested are both new hope for the Fox administration in Mexico and a period of
watching for changes in U.S. immigration law. If either of those is playing a
part, it's just another reminder that a moment of opportunity has arrived and
should be seized.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               3 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  September 21, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

N.Y. Lawyer Charged in Immigrant Smuggling

Hanna Rosin; Christine Haughney, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Sept. 20


Prosecutors today charged the Manhattan immigration lawyer who runs the nation's
largest political asylum practice with helping to run a smuggling ring that
illegally brought thousands of Chinese immigrants to the United States.

In the first racketeering case of its kind, the U.S. attorney's office said
Harvard Law School graduate Robert Porges, 61, played a key role in the
operation by filing fake asylum documents, helping smugglers detain illegal
immigrants until debts were paid and giving smugglers advice on how to avoid
immigration authorities. He collected as much as $ 13 million in fees for
helping to transport as many as 7,000 illegal immigrants from mainland China to
the United States.

"The Porges firm greedily and cruelly exploited a cherished American
value--asylum for the world's oppressed--and corrupted the system through which
it is granted," said Mary Jo White, U.S. attorney for the southern district of
New York, at a news conference in Manhattan.

No one answered the phone at Porges' law firm or his Connecticut home today. Law
enforcement agents blocked the entrance to the Chinatown office and spent the
day carting out white boxes stuffed with files.

In a 44-count indictment, prosecutors portrayed Porges as the immigration
equivalent of a Mafia lawyer, greasing the wheels for carefully coordinated
illegal activity.

When imagining the underground world of smuggling, "Manhattan attorneys dressed
in three-piece suits do not come to mind," Immigration and Naturalization
Commissioner Doris Meissner said at today's news conference.

In a typical case, a smuggler in China, called a "snakehead" or "boss" in the
indictment, would coordinate with a smuggler in the United States to transport a
group of illegal immigrants to this country. The immigrants would promise the
smugglers between $ 40,000 and $ 50,000 each, paying some of it up front.

Some immigrants would succeed in evading the INS and end up in New York, where
smugglers would hold them in Brooklyn until they paid the balance. Officials did
not answer questions about whether illegal immigrants were forced to work as
prostitutes, as in other cases.

The officials also did not specify whether the immigrants were held against
their will or agreed to work off their debts by prior arrangement. But the
indictment alleges, without explanation, that some were "kidnapped" by smugglers
with the help of Porges' firm.

Other illegal immigrants were detained at various entry points, including San
Diego, Phoenix, El Paso and New Orleans. That's where Porges and his employees
stepped in, according to the indictment.

By law, illegal immigrants detained by the INS are entitled to apply for
political asylum. They are detained or released on bail if they can prove they
have relatives to live with while their cases are pending.

To secure releases, Porges and his paralegals concocted thousands of fake
political asylum stories, claiming, for example, that a Chinese woman had
undergone a forced abortion because of China's one-child policy.

Porges and his firm filed fake documents from the so-called relatives, usually
the smugglers themselves, or forged signatures of people with no relation to the
aliens.

Once the immigrants were released on bail, Porges's firm would purchase airline
tickets to fly them to locations chosen by the "snakeheads," who would meet them
and hold them until the debt was paid.

To help illegal immigrants secure asylum, Porges and his paralegals devised a
"mentality scale" to rate the intelligence level of each client so they could
fashion asylum stories that were not too complicated for each immigrant to
remember.

Paralegals would write the final versions in longhand to make it seem as if
their clients had written them out. Later, they would coach clients to teach
them to answer the judge's questions in a convincing way.

The indictment, the culmination of an investigation that took several years,
names Porges, known as "Lawyer Bao;" his wife, Sheery Lu Porges, who served as
office manager; and five paralegals and office assistants. The government is
seeking forfeiture of $ 13.5 million worth of assets from the Porgeses,
including homes they own in Stamford, Conn., and Hollywood, Fla.

Porges, who graduated from Harvard Law School in 1962, also represented clients
in the 1998 Golden Venture case, in which 286 illegal Chinese immigrants were
trapped in a freighter stuck on a sandbar a few miles from the city's limits.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                               4 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   October 18, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

38 Arrested in INS Effort Against Immigrant Smuggling

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 400 words


U.S. immigration officers working with counterparts in Mexico and five Central
American nations have arrested 38 immigrant smugglers, including an alleged
kingpin, and detained 3,500 of their clients before they got to the United
States.

The results of Operation Forerunner, the first simultaneous, coordinated,
multinational anti-smuggling action, were announced by Immigration and
Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner at a news conference
yesterday. The three-week operation began Sept. 21.

Meissner described the joint operation as an "extremely cost-effective" way to
attack the billion-dollar immigrant smuggling business. Apprehending smugglers
and their clients in Latin America saves the U.S. government the cost of finding
and detaining illegal immigrants here and "is much less dangerous for the
migrants," whose lives often are risked on their journey, Meissner said.

The most significant arrest was arranged with help from the Guatemalan
government. Two people employed by the INS located alleged smuggling kingpin
Jose Leon Castillo in Guatemala. Guatemala expelled him to his native country,
Honduras, but did so by putting him on a plane that went first to the United
States, said Richard Cravener, head of the INS's Houston office.

Upon arrival in Los Angeles on Oct. 5, Castillo was arrested. He will be
transferred this month to Houston, where he faces federal immigrant smuggling
charges.

The other Central American countries participating in the operation were Belize,
El Salvador, Honduras and Panama. Thirty-four of the 38 smugglers were arrested
outside the United States and face charges where they were taken into custody.

The 3,500 migrants detained abroad had paid as much as $ 3,800 apiece to the
smugglers and were headed to Los Angeles, Houston, Miami, New York, Chicago,
Atlanta and other destinations, officials said. They came from 25 countries, but
primarily from Guatemala, Honduras, Ecuador and El Salvador. Most were returned
to their home countries, U.S. officials said.

The other three smugglers arrested in the United States were Ecuadoran citizens
captured Friday in Miami. They were charged with immigrant smuggling based on
the U.S. Coast Guard's May 10 encounter with a 60-foot vessel off Guatemala with
152 Ecuadorans aboard who had paid as much as $ 8,000 each to be smuggled to the
United States, the INS said.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                               5 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 10, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

The Former Labor Choice

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 371 words


A Republican woman with an illegal alien helping in her house is a compassionate
conservative providing charity to a person in need. A Democratic woman doing
likewise is selfishly pursuing a career while neglecting her husband, leaving
her children to be raised by strangers and destroying American family values. A
man -- Republican or Democratic -- is never asked.

What's wrong with this picture?

ANN McC. SCOTT

Alexandria

*

Linda Chavez should not be compared to Zoe Baird but rather to Christina
Jeffrey.

Newt Gingrich appointed Ms. Jeffrey to the position of House historian soon
after he became speaker. As soon as the left began to smear her with a bogus
charge, he threw her overboard rather than defend her and expose the scurrilous
tactics of his opponents. He revealed his flaws as a leader and his
vulnerability to further attacks in the future.

JUDY WARNER

Rohrersville, Md.

*

The Post articles "Bush Backs Chavez as Controversy Swells" [front page, Jan. 8]
and "Chavez Is Under Fire Over Illegal Immigrant" [front page, Jan. 9] mentioned
that Linda Chavez "informally" hired an undocumented woman to help with
household chores. This situation illustrates one of the key problems with U.S.
immigration laws.

According to the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, employers cannot
legally hire people they know are unauthorized to work in the United States.
This law, commonly referred to as "employer sanctions," is often ignored -- as
appears the case in Ms. Chavez's situation -- and is used as a weapon against an
already disadvantaged population: America's immigrant work force.

Employer sanctions can be used as a tool to violate workers rights by extracting
high-quality labor at a low wage. The clause has also been used as a method of
retaliation by employers against workers who organize in support of their rights
or fight poor working conditions. But courts have repeatedly held that despite
employer sanctions, the labor rights of undocumented immigrants are still
protected under the law.

The employer sanctions clause of the law should be repealed because it makes
immigrant workers vulnerable and cheapens their labor, violating their rights as
workers and human beings.

ANNE SEYMOUR

Chicago

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               6 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 27, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant ID Scam Alleged in Va.;
Arlington Woman Accused of Notarizing False Residency Statements

BYLINE: Brooke A. Masters and Josh White, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 891 words


Thousands of undocumented immigrants are streaming into Virginia's Department of
Motor Vehicles from up and down the East Coast to take advantage of the state's
unusually lax rules for acquiring driver's licenses, according to an affidavit
filed yesterday and federal law enforcement sources.

At a time when new immigration laws make such documents more valuable for
illegal immigrants, Virginia has become a prime destination for small-time
entrepreneurs, who drive van loads of undocumented workers to the DMV, charging
$ 300 to $ 700 for the trip and the license, according to the affidavit filed in
U.S. District Court in Alexandria.

Driver's licenses are considered key documents because they allow an immigrant
to build a legal identity. Many illegal immigrants use a legitimate driver's
license along with a fraudulent Social Security card to convince a prospective
employer that they have a legal work permit.

Yesterday, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the DMV's
investigative service arrested an Arlington notary public and charged her with
"conspiring to transport undocumented aliens." According to the affidavit,
Jennifer Wrenn, 58, notarized hundreds or perhaps thousands of false residency
statements for immigrants who actually lived in New Jersey, Connecticut and
Massachusetts, among other states.

Unlike most states and the District, Virginia does not require driver's license
applicants to show an electric bill, lease or other form of documentation that
they actually live in the state. Instead, they can provide a notarized form
signed by themselves and a Virginia resident. Likewise, applicants without a
passport or other documents can prove their identity by supplying another
notarized form that is cosigned by a lawyer.

For up to $ 50, Wrenn and employees at Jenni Wrenn Realtors Inc. in Falls Church
and Manassas Park would authenticate the forms, according to the affidavit filed
by INS special agent Gregory M. Cichetti. For $ 20 more, they would provide a
legitimate Virginia address so that the forms would not attract scrutiny at the
DMV, the affidavit said.

Wrenn was released on a $ 100,000 personal recognizance bond. Her home phone
number was disconnected, and she could not be reached for comment.

Her husband, Hank Wrenn, office manager of the Manassas Park branch of her
business, said his wife has not done anything wrong.

"This all comes as a shock, because we do nothing wrong," he said yesterday as
nearly a dozen agents combed the small office, flipping through stacks of $ 20
bills and dropping papers and documents into plastic bags. "We have no idea what
they're looking for. There is a large business in fake IDs, but we don't have
anything to do with that."

Michael Ford, a lawyer who works at the Manassas Park location, said the office
follows state regulations for issuing identification paperwork. "We don't
enforce the immigration laws, and we are not an investigative agency," Ford
said. "We have to take their word, and if we sense there is something fishy, we
turn them away."

The DMV has become increasingly concerned about abuse of the residency and
identity affidavits, which have been in use since 1994, said spokeswoman Pam
Goheen. The investigation dates to at least 1998 and has not stopped with
Wrenn's arrest, according to officials and court documents.

"DMV investigators uncovered the possibility of abuse and took action. They
alerted the INS," Goheen said. "This is an ongoing investigation."

In fact, a Brazilian driver named Edson Francisco has been convicted of charges
that he transported Brazilian nationals from Connecticut to Virginia to get
licenses, the affidavit said. Those immigrants used other notaries besides
Wrenn, authorities said.

Although the DMV does not track how many licenses are issued on the basis of the
affidavits, Wrenn is not the only area notary public validating these forms.

In her small Falls Church building alone, two competing notaries public have
signs on their doors reading "DMV-ID $ 30." Six people were in line at one of
the competitors as INS agents searched Wrenn's office down the hall. All six
declined to comment.

"It is well known that identification documents and driver's licenses can be
procured with much greater ease in Virginia than in other states because
Virginia does not require the same level of proof of identity and residency,"
INS District Director Warren A. Lewis said in a statement.

Experts on both sides of the immigration debate say the interstate travel shows
that the current system of laws is not working.

Advocates of limiting immigration say states are encouraging fraud by not
checking immigration status before conferring a license. "It's a public health
and safety risk. . . . [What if] your car gets slammed into by a guy who has no
auto insurance and not even a verifiable identity?" said Dan Stein, executive
director of Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Pro-immigrant groups, meanwhile, say the laws should be standardized at a level
that is friendlier to new arrivals. "We need to overhaul our immigration laws,
because the patchwork of [state] laws does result in bizarre behavior," said
Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum. The travel "is
an indication of how much they want to work and be a part of the American
dream."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               7 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 8, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

INS Deadline Encourages Immigrant Rush to Marry

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 1583 words


Twelve years ago, they fell in love. Ten years ago, they had a child. This year,
Ana Julia Avilez and Jose Arnulfo Montoya got interested in getting married.

Was it amor or was it the promise of a green card? Both, say the Honduran
immigrants, who live in the District.

They are among the thousands of couples rushing to county and city clerks'
offices in the Washington area and across the country to tie the knot before
April 30, the expiration date of a federal law that makes it easier for
undocumented immigrants to legalize their status in the United States if they
are married to a citizen or legal permanent resident.

The provision, known as Section 245(i), is part of the Legal Immigration Family
Equity Act signed into law by President Bill Clinton in late December. The law
was designed to help illegal immigrants and their spouses or close relatives
obtain a legal status.

The clause in the law that has attracted widespread attention -- and a certain
amount of confusion, as well, was in effect from October 1994 through September
1997, when it expired. Under its provisions, immigrants who are living illegally
in the United States may apply for a green card and adjust their legal status
here without returning to their native country to obtain an entry visa through a
U.S. embassy.

The law was allowed to expire the first time after Congress tightened
immigration law with stringent rules for reentering the United States. Under the
stricter law, immigrants who had lived here illegally for more than six months
and left the United States were prohibited from coming back for three years,
even after obtaining a legal entry visa in their home countries. Those who had
lived here illegally for more than one year were barred from reentry for 10
years.

Immigrants who wanted to legalize their residency were required to go home to
await entry visas, but they then faced prohibitions to returning.

At the time, proponents of the strict prohibitions believed "people will go
home, and they won't come back," said Dawn Lurie, president of the D.C. chapter
of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Instead, many such immigrants simply stayed, she said, working in marginal
low-skill service industry jobs and living in fear of discovery. "They stay, and
they remain out of status forever," Lurie said.

The temporary reinstatement of Section 245(i) in December sought to remedy that
situation. Until April 30, immigrants can apply to legalize residency through
marriage to a U.S. citizen or a permanent legal resident, through a parent or
sibling who is a citizen or legal resident, or through an employer who is
willing to act as a sponsor.

That's the first step. The second step, which does not have to be taken
immediately, is to file for adjustment of status under Section 245(i) and to
apply for a green card. At that time, the immigrant can pay a $ 1,000 fine to
the INS for having lived here illegally.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials say as many as 640,000
immigrants could apply to adjust their residency status under 245(i) through
fiscal 2003. When it was in effect before, in fiscal 1995-97, 545,000 people
adjusted their residency under that provision.

It is the promise of that law that has sent marriage rates skyrocketing across
the nation, particularly in immigrant strongholds such as New York, Chicago, Los
Angeles and Houston.

And in the Washington area, the number of marriage licenses issued in the first
three months of this year, compared with the same period in 2000, jumped by 50
percent in Arlington County and the City of Alexandria, 30 percent in Montgomery
County, 25 percent in Fairfax and Loudoun counties, and almost 19 percent in
Prince William and Baltimore counties.

"I walked in the office the other day and said, 'What the heck is going on?' "
recounted Arlington Circuit Court Clerk David Bell. "Are we having a sale on
marriage licenses, and I don't know about it?"

Montgomery County court clerks, empowered by judges to perform marriages, are
marrying 23 couples back-to-back daily -- almost double the number of weddings
performed at this time last year -- in a special courthouse room equipped with
mahogany benches and a dais.

"We've been booked," said Geraldine Stark, supervisor of Montgomery's license
department. "And January, February and March are usually our slowest months."

Proponents for tougher immigration controls, such as members of the Federation
for American Immigration Reform and the Center for Immigration Studies, contend
that the law is an incentive for marriage fraud and that it provides an unfair
loophole to the tough 1996 immigration law.

Dan Stein, executive director of FAIR, said reenactment of 245(i) "makes a
mockery of the reentry bar. You get to pay a $ 1,000 fine and adjust your legal
status inside the country. . . . It essentially creates a preferred class of
people who buy their way around the sanctions for illegal conduct."

Widespread confusion among immigrants has prompted lawyers, churches and INS
officials to run seminars throughout the Washington region to try to dispel
myths. Some immigrants mistakenly believe that Section 245(i) guarantees amnesty
or a green card. Others are looking simply to get married.

The specifics of the law and the consequences of fraudulent marriages were the
subjects of recent seminars at St. Camillus Church in Silver Spring and St.
Anthony of Padua Parish in Falls Church. Discussions were conducted in English,
Spanish and French.

"This doesn't give [illegal immigrants] the right to get the green card, but it
allows them to stay here while they're getting it," said Angela Kelly, deputy
director of the National Immigration Forum, an organization that lobbied for the
reinstatement of 245(i).

That's what Montoya, 37, is banking on. He's been working as a welder for six
years, and his boss is sponsoring him for a green card, Montoya said. When
Montoya becomes a legal resident -- and that could be years away -- he can
petition for the legalization of Avilez, 36. But first they must marry.

The nattily dressed bridegroom arrived at the Arlington County clerk's office on
a bitingly cold, blustery March morning with Avilez.

Thirty dollars in cash and two valid photo IDs got them a marriage license.
Because there is no waiting period in Virginia to get married, they and their
two witnesses and a friend simply walked across the street to the courthouse.
The entourage took one wrong turn out of the building, then backtracked. The
bride lost one of her gold hoop earrings but recovered it on the sidewalk.
Finally, they arrived in the office of one of Arlington's three civil
magistrates, windblown and chilled -- especially Avilez in her gauzy white
floor-length, spaghetti-strap dress.

"You sure you want to do this?" Gerald Williams asked. The two solemnly nodded.
"Okay, should I do this in English or my broken Spanish?"

"Espan ol," came the quick reply.

"Anillos?" Williams asked. Rings?

"Si," Montoya said as he extracted matching gold bands from a pants pocket.

Next stop for the couple: the office of their lawyer, to make their marriage
license part of the official immigration file.

Fraudulent marriages do occur and usually are obvious, said assistant Arlington
Circuit Court clerk Aida Duncan. "Some of them don't know each other well. One
is Hispanic; the other is American. The American is asking the other person
questions for the license," she said. "Then they come back in two or three
months and ask how to get an annulment."

That is "about the worst thing you can do," said INS spokesman Bill
Strassberger.

Someone caught in marriage fraud can permanently lose the right to legal
residency in the United States. "That person has much more to lose,"
Strassberger said.

Marriages that help one of the partners legalize residency may be subject to INS
investigation for as long as two years after the couple says, "I do," or "Yo
acepto," as in the case of Avilez and Montoya. That was stressed recently at St.
Camillus, where immigrant parishioners represent 110 nationalities.

"Be honest and follow the laws of the country. That's the best advice we can
give to anyone," said the Rev. Jacques LaPointe, associate pastor. "Because,
definitely, anyone who is caught lying or with false information, they're
jeopardizing their whole future in terms of ever coming into this country."

That's the last thing Jenny Ruz wants. Ruz arrived in Silver Spring from Chile
in November 1998 as a legal permanent resident, along with her two children,
under a family petition filed by her father. He arrived in 1986, became a
citizen in 1995 and urged her not to marry because bringing her here single was
much easier under U.S. immigration laws.

A few months after she arrived, so did her longtime companion, the father of her
children. His tourist visa expired long ago. Last weekend, with their daughter,
8, and son, 5, as attendants, Ruz and Hector Orozco finally married in her
parents' home. Now, Ruz, 32, can petition to legalize her husband's status, as
long as she does so before the end of the month.

"I originally wanted to get married in June or July when the weather is nice,
and we could do this in the back yard and have a really nice outdoor party," Ruz
said. "Then we found out about this law, so we had to hurry up."

She added: "We just moved it up and [got married] in the basement. But it was
fine. The ideal is for both of us to be legal, to be safe and to be at peace."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               8 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

7,898 From 39 Nations Held in Anti-Smuggling Raids

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 441 words


More than 7,800 illegal immigrants were arrested this month along with 75
smugglers and vendors of illegal documents in what the Immigration and
Naturalization Service yesterday called its largest international anti-smuggling
operation ever.

The targets of "Operation Crossroads International," who came from 39 countries
in Latin America and the Caribbean, were captured during a 16-day effort that
involved law enforcement agencies in the United States and 13 other nations.

"We're talking about a great partnership in the Americas of going after people
who try to make a profit and benefit in other ways from human misery and
desperation," acting INS Commissioner Kevin Rooney said at a news conference
yesterday.

The operation was aimed primarily at intercepting undocumented migrants. More
than 5,600 of the arrests occurred near the Mexican border, and about 1,300
occurred in Guatemala and El Salvador. Nearly 650 people were arrested for
holding fraudulent documents such as passports, visas and birth certificates,
officials said.

Fifty-five hundred of the 7,898 people arrested were returned to their
countries. Two people were detained in the United States. The remainder were
detained in the countries where they were apprehended.

Seven U.S. citizens were arrested on immigration law violations in the
crackdown. Most of the 75 people arrested for smuggling face criminal charges,
authorities said.

"The message is clear: The United States is committed with its partners to
pursuing smugglers wherever they operate," said Hipolito M. Acosta, the INS
Mexico City director in charge of the operation.

Some smugglers operated at airports, officials said. Ninety people planning to
illegally enter the country were apprehended at airports in Jamaica. Other
smugglers packed 50 to 100 migrants on buses from various places for the
unsuccessful journey.

Acosta recalled a woman arrested near the Guatemalan border who thanked law
enforcement for stopping her. The woman said she feared abuse by her smugglers,
he said. She was in a drop house with 80 other people.

"The dangers they face are not only on the border but on the entire route,"
Acosta said. "Don't put your lives at risk by trusting smugglers."

Law enforcement officers also seized $ 9 million in drugs, including 277 pounds
of cocaine, 12 pounds of heroin and 157 pounds of marijuana. Thirteen people
were found to be traveling with drugs, officials said.

The effort cost the federal government $ 600,000.

Operation Crossroads International was the ninth anti-smuggling effort by the
INS in conjunction with other governments in the past five years, Acosta said.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                               9 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 16, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Conspirator in '76 Letelier Assassination Released

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 301 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON, Fla. Aug. 15


A Cuban exile convicted for his role in the 1976 car-bomb assassination of a
former Chilean ambassador in Washington has been released from an immigration
service detention center in Florida, an immigration official said today.

Jose Dionisio Suarez Esquivel, 62, who was arrested in St.

Petersburg, Fla., in 1990 and pleaded guilty to conspiracy, was freed Tuesday,
said immigration officer David Wing.

"He was released under strict supervision, as would any foreign national who is
a felon and we don't have the diplomatic relations to deport," Wing said.

Suarez was sentenced to eight years in prison and then was held in the detention
center in Bradenton after his release on probation in 1997 while the Immigration
and Naturalization Service tried to deport him to Cuba.

The communist nation refuses to accept felons and critics of President Fidel
Castro.

The Supreme Court ruled in June that indefinite detention of alien felons who
have served prison time and are liable for deportation, but for whom no country
can be found, is unconstitutional. That cleared the way for Suarez's release.

Suarez was a member of a militant exile anti-Castro group, the Cuban Nationalist
Movement (MNC), which planted a car bomb that killed Orlando Letelier, a former
Chilean ambassador to Washington, and his U.S. assistant, Ronni Moffitt, in
1976. The blast also injured Moffitt's husband.

U.S. prosecutors blamed the Chilean secret police, DINA, for masterminding the
plot. Letelier was a harsh critic of Gen. Augusto Pinochet's military regime and
was viewed by Cuban exile groups as allied with Castro.

The Bradenton Herald reported that Suarez planned to move to Miami and live with
his brother and that he may write a book.

"I want to clarify a lot of things," Suarez said. "There have been many lies."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              10 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    November 24, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Rural Jails Profiting From INS Detainees; Immigrant Advocates Object as Counties
Like Md.'s Wicomico Contract With U.S.

Lori Montgomery , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2066 words

DATELINE: SALISBURY, Md.



Warden John W. Welch says he has learned some things about foreigners. One:
They're not hard to intimidate. Throw a troublemaker in a jail cell with 30
American thugs. That, Welch says, adjusts his attitude.

Two: There's money to be wrung from the plight of immigrants who run afoul of
the system. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service pays $ 50 a day for
a bed in Welch's jail, a bed that costs just $ 17.89 to provide. That's $ 32.11
clear profit. Last year, the Wicomico County Detention Center made $ 2.7
million, two-thirds of it gravy.

Just south of the Delaware line on Maryland's Eastern Shore, Wicomico County is
cashing in on a soaring number of immigrants housed behind bars.

Tough new immigration laws passed by Congress in 1996 require that foreigners
facing deportation be jailed while awaiting a final decision on their fate. The
imprisoned include immigrants who have criminal records or expired visas, as
well as new arrivals who have requested political asylum from violence at home.

The average number of INS detainees has tripled to 21,000 each day, making them
the fastest-growing sector of the nation's booming prison population. Desperate
for jail space, the INS uses more than a third of its $ 800 million detention
budget to rent cells in about 225 jails--most of them in rural counties where
costs are low and there are beds to spare.

Immigrant advocates say the arrangement puts people who overstay a student visa,
write a bad check or show up on these shores with a sad story of persecution in
jail with local criminals accused of rape, robbery and murder.

And they contend that the remote jails are too far from the lawyers that
immigrants need to navigate complicated deportation proceedings. Wicomico
County, for example, is 116 miles from Washington and 110 miles from Baltimore.

But the arrangement has let jails that once consumed big chunks of local budgets
become profit centers for small-town America. In Farmville, Va., the growing
profits have made the Piedmont Regional Jail self-supporting. In York County,
Pa., a new jail wing built exclusively for the INS funded a property tax cut.

In Wicomico County, warden Welch has proposed building a whole new prison for
the INS that would generate an estimated $ 4 million a year at a time when
county voters have rejected new taxes.

However, Welch has his critics. His facility spends less on its inmates than any
other jail in Maryland. In July, more than 80 INS detainees signed a letter
complaining that they "sleep on the floor with cockroaches," eat bologna "2 and
sometimes 3 times a day," and receive a single set of clothes, forcing them "to
walk naked when they [are] washed."

There are also allegations that jailers use excessive force and abusive
restraining devices and provide insufficient medical care. Last month, the civil
rights division of the U.S. Justice Department began an investigation into
reports of abuse and neglect in Wicomico County.

Welch says the investigators will find nothing: No one sleeps on the floor in
his jail. Food, clothing and medical care all meet guidelines set by the
Maryland Commission on Correctional Standards, of which Welch is vice chairman.

"I run a constitutional jail," Welch said.

INS officials say they have no reason to doubt Welch, nor to question his flinty
style.

"It's his facility," said Chris Bentley, spokesman for the INS's Baltimore
District. "What he says goes."


Life of a Detainee


The Wicomico County Detention Center sits in a slight hollow not far from the
Salisbury shopping mall. The modern, low-slung jail constantly operates at its
maximum capacity of 655 inmates. On a recent day, 128 were INS detainees,
including 97 residents facing deportation after criminal convictions and 31
people who had violated immigration laws.

Florin Cacau was among the latter group.

He was a 20-year-old stowaway when U.S. border guards pulled him off a ship in
the Port of Baltimore in May 1999. He told them he was afraid to go home because
he was beaten in his tiny Romanian village by corrupt police who accepted bribes
from a rich man who covets Cacau's land.

He wanted to go to his relatives in Detroit. Instead, he was shackled and led to
a van for the drive to Wicomico County.

When his sister-in-law, her husband and their daughter, Daniela, 16, arrived
after a 12-hour drive from Detroit, they were informed that visits were limited
to 30 minutes, twice a week, and that no one younger than 18 was admitted. Cacau
had a brief, tear-stained reunion with the parents while Daniela sat in the car.
Visits on consecutive days are not allowed, so the family turned around and went
home.

Since then, Cacau has spoken to his relatives by telephone, but that's a
problem, too. In Wicomico County, inmates must use pay phones that force them to
call collect. The people they call are charged $ 4.94 for the first minute and
69 cents a minute thereafter. The jail profits from the arrangement that allows
the phone company to bill at those rates.

This summer, after receiving a $ 2,000 phone bill, Cacau's family had to start
refusing his calls.

"We miss him," Daniela David said from her home in Detroit. "We thought he was
going to get out pretty soon, but it passed a year and a half now."

Cacau feels trapped, isolated and miserable. Detainees have no right to bond,
and the INS refuses to release him. He also has no right to a court-appointed
attorney, but a sympathetic United Nations refugee official asked the only
Salisbury firm that handles immigration cases to represent Cacau for free.

To get out of jail, Cacau must convince a judge that he deserves political
asylum. Or he can give up and agree to go home. After 18 months in Wicomico
County, he said, impoverished Romania is starting to look like the better
option.

Boyish and slight, Cacau is terrified of the much bigger American inmates, who
range from killers and drug dealers to drunk drivers and thieves. Not long ago,
he said, an inmate was stabbed.

"I can't keep my soul clean here with these people. They curse every single
minute. And they fight for no reason," Cacau said. "If I escape here without
getting cut, I'm a lucky guy."

In the broken English he has picked up in jail, Cacau said he has no trouble
with the guards. But everyone has heard stories.

There's the Nigerian who says jailers put him in a cell with an American inmate,
knowing the American had threatened him. The man was badly beaten, said his
attorney, Penny Venetis, associate director of the Constitutional Litigation
Clinic at Rutgers Law School.

On another occasion, Venetis said, jailers locked the man naked in a solitary
confinement cell. The man was granted asylum and released a few years ago.

In 1996, a pregnant Haitian woman who spoke little English mistakenly nodded yes
when a guard asked if she was suicidal. Yvenie Emmanuel was placed in an
isolation cell wearing a paper gown, said her Washington attorney, John O'Leary.

After five days, Emmanuel persuaded jailers to release her. Two weeks later, she
suffered a miscarriage. Jailers kept her shackled on the way to the hospital,
O'Leary said. A few months later, she was deported.

The Rev. Mark Horak, an immigration lawyer with Catholic Charities in Baltimore,
said a mentally ill Jordanian man in the Wicomico jail did not see a doctor or
receive medication for six months.

Wicomico County "contracted with the INS to make money. . . . They don't have
any particular incentive to provide services that you or I would think are
pretty basic," Horak said.


The Wicomico Way


Warden John Welch is a gruff and blustery former military man fast approaching
retirement age. He takes great pride in his jail. It is modern. It is efficient.
Its operating costs are the lowest in the state. In 1988, the jail became the
first in Maryland to win an INS contract, and as Welch will tell you, that
contract has repeatedly bailed out Wicomico County.

"Five years ago, the county needed to raise $ 65,000 in 30 days," Welch said,
puffing on a cigarette in a jailhouse office stacked high with inmate files. "I
picked up the phone and called the INS and said, 'Send me 70 inmates.' And it
was done."

Welch's INS contract requires an annual inspection by the INS. But when advocacy
groups show up at the jailhouse door, he turns them all away. Out-of-town
attorneys with clients in the jail say they also have had trouble getting in.
Welch, who teaches a law class at Wor-Wic Community College, is unapologetic.

"I am an expert on correctional law. Basically, I will push the legal envelope
to the limit," he said. "I'm not going to let anybody be abused. But I don't
want anybody looking over my shoulder, either."

Some INS detainees do have special needs, Welch said, but Wicomico County
accommodates them all.

"If you spoke Russian, I would treat you the same way I treat an American. I'd
say, 'This is your food. Set your tray down. You can eat,' " he said, speaking
slowly and miming the actions with his hands.

"All our inmates, we treat as if they're innocent," Welch said. "We do use dogs.
I will turn dogs loose on a pod of inmates if they're raising hell."

But dogs are ideal jailers, he said. "They have no conscience. They're
colorblind. And they don't care who they bite."

The dogs--big Rottweilers--are one of the things that prompted the Justice
Department investigation, sources said. There's also talk of improper use of the
restraint chair, a plastic device draped with straps in which inmates are
immobilized for 24 hours or more.

Welch has plenty of defenders. John O'Malley, assistant INS commissioner for
detention and deportation, used to work in the Baltimore District office and has
known Welch for years. He said Wicomico County has been cooperative in meeting
INS needs.

"I personally was saved by those dogs once," O'Malley said, adding that the
animals are "slobbery, friendly" and likely to "lick you to death more than
anything else."

As for the Justice Department, "we're aware of what the allegations are,"
O'Malley said. "If there was a finding of abuse in a jail, we would take
everybody out. No matter how much of a problem it would be for us."


New INS Standards


The INS recognizes problems in its detention program. After human rights
organizations published a raft of scathing reports about the treatment of
detainees, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner vowed to increase the use of
discretionary releases for asylum seekers who pose no threat to the community,
to improve access to legal representation and to set higher standards for county
jails holding INS inmates.

"People who come to this country yearning to breathe free should not languish
behind bars," Meissner told the Senate subcommittee on immigration in 1998.

Two years later, advocates say there has been little progress. An INS initiative
to review the cases of criminal detainees held for more than six months led to
1,800 releases. But the INS still counts 2,700 people who have been in custody
longer than six months. And that doesn't include detainees without criminal
records, such as Florin Cacau.

Meanwhile, the INS this month released the first-ever set of standards for the
care of INS detainees, promising ample recreation time, fewer strip-searches,
cleaner sheets and more consistent separation of nonviolent INS inmates from
violent local offenders. The standards also call for better access to the
outside world, including free phone calls, law libraries and regular
presentations explaining detainee rights.

No one believes that implementing the standards will be easy. And the standards
do not address the biggest barrier to legal representation: jails in the middle
of nowhere.

"We're at the mercy of available space," O'Malley said. "There are things we
wish were different."

Jails that do upgrade their facilities are likely to demand more money. If
Wicomico County has to let every inmate go outside every day, for example, Welch
estimates that instead of $ 50 a day, the INS would have to pay him $ 80.

Next year, Welch hopes to put together some kind of advisory board to promote
public support for his idea to bring more INS detainees to Wicomico County.

"Renting beds is a lucrative business. If I built 500 beds, I could rent them
all tomorrow morning," he said.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              11 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 10, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Reform Timeline Uncertain;
Temporary Worker Plan Seen as Likely

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 813 words


Top U.S. and Mexican officials met yesterday to develop an immigration reform
plan that they said would likely include a temporary guest worker program, but
Mexican officials warned they might not reach agreement in time for President
Vicente Fox's visit here next month.

A temporary worker program that would include ways for some workers to gain
permanent residency remains a possibility, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell
said after he, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft and Immigration and
Naturalization Service Commissioner James W. Ziglar met with Mexican Foreign
Minister Jorge Castaneda and Interior Minister Santiago Creel for about an hour.

But Powell did not mention a legalization plan for some of the estimated 6 to 9
million undocumented people living and working in the United States, a prospect
that in recent months has galvanized labor, business and immigrants rights
groups that believe the time is right for major immigration reform.

Neither side revealed any specifics of a plan officials previously said could be
unveiled during Fox's meeting here with President Bush. In fact, they took pains
to dampen expectations for a rapid conclusion.

A State Department spokesman said details of the plan could take months to
hammer out. And at a briefing yesterday for the Mexican media, the Mexican
ministers tried to lower expectations for a sweeping immigration accord in time
for Fox's visit.

Mexican diplomats had indicated in recent weeks that they hoped for a dramatic
announcement on immigration during the Fox visit. But they declined yesterday to
give any timetable for concrete results.

"There is no hurry," Castaneda told reporters after yesterday's talks, according
to those present. U.S. media were barred from the session by an embassy
spokesman.

According to the Mexican journalists, Castaneda said Fox's visit "isn't a
deadline" and it was more important to reach a good agreement than a quick one.

Powell said the working group is examining options for a temporary worker
program that does not hurt U.S. workers.

"We want to make sure the immigration system does not disadvantage American
workers," he said, with Ashcroft, Castaneda and Creel by his side. "We want a
system that focuses on fairness."

"We want to make sure that migration is safe, legal, orderly and dignified," he
added.

Bush has been considering immigration reform for several months. Mexico, led by
Fox, has been pressing for a way for undocumented workers to earn legal
residency -- green cards -- which would put them on the road to citizenship.

Bush has said any reforms should apply to other immigrant groups and that he
does not favor a blanket amnesty for undocumented workers like the 1986 law that
legalized 2.7 million undocumented people.

The discussions have drawn a mixed reaction among Democratic and Republican
lawmakers. Leading House and Senate Democrats last week announced a set of
"immigration principles" that includes an earned legalization program and a
family reunification plan that would raise ceilings for family and
employment-based visas.

They too believe that reform should apply to all immigrants, regardless of their
country of origin, according to the plan.

Those opposed to granting legal residency to Mexican immigrants now living in
the United States, including Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.), believe it rewards those
who crossed the U.S. border illegally.

Yesterday's meeting was closely watched by immigrant rights groups and labor and
business groups, many of which have said that immigration reform must be
comprehensive.

Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a
pro-immigration group, speculated that Powell and his working group declined to
discuss specifics yesterday because they may be undecided on key issues.

"They seem to be saying . . . that they want to perhaps slow down, get clearer
decisions from the top and consult with members of Congress and key
constituencies," he said. "This is a great opportunity . . . for the Bush
administration, but they're going to have to do their homework and have a stiff
backbone and press forward."

Earlier this week, two key House Republicans announced they would not support
immigration law changes unless the INS is overhauled.

Castaneda met earlier in the day with a dozen members of the Essential Worker
Immigration Coalition, which represents more than 30 trade organizations and
favors comprehensive immigration reform. John F. Gay, the group's co-chairman,
said Castaneda indicated that a guest worker program or legalization alone
wouldn't make it through Congress.

"He told us where things were going with the negotiations and we told him we
wanted a comprehensive approach," Gay said after the meeting at the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce. "I think we're both on the same page."

Staff writer Mary Beth Sheridan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              12 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 19, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Foes Find Platform in Iowa;
National Groups Fight Governor on Recruiting Workers From Abroad

BYLINE: William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1413 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES


A plan by Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack (D) to ease the state's labor shortage by
recruiting foreign workers is being seized upon by several national groups as a
way to turn immigration into a pivotal issue in next year's statewide election.

A coalition of national organizations that back immigration restrictions is
targeting three "model cities" designated by Vilsack last year in an experiment
to recruit 310,000 foreign workers to settle in Iowa over the next decade.
Anti-immigration forces are encouraged by a backlash in largely white areas
where immigrant populations have mushroomed around new meatpacking plants.

Petitions have been circulated in Fort Dodge, Mason City and Marshalltown to
pressure local officials to pull back from pilot programs that were intended to
declare Iowa an "immigration enterprise zone" and even seek a state-specific
exemption from federal immigration quotas.

At public meetings, some residents of the targeted cities have complained that
the plan will take jobs from them, increase crime and other social problems, and
reduce their standard of living. Some of their fears have been reinforced by
such outside groups as ProjectUSA and the Federation for American Immigration
Reform (FAIR), which have provided money and advice to local campaigns against
immigration.

Iowa is one of the least diverse states in the nation. It is 94 percent white.
According to the 2000 Census, Latinos made up 2.8 percent of its population.

The protests have caused Vilsack to backpedal somewhat from his original goals
and say that the three model cities are not required to actively recruit foreign
workers but are merely intended to be "welcoming" to immigrants as part of a
broader strategy that includes keeping young workers in the state and appealing
for the return of those who have left.

For years Iowa has been losing young people, most of them rural. The exodus
intensified in the mid-1980s, when more than 200,000 Iowans left during the
national farm crisis.

In an interview, Vilsack bristled at the notion of anti-immigration groups in
New York and Washington conspiring to influence an Iowa election and predicted
that the groups' attempts to generate a racially tinged backlash would result in
a backlash of their own.

"I don't think Iowans are going to take too kindly to being told by outsiders
how they should think," Vilsack said. "Iowans are perfectly capable of making up
their own minds, and I don't think they want to be told not to be hospitable.
This is the Midwest, and being welcoming is a tradition here."

Vilsack denied that he has backpedaled on recruiting foreign workers and said
that his workforce strategy all along has been merely to "recognize the
inevitable, that people are going to come in from other countries and that it is
in our best interest to be welcoming."

But Paul Westrum, ProjectUSA's Midwest representative, said, "The snowball has
already started to roll, and unless he can do some fancy dancing, he doesn't
stand much chance" of getting reelected next year.

Accusing Vilsack of trying to "turn Iowa into the Ellis Island of the Midwest,"
Westrum said the immigration issue was likely to spill over into the Iowa
congressional races and the reelection bid of Sen. Tom Harkin (D).

He said it is also likely to converge with what he said are growing concerns
here and nationally over the Bush administration's consideration of a proposal
to grant legal residency to 3 million illegal immigrants from Mexico.

In the past year, groups such as ProjectUSA and FAIR have succeeded in raising
their profiles in the midst of what they claim is a revival of the mid-1990s
backlash against "out-of-control immigration" that accompanied debates in
California over restricting social services for undocumented aliens.

The coalition of groups advocating tighter immigration restrictions has mounted
a national billboard and radio advertising campaign warning that "immigration is
doubling the U.S. population in your child's lifetime," and has launched other
awareness efforts.

Craig Nelson, director of New York-based ProjectUSA said, "We want to see it
[immigration] play out in every race next year, and then I'm hoping that the
Bush administration will listen to what people in places like Iowa are saying."

Nelson said Harkin would probably be targeted because of "ties to the cheap
labor lobby" and his vote last year for an amnesty for illegal immigrants and a
1996 vote that effectively expanded immigration.

Dan Stein, executive director of FAIR, said there is a "big divide growing in
Iowa on this issue of how the public feels about the integrity of their
communities." He said Vilsack was, in effect, promoting Iowa's immigration
policy over federal quotas on foreign workers without consulting the people who
would be affected.

"Every time there are wage pressures, the elitists and the corporate interests
that are looking for cheap labor have this high-handed, contemptuous attitude
toward public opinion on immigration, but this time the public is saying,
basically, 'Stick it,' " Stein said. "The attitude is that Americans aren't even
supposed to raise the question about massive immigration."

State Rep. Steve Sukup, a leading candidate in the GOP gubernatorial primary
next year, said that he does not intend to make immigration an issue but that
Vilsack's missteps on immigration policy will be obvious to voters. He said it
won't be any outside group that brings Vilsack down; instead it will be "this
top-down, government-knows-best idea that created this problem for him in the
first place."

Sukup said that while he believes Iowa should welcome immigration, "there are
other strategies we need to look at first," including reversing an outflow of
retirees who are seeking to avoid state taxes on Social Security and pension
benefits and being more aggressive about bringing in economic development funds.

"When you go out and do [immigrant] recruiting, I think you better make sure you
are doing it naturally," Sukup said. He said Vilsack's backpedaling from the
pilot recruitment programs that were launched with fanfare last year is an
indication that the strategy was flawed.

For his part, Vilsack said immigration "won't be a very effective campaign issue
because both parties have expressed a need for greater development of the
workforce."

State Democratic Chairman Sheila McGuire Riggs said she saw irony in outside
groups trying to use workforce recruitment as a wedge against Iowa's first
Democratic governor in 30 years, because the Strategic Planning Group Council
that devised the "population recovery plan" was headed by a Republican and was
loosely based on a 1970s Republican program that recruited Asian immigrants.

"I don't see this as a Democratic or a Republican issue. It's a fear-mongering
issue and I think reasonable people will see that and reject these groups,"
Riggs said.

In the Senate race, the leading contender in the GOP primary to challenge Harkin
is Rep. Greg Ganske. An aide in Ganske's Washington office said he doubted the
campaign would focus on immigration but would focus on such issues as federal
agricultural policy and Ganske's role in enacting a patients' bill of rights.
The aide said Ganske was "generally supportive" of legal immigration to boost
Iowa's declining workforce.

Meanwhile, as both national political parties step up their outreach to Latino
voters and Hispanics are increasingly being elected or appointed to top
government posts in many states, the anti-immigration campaigning here is
disturbing to those who have tried to work for greater acceptance of immigrants.

"It is heartbreaking," said Michelle Soria, executive director of the Iowa
Council for International Understanding, which works on behalf of immigrants.
"Every time we see these attacks we see the faces of the people they are
hurting, and we feel terrible because we know their personal stories and the
hardships they endured to get here."

Soria said such campaigns are "all intended to invoke fear, which is a technique
that ProjectUSA has used before." She said the group came to Iowa last year to
campaign for enactment of an English-only law, an effort that failed in the
state legislature.

"I don't think these people come from very diverse communities and so,
emotionally, they can't feel how hurtful it is when they do this," Soria said.
"I don't even like to talk with [immigrants] about it, because it is so hard for
them to understand."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              13 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 16, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration on Mexican Agenda;
Bush and Fox to Discuss Change in Treatment of Illegal Workers

BYLINE: Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1459 words

DATELINE: TZINTZUNTZAN, Mexico


-- This town knows immigration patterns the way fishermen know the ocean.
People's livelihoods, their new houses, food and clothes for their children, all
depend on them. This winter, what people here noticed was how many Mexicans
illegally in the United States chose to stay there rather than returning for
Christmas with their families.

"Look around. There are not many here this year. It's too dangerous to cross,"
said Guadalupe Rendon, a shopkeeper whose son did not come home from a roofing
job in Manassas, even though he has a wife and two small children in
Tzintzuntzan.

Tzintzuntzan (pronounced Tseen-TSOON-tsahn), an Indian name that means "place of
hummingbirds," is a lakeside town of 3,000 in the hills 150 miles west of Mexico
City -- and more than 650 miles south of the U.S. border. More than most places,
it demonstrates how immigration has hollowed out a large part of Mexico's core.
For every person here, another has left. Conspicuously few young men wander
Tzintzuntzan's narrow streets. Many have crossed deserts, crawled through
sewerage pipes and dodged gun-toting vigilantes to find work in America.

As President Bush comes to Mexico to meet with President Vicente Fox today,
millions of illegal workers in the United States like those from Tzintzuntzan
rank at the top of the agenda, which will also include drug smuggling and free
trade. Mexico views immigration as the most important issue to be discussed.
After their meeting today, Fox and Bush are expected to announce the formation
of a cabinet-level "immigration group" aimed at working out new solutions. The
feeling here is that the United States more than at any time in decades is ready
to negotiate a better deal for its undocumented babysitters, construction
workers, gardeners, office cleaners and fishermen.

Illegal immigration has been a hot issue for years in the United States, which
hosts an estimated 5 million undocumented workers, more than half of whom are
from Mexico. The problem often has been discussed with shrillness and
finger-pointing as critics spoke of threats to the sovereignty of national
borders, undermined wages and jobs robbed from U.S. workers. Those worries have
not disappeared. But as American prosperity soared, the value of these workers
seemed more evident. As a result, the construction, service and agricultural
industries are lobbying Congress for a way to get more of these people into the
United States legally.

Now, there are two new presidents with new ideas. Bush, who saw the issue up
close as governor of Texas, where 30 percent of the population is Hispanic, has
said immigration should be viewed as an opportunity. Fox, who took office Dec.
1, has launched a crusade to get more respect for undocumented Mexican workers
in the United States. He has described them as "heroes" and stood at highway
checkpoints along the border for several days in December shaking migrants'
hands as they returned home for Christmas. Eventually, he says, the border
should allow free passage in both directions.

"The border is already open, to products, merchandise, services, capital," he
said yesterday during an online discussion on washingtonpost.com. "We must have
a long-term vision, coherent with this situation, by constructing step by step
the possibility in the future to open the borders to the free flow of people."

Many Mexican officials want a halt to the construction of border walls and
barbed-wire fences between the two countries. Tightened U.S. security at the
border has been blamed for nearly 400 deaths in the last year as Mexicans try
more dangerous routes, often drowning or dying of dehydration in the desert.
There is also talk in both countries of a new amnesty program to give legal
status to some long-established, tax-paying Mexican workers who live in a
shadowy world -- officially invisible, ripe for abuse by employers, afraid to
report crime or get care from a doctor.

Prominent Democrats and Republicans in Congress are calling for a guest worker
program that would give more Mexicans a limited time to legally work at certain
jobs in the United States. Some of these proposals would affect more than a
quarter-million Mexicans.

Rep. Silvestre Reyes (D-Tex.), chairman of the Hispanic Caucus, is leading a
group of 12 members of Congress here Monday, the latest in a parade of American
officials meeting with Fox. But Reyes, who spent 26 years in the Border Patrol,
said "new thinking" on immigration could evaporate if unemployment rises in the
United States and that the time is ripe for a "comprehensive long-term
strategy."

"No one wants a border that is out of control, where there are no designated
points of entry, where we don't know who is coming in," said Reyes. At the same
time, he said, it makes sense to acknowledge that people "are crossing because
they are hungry or unemployed. These people are not on America's most-wanted
list."

Since the end of World War II, the United States has had a "half open-door
policy" to Mexican immigrants, said Rafael Fernandez de Castro, a member of a
panel of Mexican and American scholars convened by the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace to study ways to recast America's approach to illegal
Mexican immigrants. "It is now time for U.S. policy to be updated, to catch up
with reality," Fernandez said.

Greater prosperity in Mexico is seen as the only long-term solution. There is a
new discussion, led by Fox, to try to get the United States and Canada to help
create more jobs in Mexico. Fox says it is Mexico's primary responsibility to
raise its own standard of living. But he also says his neighbors to the north
have a stake in lending a hand, much as the European Union has done, with richer
nations providing development funds for poorer ones.

Remigio Morales, who is preparing to leave Tzintzuntzan for his fourth illegal
trip to the North, says the crossing is becoming progressively more difficult as
the years go by, leading people to stay longer each time.

"It's so much harder now to get into the United States, but what can I do here?"
said Morales, 28, who has worked most of the past 10 years in Tacoma, Wash. "I
have to go."

It is clear in towns like this that without new decent-paying jobs people like
Morales will continue to head north. "I would love to stay. I didn't want to go
at all when I first left. I was 17. But there was -- and is -- nothing for me
here," he said.

As he talked, on a walk through town past roadside artisans making straw baskets
and pottery, Morales spoke above the dance music rising out of the village's
sole wedding hall. The groom, Morales said, had just returned to marry and would
be leaving again for Tacoma.

Immigration usually follows the easiest path, with friends following cousins
following brothers to beachheads in the north. And Tzintzuntzan has created a
clone in the Tacoma area, where many of the estimated 3,000 people who have
emigrated from here are now working.

Robert V. Kemper, a professor at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, who
has studied migration and the demographic patterns of this town since 1969, said
that until the mid-1980s, many people went to Mexico City for jobs. But then, a
devastating earthquake damaged much of the capital at the same time that tough
economic times descended on the country and the path up north was established,
worn more each year.

Morales first went to the United States in 1990; nine of his brothers and
sisters work there, too. He said his first crossing was easy: a four-hour walk
through a remote area near Tijuana and $ 300 to a "coyote," the guide who brings
illegals across.

His second crossing in 1994 was twice as expensive but required only a walk
through the waters off San Diego. But by 1998 the border had changed completely:
He was arrested three times before making it, once after three nights of walking
in the Arizona desert.

"America does everything it can to keep me out, but when I get in, Americans are
so nice," said Morales, who has tried hard to learn English and educate himself.
"Even an immigration officer, when I was working on his father's patio, said to
me, 'My job is only to stop you from getting in. Once you are here, you are my
friend.' "

Morales said that no amount of fences or patrol agents will keep ambitious
Mexicans from trying to go north to feed their families. In fact, doubling the
number of U.S. agents to 8,800 along the 2,100-mile border has not stopped an
estimated 300,000 Mexicans a year from crossing, although it has cost American
taxpayers billions, yielded 1.5 million annual arrests and led to a dramatic
rise in Mexican deaths.

The main difference the tougher border has made, Morales said, is that he has to
try more times before he succeeds.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              14 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 27, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Magnet for Illegal Immigrants;
Surge in Undocumented Population Swamps Area Service Providers

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and Peter Whoriskey, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1321 words


They are hiding in plain view. At the parking lot off Route 50 in Fairfax
County's Culmore neighborhood, where scores of jeans-clad men cluster seeking
day jobs. At the Latino center in Takoma Park, jammed by Salvadoran immigrants
signing up for a new legal work program. In the capital's restaurant kitchens,
construction sites, day-care centers.

New census data suggest that there are far more undocumented immigrants in the
United States than previously thought, experts say. But if this phantom
workforce has been invisible to policymakers, it hasn't been to many community
workers in the Washington area. Those who teach, counsel and heal low-income
immigrants say they are struggling to help a group that has swelled beyond
official estimates.

"We can't provide all the services to the people. Every day, more and more
people come," said Gustavo Torres, director of Casa de Maryland, a nonprofit
agency in Takoma Park that helps Latino immigrants.

No one knows how many undocumented workers are in the Washington area. A hidden
population by definition is extremely difficult to count. Schools and
social-service agencies rarely ask for evidence of legal residence. But experts
agree that the region, with its thriving service economy and surging communities
of legal immigrants, has become a magnet for undocumented workers in a way that
it wasn't decades ago.

Even crude estimates reflect the region's transformation. Virginia, Maryland and
the District rank in the top 20 in undocumented immigrants, according to 1996
estimates of the 50 states, plus the District, by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Virginia is ninth, with 55,000; Maryland is 12th, with
44,000; and the District ranks 18th with 30,000, the INS estimated.

Rosario Gutierrez, head of the D.C. mayor's office on Latino affairs, said the
city government is pouring millions of dollars into health and education
programs aimed at Latino immigrant families. But she doesn't know how many are
illegal.

"Undocumented people aren't going to say they're undocumented. They send their
kids to school, and no one will know," because it is illegal to ask a student's
immigration status, she said.

But she said the city's Latino population is probably much larger than the
latest Census estimate, from August, of about 38,500. In fact, she said,
community agencies working with immigrants estimate that there are 80,000
Latinos in the District, including legal and illegal immigrants and the native
born. The Census Bureau will release its racial and ethnic population totals for
the District this week.

The theory that there are more undocumented immigrants than previously estimated
has emerged from the 2000 Census, which counted millions more U.S. residents
than the Census Bureau had forecast it would. Census officials believe they
underestimated the immigrant population by up to 3 million people, many of them
undocumented. They hope to have a more conclusive answer by fall.

The factors driving people to emigrate may be as simple as that expressed by
Alex, one of the young workers who gather each morning in several informally
designated parking lots throughout Northern Virginia, waiting to be picked up
for day landscaping or construction jobs.

"There's no money in Guatemala," said Alex, who declined to give his last name.
He interrupted the interview to jump into a truck with an employer who had just
materialized.

Economic decline or warfare at home are among the key "push" factors driving
immigrants to the Washington area. But there are also important "pull" factors:
the region's dynamic economy, which has created thousands of entry-level service
jobs, and the growing communities of foreign-born legal residents.

"We have a critical mass of Latinos here" legally, said Carlos Manjarrez, a
research associate at the Urban Institute who has studied the local Latino
community. "That makes this a site for people [in other countries] to come to,
to rejoin their families, to find the same kind of work their brother found a
few years earlier."

According to INS estimates, the majority of undocumented people are Latinos. But
experts caution that illegal workers in the Washington area aren't all peasants
who sneaked across the Rio Grande.

Nationally, the INS estimates that 40 percent of illegal residents are
"overstayers," who arrived with tourist or student visas, often at entry points
like Reagan National Airport, then remained.

The Washington area is a magnet for such people, who are often more educated and
better off financially than those who came without visas, experts say. The
"overstayers" may have skills needed by the large white-collar economy as well
as contacts in the city's diplomatic and international organizations.

"We're not talking about Guatemalans who are busboys and doing household
domestic chores. These are people who have college and high school degrees and
computer proficiency. They fit more easily into a high-tech service
environment," said Robert D. Manning, a sociologist at the University of Houston
Law School who has studied the immigrant community here.

Such immigrants may be middle-class Argentines working in malls, Irish running
pubs or Indians working in firms that serve the high-tech industry. They are
often less visible than poorer immigrants who may cluster in ethnic
neighborhoods.

Immigrant activists have recently gotten a vivid glimpse of the pool of
undocumented workers in the area. On March 2, after two devastating earthquakes
in El Salvador, President Bush agreed to grant 18-month work permits to
Salvadorans who are in the country illegally. Since then, nonprofit Latino
groups have been inundated by Salvadorans seeking to fill out the paperwork for
the program, known as temporary protected status.

"In the past month, these people have been coming in alarming quantities to
community organizations to legalize," said Torres, of the Casa de Maryland. His
agency, which helps about 15 Salvadorans a day through the process, is so
swamped that applicants must wait until May for an appointment.

Torres said his agency also is struggling to help a growing number of immigrants
-- some of them illegal -- with English classes, legal services and employment
training.

Jorge Figueredo, executive director of the nonprofit Hispanic Committee of
Virginia, said he couldn't estimate the size of the area's undocumented
population. But he said the upswing in Latino immigration overall has
overburdened agencies seeking to help people with affordable housing and
transportation.

"Is this population being served? No. And the reason is that the numbers of
immigrants has been growing so fast," he said.

Some believe the 2000 Census has picked up many more people in part because of
greater efforts to count illegal immigrants. Maria Gomez, who runs Mary's Center
for Maternal and Child Care, a nonprofit agency in the District's Adams-Morgan
neighborhood that aids Latinos, believes many people simply were missed in
earlier counts.

"There was no outreach in the community," she said.

That changed with last year's census. The bureau hired people trusted by
immigrant communities, such as workers at local clinics. Census workers gave
lectures to English as a Second Language classes. They homed in on neighborhoods
where immigrants lived. They approached people as often as possible in their own
language.

And yet, the counters still missed some undocumented residents.

Among those who believe they weren't counted is Eric, a 19-year-old construction
worker from Guatemala who did not give his last name. He was living in a Falls
Church apartment with his brother and five friends when the census form arrived.

None of the seven men were counted, he said, because they threw the form away.

"My friends were afraid that it would cause trouble with immigration," Eric
said. "When the census people called, we said it was in the mail."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              15 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 15, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Illegals Boost Tax Coffers By Millions;
Fear of INS Action Often Keeps Workers From Seeking Refunds

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1642 words


The work-wearied mom slumped over her kitchen table in the Maryland suburbs one
recent night, frowning at the 1040 form and her handful of W-2s. The dreaded
moment had arrived for her, as for millions of Americans.

But Silvia, 33, isn't an American at all. She sneaked into the country in 1989
and lacks a work permit. No matter; the cleaning woman is determined to be a
law-abiding illegal immigrant.

"We live here. We use public services," said Silvia, a woman with dark hair and
chubby cheeks. "We have to pay taxes, even though it hurts."

As the tax season draws to a close Monday, many undocumented workers like Silvia
are paying into public coffers. Largely overlooked in the political furor over
the costs of illegal immigration, such workers appear to be paying billions of
dollars a year in income, property and sales taxes.

The government does not pursue the tax paper trail to illegal immigrants, both
because of privacy laws and a desire that everyone pay his or her taxes. But
evidence of their contributions is popping up all over: from tax-preparation
sessions in the Washington area to the Social Security Administration, which has
been stymied by a mysterious, bulging file of contributions it can't trace.

It might seem odd that undocumented workers contribute to a federal government
they are desperately hiding from. But many have no more choice than legal
employees. That's because those immigrants are "on the books" -- receiving a
paycheck from a restaurant, vegetable grower or construction firm that deducts
taxes.

Many such workers give fake Social Security numbers to employers, who may be so
pressed to fill jobs they don't ask questions, according to government studies
and immigration experts. A thriving industry in phony cards has grown since a
1986 law ordering employers to require such identification.

"The image of the public is that [illegal immigrants] are standing around on the
street as day laborers, getting paid cash," said Barrie A. Peterson, a labor
specialist at Seton Hall University in New Jersey who last year co-wrote a study
of immigrants in that state. His study estimated that half the state's
undocumented workers were, in fact, on the books.

"Undocumented workers have penetrated all industries," Peterson said, listing as
examples construction companies, hotels and convenience stores.

No one knows exactly how much undocumented workers contribute in taxes. Because
the Internal Revenue Service doesn't ask whether taxpayers are legally working,
it has no such tally. But at the Social Security Administration, there is
striking evidence of the multimillion-dollar payments being made by illegal
residents.

The evidence comes from the agency's "suspense file," a record of employee
earnings kicked back by computers, generally because the name or Social Security
number differs from the agency's records.

The file includes such simple mix-ups as people who forget to report their new
married names. But because the file has ballooned in recent years, government
inspectors suspect another source: illegal immigrants who gave their bosses
phony Social Security numbers.

The Social Security Administration believes that such workers "account for a
major portion of suspended wage items," the agency's inspector-general said in a
report issued in January.

How major? No one knows. In 1990, 3.6 million "wage items," or W-2 forms, were
posted to the suspense file, representing workers with $ 1.2 billion in Social
Security contributions that year. In 1998, the latest figure available, nearly
twice as many W-2s were added to the file, with nearly $ 4 billion paid to
Social Security.

Over the eight-year period, the mystery workers were responsible for over $ 20
billion paid in Social Security taxes -- but they got no credit for them.

Bound by law to keep personal information confidential, the Social Security
Administration has rebuffed suggestions that it work with U.S. immigration
authorities to trace how much of the money is from illegal workers.

But the inspector-general's office has found ample clues nonetheless of their
contributions. It found, for example, that nearly half the workers in the
"suspense file" were employed by three industries which reputedly hire many
illegal immigrants -- agriculture, restaurants and bars, and low-skill services
such as janitorial companies.

Homing in on agriculture, the inspectors discovered even more stunning evidence.
For example, at just three farm companies, the inspectors found 11,000 workers
using Social Security numbers that didn't exist. An association representing
more than 1,000 California growers bluntly told inspectors that "90 percent of
the agricultural workforce is illegal," according to the January report. Yet
many were contributing to Uncle Sam.

But even if undocumented workers contribute through payroll deductions just like
legal residents, their tax season may be far more traumatic.

Consider Silvia's experience:

In 1989, the college dropout and her two small children slipped over the Mexican
border into California, where she bought a fake Social Security card. Moving to
the Washington area, she presented the number to her employers over the next
decade: two Burger Kings and several families who hired her to clean their homes
and care for their children.

To the outside world -- the government, employers, her neighbors on the quiet
street of tidy brick homes in Montgomery County -- Silvia appeared to be working
legally. But she has lived in constant fear of discovery and asked a reporter
not to use her last name or other identifying details.

Many undocumented workers whose taxes are automatically deducted don't file an
IRS return, even if they are due a refund, because they fear discovery. But
Silvia has registered with the IRS for an Individual Taxpayer Identification
Number, or ITIN, which is granted to those without a Social Security number.

Some years, Silvia has gotten tax refunds; other times, she wound up paying
hundreds of dollars because insufficient deductions had been taken from her
paychecks.

"It would be easy to not pay," Silvia said in Spanish. "But we think, one day,
we want to improve our situation, to legalize and pay taxes. . . . You look for
a way to do it. But there are barriers because you're undocumented."

Now, Silvia's past is catching up with her.

On a recent night, she sat at her tiny dining set, a table with four unmatched
chairs in a celery-green room, and pored over documents. There is the good news:
her W-2s from last year, which show about $ 15,000 in earnings. Then there is
the bad news: four letters from the Social Security Administration, asking why
her name and Social Security number don't match their files.

"I never answered the letters. What can I say?" she groaned.

Panicked that she will be found out or get her employers in trouble, she has
decided to no longer use her fake ID and to work only for cash. Still, she plans
to keep paying her taxes.

Despite her fears, Silvia has little cause to fear retribution because of her
tax payments, officials say. The IRS maintains confidentiality for all workers'
records. And the government is eager to have everyone pay their taxes -- even
those here illegally.

"We certainly don't want to create a scenario where undocumented aliens are
working in the United States in violation of one federal law, and to compound
that, we establish a mechanism that basically discourages them from paying their
taxes as well," said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Local groups that help low-income people file taxes have seen evidence that
illegal immigrants pay into public coffers. In some cases, they say, workers who
are paid in cash file tax returns, hoping it will eventually help them qualify
for immigration amnesty or a work program. To gain U.S. citizenship, immigrants
must show they have paid their taxes.

In other cases, immigrants who have obtained a work permit turn up with years of
returns that need to be amended to reflect a new, authentic Social Security
number.

"We spent the past year amending returns at a great rate," said Pat Risinger,
manager of the Tess Community Service Center, a Montgomery County agency, noting
that many people hoped to qualify for a program offering some Latin Americans
permanent residence.

Scholars agree that illegal immigrants generally pay much less in taxes than
legal immigrants, who far outnumber them, because they tend to earn less. And
only a minority of those paid in cash are believed to voluntarily pay income
taxes.

But undocumented immigrants' contributions still add up to a significant amount,
because, like other residents, they also pay sales taxes and property taxes,
which are often factored into the rent of a house or apartment.

Donald Huddle, an economist at Rice University, estimated that undocumented
immigrants paid $ 12.6 billion in taxes in 1996. He found, however, that such
immigrants used far more in government services, such as education for their
children.

In fact, scholars have reached widely varying conclusions on the cost
undocumented workers impose on governments, differing on even such basic
assumptions as the number of illegal immigrants. The INS has estimated they
number 6 million, but recent census data suggest there could be up to 50 percent
more.

Some academics believe illegal immigrants are a drain on the government; others
think the costs are limited. The results can depend on whether the study
includes long-term factors, like the eventual earnings of the workers' children.

For immigrants like Silvia, such mathematical gymnastics pale beside the
contortions necessary to work and pay taxes.

"I'm a dignified person. I don't want to cause harm to the people I'm working
for. It's an incredible stress," she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              16 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 15, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Illegals Paying Millions in Taxes;
Most Don't Seek Refunds For Fear of INS Action

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1666 words


The work-wearied mom slumped over her kitchen table in the Maryland suburbs one
recent night, frowning at the 1040 form and her handful of W-2s. The dreaded
moment had arrived for her, as for millions of Americans.

But Silvia, 33, isn't an American at all. She sneaked into the country in 1989
and lacks a work permit. No matter; the cleaning woman is determined to be a
law-abiding illegal immigrant.

"We live here. We use public services," said Silvia, a woman with dark hair and
chubby cheeks. "We have to pay taxes, even though it hurts."

As the tax season draws to a close tomorrow, many undocumented workers like
Silvia are paying into public coffers. Largely overlooked in the political furor
over the costs of illegal immigration, such workers appear to be paying billions
of dollars a year in income, property and sales taxes.

The government does not pursue the tax paper trail to illegal immigrants, both
because of privacy laws and a desire that everyone pay his or her taxes. But
evidence of their contributions is popping up all over: from tax-preparation
sessions in the Washington area to a mysterious, bulging file at the Social
Security Administration -- packed with contributions the agency can't trace.

It might seem odd that undocumented workers contribute to a federal government
they are desperately hiding from. But many have no more choice than legal
employees. That's because those immigrants are "on the books" -- receiving a
paycheck from a restaurant, vegetable grower or construction firm that deducts
taxes.

Many such workers give fake Social Security numbers to employers, who may be so
pressed to fill jobs they don't ask questions, according to government studies
and immigration experts. A thriving industry in phony cards has grown since a
1986 law ordered employers to require such identification.

"The image of the public is that [illegal immigrants] are standing around on the
street as day laborers, getting paid cash," said Barrie A. Peterson, a labor
specialist at Seton Hall University in New Jersey who last year co-wrote a study
of immigrants in that state. His study estimated that half the state's
undocumented workers were, in fact, on the books.

"Undocumented workers have penetrated all industries," Peterson said, listing as
examples construction companies, hotels and convenience stores.

No one knows exactly how much undocumented workers contribute in taxes. Because
the Internal Revenue Service doesn't ask whether taxpayers are legally working,
it has no such tally. But at the Social Security Administration, there is
striking evidence of the multimillion-dollar payments being made by illegal
residents.

The evidence comes from the agency's "suspense file," a record of employee
earnings kicked back by computers, generally because the name or Social Security
number differs from the agency's records.

The file is created by such simple mix-ups as people who forget to report their
new married names. But because the file has ballooned in recent years,
government inspectors suspect another source: illegal immigrants who give their
bosses phony Social Security numbers.

The Social Security Administration believes that such workers "account for a
major portion of suspended wage items," the agency's inspector general said in a
report issued in January.

How major? No one knows. In 1990, 3.6 million "wage items," or W-2 forms, were
posted to the suspense file, representing workers with $ 1.2 billion in Social
Security contributions that year. In 1998, the latest year for which figures are
available, nearly twice as many W-2s were added to the file, with nearly $ 4
billion paid to Social Security.

Over the eight-year period, the mystery workers were responsible for more than $
20 billion paid in Social Security taxes -- but they received no credit for
them. Their payments have helped contribute to the system's surplus, which will
reach $ 2.5 trillion by 2011, it is estimated.

Bound by law to keep personal information confidential, the Social Security
Administration has rebuffed suggestions that it work with U.S. immigration
authorities to trace how much of the money is from illegal workers.

But the inspector general's office has found ample clues nonetheless of their
contributions. It found, for example, that nearly half the workers in the
"suspense file" were employed by three industries which are believed to hire
many illegal immigrants -- agriculture, restaurants and bars, and low-skill
services such as janitorial companies.

Homing in on agriculture, inspectors discovered even more stunning evidence. For
example, at just three farm companies, inspectors found 11,000 workers using
Social Security numbers that didn't exist. An association representing more than
1,000 California growers bluntly told inspectors that "90 percent of the
agricultural workforce is illegal," according to the January report. Yet many
were contributing to Uncle Sam.

But even if undocumented workers contribute through payroll deductions just like
legal residents, their tax season may be far more traumatic.

Consider Silvia's experience:

In 1989, the college dropout and her two young children slipped over the Mexican
border into California, where she bought a fake Social Security card. She
presented the number to her employers in the Washington area over the next
decade: two Burger Kings and several families who hired her to clean their homes
and care for their children.

To the outside world -- the government, employers, her neighbors on the quiet
street of tidy brick homes in Montgomery County -- Silvia appears to be working
legally. But she has lived in constant fear of discovery and asked a reporter
not to use her last name or other identifying details.

Many undocumented workers whose taxes are automatically deducted don't file an
IRS return, even if they are due a refund, because they fear discovery. But
Silvia has registered with the IRS for an Individual Taxpayer Identification
Number, or ITIN, which is granted to those without a Social Security number.

Some years, Silvia has gotten tax refunds; other times, she wound up paying
hundreds of dollars because insufficient deductions had been taken from her
paychecks.

"It would be easy to not pay," Silvia said in Spanish. "But we think, one day,
we want to improve our situation, to legalize and pay taxes. . . . You look for
a way to do it. But there are barriers because you're undocumented."

Now, Silvia's past is catching up with her.

On a recent night, she sat at her tiny dining set, a table with four unmatched
chairs in a celery-green room, and pored over documents. There is the good news:
her W-2s from last year, which show about $ 15,000 in earnings. Then there is
the bad news: four letters from the Social Security Administration, asking why
her name and Social Security number don't match their files.

"I never answered the letters. What can I say?" she groaned.

Panicked that she will be found out or get her employers in trouble, she has
decided to no longer use her fake ID and to work only for cash. Still, she plans
to keep paying her taxes.

Despite her fears, Silvia has little cause to fear retribution because of her
tax payments, officials say. The IRS maintains confidentiality for all workers'
records. And the government is eager to have everyone pay their taxes -- even
those here illegally.

"We certainly don't want to create a scenario where undocumented aliens are
working in the United States in violation of one federal law, and to compound
that, we establish a mechanism that basically discourages them from paying their
taxes as well," said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Local groups that help low-income people file taxes have seen evidence that
illegal immigrants pay into public coffers. In some cases, they say, workers who
are paid in cash file tax returns, hoping it will eventually help them qualify
for immigration amnesty or a work program. To gain U.S. citizenship, immigrants
must show they have paid their taxes.

In other cases, immigrants who have obtained a work permit turn up with years of
returns that need to be amended to reflect a new, authentic Social Security
number.

"We spent the past year amending returns at a great rate," said Pat Risinger,
manager of the Tess Community Service Center, a Montgomery County agency, noting
that many people hoped to qualify for a program offering some Latin Americans
permanent residence.

Scholars agree that illegal immigrants generally pay much less in taxes than
legal immigrants, who far outnumber them, because they tend to earn less. And
only a minority of those paid in cash are believed to voluntarily pay income
taxes.

But undocumented immigrants' contributions still add up to a significant amount,
because, like other residents, they also pay sales taxes and property taxes,
which are often factored into the rent of a house or apartment.

Donald Huddle, an economist at Rice University, estimated that undocumented
immigrants paid $ 12.6 billion in taxes in 1996. He found, however, that such
immigrants used far more in government services, such as education for their
children.

In fact, scholars have reached widely varying conclusions on the cost
undocumented workers impose on governments, differing on even such basic
assumptions as the number of illegal immigrants. The INS has estimated they
number 6 million, but recent census data suggest there could be up to 50 percent
more.

Some academics believe illegal immigrants are a drain on the government; others
think the costs are limited. The results can depend on whether the study
includes long-term factors, like the eventual earnings of the workers' children.

For immigrants like Silvia, such mathematical gymnastics pale beside the
contortions necessary to work and pay taxes.

"I'm a dignified person. I don't want to cause harm to the people I'm working
for. It's an incredible stress," she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              17 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 25, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Weighing Plan for Mexican Guest Workers

BYLINE: Dan Eggen and Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 755 words


President Bush is considering a modified proposal that would grant legal
residency to some of the millions of Mexicans now living illegally in the United
States, a plan that raised hopes among immigration advocates yesterday but
prompted a mixed response on Capitol Hill.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General John D. Ashcroft
recommended the limited legalization effort in a confidential two-page
memorandum sent to the White House late last week, officials said.

The two Cabinet officers, who are working with Mexican officials as part of a
joint immigration working group, recommended that Bush consider a new temporary
worker program that would include ways for some workers to gain permanent
residency status, according to White House spokesman Scott McClellan.

The details and ground rules of the plan have not been worked out, McClellan
said. But immigration experts said such a proposal could encompass half the
total illegal Mexican population in the United States, now estimated at 3
million to 4 million people.

"The president is considering the recommendation, but no decision has been
made," McClellan said. "We are continuing to work with Mexico on our shared goal
of a more humane, orderly, legal and safe migration into the United States."

The new plan, first reported in yesterday's editions of the New York Times, is
significantly more limited than another proposal floated last week, which would
have granted legal status to all undocumented Mexicans living in the United
States. White House officials have also said that Bush is opposed to an
"unconditional amnesty" of the sort granted by Congress in 1986, which gave
legal status to an estimated 3 million undocumented immigrants.

But experts said the latest proposal, combined with immigration reform efforts
in Congress, would mark a dramatic restructuring of U.S. immigration policy,
particularly as it relates to Mexico.

The Bush administration also has caught Democrats by surprise in attempting to
seize an issue that could help the GOP woo Hispanic and immigrant voters.

The immigration discussion is part of a broader dialogue between the Bush
administration and Mexican President Vicente Fox, who has publicly endorsed the
idea of an amnesty. Yesterday Ashcroft announced a series of initiatives with
Mexico aimed at curbing organized crime and the drug trade. The moves include
assigning a Mexican prosecutor to the U.S. Justice Department and a U.S.
prosecutor to the office of Mexico's attorney general.

Bush is expected to announce a final decision on the residency proposal by early
September, when he and Fox are scheduled to meet next, officials said.

"There's a real possibility of a strong bipartisan effort that changes the way
immigration is done in the United States," said Cecilia Munoz, a vice president
at the National Council of La Raza, a Latino advocacy organization. "It gives
President Bush a chance to stand up to the small but vocal anti-immigrant part
of his party. That's what's been driving immigrants to the Democrats in droves."

But the idea has prompted mixed reactions on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers are
already discussing possibilities for a new agricultural guest worker program.

Some lawmakers view the residency idea as too radical, while many Democrats --
including Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) and House Minority
Leader Richard A. Gephardt (D-Mo.) -- complain it does not go far enough because
it excludes immigrants from countries other than Mexico.

Daschle spokeswoman Anita Dunn said his position "is that if we're going to
undertake a legalization program, which he supports, it should not be limited to
a single country." She said Daschle "believes there is bipartisan support for a
broader legalization program" in the Senate.

But Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.) criticized the efforts in a speech Monday,
saying they send "exactly the wrong message" about obeying the law and seeking
legal immigration.

Byrd said he supported the 1986 amnesty. "Consequently, illegal immigration
jumped from an estimated 5 million illegals in 1986 to somewhere between 7
million and 13 million illegals today," not including those who were granted
amnesty in 1986, he said. "We should not repeat our earlier mistakes."

One of the fiercest critics of amnesty on Capitol Hill is Sen. Phil Gramm
(R-Tex.). Spokesman Larry Neal said Gramm strongly supports creation of a guest
worker program, but "the senator views amnesty as an old failed program we don't
want to repeat."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              18 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    December 4, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

Deal Sought on Illegal Farm Labor; Hill Plan Would Let 1 Million Foreign Workers
Stay Here

Bart Jansen , Associated Press Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 652 words


It's no secret the agriculture industry is utterly dependent on illegal foreign
workers, but for years lawmakers have been unable to agree on a way to curb the
flow of illegals without harming the farmers who need them.

Now a compromise plan has emerged in Congress that would allow as many as 1
million illegal farm employees to stay in the country permanently and add
perhaps 1 million more foreigners temporarily through an expanded visa program.

"The current system is broken, and this compromise takes the first steps to fix
it," said Anthony Bedell, a lobbyist for the American Nursery and Landscape
Association.

It's unclear whether a lame-duck Congress that returns this week will want to
tackle such a difficult issue, though those who worked on the plan are hopeful.

"We remain cautiously optimistic," said Sen. Bob Graham (D-Fla.), one of the
lead negotiators.

Texas Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R), chairman of the House Judiciary's immigration
panel, is critical of efforts to let illegal immigrants stay.

"Providing green cards to people who are already here amounts to an amnesty, and
the chairman absolutely opposes amnesty," said John Lampmann, Smith's chief of
staff.

Smith supports expanding the visa program, but the Clinton administration has
threatened to veto a bill that did only that. Advocates hope a compromise
involving both visas and green cards will win White House approval.

Earlier this year, Congress nearly doubled the number of visas for foreign
high-tech workers--to 195,000 a year--after high-tech companies complained about
acute labor shortages. Critics say it is unfair for Congress to help those
companies while ignoring the plight of farmers.

More than half the country's 2 million farm workers acknowledged in 1998 that
they were here illegally, according to a Congressional Research Service survey
released in March, leading industry experts to conclude the actual figure is
much higher.

Farmers say they walk a line between bankruptcy and committing a crime because
of their reliance on illegal labor, said Kerry Whitson, a plum farmer and
president of the Tulare County Farm Bureau in California. Wages in the depressed
farm economy fail to attract domestic workers, he said.

"You try to determine who is legal and who is not," he said. "It becomes so
fraught with fraudulent documentation, that becomes a nightmare in itself."

The H-2A visa program allows foreigners to work on farms as many as 10 months a
year at a federally calculated wage rate in housing that farmers must provide.

Critics say the program allows unscrupulous employers to abuse workers by
threatening to have them deported if they demand better wages or conditions.
Marcos Camacho, general counsel for United Farm Workers of America, has compared
the program to "indentured servitude."

Farmers also complain about the program. The cumbersome application process
takes months, which farmers say is too long for them to wait when they need
laborers quickly to respond to sudden weather changes that alter planting and
harvesting schedules.

Despite complaints, the number of workers covered by the visas has grown from
15,000 in 1996 to nearly 42,000 in 1999, according to the Labor Department.

The compromise plan would shorten the visa application process from months to
days. Now, U.S. inspectors investigate farmers to ensure they will pay adequate
wages and provide housing before issuing visas. The bill would let farmers
obtain visas by promising to adhere to federal laws. Those who do not would be
fined.

The proposal also would freeze the wages visa holders earn for three years.
Farmers complain the average wages now required are too high because the formula
used to calculate them includes non-farm jobs.

Illegal workers who can show they worked at least 100 days in agriculture in the
last 18 months would be allowed to pursue a green card.


LOAD-DATE: December 04, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              19 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Smuggling People Is Now Big Business in Mexico

BYLINE: Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1226 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY May 16


Immigrant smuggling on the U.S.-Mexico border, once dominated by local "coyotes"
charging relatively small sums to guide Mexicans into the United States, has
become a multibillion-dollar industry increasingly controlled by large,
well-organized syndicates.

Officials in Mexico and the United States say the evolution of the smuggling
industry along the 2,100-mile border has come largely in response to more
aggressive U.S. efforts to control illegal immigration. Since 1994, those
efforts have included doubling the number of U.S. Border Patrol guards, to
8,800, new triple fences, infrared night scopes, underground sensors and klieg
lights to illuminate potential crossing points.

As the odds of being caught have climbed, smugglers' fees have risen
dramatically, from about $ 300 a person a few years ago to between $ 1,500 and $
2,000. Most of the 1.6 million Mexicans apprehended by the Border Patrol last
year -- and an unknown number of others who got through -- are believed to have
paid the higher fees charged under the new border math.

Mexican officials recently formed a special intelligence unit to target human
smuggling and are investigating at least two dozen human smuggling gangs. Felipe
de Jesus Preciado Coronado, head of Mexico's National Immigration Institute,
said in an interview that the government has identified at least 57 organized
smuggling bands.

President Bush and his Mexican counterpart, Vicente Fox, have vowed to work
together to create new mechanisms to control legal immigration. Both leaders say
they want to reduce illegal immigration, which puts the lives of millions of
poor Mexicans at risk and turns them into prey for profiteers along both sides
of the border.

"We are seeing trends we never saw in the past," said Jim Chaparro, head of the
anti-smuggling office at the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS).
He said the once small and informal smuggling business has evolved into a
powerful web of "literally hundreds of syndicates, some at a low level and some
at the kingpin level."

Interviews with more than 20 immigration specialists on both sides of the border
suggest that small-scale coyotes are still active but that as human smuggling
has become more difficult, gangs have become more organized and wealthy.
Increasingly, they have members on both sides of the border. They also
occasionally employ people solely to get arrested, taking the time and attention
of U.S. border officials so that high-paying customers can sneak across.

The equipment used by coyotes -- a flashlight for a nighttime wade across the
Rio Grande -- has been replaced by encrypted radios, cell phones that are
discarded and changed every few hours, and the Internet. Smugglers communicate
across the border by radio or e-mail, signaling movements of U.S. patrol agents
or the arrival of a new batch of people preparing to cross.

The smuggling groups that charge the most offer more sophisticated services,
including computer-generated fake documents or stolen valid visas and passports,
which help people waltz through U.S. entry gates without having to attempt
dangerous desert crossings. Others offer inventive ways to be driven across.
Recently arrested smugglers, for instance, had installed benches inside a diesel
tank truck. Others had squeezed people into portable toilets being carried on
trucks.

Of particular worry is a deeper smuggling network inside the United States,
including drop houses where immigrants are kept, often against their will, until
they pay off smuggling fees. Gustavo Lopez Castro, a Mexican sociologist who has
interviewed many smugglers, said they range from part-timers to "gangs and
gangsters using beepers and cell phones, airports and buses."

"Now they buy airline tickets for these people and give them clothes when they
cross the border," Lopez said.

He said one smuggling ring he saw put illegal Chinese immigrants on tour buses
in Mexico so they appeared to be tourists. He said the group had contacts in the
United States, Europe and Asia.

That is further evidence that the organizations are increasingly helping
non-Mexicans illegally enter the United States. About 28,000 people from Syria,
Poland, Russia and China and a list of other non-Latin countries were
apprehended last year on the border, according to the INS. In the early 1990s,
that number was generally around 16,000 a year.

Mexican officials said that along the U.S. border in the state of Baja
California last year, illegal immigrants from 40 countries were apprehended.
Preciado said Mexican immigration officials recently caught a South Korean
smuggler taking illegal Chinese immigrants across the border and an Ecuadoran
smuggler taking across people from Central America.

"When you look at the border, it looks like a large pilgrimage," he said.

Migrants from Asia and Europe pay far more than Mexicans -- upwards of $ 50,000
-- to get into the United States.

"The flow of illegals has become much more organized, and that has opened the
opportunity for these [smuggling] groups to market their services to
non-Mexicans," said Armand Peschard-Sverdrup, director of the Mexico project at
the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies.

U.S. officials say some human smuggling groups are starting to mirror the
structure and methods of drug smugglers. Just as rival drug gangs often steal
from one another, Chaparro said, "gangs are ripping off aliens [from other
smugglers] and holding aliens captive until they sell them to a buyer." The
buyer is usually a relative or an employer.

In the past, studies found no links between drug smugglers and human smugglers.
That was believed to be a key reason, along with the fact that coyotes were
generally not well organized, that law enforcement resources were far more
focused on drug smuggling. But Chaparro said he believes there is a "a lot of
overlap." Aware that U.S. courts tend to dole out far stiffer penalties for
importing drugs than smuggling people, he said, "a lot of drug smugglers have
turned to alien smuggling."

Robert Harris, associate director of the U.S. Border Patrol, said some groups do
not care what they smuggle as long as it pays well.

The United States has busted several smuggling rings recently. The FBI in Los
Angeles earlier this month announced the arrest of 11 people on charges of
running a human smuggling ring that brought hundreds of Ukrainians across the
Mexican border into California.

According to that indictment, these smugglers recruited people in Kiev and flew
them to Mexico, providing them with valid Mexican visas and some training in
English. Many crossed on foot or by boat near Tijuana. They were each charged $
7,000 or more and some were put on flights to jobs in U.S. cities.

Smugglers also are now more likely to be armed and violent. There have been many
cases in Mexico of coyotes robbing and raping their customers or abandoning them
before they ever reach the border. In the past year, on a stretch of the border
near Tucson, 100 incidents of violence against the Border Patrol have been
recorded.

"As the stakes have gone higher, alien smugglers have gotten much more
desperate," said the U.S. ambassador to Mexico, Jeffrey Davidow. "There is more
money and drugs involved and more violence against the Border Patrol. . . . It's
pretty dangerous up there."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              20 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 21, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 433 words


EL PASO -- A man suspected of smuggling immigrants escaped authorities yesterday
by grabbing a 2-year-old boy and fleeing into a storm tunnel.

Border Patrol agents were approaching the man, who was suspected of smuggling
the immigrants across the U.S.-Mexican border, when he fled into the city's
drainage system, authorities said.

They searched the tunnels with a tracking dog but could not find the suspect or
the boy, said Robert Cordero, a Border Patrol spokesman.

The man had been traveling with seven immigrants, including the boy's mother, a
Guatemalan woman. All seven were arrested.

Officials said they are treating the case as a kidnapping because the woman did
not give the man permission to flee with her son, Alfredo Anderson.

* GARFIELD, N.J. -- A passenger train packed with about 400 rush-hour commuters
derailed and tipped onto its side in northern New Jersey, injuring 27 people, at
least six whom were treated at hospitals, authorities said.

* LOS ANGELES -- A man who made a desperate call to authorities, saying he was
trapped upside-down in his car somewhere in Los Angeles on Tuesday night, was
still missing as rescuers searched frantically for him and police insisted they
did not believe the call was a hoax.

* DALLAS -- The mother of an 8-year-old girl found locked in a closet and
malnourished has agreed to relinquish her parental rights so the girl can be
placed with a couple who tried to adopt her at birth. Barbara Atkinson's
attorney said in a statement that Atkinson would voluntarily give up her rights
to her daughter, Lauren, in favor of Bill and Sabrina Kavanaugh, if the action
is approved by a judge and Child Protective Services.

* SAN DIEGO -- Authorities found the remains of a baby boy and four fetuses that
likely were tossed onto U.S. soil over a 12-foot fence along the Mexican border,
police said. The fetuses were discovered in a white plastic trash bag, and the
body of the baby was found in a plastic container nearby, said San Diego police
Lt. Jim Hunter.

* HOUSTON -- Three people were killed in a fire that swept through a house with
burglar bars blocking the windows. Shirley Stoneham, 65; her brother, Eddie
Scott, 70; and her 42-year-old son, Horace Stoneham, were killed. Horace
Stoneham's wife, 44-year-old Fredricka, was critically injured.

* WICHITA -- Deputy Sheriff Robert Burkhead grabbed a suicidal woman as she
leapt from a 45-foot-high bridge, but they both went over and dangled by the
officer's hand for several seconds before he swung her to the safety of deep
water as she slipped away.

From news services

and staff reports

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              21 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 26, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Cracks Down in West; Agency Targets Immigrants Smuggled by Air

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Aug. 25


An immigration service crackdown focusing on airports and immigrant "drop
houses" in Phoenix and Las Vegas has led to the arrest of 15 suspected smugglers
and the capture of more than 1,000 illegal immigrants, officials said today.

Immigration and Naturalization Service agents began round-the-clock surveillance
two weeks ago of Phoenix's Sky Harbor International Airport and Las Vegas's
McCarran International Airport to counter smuggling networks that use airlines
to send immigrants to the East Coast and Midwest.

Since then, officials have noticed a decline in illegal immigrants trying to go
through both airports and an increase in the numbers traveling by car through
Colorado, said Russell Ahr, an assistant to the director of the Phoenix INS
district.

Since the operation began Aug. 9, INS agents have caught 524 illegal immigrants
at Sky Harbor, 690 at McCarran and 238 at eight drop houses in the Phoenix area.
Drop houses are staging areas where smugglers hold immigrants until they pay to
be moved on.

Ahr said most of those caught were Mexicans who have since been returned to
Mexico. About 20 have been kept in the United States as witnesses against the
smugglers, who are in federal custody.

But some human rights groups have complained that the crackdown will increase
racial profiling of innocent travelers. "Brown-skinned people who can't speak
English very well" will be targeted, said Israel Garcia, founder of Coalicion de
Derechos Humanos, or Coalition for Human Rights.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              22 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 13, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

High Court to Hear Cases on Deportation Appeals

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 503 words


The Supreme Court agreed yesterday to decide whether long-time legal immigrants
to the United States can be deported without legal recourse if they had
committed a serious crime in the past.

A ruling on the issue is due by summer and could affect several thousand pending
cases.

In 1996, Congress, newly under Republican control, sought to crack down on
immigrants -- including those who were in the United States legally -- by
restricting government benefits and making it easier to deport those who commit
crimes.

Immigrants who committed aggravated felonies, such as drug dealing, forfeited
their right to live in the United States, congressional leaders said. Such
criminals should not be allowed to tie up the courts with legal claims, they
added.

The new law closed the courthouse door to those who wanted to challenge their
forced removal from the United States. But immigrants' rights lawyers have been
fighting this "court stripping" provision and have been winning in many parts of
the nation.

They also say that it is unfair to apply a harsh, new automatic deportation rule
to people who pleaded guilty to crimes before the provision became law.

Before 1996, a longtime legal resident who was not a U.S. citizen could be
deported for committing a crime. However, many such persons obtained leniency if
they could show the Immigration and Naturalization Service that, for example,
they had a job and a family in the United States and had lived here productively
for years.

But the 1996 law canceled the authority of the INS to grant these so-called
"waivers" of deportation for "criminal aliens."

Now, the Supreme Court will consider whether these legal immigrants can even go
to court to challenge the unfairness of applying the new law retroactively.

"This is a fundamental issue of whether the INS can act as judge, jury and
executioner, so to speak, in an immigration case," said Lucas Guttentag, an
attorney for the Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties
Union.

He argued that the Constitution gives all persons a right to go to court and ask
a judge to hear their claims. Most lower courts have agreed, and some have ruled
that anyone can ask for a judge's help by filing a writ of habeas corpus.

Appealing to the Supreme Court, lawyers for the INS said that allowing judges to
hear these claims "could lead to significant delays in the removal of criminal
aliens from the United States."

In one case, a Haitian man, Enrico St. Cyr, was lawfully admitted to the United
States in 1986 but convicted of selling a hallucinogen about 10 years later. In
a second case, Deb Calcano-Martinez, a Dominican native, had been in the United
States legally since she was 3 years old and is the mother of four children. She
pleaded guilty in a New York court to selling an illegal drug, also early in
1996.

In both cases, the U.S. court of appeals in New York said they can go before a
federal trial judge to argue that it is unfair to apply the new automatic
deportation rule to them.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              23 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 21, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Asylum Awaits Liberian Detained Six Years

BYLINE: Dan Malone, Dallas Morning News

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: DALLAS Jan. 20


Jimmy Johnson came to the United States more than six years ago from his
war-torn homeland of Liberia seeking refuge. He was jailed immediately, and
there he has remained, trapped because neither of the countries would take him.

On Monday, he finally is expected to be free.

The Board of Immigration Appeals this month halted efforts by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to deport him, clearing the way for his release from
a Pennsylvania prison.

"This will end his ordeal," said his attorney, Visuvanathan Rudrakumaran of New
York.

Johnson is one of the longest, if not the longest, held asylum-seekers in INS
custody.

In a telephone interview from the York County, Pa., prison, Johnson said his
release "will be just like my first breath of air in the U.S."

The INS took Johnson into custody in September 1994, the day he arrived in the
United States and told officials that he was using a bogus passport because
Liberian officials had confiscated his.

Johnson's plight, documented in a 1,800-page INS file obtained under the Freedom
of Information Act, was first reported last year. His detention has since been
denounced as abusive by Amnesty International.

Immigration officials detain tens of thousands of foreigners who enter the
country illegally each year or who violate U.S. laws. Most, however, are jailed
only briefly, then deported or released.

Johnson was never convicted of a crime in this country. His detention, however,
seemed to stretch indefinitely as Liberia refused to accept him and the INS
refused to release him in the United States.

On Friday, INS officials said they were awaiting confirmation that Johnson had a
sponsor and a place to live before deciding whether to release him.

But one of Johnson's sponsors, Gregg Heilman, said that the agency told him that
Johnson would be released Monday. An INS official "just said you bring proper
identification, sign a few forms, and be on your way," said Heilman, who
befriended Johnson five years ago while participating in his church's prison
ministry. Heilman said that his church, Bethel Bible Fellowship of Allentown,
Pa., is helping prepare a room in his 77-year-old mother's house for Johnson to
live in.

Johnson initially plans to spend time with the Heilmans and hopes one day to use
his experiences with the INS to help others.

He was ordered released by an immigration judge in 1999. But the INS appealed
that ruling to the Board of Immigration Appeals, and Johnson remained behind
bars while his case was reviewed.

The board agreed last week that the judge was correct in halting efforts to
return Johnson to Liberia, concluding that he likely "will be tortured upon his
return."

Johnson, 37, has said he was forced into a guerrilla army that planted bombs and
engaged in skirmishes for 18 months in Liberia's civil war. Turmoil in the West
African nation has killed thousands, displaced half of the country's 3 million
residents and ruined its infrastructure.

Disgusted with a war that he considered immoral, Johnson plotted an escape with
a bogus passport.

Immigration officials opposed releasing Johnson because they said they could not
confirm his identity. U.S. immigration officials have said that members of the
Liberian government have maintained that he is not a citizen of that country.

The INS is not permitted to appeal the immigration board ruling in federal
court, a board spokesman said.

During his incarceration, Johnson has battled despair.

"I don't know sometimes how long I've been here because I don't like to count
the numbers," he said.

Johnson said he doesn't know what has happened to friends and family back home.
But he said the friends he has made among other prisoners and prison ministry
volunteers such as Heilman have kept his spirit from being crushed.

"I have lifted up my soul to know how to handle this situation," Johnson said.
"I've learned a lot of lessons while I've been in here."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              24 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 28, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Reno Made 11th-Hour Asylum Decisions;
Panel's Denial of Guatemalan's Bid Overturned and Ruling on Algerian Stayed

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 412 words


In two eleventh-hour actions on immigration cases, Attorney General Janet Reno
overturned an immigration board's 1999 decision to deny asylum to a severely
battered Guatemalan woman and indefinitely stayed a similar decision to grant
asylum to an Algerian Islamic leader who was held for years under a
controversial secret-evidence law, officials said.

Reno, acting just hours before she left office Jan. 20, ordered the immigration
board to reconsider the case of Rodi Alvarado, who fled to the United States and
sought refuge from savage beatings by her husband, a former Guatemalan soldier,
said Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Bill Strassberger.

She said the board should take up the case after final passage of a new rule
proposed last month by the INS that would make it easier for immigrant women to
justify claims of gender-based persecution.

"This was as bad as it gets -- being dragged all over the house, bloodied,
raped," said immigration lawyer Michael Maggio.

Alvarado has been living in the United States while her appeal and a review of
the case by Reno were underway.

The proposed rule change allows victims of domestic violence to be considered
members of a "social group," one of five categories in U.S. immigration law --
along with religion, race, nationality and political beliefs. There is no
statistic on the number of asylum seekers who applied last year because of
domestic violence, but the total for people persecuted because of membership in
a social group numbered a few hundred, officials said.

In the second case, Reno indefinitely stayed an immigration board's decision to
grant asylum to Anwar Haddam, an exiled Algerian Islamic leader freed last month
after being held for more than four years in a Virginia jail on the basis of
secret evidence, Strassberger said. Neither Haddam nor his lawyer has been given
access to the secret evidence.

The INS has been seeking Haddam's deportation on the grounds that he had
ordered, incited, assisted or otherwise participated in the persecution of
others in his native Algeria, which is in the midst of a civil war.

Haddam was kept in detention for more than three years, then given asylum in May
in what the INS days later called a mistake, revoking it. He was granted asylum
anew by a judge in December and released from jail.

Reno reviewed the decision to grant asylum and stayed it, then extended that
stay on Jan. 19. The Bush administration has inherited the case.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              25 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 21, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

High Court To Consider Criminals Held by INS;
Some Noncitizens Can't Be Deported

BYLINE: Charles Lane, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1141 words

DATELINE: YORK, Pa.


In 1979, 6-year-old Tuanh Tang, accompanied by his parents and eight other
family members, fled Communist Vietnam by sea. Eventually, like thousands of
other "boat people," the Tangs came to the United States legally, as refugees.

Most of the Tangs obeyed the law in their new country, but Tuanh Tang, now 28,
has been in trouble much of his adult life. His convictions range from
possession of a small amount of drugs to passing a bad check, according to his
attorney, Troy Mattes. In 1992, he cut someone with a knife during a barroom
brawl.

For that act, Tang served 2 1/2 years in a Pennsylvania prison. Immigration law
mandates that noncitizen felons be deported to their countries of origin; last
Nov. 7, the Immigration and Naturalization Service ordered Tang sent back to
Vietnam.

But Vietnam, still ruled by Communists, has never agreed to accept Vietnam-born
criminals expelled from the United States.

As a result, Tang finds himself detained by the INS inside the dun-colored walls
of the York County Prison. Even though he has done his time for his criminal
convictions -- and even though the INS cannot say when, if ever, it will be able
to deport him. Nothing in current law prevents the INS from keeping him locked
up indefinitely, if it believes that Tang might endanger society or try to flee.

Tang concedes that he has forfeited his right to live in the United States and
that the government will send him to a country he barely remembers if it gets
the chance. Still, he insists he is trying to go straight. He has a fiancee and
three small children on the outside -- all of whom are U.S. citizens.

"I want to at least spend as much time with them as possible before I leave," he
said in a telephone interview from prison.

Today the Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in a case that could influence
the fate of Tuanh Tang and other INS-detained "lifers" -- immigrants whose past
illegal conduct in the United States means they must be deported, but who, for
one reason or another, cannot be.

The INS estimates that there are 2,700 such people confined across the country
and that their ranks are slowly increasing. Their predicament, the product of
shifting immigration policies, individual biographies, Cold War-era refugee
flows and international politics, illustrates the often complicated scenarios
and moral tradeoffs that underlie the abstract legal issues the justices
consider.

Immigrant rights advocates argue that the Constitution forbids potentially
indefinite INS detention of people who, though not citizens, have lived
substantial periods of their lives in the United States. That would be like
punishing someone without giving him due process of law, the groups say.

The federal government argues that the INS needs broad authority to detain
deportable people in order to preserve U.S. national sovereignty and protect
public safety. These competing claims are before the Supreme Court because lower
federal courts have been unable to agree on how to sort them out.

Felons from Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia account for 1,100 of the 2,700 deportable
criminal immigrants in custody, according to the INS. Many of the others hail
from Cuba or newly independent former Soviet republics.

The first major case involved Kim Ho Ma, a Cambodian refugee who came to the
United States in 1985 and participated in an ambush of a fellow gang member in
Seattle 10 years later. He served 38 months for first-degree manslaughter and
was ordered deported. But Cambodia, like Vietnam, has no repatriation agreement
with the United States.

Last year, the San Francisco-based 9th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a
district court's order that Ma should be released, ruling that the immigration
statutes do not authorize the INS to hold people pending deportation more than a
"reasonable time" beyond the 90 days specifically allowed by federal immigration
law.

If "there is no reasonable likelihood that a foreign government will accept [an]
alien's return in the reasonably foreseeable future," the court said, the INS
must let him go.

The Ma ruling conflicted with the result in the case of Kestutis Zadvydas,
described by his lawyers as "a citizen of no country."

Zadvydas was born to Lithuanian parents in a refugee camp in U.S.-occupied
Germany in 1948. He came to the United States in 1956 and spent much of his life
either in jail or as a fugitive. After serving two years on a cocaine charge,
Zadvydas was ordered deported in 1994. But neither Germany nor Lithuania would
claim him as a citizen, and Zadvydas spent four years in various jails before a
federal district judge ordered him released.

In 1999, the New Orleans-based 5th Circuit Court of Appeals reversed that order.
A three-judge panel unanimously held that Zadvydas's situation was legally
analogous to that of an illegal immigrant detained at the border, and that his
individual rights were therefore trumped by the government's interest in
regulating the flow of people in and out of the United States.

Zadvydas remains free on bond.

Lawyers on both sides of the case agree that the justices' decision could hinge
on what they think of the INS's recent efforts to mitigate the potential for
indefinite detention. Concerned both about litigation and the $ 75 a day cost of
keeping a deportable immigrant in prison, the INS instituted a new process in
1999 that allows "lifers" to ask INS officers to review their cases every six
months.

Under the policy, those who can show by "clear and convincing" evidence that
they are no longer a threat to society and that they will not try to evade the
INS may be released under a form of probation.

Of the 4,000 reviews the INS conducted from February 1999 to February 2000,
about 1,800 resulted in detainees being released, according to INS spokeswoman
Karen Kraushaar.

"The existence of that safety valve is likely to save the INS policy" in the
eyes of the Supreme Court, says Richard Samp, a lawyer at the conservative
Washington Legal Foundation, which filed a friend-of-the court brief in support
of the government's position.

However, lawyers for detainees say that, although the INS policy may look fair
on paper, it is subjective and inefficient in practice. For example, Tuanh Tang
was supposed to receive notice of his first review proceeding three weeks ago,
but local INS officials, buried in paperwork, have not sent it, according to
Mattes, Tang's attorney.

Advocates for the detainees argue that it is unfair to make noncitizen
ex-offenders prove they won't be dangerous in the future when society accepts
U.S. citizen ex-offenders back into its midst on a regular basis.

"The fact there's a final order of deportation against someone doesn't make him
more dangerous than someone who leaves state prison," notes Robert Barnard, a
federal public defender who represents Zadvydas.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              26 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 22, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 473 words


STAMFORD, Conn. -- The trial of Kennedy family nephew Michael Skakel, accused in
the bludgeoning death of his teenage neighbor Martha Moxley in 1975, shifted
from juvenile to adult court yesterday as he was arraigned on murder charges.

Skakel, who is now 40 and remains free on $ 500,000 bond, was not asked to enter
a plea before Stamford Superior Court Judge John Kavanewsky Jr. But the brief
proceeding was the first time he has appeared in adult court since his arrest in
January 2000.

Skakel, the nephew of former Sen. Robert F. Kennedy's widow, Ethel Skakel
Kennedy, is accused of beating Moxley to death with a golf club on the night of
Oct. 30, 1975, after she rejected his advances. Both were 15 at the time.

If convicted, Skakel could get life in prison.

CHICAGO -- In what experts say is the first ruling of its kind, immigration
officials have granted political asylum to an autistic boy whose mother alleged
he would be tortured and persecuted if returned to Pakistan.

On Tuesday, officials at the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service offered
asylum to 10-year-old Umair Choudhry, whose behavior includes violent,
self-abusive outbursts. His mother Farah Choudhry said the treatment of her son
when they lived in Pakistan went far beyond taunting.

"He was forced to undergo various degrading and dangerous mystical treatments,
consistent with the curse of 'Allah,' which is how the Islamic majority in
Pakistan view his condition," she wrote in the application filed by Chicago
attorney Christopher Helt.

* NEW YORK -- Craig Godineaux was sentenced to five consecutive life terms
without parole for his role in the murder of five workers in a holdup at a
Wendy's restaurant in Queens last May.

* DALLAS -- Patrick Murphy Jr., and Donald Newbury, two fugitives who
surrendered in Colorado after a six-week manhunt, were returned to Texas to face
capital murder charges. They were among seven inmates who escaped Dec. 13 from a
southern Texas prison. Meanwhile, the Texas Department of Criminal Justice has
shut down the Echo, a newspaper published by and for Texas inmates for more than
70 years. It was shut down amid security concerns raised by the escape of the
seven inmates.

* STANFORD, Calif. -- A medical journal, Surgical Laparoscopy, Endoscopy and
Percutaneous Techniques, has retracted articles by two Stanford University
gynecologists accused of reporting inaccurate information from a series of
surgeries a decade ago. The articles were written by brothers Camran and Farr
Nezhat, who run the Stanford Endoscopy Center for Training and Technology.

* CHOTEAU, Mont. -- A tiny black bear cub burned in a Montana forest fire last
summer was returned to the wild, its limp, sleeping body tucked by wildlife
biologists into a man-made den where it will continue its winter hibernation.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              27 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 28, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Sergeant-at-Arms of Senate Is Bush's Choice as INS Chief

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 275 words


President Bush yesterday named the Senate's sergeant-at-arms to be the next
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, a long-troubled
agency that GOP leaders have vowed to overhaul.

James W. Ziglar, 55, is a boyhood friend of Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott
(R-Miss.)

.He has served as the Senate's administrative manager and chief law enforcement
officer since 1998.

Ziglar, a lawyer, has also been an investment banker, an assistant Interior
secretary and a law clerk to then-Supreme Court Justice Harry A. Blackmun. A
native of Pascagoula, Miss., he was a staff assistant to Sen. James O. Eastland
(D-Miss.) from 1964 to 1971.

Bush and Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, who oversees the INS, said Ziglar
will be central to their efforts to reform the agency. Bush wants to split the
INS in two, with one arm focused on enforcing immigration laws and the other
centered on providing services to immigrants.

"His post is a crucial one," Ashcroft said. "While we must guard our nation's
borders with vigilance, we must also remember that the greatness of our nation
comes from generations of immigrants. Legal immigrants should be greeted with
open arms, not endless lines."

Ziglar could not be reached for comment late yesterday.

Angela M. Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy
group, said: "We would have liked to have seen someone who has experience and
background in immigration. He's a blank slate, but we certainly want to give him
a chance."

The INS, with 32,000 employees, has long been plagued by backlogs, sloppy
record-keeping and allegations of mistreatment of some immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              28 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 4, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

More Time for Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 358 words


BY THE time offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service closed on
Monday, some of them at midnight, thousands of applicants for legal residence
had pressed through the doors. Immigrants had lined up to take advantage of a
brief opportunity afforded by Congress to apply for legal status without having
to return to their home countries. And while thousands managed to file by
Monday's deadline, thousands more apparently did not. There were many reasons:
Some didn't hear about the program until the last minute, some didn't realize it
could apply to them, some couldn't find the help they needed to negotiate the
process. The time from passage of the bill allowing the applications to the
April 30 cutoff was short, and final regulations weren't published until late
March.

Several members of Congress have proposed extending the deadline, and this week
President Bush endorsed that effort. They're right, he's right, and an extension
should swiftly pass. This is not a general amnesty program and, because
applicants must prove they were in the United States on Dec. 21 of last year, an
extension won't encourage new illegal immigration. What the measure did was
temporarily return immigration law to where it was until 1998: Immigrants who
don't have legal status but qualify for permanent residence and are sponsored by
a close family member or an employer can pay a fee of $ 1,000 and apply for a
green card while remaining in the United States. In 1998 the law was changed to
require those applicants to return home to apply, and once illegal immigrants
left the United States they were barred from returning for up to 10 years. As a
result many eligible for green cards simply remained illegal.

President Bush got it right in his letter supporting the extension: It's in our
national interest to welcome the immigrants covered by this provision, who have
established ties to the community through family or jobs, as full participants
in American society. Giving them a chance to seek legal status without leaving
family or work was a good move; now Congress should keep the door open until
everybody qualified can walk through.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: 4.5

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              29 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 6, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 463 words


People wait too long for decisions on citizenship, naturalization or other
immigration applications, despite more money and staff at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the General Accounting Office reported yesterday.

Fingerprints from some applicants become unusable under FBI rules because delays
are so long, and the INS cannot accurately tell applicants how long they will
have to wait because it lacks the technology to track certain applications and
has unreliable information, the GAO said. A check of 767,000 applications
pending since Sept. 30, 2000, revealed applicants had waited at least 21 months.

INS's budget for completing applications and naturalization programs comes
largely from applicants' fees. The program's budget has nearly quadrupled since
1994, to $ 500 million, and its staff has more than doubled, to about 6,100.

During the same time, the INS backlog on applications increased nearly fourfold,
to about 3.9 million, the report said.

The government will give substantial amounts of money to local religious,
community and government groups that fight AIDS, officials said 20 years after
federal researchers noted the first cases of the deadly disease.

The Bush administration has been criticized for focusing on research and global
AIDS efforts to the detriment of U.S. treatment programs. But Health and Human
Services Secretary Tommy G. Thompson told a gathering of national activists: "We
are not going to ignore where AIDS is moving."

Thompson promoted a 12 percent budget increase for federal health centers that
research AIDS treatments and cures. Sen. Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) said he would urge
Congress to pass a $ 200 million down payment to a global AIDS fund set up by
U.N. officials to fight the spread of the disease in sub-Saharan Africa.

Harry T. Edwards, who has presided since 1994 as chief judge of the D.C. Circuit
of the U.S. Court of Appeals, announced yesterday that he will step aside in
mid-July.

Edwards, 60, said he will continue to hear cases as an active judge. Although
his seven-year term as chief judge was to expire in September, he said he wanted
to give his successor time to prepare for fall cases. The D.C. Circuit is widely
viewed as the second most powerful in the country, behind the Supreme Court,
because of the vast array of cases it handles concerning administrative and
regulatory matters.

Edwards was appointed to the bench in 1980 by President Jimmy Carter. His
replacement is Douglas H. Ginsburg, 55, a 1986 appointee of President Ronald
Reagan. Judge Stephen F. Williams, whose seniority on the court put him next in
line for the chief judge's position, declined to accept it, clearing the way for
Ginsburg.

-- Compiled from reports by staff writer Bill Miller and the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              30 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 15, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

The Disposable Dad

BYLINE: E. J. Dionne Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A33

LENGTH: 770 words


At the fourth National Summit on Fatherhood last week, President Bush offered
some thoughts you'd like to think are uncontroversial: "Fathers have a unique
and irreplaceable role in the lives of children. . . . A compassionate society
can never forget the large place a father occupies."

Bush was speaking in support of a useful new social movement that plays up the
father's role in the lives of children and rejects the notion that child-rearing
is simply a mother's job.

It's too bad the Supreme Court didn't read Bush's speech.

In a remarkable 5 to 4 decision issued on Monday, the court upheld what can only
be seen as a blatant form of discrimination against fathers in our immigration
law. The court ruled that while a child born overseas out of wedlock acquires
citizenship by having an American mother, no such automatic right is conferred
on children of an American father.

The facts of the case were unfortunate. Joseph Boulais, the American father of a
son born out of wedlock in Vietnam, brought him to the United States at the age
of 6 and raised him in Texas. Boulais failed to take the formal steps required
to make his son, Tuan Anh Nguyen, a citizen. Then, when Nguyen was convicted on
a sexual assault charge at the age of 22, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service moved to have him deported. The father took a DNA test, established his
paternity and sued to have his son declared an American citizen.

But the facts played almost no role in the decision. And what's wrong with it is
the court's reasoning, rooted in stereotypes -- even as the majority denied its
reasoning was stereotypical.

"Congress' decision to impose requirements on unmarried fathers that differ from
those on unmarried mothers is based on the significant difference between their
respective relationships to the potential citizen at the time of birth," wrote
Justice Anthony Kennedy for the majority.

Justice Sandra Day O'Connor would have none of this. "There is no reason, other
than stereotype, to say that fathers who are present at birth lack an
opportunity for a relationship on similar terms," she wrote in dissent. "The
different statutory treatment is solely on account of the sex of the similarly
situated individuals. This type of treatment is patently inconsistent with the
promise of equal protection of the laws."

O'Connor -- whose dissent, by the way, was joined by Justice Ruth Bader
Ginsburg, the only other woman on the court -- was especially scathing on one
point. The majority discussed the possibility that, given the opportunities
American men have for traveling abroad, they might leave potential little
Americans scattered around the globe. And in crabbed language that tried to
avoid saying exactly what they meant, members of the majority singled out the
American military: "One concern in this context has always been with young
people, men for the most part, who are on duty with the Armed Forces in foreign
countries."

O'Connor replied that "the majority's discussion may itself simply reflect the
stereotype of male irresponsibility that is no more a basis for the validity of
classification than are stereotypes about the 'traditional' behavior patterns of
women." Her dissent concludes: "The majority . . . rather than confronting the
stereotypical notion that mothers must care for these children and fathers may
ignore them, quietly condones the 'very stereotype the law condemns.' "

And, by the way, might the court majority consider apologizing to our men in
uniform overseas for stereotyping them?

Fortunately, nothing in the majority decision prevents Congress from changing
the standard of citizenship for children to treat fathers and mothers equally.
After reading the dissent, also signed by Justices David Souter and Stephen
Breyer, many members of Congress should be moved to do just that.

For the long run, this case could have one positive effect. Supporters of the
fatherhood movement -- many, though by no means all of them, politically
conservative -- have often found themselves at odds with some in the feminist
movement. The feminist critics fear the fatherhood types are trying to reimpose
patriarchy behind a veil of soothing language about love and responsibility.

But in this case, women's rights groups strongly supported the father's rights.
They understood that playing down the responsibilities of fathers is a way of
legitimating the very gender stereotypes feminists have been trying to overturn.
The court majority has reminded us that those who favor a strong role for
fathers and those who favor gender equality need to be allies, not enemies.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              31 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 17, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Asylum Seekers Decry Detention by INS;
Agency's Model Shelter Opened to Meet Family Needs, but Grievances Remain

BYLINE: Hanna Rosin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1628 words

DATELINE: LEESPORT, Pa.


The immigration official who helped create this new "family shelter" in southern
Pennsylvania calls the refugees here his "clients." The county superintendent
who runs the shelter calls them "residents."

"We are prisoners" is how Emmanuel Niyomugabo describes himself and the 34
others he lives with here. "You see, I am wearing a uniform," he said, plucking
at his gray sweat pants and T-shirt, and the tag around his neck. "And where are
my shoes?" asked the Rwandan refugee, raising a foot shod in a terry cloth
slipper.

Tucked into what looks like a picnicking spot just north of Reading, the Berks
County Family Shelter may be the most sensitive expression of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service's intention to "treat all aliens with dignity and
respect," as an agency news release says. It is a model that the INS plans to
replicate in Texas and California.

But to a refugee such as Niyomugabo -- who holds an idealized view of America,
as a country in every way the opposite of his own -- the INS even at its most
sensitive still comes as quite a shock.

The dormitories have wooden beds piled with stuffed animals; and there are cribs
and high chairs in every corner. But families sleep separately in the dorms: men
in some, women and children under 7 in others, and children over 7 by
themselves. They may eat together and spend most of the day hanging out in a
common room, but they must always be within sight of the staff. The outside
doors aren't locked, but the refugees are not allowed to walk through them.

The tension between suspicion and hospitality reflects an inherent conflict
between the INS's dual missions of enforcement and reception. It is a conflict
that President Bush acknowledged when he talked about a plan to split the agency
into two distinct parts. In the case of refugees who come to the United States
seeking asylum, the conflict is highlighted: The INS is the designated welcoming
committee for those seeking U.S. protection, but it also plays the role of
prosecutor when asylum cases go to immigration court.

Both roles are reflected at the family shelter.

"My philosophy is, if my kids were here, I'd be happy with how they were
treated," said Ted Nordmark, the INS district director who helped build the
place. "If I were here, I'd be happy."

So why can't the families stay together in one room?

"When they first come in, we verify the relationships," he said during a tour of
the facility last week. "But you can't be 100 percent sure. It's just not a good
idea to let adult men sleep with teenage girls. I'm a Boy Scout, and when you
don't know 100 percent, you just can't do that."

The shelter was conceived as an answer to a bureaucratic nightmare. Each year,
hundreds of families arrive in the United States seeking asylum or refuge from
persecution back home. Since immigration laws were made stricter in 1996, many
of them wind up in INS custody instead of out on bail while their cases are
being considered.

For the past five years, their arrival has meant domestic heartbreak. Husbands
and wives are split up into separate detention facilities. Children are shipped
to juvenile jails. In the best case scenario, a whole family would be escorted
into a motel room by a round-the-clock guard, unable to use the phone or even
walk down the hallway.

Now, at least for a few lucky arrivals, the shelter offers a family-friendly
alternative. The shelter, opened on March 15, is actually one wing of a
converted nursing home, with space for 40 beds plus some cribs. Domestic touches
abound -- potted plants hanging from the ceiling, comfy couches, a pool table,
boxes of Little Tikes toys. Children over 7 go to school during the day. They
take aerobics classes and an occasional field trip to an amusement park. For the
adults, there are life skills classes, where they learn everything from basic
American hygiene to opening a checking account.

One recent afternoon, the family room at the end of the hallway was in its usual
state, which John McCormack, who oversees the shelter, describes as "controlled
chaos." A family from India was tightly packed on one couch, watching reruns of
"Sliders." An Albanian man was helping his daughter flip through a coloring book
as she yelled her newly learned words: "Purple! Purple!" An African boy was
inspecting his box of Elf Grahams as his father looked away blankly.

The tableaux of domesticity would be unimaginable in other INS detention
facilities. A young guard dressed in street clothes was screwing on the top of a
sippy cup. Another was helping a child out of a baby swing. The place looked
like an idealized version of a United Nations day care, with a better than one
to one ratio of adults to children.

Still, at this point in his life, weary of the past, nervous about the future,
Niyomugabo was in no mood to share in the communal babysitting.

Niyomugabo, 32, is among the elite of asylum seekers in that he has a strong
case. He entered the United States on a Rwandan passport, has a relative willing
to take him in and has an attorney. He comes from a large family of well-known
Rwandan political activists, all but three of whom were killed by the current
government in Rwanda. He was jailed and beaten by the ruling political party
four times -- his story recorded in brown scars that dot his legs and back like
splattered mud. He came to the United States hoping to join one of his last
remaining family members who made it out.

Instead, INS officials handcuffed him, then sent his wife and two children to a
motel in Rhode Island. As he was led away into INS custody, he recalled, his
4-year-old son shouted, "Pourquoi il part encore, Papa?" -- Why is Papa leaving
again? Eventually, they all wound up together in Berks County.

"They treat us well here," he said. "We are given food, drink. We can play
cards, soccer, volleyball. But for me, right now, these are distractions. I need
to leave, and we cannot leave. I want to think, but there is always someone
watching me. I am still in prison, and I'm not sure why."

The playfulness around the adults seems to make them more anxious. "There is
nothing wrong here. But I cannot sit here and be coloring books and watching TV
all day," said Genci Muda, 30, who came from Albania two weeks ago. "Nothing
else is on my mind, just to get out from here. Everybody just wants to get out."

To do most anything -- gather in their rooms, have seconds at a meal, make a
phone call -- the residents must ask permission. The staff is required to look
in on residents every 15 minutes, even at night. Most residents want to contact
their families or find a lawyer, but collect calls are expensive for most
immigrants. An interpreter service is available by phone for $ 2 per minute.

The setup appears hard for fathers who are protective of their families,
particularly those from more patriarchal cultures. "I feel my family is breaking
up," said Muda. "I feel maybe I am losing respect. I would like to give them
things. But here everything is given to me. My wife asks me why are we not
staying together. I do not know what to tell her. I feel sometimes shame."

Some of the problem is structural. The shelter is designed for children, with
the adults almost an afterthought. The INS pays Berks County $ 168.48 a day per
client to operate the shelter exclusively for people in INS custody. Day-to-day
operations are run by a county staff trained mostly in juvenile law enforcement.

The shelter is part of a complex of two buildings housing three other county
juvenile centers. Its rule book, covering everything from the 15-minute
regulation to the design of the kitchen, comes from the juvenile system, said
McCormack. So do the name tags that the adults wear: Under their pictures, they
read, "Berks County Youth Center."

During English classes for children, staff members said, parents often gather
around, eager to improve their own English. And parents sneak into the computer
spelling game designed for their kids. Sometimes, the child-centered atmosphere
infantilize the adults.

"When they come in, they're told: This is the schedule, this is how things are
done," said Eric Ruth, an assistant superintendent wearing a Bugs Bunny polo
shirt. "The biggest problem is people coming in who don't think the rules apply
to them." The days are tightly packed -- morning chores at 7 a.m., breakfast at
7:40, life skills at 8:30, on through "Bedtime for Adults" at 10:45 p.m. Ruth
said the staff is willing to accommodate some requests -- for example, if a
family wants to cook on a special night, or get together in one room and talk.

"But we'll always look in on them, just to make sure they're not suffocating or
something," Ruth said. "Not to shine a light in or anything, but just to check
on them. Occasionally, we get some people who want to go to a shopping mall. But
we can't allow that kind of thing."

And sometimes, Ruth said, they have to chastise adults for their parenting style
-- "parents who rap a child [on] the head or pull their hair, or parents who
don't pay enough attention to their children."

How long families will stay at the shelter depends on their situation. So far,
most have stayed only a few weeks. But, recently, the INS made it difficult for
families to be released on bail, particularly if they entered the country on
fake passports.

Because Niyomugabo and his family entered on Rwandan passports, they will
probably be released soon. Muda, on the other hand, came in on a forged Italian
passport and, so far, hasn't found a lawyer.

Meanwhile, even the children are starting to get restless.

"Yesterday he asked me, 'Why can't I see my cousin?' " Niyomugabo said of his
son. " 'Why do we only go out once a day?' Even they are starting to
understand."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              32 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 23, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Judge Grants Asylum to Frenchman;
Man Alleges Officials in Nice Persecuted Him for Trying to Expose Pedophilia
Ring

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES June 22


A federal judge granted unprecedented political asylum today to a French citizen
who alleges he was persecuted because he tried to expose a pedophilia ring that
ensnared his young daughter.

U.S. Immigration Judge Christine Stancill granted asylum to Karim Kamal, 39,
during a brief hearing. Immigration officials said it was the first time a U.S.
court had granted a French national political asylum.

Kamal's lawyer, Dalila Kamal-Griffin, who is also his sister, and several of his
supporters broke into tears after the ruling. Kamal told the court: "I wish to
thank the American justice system in the name of all children who suffer on the
planet."

A spokesman for the French Embassy in Washington said the French government
viewed the ruling as a "sovereign decision by the American justice system" based
on a judge's reading of the 1951 U.N. treaty that spells out the rights of
refugees.

Any further comment from the French government would have to wait until
diplomats reviewed the ruling, said Remi Marechaux, deputy spokesman for the
French Embassy.

A spokeswoman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, which had
opposed Kamal's seven-year asylum bid, said the agency would review the ruling
before deciding on an appeal.

She said such an appeal would be made on the basis that Kamal does not fit into
the five protected groups: people who are persecuted based on religion, race,
nationality, political views or membership in a social group.

U.S. Immigration Judge Ronald Ohata, who wrote the opinion in the case before
transferring it to Stancill when he resigned from the bench to take another
post, had found that Kamal was persecuted because he had acted as a
"whistle-blower" on corruption in the Riviera city of Nice.

Kamal, who is divorced and had been involved in a messy custody battle with his
ex-wife, claimed that his daughter was the victim of a pedophilia ring that
involved Nice officials.

Kamal, who is half-Moroccan and lives in the Los Angeles suburb of Santa Monica,
said in his petition that he would face criminal prosecution spurred by his
powerful enemies in France, including judges and prosecutors, if he returned
there.

Ohata said that the French judicial system had "acted from top to bottom"
against Kamal and that to deport him, as the U.S. government had urged, would
mean sending him to prison for "trumped-up charges and violations of due process
by the French judiciary."

Ohata was also sharply critical of the French government for arranging for the
Santa Monica police to remove Kamal's 5-year-old daughter from his custody and
return her to her mother in 1994, in violation of a California court ruling and
against the advice of social workers in both countries. The girl is now 12 and
has no contact with her father.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              33 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 29, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Court Limits Detention of Immigrants;
Justices Rule Convicts Can't Be Held Indefinitely

BYLINE: Charles Lane and Hanna Rosin, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 993 words


The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that immigrants who have committed crimes in
the United States cannot be detained indefinitely, even if there is no other
country to which they can be deported.

By a 5 to 4 vote, the court rejected the Immigration and Nationalization
Service's policy of holding such immigrants as long as it deems necessary to
protect public safety. Under the policy, the immigrants can win release only by
proving they pose no danger to the community.

The ruling represents the high court's second rebuff to U.S. immigration policy
this week. On Monday, the court, again splitting 5 to 4, said federal law does
not permit the INS to automatically deport illegal immigrants convicted of even
minor crimes.

Some predicted the cases, taken together, could have broad implications for how
immigration law is applied, forcing Congress to apply the same constitutional
principles to immigrants that are granted to U.S. citizens.

"This could be a sea change in immigration law," said Georgetown University law
professor Alex Aleinikoff, a former INS general counsel. "For the last 100
years, the court has said Congress has full power in immigration law. This
decision implies that . . . we apply the same standard to immigrants as to U.S.
citizens."

Supporters of the government's position said the court was engaged in an act of
judicial legislation, usurping Congress's long-established authority to set
immigration law.

"In this one, the court greatly expanded the . . . rights of aliens, saying they
have the same ones as citizens," said Richard Samp of the Washington Legal
Foundation. "It's kind of a slap in the face of Congress."

The dispute grows out of a 1996 change in the immigration law reflecting
Congress's diminishing patience for immigrants. Previously, immigrants who had
committed crimes would be released into parole after six months until an
agreement with their countries was reached. Under the new law, nothing blocked
the INS from holding them indefinitely.

In yesterday's decision, the court said that could violate the immigrants' due
process rights. "The serious constitutional problem arising out of a statute
that, in these circumstances, permits an indefinite, perhaps permanent,
deprivation of human liberty without any . . . protection is obvious," Justice
Stephen G. Breyer wrote in his opinion for the court.

Once immigrants enter the country they are entitled to constitutional
protections "whether their presence here is lawful, unlawful, temporary or
permanent," Breyer said.

He was joined by Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, John Paul Stevens, David H.
Souter and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

Yesterday's decision will immediately affect about 2,700 "lifers" -- people who
committed crimes in the United States and then were ordered deported, but whose
countries have refused to take them back. They have been held at INS-run
detention centers or local jails.

Their cases are reviewed every six months by INS officers, who determine whether
they are a threat to the community. Of the 4,000 reviews the INS conducted from
February 1999 to February 2000, about 1,800 resulted in detainees being
released, according to the INS.

Most are legal immigrants who never applied for citizenship. About half are from
Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Cuba, countries that refuse to take back expelled
immigrants. For them, the decision means they will likely be released on parole
at their next six-month hearing.

The court yesterday emphasized that its ruling had no application to aliens
detained for other reasons, such as those denied entry and held at border
locations, or to potential cases involving suspected terrorists or other
national security risks.

Dissenting in yesterday's case, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, joined by Chief
Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas,
said he did not see how this distinction could be sustained in practice.

Kennedy argued that the court's ruling requires federal judges to intervene in
foreign policy decisions about negotiating repatriation agreements -- and will
effectively give other countries the right to determine U.S. immigration policy.

Yesterday's ruling involved two men. Kim Ho Ma is a Cambodian refugee who came
to the United States in 1985 and participated in an ambush of a fellow gang
member in Seattle 10 years later. He served 38 months for first-degree
manslaughter and was ordered deported. But Cambodia has no repatriation
agreement with the United States.

Last year, the San Francisco-based 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ordered Ma's
release. It said immigration law does not allow INS to hold people more than a
"reasonable time" beyond the 90 days specified in the law.

That ruling conflicted with the result in the case of Kestutis Zadvydas.
Described by his lawyers as "a citizen of no country," Zadvydas was born to
Lithuanian parents in a refugee camp in U.S.-occupied Germany in 1948. He came
to the United States in 1956 and spent much of his life either in jail or as a
fugitive. After serving two years on a cocaine charge, Zadvydas was ordered
deported in 1994.

But neither Germany nor Lithuania would claim him as a citizen, and Zadvydas
spent four years in various jails before a federal district judge ordered him
released. In 1999, the New Orleans-based 5th Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
that order, saying that Zadvydas's situation was legally analogous to that of an
illegal immigrant detained at the border.

In yesterday's ruling, the Supreme Court defined a set of guidelines that lower
courts should follow in deciding whether to release an alien: If the alien can
show that there is "good reason" to believe that his deportation will not be
possible within a reasonable time, and the government cannot rebut that claim,
the court should order him out of jail and into INS-supervised probation.

The case was Zadvydas v. Davis, No. 99-7791, consolidated with Ashcroft v. Ma,
No. 00-38.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              34 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 3, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Bill of Rights For Immigrants

BYLINE: T. Alexander Aleinikoff

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 833 words


Last week the Supreme Court taught Congress a lesson that the American people
taught Pete Wilson a few years back: that those who seek short-term political
gain by being tough on immigrants end up paying a large long-term price.

The court handed Congress two significant defeats, rejecting statutory
interpretations pressed by the government that the court concluded violated
notions of fairness and proportionality. More significantly, the court signaled
that it is prepared to subject federal laws to serious constitutional review.

In 1996, with the winds of California's anti-immigrant Proposition 187 at its
back, Congress adopted exceptionally harsh immigration legislation. The goal was
to "get tough" on criminal aliens. So Congress expanded the deportation grounds
for criminal conduct and made the new rules retroactive; it eliminated relief
from deportation for most immigrants convicted of crimes and required mandatory
detention of criminal aliens. To ensure quick removal of these aliens, Congress
stripped the courts of jurisdiction to hear legal challenges to the Immigration
and Naturalization Service's enforcement of the new laws.

The past five years have yielded scores of cases in which enforcement of these
laws has been unjust. Immigrants showing up for naturalization interviews have
been arrested and placed in deportation proceedings for minor crimes that did
not render them deportable when committed years ago. Longtime green-card
holders, taking short trips to their home countries to attend funerals of loved
ones, have been placed in mandatory detention at the border when they sought to
reenter. Immigrants who have completed prison terms but whose countries of
origin refuse to take them back have been held in indefinite INS detention. The
INS has a term for them: "lifers."

The toughest measures have been reserved for persons convicted of "aggravated
felonies" -- a phrase that one might expect would be limited to the most serious
offenses. But in Orwellian fashion, the category includes convictions for crimes
that are misdemeanors under state law and for which the immigrant does not spend
a single day in jail.

Since the late 19th century, the court has described Congress's power as
"plenary." The court's language means that Congress possesses full authority to
regulate immigration. But its opinions had also suggested something more: that
the usual constitutional rules that apply to exercises of federal power are
suspended for immigration laws. Congress understood "plenary" in this strong
sense, believing that the court would reject constitutional challenges to the
1996 law.

In two separate cases last week, the Supreme Court announced that immigration
laws are not immune from constitutional review. Technically, the court held that
the federal statutes, as interpreted by the INS, raised serious constitutional
questions, and thus would be interpreted in a less harsh manner to avoid those
questions. The constitutional values promoted by the court -- now for immigrants
as well as citizens -- included judicial review, freedom from indefinite
detention and a presumption against retroactive application of the law.

The court's decisions are the most important cases on behalf of immigrants in a
generation. They read far more like Warren Court opinions than Rehnquist
decisions, recognizing important individual rights and constructing
legislative-like rules for their implementation. In essence, the "plenary power"
doctrine became a boomerang. Believing it had carte blanche, Congress
overreached; the court's response imposes potentially significant limitations on
future congressional action.

The cases lay down important principles, but they leave many questions
unresolved -- including what should be done for immigrants whose deportation was
based on a reading of the law that the court has now rejected. While litigators
go back to court to sort out these issues, immigrants will be apprehended,
detained and removed under laws and regulations of uncertain constitutionality.

Congress needs to correct its mistakes of 1996 and return balance to our
immigration laws. It should amend the law to provide that the 1996 rules have
prospective effect only. It should replace mandatory detention with a hearing
before an independent adjudicator who can order release when appropriate (as is
regularly available in the criminal justice system). And it should restore
relief from deportation for immigrants whose minor offenses are outweighed by
their rehabilitation and community ties.

The court's opinions last week provide the basis for an Immigrants Bill of
Rights. Congress can either advance this project or risk having the court
intrude more deeply into its authority.

The writer is a professor at the Georgetown University Law Center and a senior
associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He will answer
questions about this article in a live online discussion at 11:30 a.m. today at
www.washingtonpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              35 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 19, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 393 words


A Senate panel yesterday considered legislation to start the United States on a
course to curb its greenhouse gas emissions, blamed for global warming. But the
plan does not propose mandated carbon dioxide cuts like those detailed in the
Kyoto protocol.

Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.) appeared at a hearing of the Senate Governmental
Affairs Committee to discuss the bill he is co-sponsoring with Sen. Ted Stevens
(R-Alaska) to provide $ 4.83 billion in funding over 10 years for global warming
research and technological development.

James W. Ziglar, President Bush's nominee to head the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said he needed "time to study" a plan to legalize 3
million undocumented Mexican immigrants who have been working in the nation.

Ziglar, responding to a question from Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) at his
Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing, said he is "not sure what all
the considerations are."

The proposal is included in a report on immigration reform by a White House
working group headed by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General
John D. Ashcroft.

Ziglar, 55, is the Senate's sergeant-at-arms. He was nominated in April to head
the INS.

The Environmental Protection Agency, which was expected to announce its decision
on a final cleanup plan for the Hudson River in August, said it will need extra
time -- probably into September -- to review the heavy volume of comments it
received on its proposal.

Since April, EPA has received 36,000 e-mails and 72,000 written comments. It
also has to consider comments from 11 public hearings on what should be done to
clean up PCB contamination that is related to discharges made years ago by
General Electric Co.

The EPA proposal, issued under the Clinton administration, includes a plan to
dredge the river to remove the contaminants, an approach that GE and others
oppose.

Justice Department officials met with tobacco industry lawyers, but it appeared
that the two sides are far from settling the government's lawsuit against U.S.
cigarette manufacturers.

Justice spokeswoman Susan Dryden declined to provide details about the meeting,
which lasted about 90 minutes and marked the first time the two sides got
together formally to discuss a settlement.

-- Compiled from reports by staff writer Cindy Skrzycki, the Associated Press
and Reuters

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              36 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 20, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

INS to Free 3,400 Ex-Convicts;
Ruling Forces Release of Unwanted Foreign Nationals

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 933 words


Attorney General John D. Ashcroft yesterday reluctantly ordered the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to begin releasing 3,400 foreign nationals who have
completed sentences for criminal convictions in the United States but whose home
countries will not take them back.

The decision comes three weeks after the Supreme Court ruled that the INS cannot
detain the criminals indefinitely, even if there is no country to which they can
be deported. INS policy allowed holding criminal immigrants as long as necessary
to protect public safety.

"The Department of Justice and the INS are obligated to abide by the Supreme
Court's ruling and to apply it to those aliens who are currently detained
whenever the courts order such releases," Ashcroft said in a prepared statement.

The detainees, most of whom are legal immigrants who never applied for
citizenship, are being held at INS-run detention centers or local jails around
the country that have contracts with the INS. Some may be released as early as
next week, officials said.

Their status in detention limbo is an unintended consequence of immigration
reforms passed in 1996, when Congress limited the rights of noncitizens who
commit crimes and made it easier to deport them.

Since then, they have been at the center of a dispute between advocates, who say
it is unfair to hold people in jail indefinitely because their home countries
refuse to accept them, and the INS, which is reluctant to release noncitizen
criminals into the community. As a result, some have spent years in detention
after completing their sentences.

Ashcroft vowed yesterday to take action against countries that refuse to accept
the immigrants or unreasonably delay their return. He said in a speech in Denver
that he may ask Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to "discontinue granting
visas" to citizens of countries that do not cooperate. That would be an
unprecedented action, Justice Department officials said.

"This should be an enormous incentive for countries to take back their criminal
aliens," Ashcroft said.

Justice, INS and State Department officials met yesterday afternoon to discuss
the issue. State Department spokesman Philip Reeker said U.S. diplomats would
"speed contacts with foreign governments for the repatriation of foreign
nationals" and would try to work with foreign governments to resolve the issue.
But as of yesterday, the State Department did not plan to stop issuing visas, he
said.

Countries such as Britain, Brazil, Canada, Bolivia and Mexico take back criminal
immigrants, Ashcroft said. But others, such as Vietnam, Cuba, Laos and Cambodia,
have refused. Nearly 1,100 of the criminal immigrants are from those four
nations alone, Justice officials said, and hundreds of others are from Jamaica,
which has typically been slow to take back its criminal immigrants.

Ashcroft also vowed to work with state and local law enforcement officials to
determine whether any detainees could be returned to state or local custody to
serve additional sentences.

He said it is crucial that the nationals be deported because "their history of
serious crime makes them a threat to our community."

"I am especially concerned that these criminal aliens may reenter and prey upon
immigrant communities within the United States," he said.

But Andrea Siemens, detention coordinator for the Capital Area Immigrants Rights
Coalition, said the detainees deserve to be returned to the community.

"This might make some people uneasy, but nobody deserves to be locked up
indefinitely," she said. "If they had just a criminal sentence, they'd know when
they were getting out, but these people had no idea when they were getting
released, and that was taking a psychological toll on them."

Chris Nugent of the American Bar Association said Ashcroft's decision to ask
district attorneys to go back into files to look for new charges "raises certain
due process issues."

"These people have already gone through their proceedings and served their
sentences," Nugent said.

About 2,800 of the convicted criminals are considered threats to the community,
a label the INS applies to people convicted of a wide range of crimes, from
shoplifting to homicide. Six hundred are considered flight risks.

Nearly one-third of the 3,400 have been convicted of violent crimes, including
murder, rape and child molestation, an INS official said. Crimes committed
include 1,851 drug offenses, 772 assaults, 387 offenses, 125 homicides and
thousands of other offenses.

All 50 states have criminal immigrants, though Louisiana and Pennsylvania house
the largest number -- 510 and 412, respectively, Justice officials said.
Virginia is holding 82 criminal immigrants and Maryland is detaining 66.

While the releases are expected to begin at the end of next week, Justice
officials cautioned that all would not be released at once. Five offenders were
released last week in San Diego under a court order, INS officials said. As many
20 people being held in Seattle are expected to be released in the next few
days.

Released sexual offenders will have to register with police, and all will be
required to report to authorities periodically, officials said. Local law
enforcement agencies also are expected to notify victims and witnesses about the
releases.

Ashcroft said he plans to establish procedures to continue to hold those
considered "especially dangerous," such as some who may be affiliated with
terrorist groups. The Supreme Court opinion would allow such detentions, he
said.

Staff writers Steven Mufson and Hanna Rosin contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              37 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 2, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Democrats to Offer Plan To Reform Immigration;
Split Families, Worker Rights Addressed

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 487 words


House and Senate Democrats today will announce an immigration reform plan that
includes an earned legalization program, family reunification and an enhanced
temporary worker program.

A set of Democratic "immigration principles," a copy of which was obtained by
The Washington Post, say immigration reform should apply to all immigrants,
regardless of their country of origin.

"We want to ensure that whatever debate occurs around immigrants, that it
includes everyone of all nationalities," said Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.),
who declined to discuss details of the proposal. "We want people who are paying
taxes to be able to adjust their status."

Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.), Rep. Richard A. Gephardt
(D-Mo.) and other Democratic lawmakers have scheduled an afternoon news
conference to unveil the principles they want incorporated into President Bush's
legal-residency plan for immigrants.

Under the Democrats' principles, immigrants eligible for the earned legalization
program must have work histories, ties to the community and no criminal record,
and they must be enrolled in U.S. civics and English courses.

The Democrats' family reunification plan would raise ceilings for family and
employment-based visas.

The Democratic principles say an enhanced temporary worker program should be
available to people who want to work in the United States either temporarily or
permanently. They say participants should be given the same labor protections as
American workers, including the right to unionize and change jobs. They say
participants should be allowed to move freely between the United States and
their home country.

"I've urged my colleagues to recognize that a broad and comprehensive
legalization proposal is the best possible option," Gutierrez said. "Whatever
benefits and relief are offered should be given to all immigrants. Equity should
be at the heart of our immigration policy."

The House-Senate Democratic proposal was developed by a task force created by
Gephardt. Gutierrez, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Tex.) and Rep. Silvestre Reyes
(D-Tex.) co-chaired the panel.

Gephardt formed the group two weeks after word leaked that Bush was considering
a plan to grant legal residency to many of the millions of undocumented
immigrants from Mexico living in the United States. The president said last week
he might expand the plan to include immigrants from other countries, but that he
opposes a "blanket amnesty."

Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant
rights group, said she is pleased that immigration issues are becoming
bipartisan and that "both parties see the importance of these folks as new
voters and the need for new policies."

"You've got the Democrats saying yes, yes, yes, and the Republicans out front to
change immigration," Kelley said. "That's a winning formula. You can see the
beginning of the center forming."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              38 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 7, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Alliance Forms on Immigrant Policies;
Business, Church, Labor Groups Unite On Liberalization

BYLINE: Thomas B. Edsall and Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1515 words


A powerful alliance of labor, business groups, immigrants rights groups and
Republican political strategists has been formed to lobby for immigration
liberalization, reversing the anti-immigrant tenor that has dominated the
nation's capital for much of the last decade.

As top U.S. and Mexican officials prepare for an important meeting on the
immigration plan Thursday, representatives from the U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops have met with State and Justice Department officials. Officials with the
American Immigration Lawyers Association are talking with members of Congress
and have sent their immigration reform ideas to the White House. The League of
United Latin American Citizens met Friday with Vice President Cheney's staff.

Rallies have been held in Los Angeles, Chicago and Boston. Petition drives are
underway to send postcards to Mexican President Vicente Fox.

"Things have changed," said Theresa Cardinal Brown, manager of immigration and
labor policy for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and a principal in a key
pro-immigration business organization, the Essential Worker Immigration
Coalition. "This is probably one of the most friendly environments for positive
immigration reform that I have seen."

While specific proposals under discussion by the working group of U.S. and
Mexican officials have not been made public, they cover a range of issues and
could include a legalization plan for some of the estimated 6 million to 9
million undocumented people now living and working in the United States.

Mexicans comprise an estimated half of that population, while Salvadorans,
Guatemalans, Canadians, Haitians, Filipinos, Hondurans, Poles and other
nationalities make up the rest, according to the INS.

The plan may include a system for undocumented workers to earn permanent
residency status -- green cards -- which would put them on the road to
citizenship. President Bush has said, however, that he does not favor blanket
amnesty for undocumented workers like that provided by the 1986 law, which
legalized 2.7 million undocumented people.

The proposals being discussed also may include an expanded guest worker program
favored by some who oppose legalization or regularization plans.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General John D. Ashcroft are
scheduled to meet with Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda and Interior
Minister Santiago Creel Thursday at the State Department. Next month, Bush and
Fox are to meet for the first time in Washington, and an immigration plan is
expected to be a key issue.

Despite the shortage of specifics, and the possibility of only small changes,
the prospect of reform has galvanized a wide spectrum of groups interested in
comprehensive change.

John Gay, co-chairman of the Essential Workers Coalition, which represents more
than 30 trade organizations, said he has made the case to several senators that
immigration reform must be comprehensive.

"A guest worker program alone won't make it through" Congress, said Gay, who is
also vice president for governmental affairs for the American Hotel and Lodging
Association. "Legalization alone won't make it through. Politically, we believe
that a comprehensive bill is the only thing that's going to make it through
Congress."

Brent Wilkes, national executive director of the League of United Latin American
Citizens, said his organization lobbied Cheney's staff to "encourage them to
stick with a plan to regularize" immigrants' status and allow them to work
legally.

Business and labor groups are generally agreed that penalties against businesses
that hire undocumented workers -- enacted in 1986 but are rarely enforced --
need to be ended, except in the cases of businesses that actively smuggle
illegal workers into the country.

Organized labor and many immigrant groups involved in the issue, including the
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, are preparing to call for full legal and
workplace rights for temporary workers, including the right to organize and form
unions.

This could pit business against labor, and force the Bush administration to
choose between the pro-business forces in the Republican Party and the leaders
of Hispanic organizations, most of whom are strongly supportive of labor
protections.

In the case of immigration liberalization, said Charles Kamasaki, vice president
of the National Council of La Raza, an administration program with the potential
to achieve at least a partial political breakthrough among Hispanic voters would
have to include a legalization program with "an eventual path to citizenship,
and real labor rights."

He noted the strong levels of Hispanic support Bush received as Texas's
governor, as well as support given to Republican mayors Rudolph Giuliani and
Richard Riordan of New York and Los Angeles, respectively.

"There is some basis for the argument that Republicans who make significant
policy changes and distinguish themselves from the anti-immigration wing of
their party can make very significant inroads on the Hispanic vote," Kamasaki
said.

The Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington think tank that favors more
controls on immigration, has prepared a detailed study by University of Maryland
political scientists James G. Gimpel and Karen Kaufmann. Their analysis suggests
that liberalized immigration will not only fail to win votes for the GOP, but
that it will backfire by strengthening the Democratic Party over time.

The report indirectly disputes the arguments made by White House political
strategist Karl Rove and GOP polling specialist Matthew Dowd.

The report says survey data, including an exhaustive poll of Hispanics by The
Washington Post, the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation and Harvard University,
show that Hispanics who are not yet citizens are more inclined to support
Democrats than Hispanics who are citizens. It also says there is "no evidence
that a significant percentage of the Latino vote is 'in play.' "

Others also note that the Hispanic vote is not monolithic, with Cuban Americans
in Miami concerned about very different issues than Mexican Americans are in Los
Angeles.

The developments of recent months have left anti-immigration groups on the
defensive, forcing them to bolster their traditional lobbying arguments: that
immigrants use a disproportionate share of welfare programs, increase urban and
suburban sprawl, lower wages and contribute to environmental deterioration.

"They [pro-immigration forces] have got more of the cards in their deck," said
Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), who is outraged by some colleagues' support of
outright amnesty for illegal immigrants. "You have to ask a member of the
Congress if they are in fact in support of upholding the laws of the land."

Anti-immigration forces are banking on extended debate to revive substantial
public opposition to immigration, which pits the two major forces in the
Republican Party, business and social conservatives, against each other.

"As this drags out, people are going to pay attention, and the people it is
going to make the most angry are the base of the Republican Party -- law and
order voters," said Steven A. Camarota, research director for the Center for
Immigration Studies.

One of the difficulties facing anti-immigration groups is that key interest
groups and constituencies have become convinced of the legitimacy of liberalized
immigration.

The most dramatic of these conversions has been within the AFL-CIO, which for
years saw immigration as a source of cheap labor that competed with union
workers and forced wages down. In 2000, the AFL-CIO abandoned this policy and
has since become a leading proponent of amnesty and legalization for
undocumented workers, who are now seen as a key organizing target and a source
of new members.

"There are immigrants now everywhere where people work," said John Wilhelm,
president of the Hotel and Restaurant Workers Union and chair of the AFL-CIO
immigration committee. "The labor movement has embraced that reality and
returned to its roots" to become "a labor movement that is being rebuilt by
immigrants," he said.

Similarly, for key sectors of the business community, immigrants -- legal and
illegal -- are a critical source of workers, often performing jobs that U.S.
citizens will not take. For much of the service, restaurant, hotel and
construction sectors, immigrant labor has become essential.

"There are not enough people. In spite of the increasing unemployment rate, you
can't find enough people to fill the jobs," said Brown.

For religious groups, particularly the Catholic Church, Hispanic immigration has
been a huge source of parishioners.

"We estimate that about 70 percent of the Latinos in this country are Catholic,"
said Kevin Appleby, director of migration policy for the Bishops' Conference.
"The primary consideration of the church is that legalization promotes family
unity."

He noted that a large number of immigrant children, many of whom are Catholic,
live in "mixed status" families, in which an immediate relative, often a parent,
lives illegally in this country.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              39 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 8, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Immigrant Plans Tied to Overhaul of INS;
2 Republicans Call Agency Dysfunctional

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 584 words


Two key House Republicans announced yesterday they will not support changes in
immigration laws unless steps are first taken to overhaul the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Reps. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) and George W. Gekas (R-Pa.) said any
proposal by the Bush administration for legalization or amnesty of illegal
immigrants would be "seriously flawed, if not dead on arrival" without a
restructuring of the INS.

"We have found the INS to be the most dysfunctional federal agency around," they
said in a written statement.

Sensenbrenner, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said he receives six times
more complaints about the INS than about the Internal Revenue Service. He
represents a district near Milwaukee, "not exactly a border region heavy with
new immigrants," he noted.

"We're sure our colleagues representing Tucson, San Ysidro, El Paso and other
border areas can point to similar frustrations with the performance of INS,"
said Sensenbrenner and Gekas, who is chairman of the subcommittee on immigration
and claims. Both would have a major say over the fate of the administration's
proposal.

The nature of that proposal is still unclear. Attorney General John D. Ashcroft
and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell are scheduled to meet Thursday with
Mexico's foreign and interior ministers, Jorge Castaneda and Santiago Creel, to
discuss possible reforms.

The administration's plan may include a temporary-worker program that would
allow some illegal workers to gain permanent residency. President Bush also has
said he might expand the plan to include immigrants from countries other than
Mexico. The proposal is expected to be announced next month during Mexican
President Vicente Fox's first state visit to Washington.

A State Department spokesman said yesterday the administration was "focusing on
safe, orderly, legal migration." He added that the department had been
consulting with other agencies and Congress.

"They're looking at a number of different approaches, such as a temporary worker
program," he said. "Clearly there will be implications for the status of
Mexicans in the U.S. already, but we're not talking about a blanket amnesty."

Sensenbrenner and Gekas said the president's priority should be cleaning up an
INS "bureaucratic structure that has failed in the past." The agency, beset by
backlogs in processing applications, announced this week that it is raising
application fees by 17 percent to cover inflation and technological investments.

INS has 34,000 employees and a $ 4.8 billion budget. Bush has proposed an
increase to $ 5.5 billion -- a 10 percent rise -- and adding 1,364 positions,
agency spokesman Greg Gagne said.

Sensenbrenner "has not taken a position" on whether he supports legalization,
amnesty or a guest-worker program, according to his spokesman, Jeff Lungren. The
House member was on a trip to Alaska yesterday and could not be reached for
comment.

Allan Cagnoli, chief of staff for Gekas, said the Pennsylvania lawmaker wants
any Bush plan to be a "unified proposal that will address all of the problems"
at INS. He added that Gekas does not support a legalization or blanket amnesty
program.

"He supports legal immigration, following the process of allowing people to come
into the country in a legal fashion that we currently have on the books," he
said. "Legalization is amnesty, and Mr. Gekas has made a statement that he is
opposed to blanket amnesty."

Staff writer Steven Mufson contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              40 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 20, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Goes Slow on Immigrant Amnesty;
Resistance in Congress Forces Gradual Steps

BYLINE: Dana Milbank, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1638 words


President Bush, who hopes to unveil his much-anticipated immigration proposal
next month, has begun signaling to his allies in Congress that they should plan
a slow, piecemeal process that likely won't make sweeping changes until after
the 2002 elections.

Expectations have been climbing among Hispanic, immigration and business
interests since the administration floated a trial balloon contemplating full
amnesty for the 3 million to 4 million Mexicans living illegally in the United
States. But Bush is said to be concerned that expectations are surpassing
legislative reality, which dictates a gradual liberalization of immigration
policy over several years.

"What the president said the last time I talked to him is we've got to be
careful not to overpromise," said Rep. Chris Cannon (R-Utah), who is likely to
be Bush's point man on immigration in the House. "This is a system with a lot of
resistance. He wants change, but he wants it in an orderly, reasonable fashion."

Cannon, the conservative former impeachment manager who shares Bush's eagerness
to liberalize immigration, has been consulting with the president, senior Bush
adviser Karl Rove and White House immigration specialist Diana Schacht. The
White House has characteristically been mum publicly.

"I don't even know if we can get a bill in this Congress," Cannon said,
predicting that broad immigration changes would likely wait until after next
year's midterm elections. "They're just not ready to do it over there" at the
White House, he said. "It's just an enormously complicated thing. We want to be
careful as we go. This is why the president doesn't want to overpromise."

The piecemeal approach doesn't reflect a change in Bush's desire for immigration
legislation, his allies said, but a reflection that there's not a consensus for
rapid action in Congress. Rich Bond, a former Republican National Committee
chairman working with unions to boost support for immigration legislation, said
the likely go-slow approach is politically astute. "The proper amount of
political space does not exist on this at this point," he said.

The go-slow approach outlined by Bush allies on the Hill appears to be
consistent with what Mexican officials said after meetings Aug. 9 with Secretary
of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General John D. Ashcroft. Mexican Foreign
Minister Jorge Castaneda told Mexican reporters after the meeting that "there is
no hurry." Mexican officials had indicated they hoped to be able to roll out a
policy proposal when Mexican President Vicente Fox visits Washington in
September. But according to Mexican reporters -- American reporters weren't
allowed in the briefing by Castaneda -- the minister said Fox's visit "isn't a
deadline" and that it was more important to reach a good agreement than a quick
one.

Immigration advocates called the gradual approach disappointing but not
surprising. Charles Kamasaki, senior vice president of the pro-immigration
National Council of La Raza, said his group has also heard about a gradual
timeline, which "doesn't sound implausible." But he said that would disappoint
the Hispanic voters Bush is eager to win over. "The issue is a big issue that
requires a bold response," Kamasaki said. "Incrementalism is probably a recipe
for nothing happening or very little happening." Those in the immigrant
community "have already heard the linkage of President Bush and some
legalization, so to take it back would be an enormous political disaster."

Gabriela Lemus, who as director of policy and legislation for the League of
United Latin American Citizens met with White House officials to discuss
immigration, said progress can't possibly keep up with expectations. "My biggest
fear is that expectations have been raised, and I think it's [Bush's] fear,
too," she said. "There's all this talk about a sweeping thing, but he's never
said that. I don't think it's going to be as drastic as all that." Even if Bush
sought rapid action, "the infrastructure is just not in place," she added.

White House officials have declined to discuss details of their immigration
proposals, although they, too, have indicated that there is no rush. "The
feeling is this will be tackled in a manner as serious as the issue itself,"
said Ken Lisaius, a White House spokesman. "It takes time to craft the correct
solution."

Cannon said he and the administration would not be content to pass a guest
worker program that allows Mexicans to work in the United States temporarily
without a legalization component. "That's not the solution," he said. At the
other end, blanket amnesty -- legal status for all -- is also not a serious
possibility, and Bush has rejected the idea.

"What we want is not a window of time to admit you broke the law, what we want
is a process," Cannon said. "What we want is for people who can show they've
worked here to have an agreement not to deport them while they earn temporary
status and eventually permanent status." Cannon says that concept, "earned
adjustment," is the likely recommendation of the U.S.-Mexico working group of
Powell, Ashcroft and their Mexican counterparts.

The agenda Bush allies lay out begins with some small items this fall: a bill
protecting unaccompanied minors who are illegally in the United States and a
change in the law so that if an immigrant's sponsor dies, the immigrant can get
a substitute sponsor without restarting the naturalization process.

Next year would come some intermediate steps. Cannon and others have sought ways
to extend student visas and other benefits to children of illegal immigrants who
have been in American schools for several years.

Looming before broad immigration changes is a reform of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) and immigration subcommittee Chairman George W. Gekas
(R-Pa.) have said wide-scale legalization and guest-worker programs would have
to wait for a "comprehensive reform" of the INS, which would likely split the
agency's administrative and enforcement functions. "Failure to act only will
bottle up other immigration proposals," the two men said in a statement.

Also next year will be another attempt to create a guest-worker program for
agricultural workers. The most recent effort was blocked last year by Sen. Phil
Gramm (R-Tex.), who favors a restrictive version that would require all guest
workers to return home. Cannon would like to see a program of earned adjustment,
or earned legalization, that would make guest workers eligible for legal
residency after several years. Such a proposal would cover about 1.6 million
undocumented seasonal farm workers, but Cannon said it would be a "prototype"
for dealing with the nearly 8 million immigrants, about half of them Mexican, in
the country illegally.

Ultimately, lawmakers will haggle over which type of workers will qualify and
how many years they would have to have worked in the United States to become
legal. High on the list would be workers in the restaurant, hotel, nursing home
and health care fields. "Let the haggling begin," said Rep. Howard L. Berman
(D-Calif.), an immigration advocate.

Bush aides selected Cannon, a junior member of the immigration subcommittee,
over more senior lawmakers such as Gekas and Sensenbrenner because of his
pro-immigration leanings, people close to the White House say. That a
pro-immigration advocate such as Cannon would be a Republican president's point
man on immigration indicates how far the GOP has come since California Gov. Pete
Wilson's Proposition 187 and the 1996 federal welfare law, both of which limited
benefits to illegal immigrants.

Cannon has solid conservative credentials: The 50-year-old Mormon and father of
seven had a 100 percent rating from the American Conservative Union last year. A
lawyer and former steel executive, he gained attention as a Clinton impeachment
manager when he told a newspaper that "this administration has had as a policy
goal the public discussion of weird sex."

But Cannon is an internationalist who believes in the free movement of people.
He spent his early youth in Chile, where his family was in business, and had
Hispanic friends growing up in California. He speaks fluent Spanish because he
served as a missionary in Guatemala in 1970-71. Even his rural Utah district
feels the press of immigration: Hispanics are now more than 10 percent of the
population.

Democrats see Cannon as an ally on the issue. "Chris Cannon sincerely believes
in immigrants' rights, and he should be intimately involved in any discussions
we have with the Bush administration on immigration policy," said Rep. John
Conyers Jr. (Mich.), the ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee.

But that doesn't mean easy passage of Cannon's -- or Bush's -- proposals. A
large number of Republicans oppose any immigration liberalization. Others,
notably Gekas and Sensenbrenner, have been unenthusiastic. Any concession Bush
and his allies make to win the support of reluctant Republicans may cause them
to lose Democrats who favor broader liberalization.

Already, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) is preparing to file his own
immigration legislation this fall. "Whatever the administration will announce
won't be as far as the Democrats want to go," a top Kennedy aide said. Yet Bush
gestures to please Kennedy, another Democrat pointed out, "would immediately
lose a sizable part of [the GOP] caucus in the House."

But while it may take time for Bush to get his immigration plans through
Congress, he has a strong incentive. Bush officials said that if he doesn't
improve on the 35 percent of the Hispanic vote he received in 2000, he will lose
in 2004. "This isn't a thing you have to convince the president of," Cannon
said. "He's real predictable on these issues."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              41 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 21, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

N.Y. Lawyer Charged With Visa Violations

BYLINE: Newsday

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 166 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK Aug. 20


A prominent Queens immigration lawyer has been arrested for illegally filing
multiple applications for the visa lottery, federal prosecutors in Brooklyn said
today.

Under the scheme, prosecutors said, Boris Krivonos submitted as many as 27
entries for each client.

In 1999 and 2000, he filed multiple entries for 443 individual clients, and 29
clients won the right to a visa, court records say.

Under State Department rules, one application can be filed per person in the
Diversity Immigrant Visa Lottery, also known as the Green Card Lottery. Under
the system, about 50,000 visas are available each year through a random drawing
aimed at increasing the diversity of immigrants.

On his immigration advice Web site, Krivonos cites the single entry rule, and he
notes that applicants may be disqualified if "more than one entry is detected."
Krivonos, prosecutors alleged, often used misspelled versions of the applicant's
name to avoid getting caught, and he charged $ 1,000 for the service.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              42 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 23, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

A Chance and a Challenge

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 394 words


THE TONE of the immigration debate has changed in remarkable and welcome ways.
President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox have brought new focus and new
attitudes, formed by their understanding of the issue and their recognition of
the potential political gains in finding better ways to deal with the millions
of Mexican immigrants working illegally in the United States. An evolution in
policy by American labor unions, plus growing support from business and
religious groups, has helped. The U.S. Supreme Court added its weight by
rejecting some of the harshest excesses injected into immigration law by
Congress in 1996.

Now the White House is trying to keep expectations for a new immigration policy
from outrunning the reality of what the president is actually willing to
support, or can shepherd through Congress. This week Rep. Chris Cannon (R-Utah),
who has been conferring with White House aides over immigration policy changes,
told The Post's Dana Milbank that major changes will take time and that efforts
to liberalize immigration policy may stretch beyond next year's midterm
elections. Earlier this month aides warned not to expect major new agreements by
the time President Fox arrives in Washington on Sept. 5. "We're in no hurry,"
Secretary of State Colin Powell told reporters, adding that new policy must be
designed in "a way that will be seen as fair and equitable by both nations."

The opportunity for change must not be squandered, but "fair and equitable"
reform -- the right goal -- won't be easy to achieve. Millions of illegal
immigrants fill jobs that are critical to the American economy and send home
earnings that are vital to their native countries. It's right to bring those
workers out of the shadows, where their status leaves them vulnerable to
exploitation. But to meet the test of fairness, proposals will have to respect
the rights of would-be immigrants who have been waiting, many for years, to
reach this country legally. That points to some mechanism for illegal immigrants
now in the country, from Mexico and elsewhere, to earn the right to apply for
residency, rather than to receive a blanket and immediate amnesty. And any new
approaches must be coupled with money and reform at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to make sure that new pledges don't lead to new years of
limbo on INS waiting lists.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              43 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 19, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

In Reversal, Immigration Judge Frees Iraqi Dissident

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 18


Calling charges of espionage "ill-founded," an immigration judge today freed an
Iraqi dissident who had been jailed for nearly four years based on secret
government evidence suggesting he was a spy for a Mideast country.

"I was kept for four years by the INS for things I never heard about," said Ali
Yasin Mohammed Karim, 39, as he left the Immigration and Naturalization
Detention Center in San Pedro today. "I am innocent, but I have paid a high
price."

Karim was part of a group of six dissidents evacuated from Iraq by the United
States in March 1997, then jailed by the INS and threatened with deportation to
their homeland. The case against them was based on classified evidence kept
secret from defense attorneys during immigration hearings in 1997 and 1998.

Their plight garnered national attention when former CIA director R. James
Woolsey, now a Washington lawyer, joined Karim's defense team and spearheaded
the effort to declassify the government's evidence.

After the information was released, five of the Iraqis accepted a government
offer to remain in Nebraska until they could relocate to another democratic
country.

Karim, however, decided to fight the charges and pressed his claim for political
asylum. He was retried in April by U.S. Immigration Judge D.D. Sitgraves, who
originally concluded that Karim was a threat to national security.

In reversing her earlier decision, Sitgraves said that Karim "has sufficiently
demonstrated that the government's claims were ill-founded and has rebutted the
presumption that he constitutes a risk to the security of the United States."

Sitgraves said the screening process used by the FBI to determine if Karim was a
potential security threat was insufficient and conducted by agents who had
limited knowledge about Iraq and its people.

Political asylum in the United States should be granted, she ruled, because the
physician has established a well-founded fear that he would be persecuted and
tortured if sent back. She also issued the same ruling for his mentally ill
brother, Mohammed.

Overall, Sitgraves concluded that the low standard used to prove security risks,
combined with the initial veil of secrecy, kept significant issues and facts
hidden from Karim's attorneys until the evidence was declassified.

"He was a victim of the use of secret evidence by the government," said Niels W.
Frenzen, an attorney with Public Counsel in Los Angeles, which represented the
former Iraqi National Congress member. "These were freedom fighters. They risked
their lives. They risked the lives of their families. Then they were betrayed by
the U.S. government."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              44 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 26, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 458 words


Ohio Governor Rejects

Clemency for Brazilian


Despite his state parole board's unanimous recommendation in favor of a
22-year-old Ohio man, Gov. Bob Taft (R) yesterday refused to grant Joao Herbert
the clemency that could have allowed him to avoid deportation to his native
Brazil.

Herbert was adopted as a child from South America but was never naturalized as a
U.S. citizen. In June, a federal immigration judge ordered him deported because
of a drug conviction for selling 7.5 ounces of marijuana to a police informer as
a teenager. It was Herbert's only criminal offense--for which he was sentenced
to probation and community treatment--but under immigration law it made him an
aggravated felon subject to removal.

Although Herbert has appealed the judge's order, he has virtually no chance of
having it overturned, and his attorney, Maura Jaite, described him as "totally
devastated" yesterday. He has been in INS detention for 17 months.

In a harshly worded statement, Taft said the case did not meet his "high
standard for clemency" and urged Herbert to "consider the gravity of his actions
and work hard to rehabilitate himself." Taft noted that the immigration case
"potentially has serious consequences" but called that a separate legal matter.


* Al Sharpton met with Attorney General Janet Reno to discuss civil rights
issues and then called for President Clinton to take a stronger stand against
racial profiling. Sharpton wants Clinton to issue an executive order blocking
federal funding for municipalities that engage in a proven pattern of racial
profiling, the practice of stopping and questioning people on the basis of race.


* Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman rejected a request by the Belgian
agriculture minister to return the remaining Vermont sheep, which are suspected
of carrying a neurological ailment similar to "mad cow" disease. The Vermont
sheep farmers who imported breeding pairs of the dairy sheep from Belgium and
the Netherlands in 1996 said they would rather send them back to Belgium than
allow the USDA to purchase and slaughter them.


* MILLBROOK, N.Y.--A parasitic disease rarely found in the United States has
killed 21 foxhounds and has sickened at least 20 others, prompting the national
fox-hunting organization to cancel events. After hounds at Millbrook Hunt became
lethargic, lost weight and patches of hair, and developed enlarged joints,
crusty skin lesions and rope-like knots underneath their skin, researchers at
North Carolina State University identified the culprit as a strain of
leishmaniasis, typically found in warm, coastal areas such as Brazil, the
Mediterranean, India and Sudan. The disease has been found in kennels in 20
states and Canada.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              45 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 26, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Brazilian Loses Ohio Clemency Bid

Susan Levine

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 205 words


Despite his state parole board's unanimous recommendation in favor of a
22-year-old Ohio man, Gov. Bob Taft (R) yesterday refused to grant Joao Herbert
the clemency that could have allowed him to avoid deportation to his native
Brazil.

Herbert was adopted as a child from South America but was never naturalized as a
U.S. citizen. In June, a federal immigration judge ordered him deported because
of a drug conviction for selling 7.5 ounces of marijuana to a police informer as
a teenager. It was Herbert's only criminal offense--for which he was sentenced
to probation and community treatment--but under immigration law it made him an
aggravated felon subject to removal.

Although Herbert has appealed the judge's order, he has virtually no chance of
having it overturned, and his attorney, Maura Jaite, described him as "totally
devastated" yesterday. He has been in INS detention for 17 months.

In a harshly worded statement, Taft said the case didn't meet his "high standard
for clemency" and urged Herbert to "consider the gravity of his actions and work
hard to rehabilitate himself." Taft noted that the immigration case "potentially
has serious consequences" but called that a separate legal matter.



LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              46 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 31, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Spielberg Now Facing Deportation

Tom Jackman , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 356 words


Seemingly clear of the law after his various arrests, Jonathan Taylor Spielberg,
who claimed to be the nephew of a movie mogul and faked his way into high
school, was detained by federal immigration agents yesterday, and the government
will seek to deport him to his native Iran.

Spielberg, 27, legally changed his name from Anoushirvan D. Fakhran in 1997, and
in the fall of 1998 he enrolled as a part-time student at Paul VI Catholic High
School in Fairfax City, telling the school he was 14. School officials uncovered
the scam in January, and he later pleaded guilty to a felony charge of forgery
for submitting phony forms to the school. In July he was given an 11-month
suspended sentence and placed on two years' probation.

Spielberg entered the country with his mother in 1992 and received permanent
resident status in 1995. Immigration law says permanent residents convicted of
any crime of "moral turpitude" may be deported if the crime occurred within five
years of the granting of permanent resident status.

Spielberg was arrested because of his fraud conviction, which qualified as a
crime of moral turpitude, said Ernestine Fobbs, an INS spokeswoman in
Washington. He was released yesterday evening on $ 6,500 bond and will face a
deportation hearing.

She said Spielberg's case was brought to the agency's attention by Fairfax City
police, who arrested Spielberg three times in January and also searched his
apartment. Two charges were subsequently dismissed, as were two other
sex-related charges filed by Fairfax County police in June.

Federal agents appeared at Spielberg's Fairfax City apartment about noon
yesterday and took him into custody, said Manuel E. Leiva, one of his lawyers.
Leiva said he had not seen any documents formally charging Spielberg and
declined to comment further.

Michael Maggio, a Washington immigration lawyer, said Spielberg may have several
possible defenses in deportation proceedings, including readjusting his
residency status, seeking asylum or claiming he would face torture if returned
to Iran. "He's probably not going anywhere any time soon," Maggio said.


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              47 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   September 2, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Jailed Palestinian Seeks Access to INS Evidence

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON, Fla., Sept. 1


A Palestinian jailed as a security threat for more than three years without
formal charges will remain in custody longer because of a legal maneuver by his
attorneys.

Attorneys for Mazen Al-Najjar, who is being held by immigration officials on
secret evidence, asked an immigration judge Thursday to halt a bond hearing, and
the judge granted the request. The attorneys want a federal district judge in
Miami to direct the Immigration and Naturalization Service to provide an
unclassified summary of the evidence so they can prepare a defense.

On Thursday, INS attorneys attempted to introduce evidence against Al-Najjar to
immigration Judge Kevin McHugh behind closed doors, just as they had in 1997
when Al-Najjar was initially jailed. In May, U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard
in Miami ruled that the jailing was a violation of Al-Najjar's rights and
ordered a new hearing.

"If we are not going to get a fair hearing, we're going to try to get a new
one," said David Cole, an attorney for Al-Najjar. "His freedom is at stake
here."

Attorneys estimate it will take at least another month to refer the case to
Lenard, obtain a ruling and complete the bond hearing in immigration court.

Al-Najjar was second in command at an Islamic think tank at the University of
South Florida that federal officials have linked to terrorists. The think tank
was founded by Al-Najjar's brother-in-law, Sami Al-Arian, a legal permanent
resident whom government investigators also consider a threat to national
security but who is free and has never been charged with a crime.

INS attorneys presented evidence that the organization's conferences attracted
Palestinian radicals and say that money raised at the conferences was given to
the terror group Islamic Jihad. But none of that public evidence directly linked
Al-Najjar to the terrorists, and the fundraising occurred before a 1996 law made
it illegal to give money to that group.

During the immigration court hearing Wednesday, an INS agent acknowledged that
he was unable to offer any example of Al-Najjar soliciting money for Islamic
Jihad or advocating terrorism.

Al-Najjar is seeking bond while he appeals a deportation order.

McHugh scheduled a Sept. 18 conference call with the attorneys.

"It's just another week after another week," Al-Najjar said Thursday. "I will
complete reading another book, maybe."

Al-Najjar is one of several immigrants held on secret evidence nationwide. An
Egyptian in New York, a Palestinian in New Jersey and an Iraqi in California
were released after rebutting terrorist allegations.


LOAD-DATE: September 02, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              48 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   September 7, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Transgendered Couple Indicted in Fraud; Va. Pair Battling INS Over a Visa, Their
Marriage

Brooke A. Masters, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 669 words


A Sterling couple who say they have faced official discrimination because both
are transgendered were indicted recently on federal charges of immigration
fraud.

Katherine Spray, an Irish citizen, was born male but now lives as a woman. Pat
Spray, who is American, was born female but now lives as a man. After meeting on
the Internet, they got married in North Carolina in 1995 and moved to the
Norfolk area. At that time, they applied for a marriage-based visa for
Katherine, now 32.

Four years later, on Aug. 25, a grand jury in Norfolk indicted both Sprays on
charges of conspiracy to defraud the United States, a charge that carries up to
five years in prison. Pat, 44, has also been charged with one count of misuse of
immigration documents and with making a false statement to a federal agency,
which together carry a maximum of 15 years in prison. Both Sprays are scheduled
to be arraigned on Monday.

The grand jury charged that the Sprays committed criminal violations when Pat
Spray "falsely concealed" two prior marriages on the 1996 visa application. Pat
Spray also did not tell the INS of using the last names Clark and Martin during
the prior marriages, the indictment said. The INS learned this spring that one
of the marriages had never been properly dissolved.

The Sprays acknowledge that Pat failed to disclose the marriages on the
application. But immigration lawyers not connected with the case say that the
INS normally allows applicants to fix such problems after they are discovered.

In the months since the INS learned that Pat Spray was still married to John
Martin, the two have successfully petitioned a Fairfax court for a divorce.
Martin had remarried earlier. The Sprays went through a new marriage ceremony in
Fairfax last week.

Both Sprays say they are being prosecuted because they are transgendered.

"Bigotry still rules America," Katherine Spray said. "They are gunning for us. .
. . Their intent is to get me out of here."

Added Pat, "I'm ashamed of my country."

Immigration lawyers say it is highly unusual for visa applicants to be
prosecuted for fraud for misstatements on an application. Though omissions like
the ones Pat made are grounds for denying a visa petition, Congress explicitly
permited the INS to pardon such errors and approve the application anyway,
lawyers said.

"People are indicted for lying on immigration documents, but it usually has to
be something fairly egregious," said D.C. immigration lawyer Michael Maggio.

Officials with the INS and the U.S. attorney's office said they could not
comment on a pending case.

INS District Director Warren Lewis has ordered Katherine Spray's immediate
expulsion, according to INS documents. The Sprays want to appeal, but that will
become legally impossible if Katherine is convicted of felony immigration fraud.

The Sprays' troubles come at a time when immigration officials say fraud
prosecutions are up about 9 percent nationwide over last year.

Katherine, who was born with external male genitalia, has lived as a woman since
1991 medical tests found both male and female chromosomes--two X and one Y--as
well as a vestigial uterus. The Norfolk Circuit Court approved a formal name
change from Damien Niland to Katherine Spray in 1996.

Pat, who is genetically female but whose blood has unusually high testosterone
levels, lived as a woman until the 1990s and gave birth to a daughter in 1980.

Both would like to have sex reassignment surgery but neither has done so.

Pat works for a government contractor, and Katherine, who had a temporary work
permit while the marriage visa application was pending, worked at UUNet.
Katherine was let go after INS officials informed the company that the temporary
work permit was no longer valid, officials there said.

"I've never had a chance to challenge what the INS did to me," Katherine said.
"I'm just hoping it'll get in front of a jury and 12 reasonable people will turn
around and say, 'INS, you're out of line.' "


LOAD-DATE: September 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              49 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  September 21, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Va. Hits Ads Linking Immigration, Sprawl

Michael Laris , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 901 words


Two horses graze beside a wooden fence, a barn in the background. Suddenly, a
bulldozer rips through the pristine pastureland.

"Welcome to Loudoun County, where suburban sprawl has made our world-famous
horse farms one of our most endangered species," intones the voice in one of a
new batch of political ads appearing across the Washington region.

The culprit, says the voice, is "runaway population growth." What he means is
immigration.

Behind the ad blitz blaming an influx of immigrants for our traffic snarls and
crowded classrooms is a loose group of organizations calling itself the
Coalition for the Future of the American Worker. In a nationwide attack on
immigration, members of the coalition have purchased air time or newspaper space
in at least eight states--including ads in The Washington Post and on local
radio and TV--with the aim of convincing voters and their representatives in
Congress that immigrants are burdening America.

"For Loudoun to try to forestall or try to manage growth without dealing with
national immigration policy, it's fighting a losing battle. It's like shoveling
snow in a blizzard," said Daniel Stein, executive director of the
Washington-based Federation for American Immigration Reform. Stein said the
group spent "six figures" on the anti-sprawl ads aired here this month, which
focus on Loudoun in particular.

Stein's wife, Sharon McCloe Stein, of the group Negative Population Growth, has
placed a related series of ads emphasizing the region's traffic woes and warning
of "immigration's role in overpopulation." The ads cite results of a recent poll
that the group commissioned on growth.

Local officials have condemned the ad campaign, as have environmental activists
and development interests usually at odds with one another.

"I find their whole theme offensive," said Loudoun Supervisor James G. Burton
(I-Mercer), a prominent slow-growth proponent. "They are just using Loudoun
County . . . to trumpet their message," said Burton, adding that immigrants are
not to blame for the county's growing pains.

Joe Maio, an outspoken opponent of sprawl in Virginia, said that the
anti-immigration forces appear to be "trying to ride the sprawl bandwagon." But
"sprawl is not a function of immigration," he said. "We have sprawl because the
government allows too many houses in the wrong places. Who occupies those houses
has absolutely nothing to do with it, [whether] the person's from Fairfax or
Timbuktu."

Jack Shockey, who heads the pro-development group Citizens for Property Rights
in Loudoun, labeled the ads "un-American"--and not very smart, either. "I don't
think that's a very wise thing--to discourage the computer jockeys or
dot-commers from other countries from helping companies here," he said.

According to Daniel Stein, a heavy influx of immigrants into Washington's inner
suburbs has fueled a "secondary migration" of residents "fleeing" to such areas
as Loudoun, spurring on the bulldozers. It's a national trend, he said, and it's
driving sprawl.

Independent analysts paint a different picture.

Suburban growth nationwide is driven more by people moving within the United
States than by outside immigration, said John Haaga of the Population Reference
Bureau, a Washington-based group that studies demographic trends. From March
1998 to March 1999, Haaga said, 2.6 million people living in the United States
moved to the suburbs, as did 687,000 new immigrants.

Locally, in older suburbs including Fairfax, Montgomery and Prince George's
counties, more growth is due to immigrants than to people coming from other U.S.
communities, according to Census Bureau estimates. But the opposite is true in
the booming outer suburbs. In Loudoun, for example, more than 50,000 people
arrived during the 1990s from other U.S. communities, compared with 3,500
immigrants, census estimates indicate. Howard County drew more than 28,000
people moving within the area and 5,000 immigrants.

And in every local community, births outnumber new immigrants, census figures
show.

Moreover, Reid Ewing, an urban policy expert at Rutgers University, says that
population growth is not the main force behind sprawl. Ewing cited a study of
282 metropolitan areas that showed that the amount of land devoted to urban and
suburban uses has increased in recent years, even in the 56 areas where the
population shrank.

Critics of the anti-immigration ads cite local land use regulations, personal
preferences, the booming economy and other factors as more important causes of
sprawl.

"They are using an ad campaign instead of producing credible evidence that
immigration is contributing anything to sprawl," said Don Chen, director of the
Washington-based Smart Growth America.


Staff writer D'Vera Cohn contributed to this report.


Suburban Sprawl Television Ad


Here is the text of the "Runaway Population Growth" ad, produced by Davis & Co.:


Welcome to Loudoun County.

Where suburban sprawl has made our world-famous horse farms one of our most
endangered species.

Where developers have made massive earth-moving equipment some of the
best-selling vehicles in the county.

And where runaway population growth has made sitting in your car for hours one
of the most popular pastimes.

Call FAIR to learn more about what we can do to stop the runaway population
growth that's fueling sprawl.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              50 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  September 28, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Senate GOP Balks at Hispanic Immigration Vote

Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 546 words



Senate Republicans yesterday beat back a Democratic effort to force votes on
legislation to ease rules for Hispanic immigrants as debate over immigration
policy prompted a new round of pre-election point-scoring by both parties.

In a largely party-line vote that fell far short of the two-thirds majority
needed under the circumstances, only 43 senators supported the effort, while 55
were opposed. Even Republicans in close election contests in states with large
numbers of Hispanic voters opposed suspending Senate rules in order to bring the
Democratic proposal to a vote.

The proposal, which Democrats sought to add to bipartisan-backed legislation to
increase visas for highly-skilled workers to fill technology jobs, would provide
amnesty for illegal aliens who have been in this country since 1986 and equalize
treatment of immigrants from Central America and the Caribbean. It would also
allow holders of expired visas to apply for legal residency without returning to
their home countries.

With yesterday's often testy debate, immigration joined an ever-widening array
of issues that are being used to court groups critical to the outcome of the
November elections. Lawmakers are not only seeking to project themselves as
champions of a popular cause -- such as prescription drug coverage for seniors
-- but also trying to trap the opposition into having to vote against it. These
votes often show up in campaign ads.

In the immigration debate, neither side was particularly subtle in laying out
the political stakes in the struggle over the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act,
proposed by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.).

"There is an election coming up and they [Republicans] don't want to have to
explain to Latino and immigrant groups" why they oppose the legislation, so they
try to block it from coming to a vote, charged Senate Minority Leader Thomas A.
Daschle (D-S.D.).

Democrats are pushing for votes on the issue only because "they're scared to
death" that GOP presidential nominee George W. Bush "appeals to the Hispanic
community," retorted Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah).

"I guess this is a brilliant political move if you don't think about it too
closely," he added.

Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.) said he had no fears about campaigning for reelection
in two years among Hispanic Americans in his home state because, he argued, they
would see through this "blatant political act." Texas Hispanics will resent
legislation that would "reward those who break the law" by entering the country
illegally at the expense of those who seek to enter legally, he said.

Despite yesterday's vote, the fight over the Hispanic immigration proposals is
far from over. As a fall-back strategy, Democratic leaders served notice
Wednesday they will try to add the provisions to a major spending bill for next
year and said President Clinton will veto the funding bill if the provisions
were excluded. They said they had the votes to sustain a veto, meaning the issue
could seriously complicate work that Congress must complete before adjourning
early next month to campaign.

Among Washington area senators, only John W. Warner (R-Va.) voted against
suspending the rules to allow a vote on the Hispanic measure.



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              51 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    October 5, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Today In Congress

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 286 words


SENATE

Meets at 9:30 a.m.

Committees:

Energy and Natural Resources--9:30 a.m. Energy research, development, production
& regulation subc. Electricity issues in the Northwest. 366 Dirksen Office Bldg.

Finance--11 a.m. International trade subc. Trade policy challenges in 2001. Gov.
Jesse Ventura (I-Minn.). 215 DOB.

Foreign Relations--11 a.m. European affairs subc. Joint hearing with Near
Eastern and South Asian affairs subc. on national security concerns posed by
Iran's foreign policy & development of missile technology. 419 DOB.

Judiciary--9 a.m. Mark up bill to enhance protections of Internet & critical
infrastructure of United States; & bill to provide for greater fairness in the
arbitration process relating to motor vehicle franchise contracts. 226 DOB.

HOUSE

Meets at 10 a.m.

Committees:

Appropriations--2 p.m. Treasury & postal service subc. Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco & Firearms & Youth Crime Gun Interdiction Initiative. 2359 Rayburn House
Office Bldg.

Commerce--10 a.m. Mark up pending legislation. 2123 RHOB.

Judiciary--10:30 a.m. Immigration & claims subc. Consider issuance of a subpoena
requiring Immigration & Naturalization Service to provide Congress with a
statistical report on illegal immigration, & issuance of a subpoena to compel
testimony of Aaron Podh. B-352 RHOB.

Science--10 a.m. Technology subc. "Rural Access to Technology: Connecting the
Last American Frontier." 2318 RHOB.

Transportation and Infrastructure--9:30 a.m. Aviation subc. Challenges in
building new airport runways. 2167 RHOB.

Transportation and Infrastructure--2 p.m. Oversight, investigations & emergency
management subc. Safety of aircraft electrical systems. 2167 RHOB.

LOAD-DATE: October 05, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              52 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    October 7, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Tempering Too-Harsh Justice

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 295 words



CONGRESS REACHED too far in 1996 when it passed tough new laws to speed the
deportation of immigrants who committed crimes. The measures expanded the
definition of deportable crimes, removed judicial discretion to waive
deportation and made the new standards retroactive. While the impetus behind the
law was a crackdown on illegal immigrants who committed crimes, changes applied
to non-citizens who were in the country legally as well.

The predictable result, along with a soaring deportation rate, was a wave of
injustice. One horror story piled atop another as legal immigrants found
themselves subject to deportation for minor crimes long ago admitted and paid
for. Some adopted foreign children who had never known another home were sent
away after getting in trouble with the law; some legal immigrants with past
convictions who made the mistake of traveling outside the county were hauled off
to detention when they returned.

Now Congress has a chance to restore some balance. The House has passed a bill
that would provide some relief by ending the retroactive application of parts of
the 1996 law. For aliens who committed crimes before 1996 that were later
re-defined as "aggravated felonies"--deportable offenses--it affords a chance to
avoid deportation. For those already deported under those circumstances, it
offers a chance to apply for re-admission.

The legislation is a step forward, but it's only a start. A broader measure has
been introduced in the Senate that would eliminate retroactive effects, restore
the discretion of immigration judges to grant relief from deportation in worthy
cases and end mandatory detention. Proportion and fairness were stripped from
this system in 1996; this Congress should restore them.



LOAD-DATE: October 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              53 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    October 23, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

...And the Fairness Act

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 254 words


CONGRESS has a chance this year to remedy serious injustices in the nation's
immigration laws, but time is slipping away. The 1996 immigration reform law
unfairly swept many longtime legal immigrants into deportation proceedings. It
broadened the definition of crimes for which immigrants could be deported,
removed judges' discretion--and made changes retroactive. The new standards
produced so many unjust results that even some of their sponsors acknowledged
they had gone too far. The House has passed a bill that would leave too much of
the 1996 law in effect, but at least modify some of its harshest provisions. The
Senate ought not adjourn without accepting the bill.

Congress also should approve provisions to allow some Guatemalan, Salvadoran,
Honduran and Haitian refugees who fled to the United States from political
turmoil in the 1980s and early 1990s to apply for permanent residency on the
same basis already allowed to Nicaraguan and Cuban refugees. About 10,000
Liberian refugees who have been here on temporary status for the last decade
would also be allowed to apply for permanent residency, as would illegal
immigrants who came to the United States in 1986 or earlier and have lived here
continuously since. Among the latter group are thousands who were eligible for a
1986 amnesty but were improperly discouraged or blocked on procedural grounds
from applying for it.

Giving these immigrants their chance is a matter of fairness and equity.
Congress should find a way to get it done.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              54 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    October 29, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

LIVE ONLINE; at washingtonpost.com

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. L01

LENGTH: 263 words


Columnist Carrie Johnson hosted an online discussion with business immigration
lawyer Elizabeth Stern of Shaw Pittman last Monday. A sample:


Q: My husband and I are considering a move to Germany. Are German companies
willing to hire Americans? What kind of hoops will I have to jump through?
Should I concentrate on American companies with subsidiaries there? Is it true
that any money we earn while away is tax-free? --Arlington


A: Elizabeth Stern: Germany passed a special immigration program designed to
attract information technology professionals. Like the United States, Germany is
feeling the pinch of growth in the IT sector, and highly skilled technology
workers are a target for the country. To get yourself out there, you should
start with the Internet, but also contact the German American Chamber of
Commerce office in Frankfurt (look at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's Web site at
www.uschamber.com).

You will need a German work permit and residency visa, a process that will
require about eight weeks before you move to Germany. Money earned in Germany is
not tax-free. You remain subject to U.S. tax because of your citizenship, but
you should get a good accountant to get you the appropriate tax set-offs under
the U.S.-Germany tax treaty, and to advise you regarding payment of German
taxes.


Join Carrie Johnson and special guest Susan Baker, a workforce expert at the
Northern Virginia Technology Council who will answer your questions about
high-tech jobs and training, at 11 a.m. at washingtonjobs.com at
www.washingtonpost.com.


LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              55 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   November 11, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration Lessons

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A28; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 95 words



Robert J. Samuelson seems to believe that U.S. immigration laws do not favor
well-educated immigrants ["Little Candor and Loud Silences," op-ed, Nov. 1]. He
is wrong.

The employment-based immigration regime is delineated into occupational and
educational classifications with little opportunity and enormous backlogs for
unskilled workers.

The fact that U.S. immigration law makes no provision for uneducated workers who
fill our service sector positions is one of the main reasons why illegal
immigration exists.

ANDRES BENACH

New York



LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              56 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    November 17, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

INS Not Told Of Felonies By Suspect in Trooper Case

Fredrick Kunkle, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1505 words


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service deports thousands of immigrants
every year for breaking the law, sometimes even removing offenders who have
spent most of their lives in the United States for minor crimes that occurred
long ago.

But Kofi Apea Orleans-Lindsay, a permanent resident alien from Ghana charged
with killing an undercover Maryland state trooper, was not deported despite two
felony convictions over the past three years. When Orleans-Lindsay, 23, twice
received probation from a Circuit Court judge for drug dealing, he in effect
also bypassed the likelihood of deportation, officials say.

No one in law enforcement inquired about his immigration status until a month
before the shooting, an INS official said yesterday.

Today, U.S. District Court Magistrate A. Simon Chrein in Brooklyn, N.Y., will
hear arguments on whether Orleans-Lindsay should be returned to the District to
face charges in the slaying of Trooper Edward M. Toatley.

Police say Orleans-Lindsay shot Toatley, 37, to death Oct. 30 during an
undercover drug purchase. Orleans-Lindsay, of Silver Spring, allegedly accepted
$ 3,500 in cash for cocaine, pretended to get the drugs and returned to the
trooper's sport-utility vehicle a few minutes later, firing a single shot.
Toatley, a 16-year trooper and father of three, died 2 1/2 hours later.

Orleans-Lindsay's case points up the sometimes capricious nature of the
country's deportation policy. While public pressure has been building on
Congress and the INS to ease four-year-old deportation laws that even some law
enforcement officials view as Draconian, others say the INS does not do enough
to expel noncitizens who commit crimes.

"He should have been deported," said Dan Stein, executive director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform. "This was precisely the fact pattern
that Congress was trying to stop."

Others say the 1996 immigration laws--which broadened the grounds for
deportation and reduced judges' discretion--have produced wildly inconsistent,
and often unfair, results.

"We have people convicted of minor shoplifting offenses, and they're trying to
deport them," said Denyse Sabagh, a board member of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association. "These are longtime permanent residents."

Theoretically, Orleans-Lindsay could have been deported following his first
conviction for dealing drugs in 1997. But unless an illegal alien or permanent
resident alien such as Orleans-Lindsay serves time in state or federal prison,
immigration officials are unlikely to know about him, INS spokesman Russ
Bergeron said.

"The people who get suspended sentences, who never get into a federal or state
prison system, are much more problematic," Bergeron said.

Under its Institutional Removal Program, the INS reviews state and federal
prison populations to identify noncitizens.

If the person is subject to deportation, the INS issues a detainer. Upon the
inmate's release, whether on parole or completion of the sentence, the detainer
requires the prisoner to be turned over to the INS.

Under two 1996 laws--the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility
Act and the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act--the INS can bring
deportation proceedings against any noncitizen convicted of an "aggravated
felony"--any crime that carries a maximum sentence of more than one year in
jail.

With the implementation of the 1996 laws, the INS began cracking down on
criminal aliens, and the number of deportations soared.

Last year, the INS deported 69,093 noncitizens, Bergeron said. Horror stories
began to pop up on both sides of the controversy.

For example, Angel Maturino Resendez, a suspected serial killer who had been the
subject of a police and FBI manhunt, was freed from INS custody in 1998 because
of human error and problems with the agency's computer database.

But many people who had lived in the United States for years were suddenly
thrust into deportation proceedings because of long-forgotten convictions for
petty crimes. Some of those people came to the government's attention while
seeking to become U.S. citizens.

"Where do you draw the line?" Bergeron said. He said the INS is reviewing
Orleans-Lindsay's immigration and criminal history.

Orleans-Lindsay pleaded guilty to drug dealing and was sentenced in April 1997
and June 1999. He also was arrested several times, both on new charges that were
later dismissed and for failure to appear in court.

Between his first adult arrest in September 1996 and the sentencing on his
second conviction on June 3, 1999, Orleans-Lindsay spent a total of at least 181
days in the Montgomery County Detention Center.

Eric Seleznow, a spokesman for the county Department of Correction and
Rehabilitation, said the facility sends a weekly list of all foreign-born
inmates to the INS's Baltimore office.

Mary Otten, a spokeswoman for the INS eastern regional office, said it's not
clear why Orleans-Lindsay escaped INS notice until recently.  It's possible that
he simply slipped by in the paperwork, she said.

Montgomery County authorities requested information from the INS about
Orleans-Lindsay's status in September, she said. But the files did not arrive
from storage until four days before Toatley's shooting.

William P. Turner, the retired Circuit Court judge who handled Orleans-Lindsay's
cases in 1997 and 1999, said the issue of his immigration status never came up.

And Katherine Winfrey, deputy state's attorney in Montgomery County, said
prosecutors do not appear to have advised the INS of Orleans-Lindsay's criminal
status.

But at the time, it would have been difficult to argue that Orleans-Lindsay
should face deportation, Winfrey said. Orleans-Lindsay, who attended Blair High
School until 11th grade, had come to the United States with his family, all of
which lives in Montgomery County.

It's not clear how old he was when he arrived here, and INS officials say
privacy laws prohibit them from giving out the information.

"Let's assume that he had not been involved in this drug conspiracy and not shot
a state trooper," Winfrey said. "I think he's been here a good, long while. Is
that somebody we ought to say to the INS, 'We ought to get rid of this guy'? How
do we make that determination? You're almost playing God in that situation. No
one has a crystal ball."


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              57 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    December 1, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Chinese Man Puts Canada In Quandary; Suspect Says He Faces Execution if Deported

DeNeen L. Brown , Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 962 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 30


A move by Canadian immigration officials to deport a suspected criminal to
China, where he likely would face a firing squad, has pitted Canada's tradition
of opposition to the death penalty against its wish not to be perceived as a
haven for undesirable immigrants.

Officials have been pressing their case against Lai Changxing at an immigration
hearing in Vancouver. Chinese officials have described Lai as the central figure
in one of the biggest smuggling and corruption rings in their history, calling
him their "most-wanted man."

Lai fled to Canada more than 15 months ago with his wife, Tsang Ming Na, and
their three teenage children. Now held in a Vancouver jail, he denies claims of
criminal wrongdoing and is fighting for political asylum.

Lai has told Canadian authorities he would be killed if he were returned to
China because he has embarrassing and secret information about senior government
officials there. Many Western analysts believe he has information about a web of
corruption extending high into the Chinese military and Communist Party.

Lai said in a court filing this week that he was a victim of the Chinese
political system: "The government, which previously had lauded my business
enterprises and which pressed me into service for its national security
department, came after me."

But Canadian officials contend he is a common criminal who is trying to abuse
this country's political asylum laws.

"Canada doesn't want to be a haven, whether it's war criminals or people
avoiding sentences in their countries," said Irene Arsenau, a spokeswoman for
Canada's Justice Ministry. "We welcome immigrants, we welcome refugees, but . .
. we want it to be done by the front door."

Canada has no death penalty. It allows justice officials to use their judgment
as to whether to extradite fugitives to countries where they might face the
death penalty.

The government has generally refused to extradite such people, except in rare
cases. But in Lai's case, immigration officials are going against that practice.
Lai's attorneys have argued that he most certainly would be killed because at
least 14 people operating at lower levels of the smuggling scheme have been
executed by firing squads.

"I would suggest to you that he is trying to hide behind the refugee system of
Canada, something Canada will not allow to occur here," Murray Wilkinson, a
Canadian immigration enforcement officer, told an adjudicator at the hearing
this week. "Canada is clearly not a safe haven for criminals. This man and this
woman will not be allowed to use that as a means to remain in this country."

Some U.S. officials contend that Canada has been too lenient toward
international criminals and is becoming a haven for them. "Canada may offer an
easier way for organized crime and international terrorists figures to reach the
United States," said a U.S. official, who did not want to be identified.

Prime Minister Jean Chretien is caught in a political bind with the Lai case. He
is scheduled to travel to China next year and has been criticized for not doing
enough to get that country to improve its human rights record.

Canadian officials have been negotiating Lai's case with Chinese authorities.
But Chinese government officials have said they will not accept any
preconditions to extradition.

Chinese authorities have said that Lai led a huge smuggling ring that imported
goods tax-free through a port in Fujian province. Canadian immigration officer
Jim Murray told the immigration hearing that Lai was the ringleader who smuggled
"huge quantities of diesel fuel, crude oil, cars, high-technology equipment,
rubber."

Lai allegedly bribed Chinese officials, including "scores of mayors, police and
customs officers." Murray said Lai offered a $ 240 million bribe to Chinese
Premier Zhu Rongji for amnesty. Lai provided prostitutes to Chinese officials
and secretly videotaped them for blackmail purposes.

Lai fled to Canada on Aug. 14, 1999, a day after a Hong Kong official secretly
informed him that he would be arrested. According to Murray, Lai left behind
billions of dollars in assets, including eleven residences. He walked out on
ownership of a soccer team in Xiamen and an interest in an 88-story building.

After arriving in Vancouver as visitors, Murray said, Lai and his wife bought a
house in the suburbs and enrolled their children, ages 18, 16 and 14, in
schools. Murray said that in June, Lai and his family went to a Canadian
immigration office to apply for refugee status.

"Once informed that we wished to have and seize all their passports, they and
their lawyer left that office," Murray told the immigration adjudicator. "Their
unwillingness to surrender their passports shows not only a lack of cooperation,
but an intention to use those passports to flee Canada when they decide the
stove gets too hot."

Lai was arrested last week outside a casino hotel in Niagara Falls. His wife was
arrested at their house.

Lai is scheduled to make another appeal Friday before the country's immigration
department. Darryl Larson, Lai's attorney, said he would argue that Lai should
be given the option to leave Canada "for whatever country."

Larson said he believed Canadian officials were trying to make a political point
with Lai. "I think the whole reason for detaining him is they want to be seen as
cooperating with officials in China," Larson said. "They want, though the back
door, to extradite him from Canada, even though there is no extradition treaty
between China and Canada."

Larson says that Lai and Tsang are distraught. "They are convinced they were
going to be on a plane back to China at any instant," he said. "They know if
they are sent back to China, they will face certain death."

LOAD-DATE: December 01, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              58 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    December 8, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Proposal Broadens Asylum; New Rules Would Help Abused Women

Dan Eggen , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 712 words


Battered women from other countries could use their status as victims of
domestic violence to apply for asylum in the United States, according to new
rules proposed yesterday by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The decision was hailed by pro-immigrant groups and women's advocates as a
long-overdue step to provide shelter for women fleeing abusive relationships in
their home countries, where social norms and tepid laws offer little protection.

In addition, experts said the rules could also be used by immigrants already
residing in the United States who, under current guidelines, are often deported
along with a spouse convicted of a domestic crime. About 300 people are deported
each year as abusers, according to INS statistics.

Estimates of the rule's impact vary, but all agree it would annually open the
door to hundreds, if not thousands, of new asylum-seekers.

"This recognizes that domestic violence is not a private issue; it's a public
issue," said INS spokesman Bill Strassberger. "Although domestic violence is a
more personal, one-on-one type of persecution, it is still persecution."

But critics of U.S. immigration policy decried the proposal as a drastic
expansion of the asylum concept, which was originally intended to offer
protection to those persecuted for political or religious beliefs.

David Ray, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, said
the rules will spur on thousands of new asylum-seekers, both real and
fraudulent, and will turn an already overburdened immigration system into a
sprawling divorce court.

"Before we had some very strict rules where you had to say, 'Here is a
government that is persecuting me because of my beliefs,' " Ray said. "Now all
you have to say is 'I'm in a bad marriage.' . . . It takes asylum away from
political persecution and into the realm of personal relationships."

INS officials and immigrant advocates say such fears are overblown, noting that
similar rule changes in recent years--such as those allowing gays to cite their
homosexuality in an asylum claim--have not resulted in significant increases in
asylum claims. The immigration reform federation and other critics argue that
those categories are too narrow to compare with domestic violence.

But Leslye E. Orloff, an immigrant expert with the NOW Legal Defense and
Education Fund, predicted that cultural, legal and physical barriers will keep
the number of battered women seeking asylum low, despite high abuse rates among
some ethnic groups. One recent study of 329 Latina immigrants in the Washington
area found that nearly half had been in relationships abusive enough to qualify
for a court's protective order, Orloff said.

Applicants for asylum are required to show they can't return home because they
face persecution on the basis of political belief, race, religion, nationality
or membership in a particular social group.

The last category has evolved over the years to include a range of groups,
including expansions in the mid-1990s that added homosexuality and the threat of
genital mutilation. Claims by members of clans, such as those found in some
African countries, were also added during that time.

Just over 1,000 of the more than 42,000 asylum claims in fiscal 1999 were filed
by women saying they were members of a particular social group, which may
include being victims of domestic violence. But Ray said that number could
"balloon" under the new rules.

The proposed changes, which must undergo a 45-day review period before they are
finalized, were spurred in part by a high-profile case last year in which a
brutally abused Guatemalan woman was denied asylum by the Board of Immigration
Appeals, an administrative body that reviews immigration cases.

Rodi Alvarado told U.S. authorities that her husband beat her unconscious, raped
her and kicked her so badly she hemorrhaged, and that Guatemalan authorities
rebuffed her pleas for help because they viewed it as a private matter.

Alvarado's case is now under review by Attorney General Janet Reno, who has said
the government needs clearer rules on gender-based asylum cases. One official
said yesterday that with the new rules, Alvarado "will almost certainly end up
getting her asylum."


LOAD-DATE: December 08, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              59 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   December 12, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Jailed Algerian Freed After Four Years; INS Maintains Exile Is Security Threat,
Asks Reno to Void Grant of Asylum

Lorraine Adams , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 523 words



Anwar Haddam, an exiled Algerian jailed in Virginia for the past four years
under a controversial secret evidence law, has been released after an
immigration tribunal found the classified evidence against him did not support
the accusation that he was a terrorist.

Haddam, 45, was reunited with his wife and three children in Arlington last
Thursday night, said Malea Kiblan, his attorney. He had been held in the
Rappahannock Regional Jail in Stafford, where the INS holds some deportation
detainees and other prisoners.

"When I saw him, I said, 'You're free. This is not a fluke'," Kiblan said.
"Anwar asked, 'How did this happen?' I told him, 'By the grace of God,' and he
started to cry."

The Board of Immigration Appeals, which handles appeals of decisions made by
immigration judges, issued an opinion Nov. 30 granting Haddam political asylum
after four years of complicated litigation in various immigration courts.

"I believe we have been completely vindicated," Kiblan said.

The INS has sought Haddam's deportation since 1996 on the grounds that he had
ordered, incited, assisted or otherwise participated in the persecution of
others in his native Algeria, which is in the midst of civil war.

A military junta rules the country and an opposition party, the Islamic
Salvation Front, has been outlawed. Haddam was an active leader of the group
until he fled Algeria and applied for political asylum in the United States in
1993. He moved freely in and out of the United States with the permission of the
INS and the State Department until the INS arrested him on Dec. 6, 1996 and
began deportation proceedings.

The INS has declined since that time to reveal the evidence supporting its
allegation that Haddam directed terrorist acts in Algeria, saying it would
damage national security. The Board of Immigration Appeals was able to view the
classified evidence, but Haddam and his attorney were not. A summary of the
evidence was heavily redacted in the board's opinion.

Although Haddam was released last Thursday, he may be incarcerated again. INS
spokeswoman Maria Cardona said the INS has asked Attorney General Janet Reno to
vacate the Board of Immigration Appeals decision granting Haddam political
asylum.

"We thought it was an erroneous decision," she said. "We think that he is a
danger to the national security and he should not be here."

Reno granted the INS a 45-day period during which the agency can submit a brief
arguing its position. Haddam's grant of political asylum is not official until
then.

The INS could have kept Haddam incarcerated during that period but declined,
Cardona said.

"Since the BIA granted him complete relief and we don't think he should even be
here in this country, we decided to go halfway and release him under certain
conditions," she said. Under those terms, Haddam is not permitted to leave
Maryland, Virginia or the District and is to keep the INS informed of his
whereabouts at all times.

Kiblan said she believed Haddam was released as an acknowledgment by the Justice
Department that there is little likelihood that the INS will prevail.


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              60 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   December 16, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Reno Releases Palestinian Held On Secret Evidence

George Lardner Jr.  , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 616 words



Attorney General Janet Reno yesterday approved the release of a Florida college
professor who has been jailed for more than 3 1/2 years on the basis of secret
evidence that immigration authorities refused to show him or his lawyers.

Hours later, Mazen A. Al-Najjar, a Palestinian immigrant who taught Arabic at
the University of South Florida, walked into the arms of his wife, Fedaa,
outside the Manatee County Detention Center in Bradenton, Fla., then hugged his
three American-born daughters.

"This is a great day for justice and a sad day for arrogance and oppression," he
told a waiting crowd.

An three-judge immigration panel ruled Monday that Al-Najjar, 43, should be
freed, but Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner
appealed to Reno, who intervened moments before Al-Najjar was scheduled to be
released Tuesday.

Reno said she wanted to "personally review" the matter. Yesterday, she issued a
terse announcement that she was lifting a temporary stay. Reno gave no reasons
for her decision, but in a subsequent statement, she defended the INS's efforts
to deport Al-Najjar.

"Mazen Al-Najjar is an alien subject to a final deportation order who has been
illegally present in the United States for many years," Reno said. She said two
decisions by immigration judges "have affirmed his deportability based solely on
public record evidence." The deportation case will be argued Jan. 9 before a
federal appeals court.

Born in Gaza and raised in Saudi Arabia, Al-Najjar hopes to win political asylum
in the United States. As a stateless Palestinian, he said in an interview
yesterday, "I have no place to go." He said the INS wants to send him to the
United Arab Emirates, where he spent two years before coming to the United
States in 1981.

The INS had no comment. INS officials have contended that Al-Najjar had ties to
the Syrian-based Palestinian Islamic Jihad, which has claimed responsibility for
terrorist attacks in Israel and other parts of the Middle East. Al-Najjar has
denied involvement with the group.

Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh ordered Al-Najjar's release on $ 8,000 bond
after determining that the INS had not met a federal court's instructions to
tell him enough about the evidence against him to give him a fair chance of
responding.

Whatever the outcome of the deportation proceedings, Al-Najjar's release from
jail heartened activists who have been seeking repeal of the 1996 federal law
that allows the INS to detain people in deportation proceedings on the basis of
classified information that is never shown to them or their attorneys.

"This case shows once again that the use of secret evidence is unconstitutional,
unreliable and un-American," said David D. Cole, a Georgetown University law
professor and Al-Najjar's lead attorney.

Cole has represented 13 clients against whom the government sought to use secret
evidence. "In all 13 cases," he said, "the INS has lost, and the immigrants are
living freely and peaceably in the United States."

The INS said yesterday that only one man, Harpal Singh, a 43-year-old Sikh,
remains in jail on the basis of secret evidence. His lawyer, Hilary Han, said
Singh has been in custody in California since November 1997. He is seeking
asylum on grounds he would be persecuted if sent back to India.

Rep. David E. Bonior (D-Mich.), a leader in the drive to repeal the 1996 law,
said he would press for it again in January. The House Judiciary Committee voted
this year to cancel the secret evidence rule, but the bill never came up on the
House floor.

Cole noted that President-elect Bush was critical of the practice in the second
presidential debate.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              61 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   December 16, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Secret Evidence Fails Again

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 415 words



ATTORNEY GENERAL Janet Reno yesterday ordered the release of a man named Mazen
Al-Najjar, who had been jailed for 3 1/2 years in Florida as a threat to
national security. The government never filed charges against Mr. Al-Najjar, nor
was the Gaza native ever allowed to see the secret evidence that allegedly tied
him to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad organization. Mr. Al-Najjar faces
deportation for having overstayed his student visa, and the question was whether
he'll fight that order from a jail cell or as a free man. An immigration judge
recently ordered him released, and despite appeals by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Ms. Reno refused to keep him locked up. Her refusal to
perpetuate another inexcusable detention based on secret evidence was the right
move--but it highlights the need for reform of this abusive practice.

The government uses secret evidence against foreigners it seeks to deport--not
in the deportation cases themselves but rather to keep people alleged to be
national security threats detained while their cases are pending. These cases
would be unnerving even if the secret evidence were uniformly rigorous. It is,
after all, offensive to the norms of our legal system to deprive someone of
liberty without a right of response to the evidence. But the pattern is all the
more disturbing because the government has tended to lose in court; in case
after case, the evidence has turned out to be weak.

It is not possible to evaluate fully the evidence against Mr. Al-Najjar, which
remains under wraps. But there is no particular reason to believe it is strong.
Immigration Judge Kevin McHugh, in an opinion based only on non-classified
material, acknowledged that some of the public evidence "raises suspicion" that
Mr. Al-Najjar may have been raising money for Islamic Jihad. But he held that
"the court has not been presented with any evidence linking" Mr. Al-Najjar
solidly with the group, and he rejected the notion that two groups with which
Mr. Al-Najjar associated were mere terrorist fronts. Judge McHugh has seen the
classified evidence too and, back in 1997, deemed it adequate to order Mr.
Al-Najjar held without bond. It's hard to imagine that he would have rejected
the government's case so completely and ordered Mr. Al-Najjar released if he
still had confidence in its solidity. Mr. Al-Najjar may or may not be a threat
to this country, but the government's record in such cases makes its say-so hard
to credit.



LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              62 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    December 17, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

An Incomplete on Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 303 words


THE IMMIGRATION measures approved in Congress's closing hours offer real help to
hundreds of thousands seeking legal permanent residence here. The provisions
would assist about 400,000 illegal immigrants who missed out on a 1986 amnesty
because of mistakes by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. They would
allow as many as 300,000 immigrants now here and qualified for permanent
residency "green cards" to get them without having to leave jobs and family and
return to their home countries. They include some other improvements too.

But Congress missed a chance to correct a gross injustice perpetrated in its own
1996 immigration reform. That bill retroactively re-defined crimes for which
immigrants could be deported, and then removed judges' discretion to waive
deportation. The result: Some long-time legal residents found themselves swept
into detention or deportation because of minor infractions acknowledged and paid
for long ago. Even avid supporters of the 1996 measure acknowledged that it had
reached too far, and the House passed a bill that would have allowed deportation
to be waived in some cases involving longtime residents. Senate leaders never
brought that bill to the floor, and Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.) kept it out of the
end-of-session bill. He said he feared that immigration judges might abuse
discretion if it were returned to them, and that the session-ending negotiations
weren't the time to deal with the issue.

Advocates will be back next year pushing for correction of the excesses of the
1996 law, and also for relief for Central American, Haitian and Liberian
immigrants whose just complaints went unheard in the last-minute negotiations.
The Bush administration and the new Congress have a chance to do the right thing
where this year's players failed.



LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              63 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    September 3, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

LIVE ONLINE at washingtonpost.com

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. L01; TECH JOBS

LENGTH: 267 words


Immigration lawyer Elizabeth Stern of the law firm Shaw Pittman joined Carrie
Johnson last Tuesday to answer questions about working abroad. A sample:


Q.  What happens to H1-B workers who get fired? Do they have to go right back to
their country, or do they have to find another job? Are there regulations on how
they can be fired? If the company decides to fire them one day for no particular
reason, do they just have to go back?--Washington


A.  Elizabeth Stern: This is a difficult situation. H1-B status ends the day the
person stops performing services. The INS recently issued guidance on this
point. And there's no "grace period" to get packed and out of the country.
Technically, you should leave once your employment ends. But if you find an
alternative job, and the new employer files an H1-B petition requesting
"transfer" of your old H1-B to a new employer, explaining that you've lost your
old job, the INS will usually grant the transfer. So the INS, in a sense,
whitewashes the lapse in your status because you could not control getting
fired. By the way, the same rule does not apply if you quit. Then the status
ends, you don't get a transfer granted, and you have to leave the U.S. and
re-enter to have your new H1-B kick in. Bottom line: If you get fired but want
to stay in the U.S. and look for work, get an immigration attorney before your
employment ends. It's a delicate situation and you don't want to compromise your
visa record.


Join Carrie Johnson for a live discussion Tuesday at 1 p.m. at
washingtonjobs.com at www.washingtonpost.com.



LOAD-DATE: September 03, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              64 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 2, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD;
In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 793 words


THE MIDDLE EAST

ISTANBUL -- A cargo ship carrying illegal immigrants broke apart in a storm just
off Turkey's southern coast early yesterday, killing at least six people. Dozens
more were missing and feared dead -- locked in a cargo area that plunged to the
seabed.

At least 83 people -- 10 crew members and 73 passengers -- were on board the
Georgian-flagged Pati, officials said. After it broke in two, one half sank
about 100 yards off the Mediterranean resort of Kemer, while the other half
drifted toward the rocky shore.

Thirty-two people were rescued, said Can Karaca, who was supervising the rescue
efforts, but hope for the 45 still missing was dim. Rescue operations were
called off in the afternoon because of strong winds and high seas. Divers and
helicopters were to join the search today.

Karaca said survivors told him that many of the illegal immigrants had been
locked in the cargo area located in the sunken half of the ship. "There is
little hope to find them alive," he said.

All the passengers were illegal immigrants trying to make their way to Greece,
Karaca said, adding that survivors identified the immigrants as Pakistanis,
Moroccans and Bangladeshis. Indian and Afghan refugees were also believed to be
on board.

Associated Press

RIYADH, Saudi Arabia -- Saudi Arabia has signed a $ 2 billion arms deal with the
United States, a U.S. diplomat said.

The deal includes a three-year contract worth $ 1.6 billion to maintain the
kingdom's F-16 jet fighters and will employ 1,000 people, including 10
representing the U.S. government, the Riyadh-based diplomat said on condition of
anonymity. The deal also involves a project to modernize the Saudi National
Guard, headed by Crown Prince Abdullah.

Under the deal, the kingdom will acquire 1,827 antitank rockets, tactical
communications equipment and 132 armored vehicles.

Associated PressASIA

PHNOM PENH, Cambodia -- Cambodian lawmakers approved legislation today to bring
former leaders of the notorious Khmer Rouge regime to trial, pushing forward a
process that has been stalled for nearly a year.

"Today the National Assembly has approved the draft law on the Khmer Rouge trial
unanimously," Vice Chairman Heng Samrin announced in parliament.

After nearly a year of negotiations, Cambodia and the United Nations reached
agreement in principal last April on a process to try former leaders of the
radical communist group, responsible for an estimated 1.7 million deaths during
their 1975-79 rule.

ReutersTHE AMERICAS

CASTRIES, St. Lucia -- Two men who attacked worshipers in a cathedral on this
small Caribbean island, setting them ablaze and killing an Irish nun, told
police they were sent by God to combat corruption in the Roman Catholic Church,
authorities said yesterday.

The suspects -- Kim John, 20, and Francis Phillip, 34 -- identified themselves
as Rastafarians, Montoute said. Police spokesman Albert Fregis said St. Lucia's
Rastafarian leaders denounced the attack Sunday at the Basilica of the
Immaculate Conception in the port town of Castries.

Sunday's attack came during Holy Communion while more than 400 people were
inside the cathedral. The men burst in carrying machetes and a blowtorch while
many worshipers were lined up in the aisles, police and witnesses said.

One of the attackers doused people with a flammable liquid, apparently kerosene
or gasoline, while another used a blowtorch to ignite them, witnesses said. The
attackers then made their way to the altar, where they set fire to the Rev.
Charles Gaillard, injured an altar server and burned the altar.

Gaillard was in critical condition at a hospital in Martinique, said Monsignor
Patrick Anthony, a church spokesman. At least 12 other people were hospitalized
after the attack, five in critical condition, police said.

Associated PressEUROPE

BELGRADE -- Six Serbian men kidnapped by ethnic Albanian rebels in the buffer
zone along the Kosovo border were freed after intensive diplomatic efforts by
Yugoslav and NATO authorities, a senior official said.

Serbia's deputy prime minister, Nebojsa Covic, told the Beta news agency that
the six were "in good shape." They were handed over by the ethnic Albanians to
representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross, Beta said. U.N.
officials in Kosovo speaking on condition of anonymity confirmed the report.

The six were taken hostage Sunday while traveling to Kosovo from the town of
Presevo, Yugoslav authorities said. The ethnic Albanians allowed nine others in
the party, mostly elderly, to go free.

The kidnapping occurred one day after NATO peacekeepers in Kosovo mediated an
agreement between Yugoslavia and the rebels to open another road in the
contested area and allow freedom of movement.

Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              65 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 3, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

'Gift to Salvadoran Community';
Illegal Immigrants Granted Temporary Relief After Quakes

BYLINE: Caryle Murphy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 726 words


President Bush announced yesterday that Salvadorans living illegally in the
United States will be allowed to stay here and work for the next 18 months, a
measure intended to help their homeland recover from the devastation of two
recent earthquakes.

The move will enable undocumented Salvadorans -- including thousands in the
Washington area -- to seek employment legally and send financial aid to
relatives in the Central American country. The decision was widely praised by
local Latino community leaders.

"It's a great gift to the Salvadoran community and a great way to help the
reconstruction effort in El Salvador, and we are just glad he has done it," said
Saul Solorzano, director of the Central American Resource Center in the
District.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 150,000 undocumented
Salvadorans may come forward to take advantage of the temporary relief from the
threat of deportation. The agency had no estimate of how many might apply in the
Washington area, which has the nation's second-largest Salvadoran community
after Los Angeles, but Solorzano said up to 50,000 might do so.

"We know we are going to receive a deluge of people to seek relief," said Yvonne
Martinez Vega, director of Ayuda, a nonprofit social service agency in
Adams-Morgan. The decision, she added, has "made me take a second look at the
Bush administration."

Bush also said the United States would send El Salvador $ 52 million in
additional reconstruction aid this year. Washington already had sent $ 16
million after the first quake hit El Salvador on Jan. 13. The administration
promised to seek an additional $ 52 million in relief funds for El Salvador next
year.

"The recent earthquake in Washington state brings home to the citizens of our
nation how natural disaster can strike any of us," Bush said. "And it reminds us
of our obligation to reach out to help those in other nations struggling in the
wake of disaster to rebuild their homes and lives."

Bush's announcement followed his meeting at the White House with El Salvador
President Francisco Flores, who last month asked Bush to offer undocumented
Salvadorans "temporary protected status," as the measure is called. Flores also
had pressed the administration for increased financial aid.

"It was a great success," Flores said of his meeting with Bush. "It was beyond
what were were expecting. His campaign announcement that he would be close to
Latin America was very true."

Flores estimated that if 100,000 Salvadorans legalize their immigration status,
they could produce an additional $ 300 million a year in remittances to their
families. Already, Salvadorans send home $ 1.7 billion annually.

"So [temporary protected status] is absolutely crucial to the reconstruction
effort," said Flores, who made his comments during a meeting with Washington
Post reporters and editors.

The Jan. 13 and Feb. 13 earthquakes left 1,100 dead, more than 2,500 missing and
about 7,860 injured, the INS said. About 1.3 million people have been displaced,
and the country has suffered $ 2.8 billion in financial losses, according to the
INS.

After the first quake, the INS halted deportation of 1,100 undocumented
Salvadorans. Most of those are in detention, and "some might be eligible for
[the temporary status] if they have no criminal background," said INS spokesman
Bill Strassberger.

Salvadorans who can show that they have been in the United States continuously
since Feb. 13 are eligible for temporary protected status. They are required to
fill out two forms and pay $ 150 in application fees. Anyone convicted of a
felony or two or more misdemeanors while in this country is not eligible.

"It's very good that the president has [made this decision], because all the
people in El Salvador are in great need of the help of Salvadorans who live in
this country at this moment in time," said Ana Isabel Reyes, an undocumented
Salvadoran who works as a housecleaner in the District.

Sonia Aquino, 30, a Salvadoran-born information specialist at the Spanish
Catholic Center in Adams-Morgan who has legal status in this country, said that
since the quakes, "everyone who lives here worries [about how] to send money to
their families. . . . There is no way we can go back there and work. There are
no jobs there."

Staff writer Syliva Moreno contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              66 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 5, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Stop Illegal Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 177 words


Reed Karaim ["Outlook, Feb. 25] -- and President Bush and Mexico's Vicente Fox
-- would have us believe that our southern border is "indefensible," so we
should put out the welcome mat.

As an American-born Hispanic, I see and feel firsthand the harm this does to
this country's poor and minorities and to illegal immigrants.

It is bad enough that we are willing to look the other way as Juarez, Mexico,
and El Paso become teeming slums. Mexicans flock there to work for starvation
wages in factories that are owned by global corporations; those companies don't
have to obey environmental laws while doing business in Mexico. But now there's
a move to legalize the flood of cheap labor into the United States rather than
pay Americans a living wage.

The solution, while it may not help President Fox foist his poverty and
unemployment problems off on the United States, is to crack down on those who
hire illegal aliens. That will remove the incentive for illegal aliens to ignore
our laws and quickly will stop illegal crossings.

CORINE FLORES

Santa Fe, N.M.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              67 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 18, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Residents Exceed Estimate;
Experts Analyzing New Census Figures Say 6 Million May Instead Be 9 Million

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1210 words


The number of undocumented immigrants in the United States appears to be far
higher than the 6 million the government has estimated, according to a growing
number of federal officials and other experts.

The discrepancy has surfaced in recent weeks as the results of the 2000 Census
have been released. And while researchers do not agree on how many undocumented
immigrants live in this country, there is growing consensus that the number
could be at least 50 percent higher than the official estimate. They say it
could range from 9 million to 11 million or higher.

The presence of millions of people in this country previously unknown to the
government has important policy implications, from border enforcement programs
to visa regulations. It also could explain why unemployment rates and wage
trends have seemed out of step with the tight labor market of recent years.

Officials and researchers point to the census as evidence in arguing that the 6
million figure is far too low. The Census Bureau had estimated -- based on
birth, death and other records -- that its 2000 head count would find 275
million U.S. residents. The number that came in was much higher: 281.4 million.
Then, a survey conducted after the census as a quality check arrived at an even
higher number: 285 million.

The census also found 35.3 million Hispanics, a number much higher than the 32.5
million the government had estimated.

The most likely explanation for the gaps between those numbers is that the
nation's foreign-born population is much larger than previously believed,
according to Commerce Department and Census Bureau officials, as well as a
number of outside researchers.

"Immigration -- unmeasured immigration -- is the thing we are looking at," said
John F. Long, chief of the bureau's population division. "The biggest candidate
is . . . undocumented" immigrants.

Officials hope to resolve the discrepancy by fall, because it is part of a
larger decision on whether federal funds should be distributed based on the
actual census head count or a figure adjusted to compensate for millions missed
in the census.

The disparity in numbers has occupied government and academic researchers. Last
week, Census Bureau officials delved into the topic at a meeting, and this week
they plan to do the same with researchers specializing in immigration. They may
even speed up their timetable for processing detailed census data on the
nation's foreign-born population, which was not scheduled for release until next
year.

In attempting to explain the discrepancy in population figures, Census Bureau
officials went back to other surveys and concluded that a more plausible number
for the undocumented population is about 9 million. Urban Institute researcher
Jeffrey S. Passel, who looked at similar information, came up with the same
figure.

A team of Northeastern University researchers, analyzing two sets of economic
data, say there could be 11 million or more undocumented people in the United
States. Lee Price, a top Commerce Department official who also studied the
economic data, said the number may not be that high but could be millions above
previous estimates.

"If there are that many people here, that changes the way we think about
ourselves and what's happening," said Price, acting deputy undersecretary for
economic affairs.

Price said that if the number of illegal immigrants is higher than previously
thought, it could explain why unemployment fell more slowly in the 1990s than
the growing number of jobs would indicate it should. It could also answer
another question: Why didn't wages rise faster as unemployment fell?

However, not all experts agree that illegal immigration has been drastically
undercounted. Robert Warren, of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, says
the data he has seen, including unpublished figures, do not show a huge increase
in the undocumented population.

"I just haven't seen anything to indicate that it would be above 7 million,"
said Warren, research coordinator for the INS's Office of Policy and Planning.
"I don't think the answer is that millions of unauthorized immigrants have come
here in the last few years."

Warren said all the theories need to be tested with information available only
from the census itself. He believes the census was so much better than the 1990
tally that it counted people for the first time who have been here for years.

He said the gap could also be explained in part by the Census Bureau's failure
to track a growing number of documented immigrants who are here for only a few
years, such as students or temporary workers drawn by the hot economy. Census
officials do not dispute that assertion but say it cannot explain the entire
gap.

Traditionally, undocumented immigrants have been concentrated in low-skill jobs,
from landscaping to meatpacking. According to previous estimates, most are
Latino and about four in 10 live in California. But Price said the census
discrepancy has led him to wonder whether undocumented workers are coming from a
different mix of countries than previously thought.

Researchers have examined two sets of data to back up their conclusions that the
immigrant population -- especially illegal immigrants -- has been
underestimated.

Passel and Census Bureau researchers took a close look at the Current Population
Survey, a monthly household survey by the bureau. About the time the census was
being taken -- amid a giant publicity campaign urging fearful immigrants to be
counted -- the survey's numbers for the foreign-born population suddenly rose.

And it was not only new arrivals. Passel said the survey recorded an increase in
the number of illegal immigrants who said they came to the United States in 1994
and 1995, presumably people who had never responded before.

"My hypothesis was the publicity surrounding the 2000 Census got these people to
start appearing in the survey -- that and the fact that they had been better
established" and felt safer, Passel said.

The Northeastern University team and Price, the Commerce undersecretary, also
concluded that the undocumented population had been underestimated but did so by
studying economic data. They started with a puzzle: The number of jobs people
reported in a census survey has long been lower than the number of jobs reported
by employers to another government agency for tax purposes. In the 1990s, the
gap was 4 million.

The economists tend to believe the employers, who must pay tax on the jobs they
report. So they believe much of the difference between the two job totals could
be explained by undocumented immigrants, whose numbers would throw off the
census survey.

The Spanish Catholic Center in Mount Pleasant got a vivid reminder of how many
undocumented immigrants there might be in this area when the federal government
allowed Salvadorans to apply for temporary protective status March 2, after the
earthquake in their country.

"We have been inundated with people coming and standing in line in front of our
center from 3 or 4 a.m.," said Carmen Dominguez, the center's interim associate
director.

"The crowds were so great," she said, "that the center now makes appointments in
advance."

Staff writer Mary Beth Sheridan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              68 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 2, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Moves To Extend Deadline for Immigrants

BYLINE: Dana Milbank, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 441 words


President Bush yesterday moved to give certain illegal immigrants more time to
apply for legal residency status, after hundreds of thousands of those eligible
missed the deadline for a special program enacted under President Bill Clinton.

In a letter to congressional leaders, Bush said an estimated 200,000 immigrants
were eligible to file for residency but missed Monday's deadline, in part
because rules explaining the program weren't issued until late March. He urged
Congress to extend the program for an unspecified period of time.

In December, Congress passed a measure allowing undocumented immigrants to apply
for U.S. residency without leaving the country, as long as they applied by April
30 and paid a $ 1,000 penalty. Usually, illegal immigrants must apply in their
native lands, but most illegal immigrants are barred from returning for three to
10 years if they leave the United States.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has estimated there are 640,000
immigrants eligible to become legal residents, generally because family members
are U.S. citizens or legal permanent residents. Bush told Congress he supports
"temporarily" extending the filing deadline but maintaining the requirement that
the immigrant had to have been in the United States on Dec. 21, 2000.

Hispanic voters are becoming an increasingly powerful force in U.S. elections,
and Bush has been eager to court a group that could be decisive in the 2004
presidential election. Though Bush has opposed illegal immigration, his letter
mentioned consultations with the Mexican government and emphasized his desire to
keep immigrants' families together.

"Many choose to risk remaining here illegally rather than to be separated from
their families for those many years," Bush said, adding that this "should be
addressed to ensure a more orderly, legal and humane migration flow between our
countries."

On Monday, tens of thousands of undocumented immigrants filled immigration
centers and hurried through wedding ceremonies to apply for residency before the
deadline. Immigrant advocates urged an extension of the deadline because there
wasn't enough time to help the residency seekers with their paperwork. Several
lawmakers submitted legislation to extend the deadline but were unsuccessful,
and the White House waited until after the expiration to call for an extension.

"It remains in our national interest to legitimize those resident immigrants,
eligible for legal status, and to welcome them as full participants of our
society," Bush's letter said. "But we will only be able to do this if the path
to legalization encourages family reunification."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              69 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 25, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Border Patrol Continues Search for Missing Migrant;
14 Died in Ariz. Desert After Being Abandoned by Smugglers

BYLINE: William Booth and Cheryl W. Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 982 words

DATELINE: YUMA, Ariz. May 24


U.S. Border Patrol agents continued to search today for a last missing migrant
who may still be wandering "the Devil's Road," a broiling desert valley east of
here that claimed the lives of 14 others who succumbed to exposure and were
found over the past two days.

Abandoned by smugglers in heat that exceeded 115 degrees, the illegal immigrants
fell victim to one of the most lethal journeys in years as they tried to cross
into the United States from Mexico. Beefed-up activity by federal agents in
major cities along the border has pushed migrants farther into some of the most
dangerous and isolated parts of the United States.

The death toll has renewed calls on both sides of the border for more humane
ways to manage the illegal traffic. In recent talks, senior officials of the
administrations of President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox have made
the safety of illegal immigrants a top priority.

In the last three years, 851 border crossers -- 158 of them in Arizona -- have
died attempting the journey, killed by the punishing sun or frozen in sudden
winter storms in the mountains.

But it is rare for so many to die together. The death toll of 14 was the highest
ever for a single group in Arizona, authorities said.

The survivors, from a group of 26 or 27 men aged 16 to 35, were burned black by
the sun and covered in cactus spines. Some were so weak they had to be carried
into rescue helicopters. At a hospital, one physician described the survivors as
looking like "mummies."

The survivors told Border Patrol agents they had been abandoned by human
traffickers, known as "coyotes," without food and with little water, and told to
walk a few hours toward a highway, presumably Interstate 8. The highway is
actually 60 miles from the border, and the survivors said they had been
wandering in the desert since Saturday. They made it only about halfway to the
road.

"These people really have no idea what it is like," said Maurice Moore,
assistant chief of the Border Patrol in Yuma. Where the dead and survivors were
found, "there is no habitation, no ranches, no roads, no water," Moore said. The
only slivers of shade would come from the scattered ironwood and palo verde
trees.

"Out here the sun is very strong, and it just beats on you," said Border Patrol
agent Joseph Garafolo, an emergency medical technician. "The bottom line is when
you're in the desert and you're crossing in 100-degree heat, water is not the
only thing you need."

Temperatures in Yuma reached 111 degrees Wednesday, and Moore said that the
valley where the migrants traveled was easily five degrees hotter.

The 14 dead were found scattered among the survivors, who were found Wednesday
afternoon by Border Patrol agents and searchers from the Marine Corps Air
Station here.

Marine Corps Maj. Robert Lack, who piloted one of the rescue helicopters,
described a gruesome scene of bodies sprawled on the ground. In one cluster of
10 men where Lack landed, one man was dead; another died in the helicopter on
the way to the hospital.

The survivors were wearing only their underwear, and most were too weak from
dehydration to walk. Too exhausted to sit in the aircraft's seats, they slumped
to the floor. They told their rescuers they had been eating cactus to survive.

"This is an atrocity," said Border Patrol spokesman Rene Noriega. "Sure, being
in the country illegally is a violation of the law, but they shouldn't have to
pay for it with their lives."

The survivors were listed in critical condition today at Yuma Regional Medical
Center. They are being treated for severe dehydration and kidney damage,
according to a hospital spokeswoman. They are expected to remain in the hospital
for at least a week before they are returned to Mexico.

Mexican officials said today that they had identified a suspect, who could face
charges of immigrant smuggling and murder. The men, from the Mexican states of
Veracruz and Guerrero, likely paid between $ 1,000 and $ 2,000 to be taken
across the border in a vehicle, authorities said.

Juan Hernandez, coordinator of Mexico's presidential Office of Mexicans Abroad,
visited survivors and their relatives today at the Yuma hospital. He said he
spoke to one of three brothers from Guerrero who had tried crossing the border
together. One brother died.

"There were tears running down his cheeks," Hernandez recalled. "He said it was
a nightmare."

The survivors told Hernandez that the possibility of getting jobs and earning
money to send back home was the reason they wanted to come to the United States.

"I think that for many Americans, if they just look back one, two or three
generations, this mirrors the experience of pioneer trips to the United States
looking for a better life," Hernandez said.

The Border Patrol launched an air and land search Wednesday morning after four
of the immigrants found agents and asked for help after wandering through the
the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge.

Search and rescue crews found another group of 17 about 2 1/2 hours later. Nine
of those were dead, and one died on the way to the hospital. Later Wednesday and
early today, four more bodies were found.

Based on footprints in the sand, trackers believe there is one migrant still
missing.

The deaths come just weeks after Bush and Fox pledged to improve cross-border
relations, particularly immigration.

"The governments of the U.S. and Mexico condemn the actions of smugglers who put
the lives of would-be migrants at risk," State Department spokesman Philip T.
Reeker said in a statement issued jointly by the U.S. and Mexican governments.
"These tragic deaths highlight the pressing need for our governments to continue
their work to reach new agreements on migration and border safety."

Thompson reported from Washington and Booth reported from Yuma. Correspondent
Kevin Sullivan in Mexico City contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              70 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 27, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Green Card Program Revealing Its Risks;
Some Illegal Immigrants Losing Jobs

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 978 words


It was the brightest hope in years for undocumented immigrants: a four-month
government program that would allow many to lay claim to an American future.
Bryand, a Bolivian living in Northern Virginia, scrambled to take part.

The young construction worker sent home for his birth certificate. He sought
legal help for the petition in which his brother, a U.S. citizen, sponsored him
for residency. At last, after nearly two years of working illegally, Bryand was
on the cusp of achieving his American dream.

Or so he thought.

"It's going to be a 14-year wait," an official said when Bryand dropped his
application off at the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in
Arlington last month. In the meantime, she warned, he had no permission to work.

Bryand's eyes widened in astonishment. The authorities were going to accept his
application -- then send him back to his underground life, while he waited his
turn on a worldwide queue for U.S. visas.

"Oops," he murmured.

Like Bryand, hundreds of thousands who joined a frantic rush to take advantage
of the special immigration program -- jamming lawyers' offices, marrying their
U.S. boyfriends and girlfriends, and lining up at government offices -- find
themselves in legal limbo.

The law provided a window for undocumented immigrants to seek permanent
residence if they had a close relative, spouse or employer to sponsor them. In
all, 640,000 people were expected to benefit from the measure, known as Section
245(i). It expired April 30, but the Bush administration wants to extend it.

But the program has led to unhappy surprises for many immigrants. Some, like
Bryand, face the prospect of living on the margins for years because of U.S.
visa limits and backlogs.

Other immigrants face even harsher setbacks. An unknown number in the Washington
area and across the country have lost their jobs, because to benefit from the
law, they had to reveal they were working illegally, lawyers and immigrant
advocates say.

"It's kind of a Catch-22," said Jim O'Brien, a Washington immigration lawyer who
represents many hotels and restaurants and has seen dozens of firings prompted
by the law.

The measure was passed in December, an obscure bill in the end-of-administration
legislative flurry. But rumors raced through the immigrant community. Lacking
information, many immigrants mistakenly believed that the law was an amnesty.
They emerged by the hundreds of thousands.

The INS has said it will not use the information it obtained in the process to
track down the undocumented immigrants. But under the law, the immigrants get no
special protection, either. If the authorities stumble across them -- in a
workplace raid or a crime investigation, for example -- they will be deported.

"It's crazy," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, which favors more limits on immigration.

The law's contradictions, experts say, reflect the difficulty of cobbling
together immigration law in a country with no consensus on the issue, and two
divergent priorities.

To some legislators, the priority is to help a hidden population believed to
number at least 6 million, many related to legal American residents or highly
valued by employers. Other legislators say the priority should be maintaining
control of U.S. immigration and not rewarding lawbreakers.

The result: compromises such as 245(i).

For some employers, the measure smacks not of compromise but of Kafka. "It makes
no sense," said Patrick Britt, a factory manager. He, like Bryand, spoke on the
condition that some of his personal details not be disclosed for fear of
punishment.

Britt learned about 245(i) when several Latin American-born employees approached
him, asking if the factory would sponsor them for residency.

The businessman says he was taken aback; he had thought the employees, hired
through a temporary agency, were legal. But it was difficult to find such good
workers, so he agreed to sponsor them.

Then he learned that the employees couldn't work while they waited for their
visas -- up to three years. Britt was stunned: It was necessary to destroy the
workers' jobs to save them.

"This is the first time I've ever gotten involved and read about laws. Boy, am I
disappointed in our government," he said.

Bill Strassberger, an INS spokesman, said employers are obliged to follow the
law. He acknowledged, however, that many would probably continue to illegally
employ workers awaiting their green cards, knowing that the immigration service
is unlikely to track them down.

"It's not a priority to round up nannies," Strassberger said, noting the
cash-strapped agency focuses on bigger crimes.

The 245(i) law clearly provides one benefit to undocumented immigrants who
qualify. In exchange for paying a $ 1,000 fee, they can avoid having to get
their residency visa at a U.S. consulate in their homeland. Instead, they can
pick it up in the United States.

That doesn't save them just an expensive trip back to Mexico, France or Korea.
More importantly, it gives them relief from a 1996 law that bars undocumented
immigrants who go home from returning to the United States for up to a decade.

But applicants to the special program must take their place in line behind more
than 2 million people around the world already waiting for visas, which are
rationed each year according to the applicant's home country and sponsor.

Some immigrant advocates say that those applying through 245(i) should be given
work permits for the interim.

For Bryand, the Bolivian construction worker, it was a puzzling introduction to
the ways of Washington.

"I'm still going to do the program," he announced as he prepared to hand over
his paperwork. But his relationship with the government remained a mystery. He
turned again to the INS official: "In exactly what way will I be illegal?"

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              71 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 27, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

INS Offer's Loopholes Trap Some Immigrants;
Applicants Face Layoffs While Awaiting Visas

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 978 words


It was the brightest hope in years for undocumented immigrants: a four-month
government program that would allow many to lay claim to an American future.
Bryand, a Bolivian living in Northern Virginia, scrambled to take part.

The young construction worker sent home for his birth certificate. He sought
legal help for the petition in which his brother, a U.S. citizen, sponsored him
for residency. At last, after nearly two years of working illegally, Bryand was
on the cusp of achieving his American dream.

Or so he thought.

"It's going to be a 14-year wait," an official said when Bryand dropped his
application off at the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in
Arlington last month. In the meantime, she warned, he had no permission to work.

Bryand's eyes widened in astonishment. The authorities were going to accept his
application -- then send him back to his underground life, while he waited his
turn on a worldwide queue for U.S. visas.

"Oops," he murmured.

Like Bryand, hundreds of thousands who joined a frantic rush to take advantage
of the special immigration program -- jamming lawyers' offices, marrying their
U.S. boyfriends and girlfriends, and lining up at government offices -- find
themselves in legal limbo.

The law provided a window for undocumented immigrants to seek permanent
residence if they had a close relative, spouse or employer to sponsor them. In
all, 640,000 people were expected to benefit from the measure, known as Section
245(i). It expired April 30, but the Bush administration wants to extend it.

But the program has led to unhappy surprises for many immigrants. Some, like
Bryand, face the prospect of living on the margins for years because of U.S.
visa limits and backlogs.

Other immigrants face even harsher setbacks. An unknown number in the Washington
area and across the country have lost their jobs, because to benefit from the
law, they had to reveal they were working illegally, lawyers and immigrant
advocates say.

"It's kind of a Catch-22," said Jim O'Brien, a Washington immigration lawyer who
represents many hotels and restaurants and has seen dozens of firings prompted
by the law.

The measure was passed in December, an obscure bill in the end-of-administration
legislative flurry. But rumors raced through the immigrant community. Lacking
information, many immigrants mistakenly believed that the law was an amnesty.
They emerged by the hundreds of thousands.

The INS has said it will not use the information it obtained in the process to
track down the undocumented immigrants. But under the law, the immigrants get no
special protection, either. If the authorities stumble across them -- in a
workplace raid or a crime investigation, for example -- they will be deported.

"It's crazy," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, which favors more limits on immigration.

The law's contradictions, experts say, reflect the difficulty of cobbling
together immigration law in a country with no consensus on the issue, and two
divergent priorities.

To some legislators, the priority is to help a hidden population believed to
number at least 6 million, many related to legal American residents or highly
valued by employers. Other legislators say the priority should be maintaining
control of U.S. immigration and not rewarding lawbreakers.

The result: compromises such as 245(i).

For some employers, the measure smacks not of compromise but of Kafka. "It makes
no sense," said Patrick Britt, a factory manager. He, like Bryand, spoke on the
condition that some of his personal details not be disclosed for fear of
punishment.

Britt learned about 245(i) when several Latin American-born employees approached
him, asking if the factory would sponsor them for residency.

The businessman says he was taken aback; he had thought the employees, hired
through a temporary agency, were legal. But it was difficult to find such good
workers, so he agreed to sponsor them.

Then he learned that the employees couldn't work while they waited for their
visas -- up to three years. Britt was stunned: It was necessary to destroy the
workers' jobs to save them.

"This is the first time I've ever gotten involved and read about laws. Boy, am I
disappointed in our government," he said.

Bill Strassberger, an INS spokesman, said employers are obliged to follow the
law. He acknowledged, however, that many would probably continue to illegally
employ workers awaiting their green cards, knowing that the immigration service
is unlikely to track them down.

"It's not a priority to round up nannies," Strassberger said, noting the
cash-strapped agency focuses on bigger crimes.

The 245(i) law clearly provides one benefit to undocumented immigrants who
qualify. In exchange for paying a $ 1,000 fee, they can avoid having to get
their residency visa at a U.S. consulate in their homeland. Instead, they can
pick it up in the United States.

That doesn't save them just an expensive trip back to Mexico, France or Korea.
More importantly, it gives them relief from a 1996 law that bars undocumented
immigrants who go home from returning to the United States for up to a decade.

But applicants to the special program must take their place in line behind more
than 2 million people around the world already waiting for visas, which are
rationed each year according to the applicant's home country and sponsor.

Some immigrant advocates say that those applying through 245(i) should be given
work permits for the interim.

For Bryand, the Bolivian construction worker, it was a puzzling introduction to
the ways of Washington.

"I'm still going to do the program," he announced as he prepared to hand over
his paperwork. But his relationship with the government remained a mystery. He
turned again to the INS official: "In exactly what way will I be illegal?"

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              72 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 30, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 517 words


PHOENIX -- One of 12 survivors of a border crossing that ended in the deaths of
14 illegal immigrants who wandered five days in the Arizona desert was charged
with smuggling the group from Mexico.

Jesus Lopez-Ramos, 20, and one of two other alleged smugglers took $ 90 from the
group three days into the trek and promised to return with water, according to
court documents. Lopez-Ramos didn't return and was found within 5 miles of
Interstate 8, the group's destination.

If convicted, Lopez-Ramos, of Sonoyta in the Mexican state of Sonora, could
receive up to life in prison or the death penalty, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said.

* LOS ANGELES -- Ahmed Ressam, the Montreal man convicted last month for his
role in a millennium terrorism plot, has broken 17 months of silence since his
arrest and confessed that he intended to detonate a large bomb at Los Angeles
International Airport. Ressam, 33, is cooperating in an ongoing federal
investigation, law enforcement sources said.

* NEW YORK -- Civil rights activist Al Sharpton, in jail for trespassing on Navy
property during protests over bombing training on the Puerto Rican island of
Vieques, began a hunger strike to protest the bombing, a spokesman said.

* FORT PIERCE, Fla. -- An F/A-18C Hornet from Oceana Naval Air Station in
Virginia Beach crashed on a ranch northeast of Lake Okeechobee during a flight
with 10 other Oceana Hornets to Key West, Fla. The pilot, Lt. Com. David E.
Casher, 40, was killed, authorities said.

* White abalone, once so plentiful that divers found 5,000 of the mollusks per
acre in waters off Southern California, earned endangered species designation
because there are fewer than 2,600 adults in its range from north of Santa
Barbara through much of Baja's Pacific Coast.

* DENVER -- Convicted Oklahoma City bomber Timothy J. McVeigh has authorized
attorneys to draft a request to block his June 11 execution but will make the
final decision before anything is filed in federal court on Thursday, one of his
lawyers said.

* SAN FRANCISCO -- A gay psychiatrist owes the Air Force more than $ 71,000 for
his education because he failed to fulfill his active duty obligation, a federal
judge ruled. District Judge William Alsup said John Hensala, a former Air Force
captain, should be required to repay the government because he voluntarily
announced he was gay and should have known the consequences of violating the
military's "don't ask, don't tell" policy.

* SAN FRANCISCO -- Robert Noel and Marjorie Knoller, whose attack dogs mauled
neighbor Diane Whipple to death, pleaded not guilty. Knoller could face a
minimum of 15 years to life in prison if convicted of second-degree murder, and
Noel could be sentenced to four years if found guilty of involuntary
manslaughter.

* KITTERY, Maine -- The U.S. Supreme Court settled a long and bitter debate by
ruling that the 201-year-old Portsmouth Naval Shipyard is in Maine, not New
Hampshire. At stake was $ 4 million to $ 6 million in annual income taxes that
Maine collects from 1,300 New Hampshire residents who work at the yard.

From news services

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              73 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 3, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 371 words


TUCSON -- Two would-be illegal immigrants died trying to cross from Mexico into
Arizona just days after 14 perished in scorching temperatures in one of the most
tragic border-crossing incidents in years, officials said yesterday.

The crossing between the United States and Mexico has been in the spotlight in
recent days after the May 23 discovery of the bodies of 14 people. The migrants
died in blistering heat after being abandoned by smugglers who had promised safe
passage.

Border Patrol spokesman Rene Noriega said agents discovered the first new death
Thursday night about 46 miles south of Ajo, Ariz. Among another group of about
18 border crossers about 15 miles east of Sells was an unconscious man who later
died at a Tucson hospital.

ST. LOUIS -- Missouri police stop black motorists at a rate 30 percent higher
than they do white drivers and search them 70 percent more often, according to a
report by Attorney General Jay Nixon, which also found that Hispanic drivers,
when stopped, are twice as likely to be searched as white drivers.

"That's a big deal," said Hilary O. Shelton, director of the NAACP's Washington
bureau. "It's consistent with what we've heard."

The findings don't consider all factors that lead police officers to stop
motorists and therefore can't prove for a statistical certainty the existence of
racial profiling, Nixon said. "However, in reviewing the data, I have found
nothing that would dispel the perception of a racial profiling problem," he
said.

Nixon cautioned that several factors can skew figures, including small sample
sizes in some areas, interstate or major highways that run through communities,
or outstanding arrest warrants that require a search.

PHILADELPHIA -- At least 20 suspects riding in the back of police vans in recent
years suffered injuries ranging from a broken tailbone to paralysis as a result
of Philadelphia officers driving erratically to deal with apparently difficult
people, the Philadelphia Inquirer reported.

Although the city has paid more than $ 2.3 million to settle lawsuits filed by
passengers, none of the officers has been disciplined for intentionally
subjecting passengers to wild rides, the newspaper reported.

From news services

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              74 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 15, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Handling of Deportees Faulted;
INS Not Properly Escorting Dangerous Individuals, Report Says

BYLINE: Ben White, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 494 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service regularly puts travelers at risk by
failing to properly escort potentially dangerous illegal immigrants being
deported on commercial airline flights, a new government report concludes.

The report, released yesterday by the Justice Department's inspector general,
found that INS officials in four districts, including Baltimore, regularly
violate guidelines published in 1998 requiring two official escorts for any
"Group Three" illegal immigrant being deported. That category includes those
charged with or convicted of violent crimes, including sexual assault, murder
and kidnapping.

Of 158 deportation cases studied in Baltimore, New York, Atlanta and Chicago,
the report listed eight potentially dangerous illegal immigrants who were
allowed to leave the country on commercial flights with no escorts and several
more who were unescorted on at least one leg of their flights out of the
country.

Among the unescorted was one who had been convicted of a sexual offense against
a child and was being deported from New York to South Africa, and another who
had been convicted of unlawful sale and use of firearms, domestic battery, rape
and theft and was being deported from Miami to Belize.

In fiscal 1999 and 2000, according to the report, the INS removed 139,00
"criminal illegal aliens" from the United States. Of that total, 30,000 had been
involved in violent crime cases, and 21,000 of those were Mexicans who were
transported on INS buses. The report focused on the remaining 9,000 potentially
dangerous deportees, about 80 percent of whom left the country on commercial
airline flights.

In addition to the instances in which potentially violent illegal immigrants
left the country with no escorts, the report noted several cases in which a
group of deportees did not have the required ratio of escorts. Additionally, the
report faulted the INS for failing to properly coordinate with the State
Department, resulting in instances in which, upon arriving in another country,
the escorts simply released potentially violent individuals at the airport,
having failed to contact the appropriate foreign officials.

In a letter included in the report, INS Acting Commissioner Kevin D. Rooney said
he concurs with the findings and plans to take corrective actions. The INS
released a statement yesterday saying that it "shares the concerns of the
Inspector General and the public for in-flight safety and security."

Among the report's recommendations are that INS officials should direct each
district office to ensure that all Group Three deportees are properly escorted,
to implement quarterly reviews of criminal deportation cases and to certify
compliance with the guidelines. The report also suggests altering the standards
themselves to include illegal immigrants who may not have documented criminal
histories but who are known to be potentially dangerous, such as members of
terrorist or drug organizations.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              75 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico Plans A Tighter Grip On Its Border To the South;
Security Effort Targets Flow Of Drugs, Migrants to U.S.

BYLINE: Mary Jordan and Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY June 17


The Mexican government plans to sharply increase the presence of soldiers,
police officers, naval patrols and immigration checkpoints near its porous
southern border. The plan, which has not yet been made public, is an
unprecedented effort to choke off flows of illegal immigrants, drugs and guns
entering the country from Central America.

Most of the illicit human and drug traffic coming into Mexico is heading to the
United States, and Washington has long urged Mexico to control its 750-mile
border with Guatemala and Belize more tightly. While much attention has been
placed on Mexico's northern border, officials say many of the problems there
start with the notoriously corrupt and loosely enforced protection of the
southern border.

Hundreds of thousands of undocumented people, many from Guatemala and El
Salvador but increasingly from as far away as China and Iraq, enter Mexico from
the south. When immigration or police officials stop truckloads of these people,
or shipments of cocaine or arms, they frequently wave them through in exchange
for a cash bribe.

Interior Minister Santiago Creel said in an interview that getting Mexico's
southern flank under control was critical to President Vicente Fox's promise to
crack down on corruption, and to Mexico's commitment to Washington to reduce the
flow of U.S.-bound illegal immigrants.

"We have never had the security we want in the south; things were very loose,"
said Creel, who is in charge of the South Plan, or Southern Zone Plan. "This is
part of our big challenge to modernize and find new ways of doing things in
Mexico."

"We are very encouraged to hear this," said Johnny N. Williams, western regional
director of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. "Mexico is used as
a transit point" for illegal traffic into the United States, he said, and what
happens on Mexico's southern border is of "extreme importance to both
countries."

Williams said there has been a "revolutionary" change in the way Mexico and the
United States work together on immigration issues. On Friday, the countries
issued a statement outlining new joint rescue and training operations aimed at
preventing more deaths of illegal immigrants crossing into the Arizona desert.
During the hot summer months, the United States will put more helicopters and
personnel in the region and Mexico has added rescue workers on its side of the
border.

Creel said that in return for Mexican efforts to reduce illegal immigration, the
United States should help with immigration issues important to Mexico. He said
he hoped negotiations with Washington would produce results on increasing guest
worker programs and "regularizing" the legal status of Mexican workers already
in the United States. "The U.S. has to present results, as well as Mexico," he
said.

No one knows exactly how many people cross into Mexico illegally via its
southern border. Mexico last year deported more than 150,000 foreigners, almost
all of them trying to reach the United States; most of them had entered across
the southern border. Officials estimate that for every illegal immigrant caught,
three to five more evade authorities.

U.S. officials last year caught 28,000 non-Mexicans who illegally entered the
country across the U.S.-Mexico border. More than 22,000 were from Honduras, El
Salvador and Guatemala, and most of them are believed to have arrived in Mexico
through its southern border.

Creel said $ 10 million has been allocated for the National Immigration
Institute, and much of that new money will go to modernizing 13 tumbledown
southern border checkpoints. Four or five new ones also will be built.
Construction is to start next month.

Perhaps the most innovative feature of the plan, whose final details have not
yet been worked out, is the focus of elite groups of soldiers and police along a
critical highway. The Trans-Isthmus Highway crosses Mexico at a narrow point,
connecting the Gulf of Mexico in the north to the Pacific Ocean 150 miles to the
south. It runs from the town of Coatzacoalcos in Veracruz state to the town of
Salina Cruz in Oaxaca state.

All land traffic from the southern border to the rest of Mexico must cross this
relatively short highway. Creel said that guarding this key choke point would be
easier than trying to patrol the entire border. And to catch those who try to
beat the new system by going by sea, the plan calls for naval ships to sharply
increase their patrols in southern waters.

Creel said concentrating manpower in the narrow Isthmus of Tehuantepec would be
less expensive and more efficient than the traditional system of haphazard
checks and patrols. "In the past the policy wasn't effective at all. . . . There
was no plan. Now we are working with clear objectives," Creel said.

Another critical element of the new plan is attacking official corruption and
human rights violations. Officials said the new system will not work unless
Mexico can stop bribery of officials and robberies of immigrants.

The immigration service has a new, reform-minded director and many other
officials have been fired, from top management to those who work at remote
border stations.

Creel said the government was conducting undercover sting operations to detect
official corruption. He said that while there has been noticeable improvement in
the effectiveness of immigration operations in the northern states, "in the
south we have not seen even the start of results."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              76 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 5, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico's Highway Robbery;
High-Level Informer Details Shakedowns, Abuse Of U.S.-Bound Immigrants by
Officials and Police

BYLINE: Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1829 words

DATELINE: VERACRUZ, Mexico


Victor Manuel Romero liked to fan himself with big wads of cash, bribe money
paid to him by illegal immigrants. It helped fight off the heat of this steamy
port city, and it was good for his image as an untouchable gangster.

He wore a tangle of gold necklaces, lifted from the necks of illegal immigrants.
He flaunted a badge that identified him as a Mexican immigration agent and even
dyed his hair yellow and red, boasting that no matter how much attention he
drew, the local policemen he was paying so well would never come after him.

But they did, throwing him in jail, and now Romero is tattling. He is supplying
investigators with some of the most damaging information ever made public on how
Mexican officials operate an underground immigration highway to the United
States.

Romero, known on the street as the "godmother" of crooked immigration agents and
police, has outlined how he and his colleagues, rather than arresting
undocumented Guatemalans, Salvadorans and other foreigners, sold them safe
passage toward the U.S. border. Sometimes they even charged extra for rides in
their police cruisers.

President Vicente Fox, who took office in December pledging to fight corruption,
has promised Washington to crack down on the flow of U.S.-bound illegal
immigrants. But at the same time, workers in the government he now heads make
part of their living off the human traffic. And it pays well. Some immigration
officers in Veracruz who earn about $ 400 a month in official salaries wear
Versace and other designer clothes and drive $ 25,000 sport-utility vehicles,
said Alejandro Cossio Hernandez, the new head of the immigration office here.

Cossio, like Fox, is from the National Action Party, which last year defeated
the Institutional Revolutionary Party that had ruled Mexico since 1929. That
closed system bred untold amounts of corruption. Now, as outsiders like Cossio
have taken over federal offices, they are uncovering fraud and abuse along with
missing records, inertia and reluctance to prosecute.

"In the transition, many files in this office disappeared," including what was
called the "black folder" detailing corruption by immigration officers, Cossio
said.

Interior Minister Santiago Creel, the cabinet member responsible for
immigration, said in an interview in Mexico City that he was unaware of the
Romero case. But he acknowledged that for decades in Mexico, where there has
been illegal immigration, there has been corruption.

He told a startling story to illustrate his point: A few weeks after he started
his job in December, he was working at his desk at 1 a.m. when a young aide came
into his office, looking pale and shaken. The aide said a federal police
commander was in his office, just yards from Creel's, with a suitcase filled
with $ 50,000 in cash. The police officer said the young man could have the
money if his office could arrange passage to the United States for a plane load
of illegal Asian immigrants being held at an airport in southern Mexico. Creel
said he had the officer arrested.

Although not on the payroll of Mexico's immigration service, the National
Immigration Institute, Romero had an immigration badge and uniform when he was
arrested four months ago on drug charges. He said those drug charges were
trumped up because of a police squabble over the spoils from a bus load of
undocumented people. Rather than having people think he was a narcotics
trafficker, Romero agreed to cooperate with authorities.

Romero's affidavits and videotaped testimony -- together with extensive
interviews with Cossio and other new immigration officials, with Roman Catholic
priests sheltering undocumented Central Americans and with the immigrants
themselves -- show a remarkably organized immigrant highway through Veracruz
state. Bribery is so common along it that people refer to it as a "toll."

Mexican officials have divided up the highways, bus stations and airports,
staking out claims to the money and belongings of the thousands of foreigners
passing through their territory. Immigration agents and police use radios and
cell phones to call in the license plate numbers of the bus loads of immigrants
who have paid their bribe, so those vehicles are waved on. Some groups who have
paid their bribe are marked with special plastic bracelets. Other times, a bus
driver slips a matchbox to a police officer after writing on it how many
undocumented people are on the bus. More people let through means the official
will get more money from the smuggler leading them.

After passing through Veracruz state, on the Gulf of Mexico 200 miles east of
Mexico City, many undocumented people then travel through the border state of
Tamaulipas and into Texas.

Immigration officers also pay cab drivers, bank tellers and others to tip them
off when they notice an outsider with a foreign accent or a suitcase. If these
new customers do not have the cash to pay the bribe, they are sometimes beaten,
raped or held in run-down rooming houses, like the one Romero had in the center
of town here, until relatives in the United States wire money for their release.

"It's disgraceful," said Cossio, a biomedical engineer who took over the
Veracruz immigration office five months ago. "It's organized crime and it's
very, very serious."

While much recent attention has focused on smugglers who rob and abandon
Mexicans migrating to the United States, the non-Mexicans who pass through
Mexico on the way to the U.S. border face additional abuse -- and it often comes
from uniformed Mexican officials. Mexico deported more than 150,000 foreigners
trying to use the country as a transit route to the United States last year, and
for every one caught many more are believed to make it.

Mexican officials' long-rumored involvement in the underground highway to the
United States has been difficult to prove. Undocumented people do not report
crime for fear of being deported. If they try, they are told they must remain in
Mexico for a year or longer to be a witness in the court case.

"It's nasty, ugly, what is going on. These people are defenseless," said the
Rev. Benito Lopez Francisco, a Catholic priest who shelters as many as 10
Central Americans a night, often to save them from abuse from Mexican officials.

Lopez said the church is becoming more active in helping Central Americans in
Mexico because of what he sees as stepped-up abuse by police and immigration
officials. Posters have been tacked to the entrances of local churches giving
illegal immigrants phone numbers to call to find safe houses. Lopez said that of
the 150 undocumented people he has recently counseled, many had been robbed and
abandoned on roads by officials, and eight women had been raped by officials or
thieves.

Sitting beside Lopez in a church here was a 23-year-old Guatemalan who described
how police ordered him off a bus, then forced him to strip and stand naked while
they searched for money sewn into the lining of his clothes. They took
everything, about $ 1,000.

"When I asked for a few pesos for food, they said you can have something better
-- your freedom," he recalled.

The man, who was traveling with his wife and 3-year-old daughter, made his way
to the church and is still aiming for his destination -- a $ 7.50-an-hour
dishwashing job in Los Angeles.

"Yes, it is worth the pain," he said. "In Guatemala you work and work and work
and you are still in the same situation."

Felipe de Jesus Preciado Coronado, head of the National Immigration Institute,
said many obstacles frustrate his fight against corruption. For starters, his
agents, who face daily temptations, are very poorly paid. Preciado is now
lobbying for higher salaries.

Romero told Cossio that his group of officials shook down 30 to 60 immigrants a
day, or 11,000 to 22,000 a year. It is unclear how much money was raked in. Not
all immigrants carry the same amount of cash or pay the same toll. Smugglers
typically include bribes for Mexican officials in the price they charge their
customers.

One undocumented Guatemalan said he decided to travel without a smuggler and
figured he needed $ 2,500 for the one-month journey to the U.S. border. Most of
that was for paying off Mexican officials, he said. "It's all a matter of luck.
From the minute you enter Mexico, you don't know how many times police will stop
you or how much they will demand."

Ana Mejia, a Honduran who recently passed through here, said Romero charged her
$ 100 on the spot, and an additional $ 1,000 for safe passage toward the border.
"He gave me two choices: pay him or get arrested," said Mejia, 23, who was
interviewed by telephone from her Honduran home in the town of Puerto Cortez.

Mejia said she had been traveling for 20 days when Romero's gang found her
taking a cold drink at a Veracruz restaurant just after she got off a bus
carrying a suitcase. Even after she paid her money to Romero, she said, she
could not continue north because she became so ill she had to be hospitalized.
Officials then deported her.

Mejia said the word on the street is that Veracruz is the easiest path toward
the United States. "People told us, 'Go through Veracruz because that is where
the polleros [guides] have their connections to get you through,' " she said.

Cossio said Romero has provided photos, names and telephone numbers of officials
and bus and truck companies involved, addresses of safe houses used by officials
and other specific information. "All of this shows me that he is right," he
said.

Cossio said he felt he must expose what is going on in Veracruz because it is
not being cleaned up. In February, the National Immigration Institute turned
over to the federal attorney general's office details of official involvement in
human trafficking in Veracruz. Since then, Cossio said, "We have had no
communication from them . . . the investigations are not moving."

The attorney general's office, headquartered in Mexico City, has historically
been inefficient and corrupt. The federal police, who belong to the attorney
general's office, have been implicated in this corruption scheme by Romero's
allegations. In response to numerous calls, the attorney general's office said
it had no information to release about the Romero case.

Cossio, meanwhile, said he has received death threats. Three of the threats were
traced to his own office switchboard: "They told me I have to allow them to work
or they were going to kill me."

But he has not been quiet about his belief that the majority of the 80
immigration officials in Veracruz are taking money from human trafficking, as
are a number of federal police and other officials. As he awaits legal charges
against his men, he has transferred and separated many of them and stopped many
road checks, not wanting to make it easier for his officers to fleece
undocumented immigrants.

"In six months you can't change a country," Cossio said. But it is
disheartening, he added, that more is not being done to try.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              77 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 8, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico's Highway Robbery;
High-Level Informer Details Shakedowns, Abuse Of U.S.-Bound Immigrants by
Officials and Police

BYLINE: Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1829 words

DATELINE: VERACRUZ, Mexico


Victor Manuel Romero liked to fan himself with big wads of cash, bribe money
paid to him by illegal immigrants. It helped fight off the heat of this steamy
port city, and it was good for his image as an untouchable gangster.

He wore a tangle of gold necklaces, lifted from the necks of illegal immigrants.
He flaunted a badge that identified him as a Mexican immigration agent and even
dyed his hair yellow and red, boasting that no matter how much attention he
drew, the local policemen he was paying so well would never come after him.

But they did, throwing him in jail, and now Romero is tattling. He is supplying
investigators with some of the most damaging information ever made public on how
Mexican officials operate an underground immigration highway to the United
States.

Romero, known on the street as the "godmother" of crooked immigration agents and
police, has outlined how he and his colleagues, rather than arresting
undocumented Guatemalans, Salvadorans and other foreigners, sold them safe
passage toward the U.S. border. Sometimes they even charged extra for rides in
their police cruisers.

President Vicente Fox, who took office in December pledging to fight corruption,
has promised Washington to crack down on the flow of U.S.-bound illegal
immigrants. But at the same time, workers in the government he now heads make
part of their living off the human traffic. And it pays well. Some immigration
officers in Veracruz who earn about $ 400 a month in official salaries wear
Versace and other designer clothes and drive $ 25,000 sport-utility vehicles,
said Alejandro Cossio Hernandez, the new head of the immigration office here.

Cossio, like Fox, is from the National Action Party, which last year defeated
the Institutional Revolutionary Party that had ruled Mexico since 1929. That
closed system bred untold amounts of corruption. Now, as outsiders like Cossio
have taken over federal offices, they are uncovering fraud and abuse along with
missing records, inertia and reluctance to prosecute.

"In the transition, many files in this office disappeared," including what was
called the "black folder" detailing corruption by immigration officers, Cossio
said.

Interior Minister Santiago Creel, the cabinet member responsible for
immigration, said in an interview in Mexico City that he was unaware of the
Romero case. But he acknowledged that for decades in Mexico, where there has
been illegal immigration, there has been corruption.

He told a startling story to illustrate his point: A few weeks after he started
his job in December, he was working at his desk at 1 a.m. when a young aide came
into his office, looking pale and shaken. The aide said a federal police
commander was in his office, just yards from Creel's, with a suitcase filled
with $ 50,000 in cash. The police officer said the young man could have the
money if his office could arrange passage to the United States for a plane load
of illegal Asian immigrants being held at an airport in southern Mexico. Creel
said he had the officer arrested.

Although not on the payroll of Mexico's immigration service, the National
Immigration Institute, Romero had an immigration badge and uniform when he was
arrested four months ago on drug charges. He said those drug charges were
trumped up because of a police squabble over the spoils from a bus load of
undocumented people. Rather than having people think he was a narcotics
trafficker, Romero agreed to cooperate with authorities.

Romero's affidavits and videotaped testimony -- together with extensive
interviews with Cossio and other new immigration officials, with Roman Catholic
priests sheltering undocumented Central Americans and with the immigrants
themselves -- show a remarkably organized immigrant highway through Veracruz
state. Bribery is so common along it that people refer to it as a "toll."

Mexican officials have divided up the highways, bus stations and airports,
staking out claims to the money and belongings of the thousands of foreigners
passing through their territory. Immigration agents and police use radios and
cell phones to call in the license plate numbers of the bus loads of immigrants
who have paid their bribe, so those vehicles are waved on. Some groups who have
paid their bribe are marked with special plastic bracelets. Other times, a bus
driver slips a matchbox to a police officer after writing on it how many
undocumented people are on the bus. More people let through means the official
will get more money from the smuggler leading them.

After passing through Veracruz state, on the Gulf of Mexico 200 miles east of
Mexico City, many undocumented people then travel through the border state of
Tamaulipas and into Texas.

Immigration officers also pay cab drivers, bank tellers and others to tip them
off when they notice an outsider with a foreign accent or a suitcase. If these
new customers do not have the cash to pay the bribe, they are sometimes beaten,
raped or held in run-down rooming houses, like the one Romero had in the center
of town here, until relatives in the United States wire money for their release.

"It's disgraceful," said Cossio, a biomedical engineer who took over the
Veracruz immigration office five months ago. "It's organized crime and it's
very, very serious."

While much recent attention has focused on smugglers who rob and abandon
Mexicans migrating to the United States, the non-Mexicans who pass through
Mexico on the way to the U.S. border face additional abuse -- and it often comes
from uniformed Mexican officials. Mexico deported more than 150,000 foreigners
trying to use the country as a transit route to the United States last year, and
for every one caught many more are believed to make it.

Mexican officials' long-rumored involvement in the underground highway to the
United States has been difficult to prove. Undocumented people do not report
crime for fear of being deported. If they try, they are told they must remain in
Mexico for a year or longer to be a witness in the court case.

"It's nasty, ugly, what is going on. These people are defenseless," said the
Rev. Benito Lopez Francisco, a Catholic priest who shelters as many as 10
Central Americans a night, often to save them from abuse from Mexican officials.

Lopez said the church is becoming more active in helping Central Americans in
Mexico because of what he sees as stepped-up abuse by police and immigration
officials. Posters have been tacked to the entrances of local churches giving
illegal immigrants phone numbers to call to find safe houses. Lopez said that of
the 150 undocumented people he has recently counseled, many had been robbed and
abandoned on roads by officials, and eight women had been raped by officials or
thieves.

Sitting beside Lopez in a church here was a 23-year-old Guatemalan who described
how police ordered him off a bus, then forced him to strip and stand naked while
they searched for money sewn into the lining of his clothes. They took
everything, about $ 1,000.

"When I asked for a few pesos for food, they said you can have something better
-- your freedom," he recalled.

The man, who was traveling with his wife and 3-year-old daughter, made his way
to the church and is still aiming for his destination -- a $ 7.50-an-hour
dishwashing job in Los Angeles.

"Yes, it is worth the pain," he said. "In Guatemala you work and work and work
and you are still in the same situation."

Felipe de Jesus Preciado Coronado, head of the National Immigration Institute,
said many obstacles frustrate his fight against corruption. For starters, his
agents, who face daily temptations, are very poorly paid. Preciado is now
lobbying for higher salaries.

Romero told Cossio that his group of officials shook down 30 to 60 immigrants a
day, or 11,000 to 22,000 a year. It is unclear how much money was raked in. Not
all immigrants carry the same amount of cash or pay the same toll. Smugglers
typically include bribes for Mexican officials in the price they charge their
customers.

One undocumented Guatemalan said he decided to travel without a smuggler and
figured he needed $ 2,500 for the one-month journey to the U.S. border. Most of
that was for paying off Mexican officials, he said. "It's all a matter of luck.
From the minute you enter Mexico, you don't know how many times police will stop
you or how much they will demand."

Ana Mejia, a Honduran who recently passed through here, said Romero charged her
$ 100 on the spot, and an additional $ 1,000 for safe passage toward the border.
"He gave me two choices: pay him or get arrested," said Mejia, 23, who was
interviewed by telephone from her Honduran home in the town of Puerto Cortez.

Mejia said she had been traveling for 20 days when Romero's gang found her
taking a cold drink at a Veracruz restaurant just after she got off a bus
carrying a suitcase. Even after she paid her money to Romero, she said, she
could not continue north because she became so ill she had to be hospitalized.
Officials then deported her.

Mejia said the word on the street is that Veracruz is the easiest path toward
the United States. "People told us, 'Go through Veracruz because that is where
the polleros [guides] have their connections to get you through,' " she said.

Cossio said Romero has provided photos, names and telephone numbers of officials
and bus and truck companies involved, addresses of safe houses used by officials
and other specific information. "All of this shows me that he is right," he
said.

Cossio said he felt he must expose what is going on in Veracruz because it is
not being cleaned up. In February, the National Immigration Institute turned
over to the federal attorney general's office details of official involvement in
human trafficking in Veracruz. Since then, Cossio said, "We have had no
communication from them . . . the investigations are not moving."

The attorney general's office, headquartered in Mexico City, has historically
been inefficient and corrupt. The federal police, who belong to the attorney
general's office, have been implicated in this corruption scheme by Romero's
allegations. In response to numerous calls, the attorney general's office said
it had no information to release about the Romero case.

Cossio, meanwhile, said he has received death threats. Three of the threats were
traced to his own office switchboard: "They told me I have to allow them to work
or they were going to kill me."

But he has not been quiet about his belief that the majority of the 80
immigration officials in Veracruz are taking money from human trafficking, as
are a number of federal police and other officials. As he awaits legal charges
against his men, he has transferred and separated many of them and stopped many
road checks, not wanting to make it easier for his officers to fleece
undocumented immigrants.

"In six months you can't change a country," Cossio said. But it is
disheartening, he added, that more is not being done to try.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              78 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 14, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

'Roses': Labor of Love

BYLINE: Teresa Wiltz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 544 words


We've traveled down this cinematic highway before: A jittery hand-held camera
running with illegal immigrants making a dash for the border, terror on their
faces as ruthless "coyotes" egg them on, pelting them with curses for extra
inspiration.

But "Bread & Roses," the latest effort by acclaimed British director Ken Loach,
isn't so much about the Mexican immigrants' dash for the promised land as it is
about what happens once they get there -- and find employment scrubbing toilets
for the Man.

Loach's film, an entry in the Cannes Film Festival, shows the other side of
Hollywood.

Instead of skinny starlets and cellie-brandishing talent agents, we see the
armies of mostly Latino cleaning crews who descend on downtown Los Angeles after
sundown to mop the offices where million-dollar deals are made. Suffice it to
say, at $ 5.75 an hour with no benefits, there's not a lot trickling down on
them.

"Bread & Roses" -- the title is wrested from a 1912 labor slogan, "We Can Have
Bread, But We Also Want Roses" -- follows Maya (Pilar Padilla), a young Mexican
who crosses the border, dodging lecherous coyotes, to pursue the American dream.
She moves in with her embittered older sister, Rosa, who works 16-hour days to
provide for her sick Anglo husband and her two kids. "I trust no one," Rosa
says. "One mistake, and I'm on the blacklist." As the film progresses, we see
the unfortunate depths to which Rosa's mistrust will take her.

As portrayed by Padilla, a Mexican stage actress with presence, Maya has passion
and pride, and as she sizes up her situation -- she's forced to pay her new boss
two months' salary for the privilege of working for him -- it doesn't take her
long to choose sides.

After saving a young labor union organizer, Sam (Adrien Brody), from being
caught trespassing, Maya soon becomes seduced by Sam's impassioned speeches
about labor rights. Watching other janitors being fired on a whim strengthens
her resolve. Soon she is demonstrating and getting arrested, lobbying her
co-workers to join her. Never mind that she's an undocumented worker who faces
deportation.

Loach's film is intended as pro-labor commentary. (Indeed, several labor union
activists from L.A.'s Justice for Janitors have bit parts). Nothing wrong with
that. But "Bread & Roses" sometimes gets in its own way, indulging in
heavy-handed moralizing.

Everything is black and white. The upper-crust yuppies are cardboard characters
who come off as clueless and petulant; the janitors' immediate boss, Perez
(George Lopez), is a villain portrayed with all the subtlety of a painter using
a power sprayer

Still, Loach and screenwriter Paul Laverty find an interesting way to illustrate
the insidiousness with which Perez wields his power: Language is used as a
weapon to keep his workers in line.

Even though Perez shares a heritage with his mostly Latino crew, he barks out
orders -- and insults -- in harsh English. When he wants to ingratiate himself
(usually to persuade someone to be a stool pigeon), he slips into Spanish,
suddenly the slimy suitor wielding the aural equivalent of a bouquet of roses.

Careful of the thorns.

Bread and Roses (105 minutes, at the Cineplex Odeon Inner Circle) is rated R for
violence, obscenity and some sexual content.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              79 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 16, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Weighs Legal Status Of Mexicans;
Illegal Immigrants May Get Residency

BYLINE: Dan Eggen and Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 895 words


The Bush administration is considering the option of granting legal residency to
as many as 3 million illegal Mexican immigrants now living in the United States,
part of a joint effort between the two countries to solve chronic problems along
the U.S.-Mexico border, officials said yesterday.

A joint immigration working group, headed by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell,
Attorney General John D. Ashcroft and Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castan
eda and Interior Minister Santiago Creel, will submit a report to President Bush
today urging action to address the illegal immigration problem but stopping
short of endorsing particular proposals, a Justice Department official said
yesterday.

But granting broad amnesty for millions of illegal immigrants is among the
options that have been seriously discussed by the group and its staff, officials
said.

"Nobody has coalesced around one particular solution, but the fact that the
issues are even being discussed by both countries is remarkable," the Justice
official said.

Proposing even limited amnesty could create a political explosion among
conservatives in Congress and in states along the Mexican border. But many
business groups and some unions would welcome the ability to tap a large new
pool of legal workers.

Many conservatives on Capitol Hill, including Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.), have
vowed to fight any amnesty proposals, arguing instead to allow Mexicans to stay
as temporary laborers only.

Leaders of Latino rights organizations said they would accept an amnesty plan
only if it also gives broader protections to guest workers. Temporary laborers
should have rights to unionize, to obtain legal services and to stay with their
families, said Cecilia Mun oz, a vice president for the National Council of La
Raza.

"We are only prepared to go down this road if all the details are worked out,"
she said. "We're not prepared to sell some of our people down the river to be
mistreated and abused for the sake of legalizing others."

Three million Mexican-born people live illegally in the United States, Mexico's
National Population Council estimated last week. Other estimates are higher.
Bush has made dealing with that population, and reaching out to reformist
Mexican President Vicente Fox, a major priority, but he has rejected blanket
amnesty.

A Justice official stressed yesterday that amnesty was one of a range of options
considered by the task force, which also discussed expansion of the guest-worker
program, as first reported by the New York Times. There are also many unanswered
questions, the official said, including details about who would qualify for
amnesty.

But Fox, who has urged the United States to accommodate more Mexican immigrants
and laborers, is expected to comment on the amnesty idea during a Tuesday speech
in Milwaukee at La Raza's annual convention. "We understand that he's going to
address this head on," Mun oz said.

Any amnesty proposal would have to be passed by Congress, which declined to do
so last fall. In 1986, during the Reagan administration, Congress passed an
amnesty bill that qualified immigrants who had lived in the United States before
1972 for residency status. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) has introduced
legislation to advance that date to include those who arrived between 1972 and
1996.

Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) said he would back the kind of amnesty move now under
consideration.

"I believe that these people are living here, and it's a recognition of reality.
They are working here," he said yesterday on NBC's "Meet the Press."

But Senate Minority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.) was cautious. "Just to summarily
grant legal status to 3 million people, many of them that got here illegally and
have violated the law while they're here, I'd want to make sure we do this
carefully," he said on "Fox News Sunday."

An amnesty initiative by the Bush administration could energize the Mexican
community, leading to a windfall for the Republican Party in future elections,
several immigration experts said.

Mexican Americans in California and Texas overwhelmingly vote for Democrats. In
1994, after California Gov. Pete Wilson (R) won election with strict immigration
reform as a major part of his campaign platform, Latinos responded with a record
surge in citizenship so that more of them could vote for Democrats. In November,
Bush got just 35 percent of the Hispanic vote despite concerted efforts to woo
Latinos.

"If George W. Bush plays this right, he can achieve an enormous victory both in
terms of sensible immigration policy and in repositioning the Republican Party
on an issue that has hurt the party badly in recent years," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigration rights
advocacy group.

But Gary Bauer, a conservative who ran against Bush in last year's Republican
presidential primaries and is president of American Values, said if so many
Spanish speakers are allowed to become residents, the president must insist they
learn English and become familiar with the nation's values.

"A blanket amnesty should only be proposed by the White House if it is coupled
with a commitment by the administration to spend political capital to end
so-called bilingual education programs, reemphasize English as our national
language and remove racial quotas and set-asides," Bauer said.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              80 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 18, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A30

LENGTH: 439 words


MILWAUKEE -- Mexican President Vicente Fox said yesterday he wants legalization
for undocumented immigrants in the United States and easier access to higher
education and driver's licenses for Mexican workers who have crossed the border.

"Our goal is to legalize migrant flows between our two countries," Fox said in a
speech to the National Council of La Raza.

Fox's comments followed news that the Bush administration is weighing a plan to
grant amnesty to as many as 3 million Mexicans living illegally in the United
States.

In addition to easing migration among Mexico, the United States and Canada, Fox
said, "we must work hard to create opportunities for our fellow Mexicans to
stay" in Mexico by fueling economic growth there.

ST. LOUIS -- The suicidal man who gunned down his estranged wife and their
10-year-old son at the boy's baseball game Monday had spent the previous week
researching murder-suicides on the Internet, police said.

Matthew Toland Sr. may have killed his son because the boy had not confided in
him about the strained relationship between the parents, Police Chief Joe Mokwa
said. Police said Toland shot Carmen Anderson as she sat in a car and then shot
Matthew, who died at the scene in his black-and-gold uniform.

Toland drove off and was found in a car 10 miles away, dead from a
self-inflicted gunshot wound.

* WICHITA -- About 500 abortion opponents marched outside the clinic of one of
the nation's few doctors to perform late-term abortions after a judge ruled that
the city had improperly denied them a parade permit. An afternoon march was
canceled when the temperature rose to 106 degrees.

* EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. -- Two crew members died when their F-16
fighter jet crashed near a mountain range in the eastern California desert,
military officials said. The two were identified as Maj. Aaron George, a pilot
with the 416th Flight Test Squadron, and Judson Brohmer, an aerial photography
subcontractor supporting Lockheed Martin Corp.

* TRENTON, N.J. -- The state Supreme Court ruled that juveniles who commit sex
offenses before age 14 should have the chance to clear their records by their
18th birthdays to avoid the stigma of being listed as sex offenders under
Megan's Law.

* BOSTON -- Alleged gang member Stephen "The Rifleman" Flemmi, an FBI informer
for two decades, pleaded not guilty to federal charges that he participated in
10 killings. Flemmi, who purportedly helped run the Winter Hill gang led by
fugitive James "Whitey" Bulger, was charged in the slayings of two of his former
girlfriends, an Oklahoma businessman and several fellow gangsters.

From news services

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              81 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 22, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico Investigating Immigration Passageway

BYLINE: Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY July 21


The attorney general's office said it was investigating allegations that
National Immigration Institute agents have been taking money from Central
Americans for safe passage to the U.S. border.

Officials in Veracruz had complained that the federal government failed to act
on detailed allegations that a network of uniformed Mexican immigration agents
and police was operating an illegal immigration highway in the southeastern
state. But a top official in the attorney general's office said prosecutors were
treating the case as a serious organized crime investigation.

Alejandro Cossio Hernandez, chief of the institute's Veracruz office, said he
turned over evidence against his agents in February, including names of officers
and addresses of safe houses where immigrants were hidden.

Cossio said this week that federal prosecutors have taken a new interest in the
case following a Washington Post report detailing how immigration officials and
police prey on Central Americans traveling through Mexico to the United States.
In response to the allegations, President Vicente Fox said he would have "zero
tolerance" for corruption and abuse against immigrants.

"I am hoping arrests will come soon," Cossio said.

Cossio resumed roadway checkpoints this week looking for illegal migrants en
route to the United States. Within the first 24 hours, officials detained 95
Central Americans at three checkpoints.

Cossio had stopped the roadblocks because he said corrupt agents were profiting
from them. The agents were charging hundreds or thousands of dollars for not
arresting people and returning them to their countries.

Sometimes officials held the immigrants in Mexico until a relative in the United
States wired money for their release and passage north. Some police charged
extra to drive people toward the border in their patrol cars.

U.S. and Mexican officials said smugglers in Veracruz state alone were
responsible for helping hundreds of Central American immigrants pass through
each week. The smuggling system was especially successful because of the aid of
police and other uniformed officials, who enlisted bus companies and residents
as lookouts.

The institute is also shifting more personnel toward the southern border, to
stop Central Americans entering Mexico. One of the narrowest points in Mexico is
a bottleneck in the south, which is easier to patrol than the vast northern
border.

The Mexican government spends huge sums of money deporting more than 150,000
Central Americans and other foreigners every year. But Mexican officials said
they are now, for the first time, seriously trying to enforce its porous
southern border, where most of them enter the country.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              82 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 28, 2001 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Spanish-Language TV's Long Reach;
With Heavy Coverage, Ailing Mexican Gets Assistance on Both Sides of Border

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 1113 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY July 27


Filemon Martinez left Mexico three years ago as another anonymous immigrant, a
hopeful 17-year-old sneaking into the United States to work. On Wednesday,
carried on a stretcher and near death from leukemia, Martinez returned home as a
high-profile symbol of how both nations are changing their views about illegal
immigrants.

Thanks to extensive coverage of his story on Spanish-language television in the
United States, about 1,300 people, many of them undocumented immigrants, offered
bone marrow for the transplant operation the young construction worker needs to
survive, although none was compatible. A Phoenix hospital gave him free
chemotherapy. In Mexico, President Vicente Fox has turned Martinez's case into a
national campaign. He arranged a free flight home for him, accompanied by Juan
Hernandez, a member of Fox's cabinet. A hospital near Mexico City will donate
the surgery, which would cost up to $ 300,000, if a bone marrow donor can be
found.

"He has put a face on the immigration debate," said Hernandez, who handles
issues related to the millions of Mexicans living in the United States. "He is
the face of a person in need who is getting help on both sides of the border."

However, while the Martinez story is well known to U.S. residents who watch
Spanish-language television, most Americans know little or nothing about him. It
is an illustration of how those who speak English and Spanish live side-by-side
but are separated by a vast information divide.

For the 2.3 million prime-time viewers of the Spanish-language television
network Univision, now the fifth-largest network in the United States,
Martinez's name has become a household word this summer. While English-speaking
news junkies have been saturated with coverage of Rep. Gary A. Condit (D-Calif.)
and missing intern Chandra Levy, Spanish-speaking viewers from Los Angeles to
Miami have been following the Martinez story.

"It's almost as if there's a whole sub-country within the United States that has
a whole different set of priorities about what the news is," said Denise
Dresser, a political scientist who lives in Mexico City and Los Angeles.

Dresser said the Univision affiliate station in Los Angeles, KMEX, regularly
covers Mexican political and cultural affairs and events that directly affect
the Mexican families of their viewers. "Their viewers aren't interested, don't
care and don't speak the language of American television news," Dresser said.
"They are much more Mexico-bound than U.S.-bound in what they perceive is
important."

Univision is already a primary source of television news and entertainment in
many U.S. cities. It is at or near the top of the ratings in Los Angeles, Miami,
Dallas and Houston. Responding to census figures that show Hispanics as the
fastest growing segment of U.S. society, Univision intends to launch a second
network early next year, including a station in Washington.

Telemundo, the second-largest Spanish-language network in the United States, is
available in 64 media markets covering 7.3 million Hispanic households.
Telemundo has a Washington affiliate, WZGS, which carries network news as well
as a local news broadcast.

Eric L. Olson, of the Washington Office on Latin America, a private policy
organization, said he often appears on those newscasts, and he is often
recognized in Latino restaurants and other places frequented by
Spanish-speakers. He said that rarely happens when he appears on Washington's
English-language news shows, demonstrating the power and penetration of the
Spanish networks.

"They have become the common thread in the Latino community, connecting the
dominant culture and the minority group," Olson said.

Univision's Phoenix affiliate first interviewed Martinez in June. When a
reporter asked him what viewers could do to help, he said his family was too
poor to afford burial expenses, so he asked for donations to cover them.

Within days of that emotional interview, the power of Univision in the U.S.
Hispanic community became evident. Hernandez heard of Martinez's case and flew
his parents to Phoenix to be with him. People began registering with the U.S.
National Marrow Donor Program and having their blood tested, including actor
Edward James Olmos, a Hispanic activist.

At the hospital Wednesday, Martinez took a phone call from Mexico's first lady,
Martha Sahagun, who plans to visit him next week. "This is the most important
part of the relationship between President Fox and President Bush," Sahagun said
in an interview. "It is centered on the human beings, beyond economic policy or
government programs."

Facing a horde of television cameras, Hernandez announced a national drive to
test potential bone marrow donors. He said the government would pay for testing
in Martinez's home town, about 125 miles southwest of Mexico City.

Roberto Ovilla Martinez, the surgeon who would perform the transplant, said
regional ethnic factors make finding a compatible donor more likely in his home
town. He said Martinez could only survive a few weeks without the transplant.

Despite the odds, Martinez's family remained hopeful. "Even though we don't have
the same blood, everyone has the same heart," said his sister, Rocio, 14, who
met him at the hospital Wednesday.

Mexicans living illegally in the United States have always lived in the shadows,
facing discrimination and constant fear of arrest and deportation. But Hernandez
said the fact that hundreds of people stepped forward to help Martinez shows
that attitudes illegal immigrants are evolving.

"They are coming out of the darkness," Hernandez said. "I think the fear of the
undocumented is subsiding a little bit."

Immigration has been the dominant issue between the United States and Mexico
since last year's elections of Fox and Bush. Mexicans account for perhaps 3
million of the 7 million or 8 million illegal immigrants now in the United
States. Bush is considering granting legal status to some of those Mexicans as a
first step in a wider program that would include expanded guest-worker programs
and safety improvements to prevent deaths of immigrants along the border.

Many in the United States regard illegal immigrants as law-breaking foreigners
who are unfairly taxing U.S. services, creating law-enforcement headaches and
taking jobs.

Hernandez noted that in Arizona, where Martinez worked, immigrants have been
abused by vigilantes and have died of exposure in the desert. But now, he said,
Martinez was given chemotherapy under an Arizona state program that provides
care for undocumented workers.

"We have had a lot of negative stories," Hernandez said. "But this is a symbol
of what can be done."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2001, Sunday



CORRECTION: An article July 28 on Spanish-language television misstated the call
letters of Telemundo's Washington affiliate, now known as WZDC, and said
incorrectly that the station has a local news broadcast. Also, it failed to note
that the Univision network currently has a Washington affiliate, WMDO, which
does have a local newscast.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              83 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 28, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

No Amnesty For Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 159 words


E. Patrick McGuire, in criticizing President Bush's amnesty proposal for illegal
immigrants from Mexico [letters, July 21], might have also mentioned the work of
hundreds of dedicated American Foreign Service professionals.  These workers are
assigned to consular sections at posts across the globe and they work hard to
uphold U.S. immigration laws.

They screen hordes of applicants for nonimmigrant visas. Under U.S. law, these
people must prove that they are not intending immigrants, otherwise they would
be ineligible for nonimmigrant status.

This process can be stressful, tiresome, even morale-deadening -- but it gets
done thoroughly and in full compliance with U.S. law. Consequently, refusal
rates for nonimmigrant visas at many posts run high.

Seen in this light, the granting of amnesty to several million illegal
immigrants could constitute a grievous slap in the face for Foreign Service
personnel.

THOMAS J. CAROLAN JR.

Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              84 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 1, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

As Illegal Immigrant Numbers Grow, So Do Benefits

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1372 words


With the number of illegal immigrants at a historic high, many state and local
officials have recently proposed or approved benefits for them that would have
been unthinkable just a few years ago.

The changes involve narrow privileges such as driver's licenses, health care and
cheaper college tuition. But they are driven by a broad concern also reflected
in the Bush administration's plans for an initiative that could legalize
millions of undocumented immigrants.

As the subclass of U.S. residents with limited legal rights has grown, some
states and communities have concluded that unequal treatment poses too great a
threat to public order and safety. The proposals to expand benefits nonetheless
have been highly controversial, with opponents arguing that the measures would
reward and even encourage lawbreaking.

During a backlash against immigrants in the early and mid-1990s, federal and
state governments slashed many benefits for immigrants. Today, there are
numerous examples of a reverse trend:

* In May, Tennessee followed Utah and North Carolina in making it easier for
undocumented immigrants to get a driver's license by no longer requiring that
applicants have a Social Security number. Several other states, including
California, Massachusetts and Illinois, are considering following suit.
Proponents of the measures say they fear having large numbers of drivers behind
the wheel without licenses or insurance.

* Texas lawmakers in June voted to allow illegal immigrants living in the state
to qualify for in-state college tuition rates, and California is considering a
similar bill. A measure introduced recently in Congress would remove barriers to
that practice nationwide. "In this country we don't punish children for the sins
of their parents," said Gene Smith, a spokeswoman for Rep. Howard L. Berman
(D-Calif.), a sponsor of the bill, who argues that society is hurt when the
teenagers drop out of school for lack of tuition money.

Several states and cities have established health programs to cover undocumented
immigrants barred from federal Medicaid benefits. The District, in a plan that
surprised even advocates for immigrants, included illegal immigrants in a new
program of free health services to the poor. The city has a separate program to
care for about 500 undocumented immigrant children.

* Cities across the country are wrestling with whether to fund facilities for
day laborers, who are often undocumented immigrants. Takoma Park's government
last month joined with an immigrant-assistance group, CASA de Maryland, to lease
a parking lot for them.

The debates reflect how the number of undocumented immigrants has soared since
Congress passed a broad amnesty in 1986 that legalized 2.7 million of them. Each
year, hundreds of thousands of undocumented residents gain permanent or
temporary residency. But recent census figures indicate that the undocumented
population has still grown to between 6 million and 9 million, the highest since
the Immigration and Naturalization Service started keeping records.

Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Urban Institute, said the flow appeared to
speed up in the last half of the decade, as the United States boomed
economically and Mexico -- the source of about half the illegal immigrants in
this country -- sank into a profound recession.

But the overall numbers tell only part of the story. Newcomers have spread
beyond traditional immigrant enclaves, settling in industrial areas in the South
and Midwest and in service-oriented regions such as Washington. Thus more
communities are grappling with the issue of how to treat immigrants, pitting
those who oppose the costs of extending benefits against those who argue that
the undocumented workers are a fact of life.

The debate has made for some unlikely allies.

Recently, Minneapolis Police Chief Robert Olson found himself addressing a rally
in favor of granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. He assured those
without legal status that his officers were there to help them.

"The Minneapolis police department is not the INS. . . . We are not the
Federali," Olson told the crowd, doing his bilingual best to evoke the
notoriously corrupt Mexican federal police.

Olson, a 35-year police officer, doesn't usually side with people who are
violating the law. But, he noted in an interview, federal immigration
enforcement isn't his problem. His problem is safety in Minneapolis -- and
having immigrants behind the wheels of unregistered cars who might not have
insurance or even know how to drive.

Officials elsewhere make a similar argument that it is counterproductive to
treat undocumented immigrants as separate from the rest of the community.

For example, Ivan C.A. Walks, the District's chief health officer, said the
well-being of the city's youngest illegal immigrants has implications for all
local children.

"All of our children play together. All of our children learn together. All of
our children get sick together," he said.

He also noted that before the District launched a program last year to provide
health care for poor undocumented children, many were treated only in hospital
emergency rooms -- which are obliged to take all comers -- after they became
sick. The current program "is much more cost-effective," he said.

But on the other side of the debate are those who worry about a creeping
legalization of a population that has broken the rules.

"There's a concept that the illegal alien population is a looming, gargantuan
presence over which we have no control," said Mark Krikorian, executive director
of the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington think tank. "The other
alternative is to try to enforce the law."

He opposes legalizing millions of undocumented workers, an idea floated by the
Bush administration as part of its negotiations with the Mexican government on
establishing a safer and more efficient system for immigrant workers coming to
the United States.

Several factors, besides safety and welfare concerns, have led state and local
governments to consider expanding benefits for undocumented immigrants. In some
cases, they have stepped in to fund programs cut by the federal government. In
other instances, they are responding to immigrants who have become increasingly
organized politically.

Some advocates of tighter immigration controls charge that federal authorities
have contributed to a relaxation of attitudes toward undocumented workers. They
note that with unemployment so low in recent years, the INS has come under
political pressure to curtail workplace raids.

"Congress has sent the message, 'We will toughen border enforcement, but once
you run the gantlet of the border, you're home free.' That's why we see this
process of driver's licenses for illegals, and what have you. State and local
governments are getting the hint," Krikorian said.

Not that the outcome of the debates has always favored undocumented immigrants.
In many cases, the idea of extending benefits has raised furious protest. In
Minnesota, the commissioner of public safety, Charlie Weaver, has strongly
disagreed with local police chiefs such as Olson on the driver's license issue.
Weaver points out that people often use driver's licenses to get other benefits.
In Texas, Gov. Rick Perry (R) recently vetoed such a bill.

And critics of California's in-state tuition proposal say it would give the
undocumented more benefits than legal residents of other states.

Even before the recent changes, undocumented residents received many basic
services. For example, federal law requires communities to provide primary and
secondary education.

And many towns and cities do not inquire about the legal status of those using
local programs. In suburban Maryland and Virginia, for example, many local
governments provide health care services for the poor without checking their
documentation, according to local officials and immigrant activists.

Complicating matters is the fact that many immigrant families are mixed, with
the parents being illegal residents and the children, born here, having U.S.
citizenship. What does that make them?

"These are American families," said Tom Kam, a Fairfax County social services
official.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              85 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 8, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A New Deal With Mexico

BYLINE: Doris Meissner

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 850 words


By officially raising the possibility of legalizing the status of large numbers
of undocumented immigrants, the administration has poked a sizable hornet's
nest. But this cannot be avoided -- not if Presidents Bush and Vicente Fox of
Mexico intend to carry out the serious rethinking of migration policy to which
they have pledged.

Feelings on the issue are strong. Opponents of legalization say it undermines
the integrity of our laws and penalizes the many in immigration queues who play
by the rules. Supporters argue that undocumented immigrants are critical to the
economy, and reality says they're here to stay. They played by rules governing
the dynamics of free trade, cross-border labor markets and international
economic disparities.

Both sides are right. So how does the Bush-Fox promise of a new approach get to
"yes"? By incorporating legalization into an ambitious joint initiative that
offers the chance for actually solving the problem of unauthorized migration
from Mexico.

The last time it was tried, of course, legalization was also part of a regime
meant to eliminate the problem. Called the Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986, its centerpiece was penalties against employers who hired undocumented
workers. The goal was to "de-magnetize" the lure of jobs that fuel illegal
immigration. The sponsors' three-legged stool included strengthened border
enforcement and legalization to have a "clean slate" for a future of reduced
levels of illegal immigration.

In the 15 years since, employer sanctions have failed. The law is weak,
fraudulent work documents abound, and neither Congress nor successive
administrations mustered the resources or will to enforce them. Border
enforcement fared better, but it took nearly a decade for sufficient funds and
effective strategies to materialize.

The unexpected success was legalization. More than 3 million people gained legal
status. Three-fourths were Mexicans, who now represent 20 percent of legal
immigrants. They are the single-largest nationality among today's newcomers, a
trend likely to continue. They bind our two countries as never before and are
key to the reasons driving the Bush-Fox discussions.

But unacceptably high levels of unauthorized migration have continued, and the
undocumented population now in the United States is probably at an all-time
high.

That could be dramatically different over the next 15 years. What's needed is
for the two countries to commit now to erase the need for unauthorized
migration. This historic goal is within reach for the first time.

After decades of aggressive population measures, Mexico is experiencing
declining fertility, and the numbers in age groups that emigrate are decreasing.
Assuming the continued success of NAFTA and sustained growth, Mexico can produce
enough jobs and prosperity to meet the needs of its people by about 2015. That
should result in narrowing the gap in wages and standards of living between our
countries, the critical ingredient for reducing migration pressures.

Here, the experience of the European Union is instructive. It shows that deeply
embedded emigration traditions, e.g., in Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Italy, can
be reversed when large wage gaps shrink. People then move in manageable numbers
by choice, not desperation.

A North American version of this turnaround is the goal the two presidents
should set for their Cabinet representatives as they meet this week. Generous
legalization measures are then desirable and defensible. Allowing people to move
from being shadow residents to legitimate immigrants creates the proper climate
for protection of individual rights and enables travel and earnings to flow back
to communities in Mexico. Both nations benefit.

With legalization should come a new commodity, NAFTA immigration visas. These
would give NAFTA partners a way to meet unique employment and family immigration
needs resulting from economic integration in the future. Such visas are far
preferable to a guest worker scheme, which would not substitute for unauthorized
migration but would stimulate new flows and deepen chronic weaknesses in labor
conditions, even with union organizing.

To work, a new equation must also include solid commitments to joint
responsibility for border enforcement and a broad-based development agenda.
These constitute significant departures for both nations. Mexico must actively
participate in border enforcement to achieve safety in border regions, regulate
travel through authorized crossings, combat migrant smuggling and strengthen the
rule of law.

To diminish wage gaps, free trade must be augmented by education, social
investment, infrastructure initiatives and poverty reduction. These require U.S.
support and attention.

With an endgame policy connecting migration and NAFTA, Presidents Bush and Fox
would win the foreign policy success they crave and set a course never before
available to our nations.

The writer, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, was commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1993
to 2000.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              86 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 9, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

U.S., Mexico Await Migration Drop;
Declining Birthrate South of Border May Slow Tide North

BYLINE: Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 988 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Aug. 8


Mexico's falling birthrates may begin to significantly lower illegal immigration
to the United States within 15 years, according to Mexican and U.S. officials
working to craft solutions to their shared problem.

Immigration specialists have long said that the flood of Mexican workers to the
United States would cease only when Mexico's economy improved enough to
substantially narrow the wage gap between the countries. Although the world's
richest nation sits just north of the border, more than 40 percent of Mexicans
live in poverty.

But now, the specialists envision a long-term solution in demographics as much
as in economics. Unexpectedly dramatic drops in birthrates in Mexico indicate
that, beginning in about 2015, there will be a steady reduction in the number of
people entering the workforce.

In 1965, seven children was the average for Mexican women, according to Mexico's
National Population Council. By 1994 that had fallen to 2.9 children, and last
year it dropped again, to an average of 2.4. As more women work outside the
home, receive more education and put off marriage, family size is projected to
continue its steady decline.

Analysts are not saying the shifting population trend will stop Mexican
emigration, which now leads to more than 1 million arrests at the border each
year. As long as the wage for an hour's manual labor in the United States
roughly equals that for a day's work here, the Mexican tradition of going north
to seek a better life will continue.

But because an overwhelming number of those crossing illegally into the United
States are young, the drop in their number is expected to weaken one of the
major forces driving illegal immigration.

"This is very important," said Rafael Fernandez de Castro, an immigration
scholar in Mexico City. He said there have been so many young people entering
the workforce in the last decade that the government has needed to create 1.1
million jobs a year to accommodate them. But even in the best years, Mexico has
fallen short by about 500,000 jobs, and many young people who could not find
jobs at home went looking for them in Los Angeles, New York and, increasingly,
midwestern cities.

On Thursday in Washington, Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda and Interior
Minister Santiago Creel are to meet with Attorney General John D. Ashcroft and
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to discuss reshaping U.S. immigration policy
toward Mexico, including the possibility of legalizing the status of millions of
undocumented Mexican workers. In those meetings, the Mexican officials are
likely to stress the demographic projections and cast illegal immigration as a
relatively short-term crisis that will level off in coming years.

Since President Vicente Fox took office in December, he has worked hard to
improve Mexico's image in the United States. By emphasizing demographic patterns
just ahead of Fox's state visit to Washington next month, Mexican officials seem
to be offering another reason for optimism -- that the huge flow of illegal
Mexicans need not be a permanent irritant.

Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman (D-Conn.), who met yesterday with Fox, Castaneda and
many other top officials here, said in an interview that it has been widely
discussed that the flow across the border will subside only when the economies
of the two countries become more equitable. So he said he was interested to
learn that "a greater factor may be demographics."

He added that he believed there was "enthusiasm and support in Congress" from
both Democrats and Republicans for making changes to U.S. immigration law. The
"status quo is unacceptable," he said.

The Mexican government estimates that 70 percent of Mexicans in the United
States are between the ages of 15 and 44. Projections show the number of
Mexicans in that age group peaking in 12 to 15 years and then steadily
declining, reducing the number of potential migrants.

The Mexicans' demographic predictions are, by definition, only estimates. Any of
the factors reducing Mexico's fertility rate could change in the coming years.
But Castaneda, the foreign minister, has said these "devastating demographics"
are reshaping Mexico into an aging country.

Doris Meissner, commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
until last year, called the declining fertility rates in Mexico "a very
significant trend" that will reduce the numbers in the age groups that emigrate.
She said this trend "needs to be very much in the minds of people working on
this issue."

She said the new demographics -- like the new Mexican government's willingness
to seriously address this issue -- will make it easier to try to find a
comprehensive solution. "It puts wind at our back," she said.

But another critical factor, she said, will be for Mexico to focus future
economic and educational investments in the regions that traditionally send
large numbers of people north. "Improving the standard of living over the next
10 to 15 years is needed and it can be done," she said in a telephone interview
from Washington.

Fernandez, the Mexico City scholar, agreed that demographics alone will not
solve the problem and that economic development is vital to give Mexicans more
opportunity at home.

Also drawing more undocumented Mexicans north, Fernandez said, are the
formidable "links, the networks," between Mexicans in the United States and
their home towns.

For instance, vast numbers of people from the state of Puebla in central Mexico
have settled in the New York area; part of the tradition is that once a person
is settled and finds employment, he or she arranges a job for a relative back
home.

Academics say those links will be hard to break. In some Mexican towns, it has
become a custom as much as an economic necessity that when a boy turns 17, he
crosses the border and lives for several years in the United States, following
the path of his father or an older brother.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              87 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 12, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Why Amnesty Is the Wrong Way to Go

BYLINE: Peter Skerry

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1680 words


A liberal columnist depicts them as "living in the shadows." A conservative
commentator calls them a "huge, subterranean population" that exists in fear of
one day being "whisked away by government agents." A Los Angeles religious
leader bemoans their exploitation at the hands of "unscrupulous employers" who
know they "are reluctant to seek legal recourse."

But are they? Contrast those characterizations of illegal immigrants in the
United States with these actual events: Outside Phoenix, dozens of female
illegal immigrants march in protest against their employer, whom they accuse of
sexual harassment. An illegal immigrant and labor activist from Houston travels
to Washington to meet openly with Sen. Ted Kennedy and Justice Department
officials. In Los Angeles, the labor movement comes back from the brink of
extinction by successfully organizing illegals employed as janitors and hotel
service workers. Countless news stories highlight illegal immigrants as proud
homeowners, successful businesspeople and ambitious high school graduates openly
seeking admission to California's public universities.

Which of these two starkly different perspectives on the lives of the estimated
6 million to 9 million illegal immigrants now living in the U.S. is more
accurate? Almost certainly the second. Yet in the weeks and months ahead, it is
the first that will be emphasized as some promote amnesty to the American public
as the key to bringing order to our immigration policy. This is troublesome,
because amnesty is a bad idea both as policy and as politics.

Amnesty -- the granting of formal legal status to those who live here illegally
and are therefore subject to deportation -- is being pushed by those who stand
to benefit the most from it, chiefly immigrant advocates, unions and the
administration of Mexican President Vicente Fox. Democratic leaders in Congress
are also enthusiastic about some sort of legalization program. Yet to many
illegal aliens, amnesty offers less than meets the eye. And to Americans anxious
about the illegal influx into the country, it is more like a poke in the eye.

This is clearly why the Bush administration, which initially grasped at the idea
of amnesty, has recently begun to waffle on the issue and prefers talking in
terms of a "guest worker" program. But even that program is likely to contain
terms that will allow for the eventual legalization of some of the undocumented
workers now in the country. Amnesty is the compassionate component in the
administration's conservative pitch to Hispanics. And even though the degree of
compassion in amnesty is greatly exaggerated and its political benefit to Bush
steadily shrinking, the White House will find it all but impossible to abandon
the idea of amnesty now that it has been put on the table.

Amnesty may seem, on the surface, to be a reasonable measure, but what specific
problems facing illegals does it redress? Research has shown that undocumented
immigrants get paid less than other workers. But the research also attributes
this fact not to the immigrants' legal status, but to their youth, their low
education and skill levels, their limited English proficiency and their short
stints with specific employers. In fact, there is a considerable body of
research indicating that the well-being of immigrants is less a function of
their legal status than of the length of time they have been in the United
States. The problems that beset undocumented immigrants diminish as they cease
to become transients (whether moving around in the U.S. or back and forth to
Mexico), settle down in more stable jobs and neighborhoods, pick up skills and
begin to familiarize themselves with English. And of course, the more time
illegals spend here, the more adept they become at avoiding the INS.

This last point is particularly telling, because most of this research was done
when there was much more intensive interior enforcement by the INS than there is
today, when the bulk of the agency's efforts are concentrated at the border.
With interior enforcement virtually nil, it's ironic that the issue of amnesty
should surface now. And it makes the AFL-CIO's proposed Immigrants Freedom Ride
-- a replay of the civil rights movement's freedom rides, with busloads of
illegals from across the nation converging on Washington -- look like an effort
to provoke the federal government into actually enforcing immigration laws in
the interior.

I'm not suggesting that illegal immigrants don't experience problems, sometimes
serious ones. And it's obvious that most illegals would seize the opportunity to
become legal. But all the research underscores that being illegal is not the
all-encompassing, debilitating condition it is usually depicted as being.

So if amnesty doesn't benefit the illegals that significantly, what are the
politics driving the issue? The Bush administration's motives are the most
transparent: the need for a president with weak foreign policy credentials to
respond to the historic initiatives of his reform-oriented Mexican counterpart.
Bush also wants to sell himself to Hispanics and thereby improve his electoral
prospects in 2004.

The amnesty issue is equally important to immigrant advocates and unions. For
the latter, in particular, it would undeniably make organizing immigrants
easier. But as recent history indicates, the unions don't need amnesty to mount
successful organizing drives among illegals. Amnesty is, however, a concrete,
highly visible, and attainable benefit for which they can readily claim credit
among their growing constituencies.

Yet precisely because amnesty may not be as important to immigrants (as opposed
to their leaders) as many believe, Bush may not get as much political payoff
from his initiative as he originally thought. It's certainly debatable whether
amnesty is the kind of issue that would result in many Mexican Americans, who
tend to vote mostly Democrat, switching to the Republicans in 2004.

What amnesty will do is provoke a backlash against immigrants, something that
would definitely not help Bush. As Alan Wolfe points out in his book "One
Nation, After All," the distinction between legal and illegal immigrants "is one
of the most tenaciously held distinctions in middle-class America; the people
with whom we spoke overwhelmingly support legal immigration and express disgust
with the illegal variety." Opinion surveys confirm that Americans routinely
exaggerate by a wide margin the proportion of all immigrants who are here
illegally.

Anxieties about being besieged by illegals will be fueled by the misleading
picture painted by amnesty advocates of a clandestine underclass that must be
brought into the mainstream. The danger of a backlash is all the more real given
the almost certain consequence of an amnesty: more illegal immigration. Common
sense suggests as much. So does our experience after amnesty was granted in the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and illegal immigration burgeoned.
And if the economy continues to slow down, then the impact of such factors will
be all the greater.

Still, to many Americans, amnesty in some form seems reasonable. People who have
lived and worked here for a prolonged period of time, established businesses,
and raised families do build up compelling claims on the rest of us, especially
since we have not seen fit to enforce our immigration laws more rigorously. As
conservative commentator Linda Chavez puts it, amnesty is "the moral thing" to
do. Yet standing on equally moral ground, Texas Sen. Phil Gramm argues that
amnesty would only reward "lawlessness."

But what we need here is a lot less high-mindedness, on all sides, and more
realism -- including some backlash insurance. In the 1986 immigration law,
amnesty was counter-balanced by sanctions against businesses that hire illegals,
which unfortunately were never adequately enforced. Perhaps stiffer, more
meaningful employer sanctions should be put on the table now. Or maybe we should
talk about reviving the alien registration program, which required aliens to
verify their addresses by mailing a postcard to the federal government every
January, a law the Reagan administration allowed to expire in the early 1980s.

But some sort of reasonable demands should be placed on amnesty beneficiaries to
reassure the American public that immigration is not out of control, and that
those who have jumped the queue are not simply being rewarded. Such demands need
not be punitive. For example, mandatory English-language classes, which
immigrants need and which most Americans would be happy for them to take, could
become part of such a deal.

If we were really serious about our immigration problems, we would shelve
amnesty, which sends the wrong signals to everyone -- immigrants, their
advocates and immigration opponents. Instead, we could address specific problems
facing illegals without directly confronting their legal status, which amnesty
necessarily involves. For instance, we could grant reduced, in-state tuition at
public universities to otherwise eligible applicants who are illegals. More
states could do what a few already do and issue drivers' licenses to illegals.

None of this would make illegals legal. We would have to continue to live with
the ambiguity of having all these illegal immigrants in our midst. But the
alternative of amnesty would only make matters worse.

If, however, there is to be an amnesty, then the American public needs to feel
that it is getting something in return. Right now, the deal that is looming is
one between immigrant advocates and unions on the one hand, and employers --
especially agricultural employers -- on the other. The former get amnesty, the
latter a "guest worker program," meaning fresh infusions of unskilled labor.
Bush and Fox get to be statesmen. But the American people get nothing, except
the illusion that a serious public policy problem has been addressed.

</body>Peter Skerry, a professor of political science at Claremont McKenna
College, is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              88 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 24, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

For Immigrants, Unconditional Care; City-Funded Program Pays Medical Costs of
Children Whose Residency Status Makes Them Ineligible For Medicaid

Sylvia Moreno , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: DISTRICT EXTRA; Pg. J08

LENGTH: 1249 words


In the two years since he arrived in the District from his native Mexico, Daniel
Garcia, a restaurant busboy, has resorted to his own homespun version of health
care. Oregano tea for an upset stomach. Whole cloves to numb a toothache.
Coca-Cola boiled with honey for a cough.

With no health coverage at work and ineligible for Medicaid because he is an
illegal immigrant, Garcia simply got by. But when his wife and young son,
Eduardo, arrived here 14 months ago, also entering the country illegally, Garcia
started worrying about his willingness to forgo conventional medical care.

"That is fine for an adult," said Garcia, 28. "We can tolerate a lot. But not a
child."

Garcia doesn't have to worry anymore.

Eduardo, now 5, is one of the undocumented immigrant children covered by a new
District-funded program that provides health care for poor minors, regardless of
immigration status.

The program, an expansion of the city's Healthy Families initiative, was
approved by the D.C. Council in late spring after almost two years of discussion
among health and elected officials and community advocates. The D.C. financial
control board signed off on the proposal, and the city's Department of Human
Services began taking applications for children this summer.

Funded through Sept. 30 with a $ 500,000 appropriation, the program will provide
core medical services, referrals and hospitalization if needed for as many as
500 children. Mayor Anthony A. Williams's administration has proposed spending $
2.9 million in fiscal 2001, which starts Oct. 1, to expand care to 400 more
children and to add more specialized health services.

About $ 2.4 million of the cost will be covered by the city's portion of the
national tobacco industry settlement; an additional $ 500,000 will come from the
D.C. Health Department budget.

The health care effort, according to city officials, was set up to counteract
the effects of the federal welfare reform law of 1996, which bars undocumented,
or illegal, immigrants from receiving Medicaid. The law also prohibits Medicaid
coverage for immigrants who are residing in the United States under "temporary
protective status," which affects many Central Americans in the Washington area,
and immigrants who have legal permanent resident status but who entered the
country after Aug. 22, 1996, and aren't eligible for Medicaid for five years
from their date of arrival.

The welfare reform law, however, doesn't prohibit locally funded health care
initiatives. Ivan Walks, the District's chief health officer, believes it is
"good public health policy" to tend to the medical needs of immigrant children.

"There's clinical reasoning as to why this makes sense," Walks said. "All of our
children in the District go to school together. To have a group of children that
is selectively uncovered puts all of our children in an unhealthy environment.
We cannot ignore this population and keep the rest of us healthy."

Sixteen states also have similar programs, including Maryland, which has
projects in Prince George's and Montgomery counties, funded mostly by private
money. In Virginia, Fairfax County offers similar health care for children that
uses private funds.

"The goal now is to see that children have medical care regardless of their
residency status," said Kate Jesberg, who heads the Department of Human
Services's income maintenance administration, which oversees the Medicaid
program in the District.

The new District-funded program covers children from birth to age 19. Their
families must live in the District and meet the same income eligibility
guidelines that govern the regular federally funded Medicaid program. As of
mid-August, 150 children had been enrolled and 68 applications were pending.

The legislation establishing the program was sponsored by D.C. Council member
Jim Graham (D-Ward 1), who represents many of the city's most diverse
neighborhoods.

"It's been a little bit of a struggle. It's taken pressure every single step of
the way," Graham said. "But I think we've really accomplished something here for
immigrant kids in the District of Columbia, and there's more to come."

The initial $ 500,000 was appropriated from the District's medical charities
fund. It traditionally has covered medical expenses for childless adults who are
too young to qualify for Medicare, the health insurance program for the elderly,
and who don't have private insurance but who make too much money to qualify for
Medicaid.

That funding source must be changed, said Maria Gomez, director of Mary's Center
for Maternal and Child Care, a nonprofit health clinic in Adams-Morgan.

"It was never the intention in the advocacy community to take this money from
medical charities. We should restore it and use tobacco money," she said. "It
just pits community against community."

The challenge now, Gomez said, is getting parents to enroll their children. The
clinic, whose 3,600 patients are overwhelmingly Latino, is leading a consortium
of public health clinics and community agencies in alerting immigrant parents
that their children now qualify for medical coverage.

Such parents are generally fearful of governmental institutions for fear of
deportation or other legal consequences.

"We have to convince the community who needs this insurance that this will not
jeopardize their legal status in the future," she said.

Some reassurance came last September when President Clinton's administration
issued a directive stipulating that parents who apply for locally funded health
care programs for their children will not be considered "public charges," a
label that could jeopardize their attempts to establish legal residency here.

In addition to legal fears, many uninsured immigrant parents avoid or put off
doctor or hospital visits for their children because they can't afford the steep
medical bills. That ultimately can lead to a health care crisis and emergency
room visits.

"I'm a taxpayer. When I first looked at it, I, too, thought why should we spend
money on people who are not legal or who don't have residency here when there
are so many people who are uninsured?" said Nieves Zaldivar, a physician and
medical director of Mary's Center.

"But if you get no care, take no medicine, are not seen by a specialist, you'll
end up with a catastrophic illness, and you're going to end up in the hospital,
also at taxpayer's expense," she said. "I think in the long run, this is much
more cost-effective."

Mary's Center has social workers and other employees who are helping to get the
word out to immigrant parents about the new health care program. A
Spanish-language radio talk show host recently broadcast from the clinic and
enticed people to come in to apply by giving away sweat shirts, coffee and
doughnuts, and toys for the children. By day's end, about 130 people showed up,
and 80 completed applications, said Monica Villalta, the clinic's associate
director.

Doris Giron, whose 11-year-old son, Jimmy Gomez, came from El Salvador eight
years ago, learned about the program through Mary's Center. Since his
acceptance, Jimmy has been able to see a dermatologist at Children's Hospital
for treatment for a chronic skin condition--something his parents could not
afford previously.

"I feel so much calmer because I know that if I have a problem with him, I can
have it taken care of," Giron said. "I used to think in the past, carramba, how
will I deal with a serious problem?"

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2000

CORRECTION: An article Aug. 24 in District Extra about health care for immigrant
children misidentified the official who oversees the city's Medicaid program.
The program is administered by Herb Weldon, senior deputy director of the
medical assistance administration for the D.C. Department of Health.

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              89 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  September 14, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants Caught Up in Con Game

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D11

LENGTH: 556 words


Hundreds of would-be illegal immigrants have tried--and failed--to use tickets
bought for the Olympic Games as a cover to get into Australia, a spokesman for
Immigration Minister Philip Ruddock said today (Thursday).

He said that in two countries in Eastern Europe, some people had even tried to
pass themselves off as athletes and officials going to the Sydney Games to try
to get visas.

"In one case, eight people said they were representing their country in a
martial arts event at the Olympics. The country concerned didn't even have a
federation for that particular martial art," the spokesman said.

The spokesman did not disclose the countries concerned.

He said about 60 people in Syria had also fallen victim to a trickster who had
told them he had packages of Olympic tickets and Australian visas that would
guarantee them a passport to a better life Down Under.

"They paid the con man up front about $ 200,000," the spokesman said. "He had
nothing except the people's money."

May Might Get in Sync

Swimming's governing body took a major step toward approving men for
synchronized events, meaning American Bill May likely will be able to compete at
the 2004 Olympics.

FINA approved a U.S.-backed proposal to allow mixed pairs competition, beginning
with the 2002 World Championships in Zurich, Switzerland.

"This is the greatest thing that could have happened to me in my career at this
point," May said. "Had the proposal not passed, I would have almost certainly
been forced to retire from competition."

Mixed pairs are allowed in American competitions, but FINA rules have limited
the sport to women internationally. The matter will be referred to the
organization's technical committee, which will draft rules next year for men to
begin to compete in international competitions in 2002.

More Positive Drug Tests

Even before the Olympics begin, officials announced that three athletes and a
coach have been barred from the Games after positive drug tests.

Taiwan, already hurt by two drug cases, ordered weightlifter Chen Po-pu and
Coach Tsai Wen-yee home, Taiwan officials said.

Also barred from the Games were Bulgarian triple and long jumper Iva Prandzheva,
and Kazakstan swimmer Evguenia Yermakova.

Chen was tested twice on Aug. 28. After learning that the first test was
positive, he waived his right to know the results of the second test, Taiwan's
Central News Agency reported.

The International Weightlifting Federation has already barred Taiwan's world
champion weightlifter Chen Jui-lien and her teammate Wu Mei-yi from competing in
Sydney because of drug allegations.

A Game of Horse for Virginians

All four American riders who will compete in the team three-day equestrian event
are from Virginia. Nina Fout of Middleburg, Linden Wiesman of Bluemont and David
and Karen O'Connor of The Plains will compete starting Saturday in the
equivalent of an equestrian triathlon, an event patterned after the testing and
training of military horses.

The O'Connors were part of the team that won a silver medal in the three-day
event--called "eventing"--in Atlanta in 1996, but this is the first Olympics for
Fout and Wiesman, 25, the youngest team member.

David O'Connor will also compete in the individual competition, although he will
ride a different horse for each.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              90 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    October 15, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Protesters Seek Amnesty for Undocumented Immigrants

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 108 words


About 250 mostly Latino demonstrators gathered in front of the Lincoln Memorial
yesterday seeking permanent residency for thousands of undocumented immigrants
across the country. Holding banners and chanting in Spanish and English, the
protesters came from Chicago, Texas and Washington state, part of a national
mobilization by a coalition of community groups and unions with membership in 20
states. Organizers want a general amnesty, but also support a pending bill in
Congress that would allow longtime undocumented immigrants to legalize their
status and extend refugee status to Salvadorans, Guatemalans, Hondurans and
Haitians.



LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              91 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   November 14, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

On District's Streets, IDs Peddled to Immigrants

Petula Dvorak , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1663 words


The hustlers, with their hand signals and darting eyes, are a common sight along
Columbia Road NW. Their brazen sidewalk operation is part of an expanding
industry that supplies much of the market in the Northeast. They keep detailed
ledgers describing sales in Boston and Detroit and a business plan to expand to
Philadelphia.

Their contraband is not heroin, cocaine or even marijuana. The hawkers instead
sell the American dream to immigrants, charging $ 50 to $ 250 for forged
documents, trafficking identities from street curbs in a language all
understand: "You need a green card?" "Psst . . . want a Social Security card?"
"Driver's license?"

For years, Los Angeles has been the hub for counterfeit documents. But with the
number of illegal immigrants in the Washington area increasing every year--the
District alone has the third-highest per-capita concentration of undocumented
immigrants in the country--identity hustlers have been trying to break off from
the West Coast and establish a regional headquarters in the nation's capital.

"It's about supply and demand," said Warren Lewis, director of the INS regional
office that covers Washington and part of Virginia. "There is a large demand out
there for workers. The workers have a large need for Social Security cards,
green cards and driver's licenses. It's a very lucrative market."

INS agents have launched elaborate undercover operations to crack the stubborn
trade. Despite arrests and constant monitoring, investigators believe the same
organization keeps springing up, supplying new soldiers after each bust, working
the same turf and in the process underscoring how great the demand is for fake
identities.

The investigations on Columbia Road have produced reams of court records.
Undercover buys by agents and informants are tape-recorded, offering a look into
the way the street hustlers work. Federal agents have raided three apartments in
Adams-Morgan over the last two years--most recently in March and September of
this year--and each time they encounter the same sophisticated operation.

The document mills exist because the market for fake identities is vibrant and
growing. In 1997, the last year for which statistics are available, there were
about 5 million illegal immigrants in the country, the INS said. As that number
grows by about 275,000 annually, more immigrants flock to document mills that
churn out high-quality fakes. There are now more than 10,000 document fraud
cases nationwide, according to the INS, which began tabulating court cases for
the first time this year.

California, Texas and the District rank as the three jurisdictions with the
highest percentage of undocumented immigrants, according to the INS. In the
agency's 1997 count, there were about 30,000 illegal immigrants in the nation's
capital, the 18th-largest population among the 50 states plus the District. The
document hawkers also draw customers from the entire region. Virginia has the
ninth-largest population of illegal immigrants in the country; Maryland's is the
12th largest.

But unlike customers in Texas and California, the bulk of the buyers in the
Washington region have not crossed the border illegally. They are often in
trouble because their visas have expired, said INS spokesman Russ Bergeron.

"Washington is a demographically broader city," Bergeron said. "And with all the
universities that draw foreign students and travelers from all over the world
who come to the nation's capital, there will be a population of people who are
here illegally for all kinds of reasons."

And if they are in the market for a fake identity, police said, they can get
what they want in Adams-Morgan in the open-air document market at Columbia Road
and 16th Street NW. The intersection is widely known in the trade.

"This is sort of a hot spot in the city and the country for illegal documents,"
said Lt. Keith Hoffman, of the D.C. police department's 3rd District. "People
find out where to go by word of mouth; it's all underground. And the way it's
organized and worked out is all very similar to the drug trade."

The sellers work Columbia Road, flashing hand signals--a letter L made with a
thumb and forefinger or a hand cupped as though holding a card--and mumble their
sing-song sales slogan: "Mica. Miiica. Mica." Local residents call the hawkers
micas, after a slang word in Mexico meaning any kind of laminated card,
investigators said. The buyers are immigrants of various nationalities,
particularly Slavs, Asians and Central and South Americans, officials said.
Undercover buyers bought fake cards made out in names such as Edgar Mendez and
Deng Shao Peng.

There appear to be three levels in the operation: the organizers who are
orchestrating the operation from outside the United States, the experienced
forgers who have often learned their skills in Los Angeles and the street-level
pushers, who are usually young toughs recruited into the operation, Hoffman
said.

INS investigators said most of the street dealers who come to the nation's
capital are recruited in Mexico City. The trip across the border is organized by
a veteran of the document trade who has been deported and now runs the U.S.
operation from outside the country. He hires a smuggler called a coyote to help
with the set-up.

"The organization works a package deal with these guys," one undercover INS
agent said. "They'll smuggle them up here, pay the coyote for the trip. Then
every paycheck is split--half goes to the vendor, half goes to his boss who got
him here."

Older, skilled forgers work out of apartments. One recently raided workshop had
$ 3 million worth of false documents, sophisticated machines, silk screening
tools and bottles, tubes and cans of paint to create an independent factory.
Each time the D.C. police and INS conduct a joint raid--in 1998, they seized
about 50,000 cards, one of the major hauls nationwide--the counterfeiters are
almost immediately replaced by a new crew, Hoffman said.

"It's not a small-scale, localized problem," said William Blier, chief of the
transnational/major crimes section of the U.S. attorney's office. "It's a
large-scale effort. They are recycling people, moving them in and out of the
country. They are very well-orchestrated organizations."

It usually takes about two hours to turn out a document to the buyer's
specifications and then to get it through a network of runners, who drop it
under a trash can, behind a street sign or at a bus stop. No violent incidents
have been linked directly to the trade, but INS agents have found weapons and
narcotics during some of their searches.

Unlike drug dealers, who are often in competition even when working for the same
organization, document traffickers try to work in concert. "They work
cooperatively, not competitively," one INS agent said. They have formal
schedules so that everyone shares equally. A seller typically gets a $ 30 cut
from a $ 70 to $ 80 sale. The groups keep detailed payroll and schedule books.

The District's most elaborate document gang, which introduced local agents to
most of the trade's techniques, was the South Side group. Its members came from
the same area of Mexico, and agents followed the operation closely, arresting
most of them in 1998.

Juan Penaloza-Perez, known as "Gordo," used to work in a print shop in Mexico
City. Most of his document work took place in a one-room apartment on 16th
Street that was packed with $ 125,000 worth of high-tech equipment.

Arturo Flores-Flores was the 18-year-old street-savvy seller singled out by
agents for his "aggressive salesmanship." In nine days of surveillance, he sold
42 green cards and 42 Social Security cards. His take: about $ 2,500, tax-free.

Both men pleaded guilty to fraud charges and are serving sentences. When INS
agents shut down the South Side gang's operation, they found ledgers that
recorded document sales in Boston and Detroit. Two of the members were arrested
in Pennsylvania, where they were planning to expand.

"It's like a franchise," said Marcos Salazar, assistant district director for
the INS Washington district, who oversaw the document investigations.

A year later, the operation was back at full strength, with one of the suspected
South Side members who eluded police during the first bust working the street
again. The INS launched Operation Mica Maker and, after months of surveillance,
arrested three men in March. All pleaded guilty.

But the busts did not deter the group. On Sept. 30, during Operation Identity
Crisis, five Mexican nationals were arrested at an apartment on 16th Street. The
investigations are continuing, and more arrests are expected.

"It's extremely frustrating for these investigators," said Bergeron, who
believes the only way to stop the fraud is by creating technologically advanced
legal documents that can be verified immediately, like credit cards.

Lewis, the regional INS director, warns immigrants that document fraud is an
offense punishable by deportation. But perils are not always known in the
immigrant community, said Darryl Price, an attorney at the Spanish Catholic
Center, which assists low-income immigrants who have limited English
proficiency.

"You don't run across innocent people who really think they're getting
legitimate documents on the street," Price said. "Most of them know what they're
doing, but . . . don't understand the gravity of what they're doing."

The open-air document market affects a community in the same way the drug trade
does, lowering the standard of living, disrupting traffic patterns and
shattering a sense of residential community. D.C. Council member Jim Graham
(D-Ward 1) has often complained to police about the hustlers, who again are
working the neighborhood.

"They are back and open for business," Graham said. "You might get a day or two
of quiet after the police come, but they're always back, waving, whistling and
working their regular hours."

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              92 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    December 24, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Amnesty Is Not the Answer

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 148 words


The Dec. 14 news story "Hispanic Bloc Lobbies for Immigration Deal" overlooked
important points about amnesties and illegal immigration.

First, the term "illegal" means laws have been broken. Illegal entry into the
United States is a crime and should be treated as such. Instead, some
congressional representatives seek ways to increase benefits for illegal aliens.

Second, amnesties--the granting of legal citizenship to large numbers of illegal
aliens--reward law-breaking and have been found to increase illegal immigration.

Third, illegal immigration should not be treated as a racial issue. Most
Hispanic Americans favor stringent immigration laws and suffer when an influx of
illegal immigrants drives wages down. The only ones who profit from illegal
immigration are large corporations in need of cheap labor.

ALLISON LEE SOLIN

New Rochelle, N.Y.



LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER;

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              93 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 7, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico Becomes World's Anteroom;
Immigrants From Around Globe Seek Back Door Into U.S.

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan and Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1513 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY June 6


Rawa sat on a cot in her underwear, covered modestly by a thin blanket, and
explained why she and her family fled Iraq for the United States and ended up in
an immigration detention center in Mexico.

"Because it is miserable in my country, and I want to live like a different
person," said Rawa, 20, a university graduate from Baghdad who has been confined
here for more than a week. While she spoke, her mother, 64, wept quietly and
pressed rosary beads to her head in the next bunk over.

Rawa said her family -- her father and brother are here, too -- sold everything
to pay $ 30,000 to an Iraqi smuggler who told them Mexico was the best way to
reach the United States, then abandoned them in the Mexico City airport. Tugging
at her T-shirt, as the smell of sweat and detergent hung in the air, Rawa said:
"I have only this now."

As a flood of people from around the globe try to reach the United States, and
as more and more human smuggling organizations set up shop here, Mexico has
become the world's waiting room for illegal immigrants hoping to sneak into
America. A rare visit to Mexico's main immigration detention center was a
glimpse into the globalization of people trafficking: Nearly 400 people from 39
nations were being held -- 85 from Ecuador, 84 from India, 26 from Cuba, 25 from
China, and others from Albania, Russia and Ukraine, from Sierra Leone, Tanzania
and Togo, from Yemen and Jordan and Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.

The flow of undocumented Mexican immigrants to the United States is well known.
It rocketed into the headlines again recently when 14 of them died in the
Arizona desert. But less noticed is the growing number of immigrants from all
over the world who are trying to use the U.S.-Mexico border as an illegal back
door into America.

"Mexico has become the corridor for everyone in the world," said Gilberto
Palmerin, who runs the Mexican National Immigration Institute's main detention
center in the southern Mexico City neighborhood of Iztapalapa.

Mexican authorities deported 152,000 illegal foreigners last year, almost all of
them trying to reach the United States. Another 28,000 were caught by U.S.
officials after crossing the border. Countless thousands more are believed to
have made it through.

So while the United States spends billions of dollars keeping undocumented
Mexicans out, Mexicans spend millions keeping other immigrants from using their
country to cross illegally into the United States. The bright shining lure of
the United States costs Mexico more than $ 9 million a year: the price of
catching, housing, feeding and deporting illegal immigrants. Mexico is about to
spend $ 5 million more to double the size of this detention center and expand 20
smaller ones around the country.

"We have a lot of problems in our northern cities. These people have no jobs and
no money. They are sleeping on streets," said Felipe de Jesus Preciado Coronado,
chief of the National Immigration Institute.

The main detention center was designed to hold 150 people but sometimes houses
600, with bunks added everywhere to accommodate the overflow. Interpreters for
dozens of languages are needed. Just about every embassy and consulate here has
been called on to help. There are lines for everything: to register when a new
bus arrives, to see the doctor, to use the telephones.

As a busload of illegal immigrants pulled in to the overcrowded center, out came
crying children, young men from the Middle East and two Guatemalan women who had
dyed their hair blond in hopes of fitting in better in the United States.

Once detained, many immigrants seek refugee status, especially those from Iran,
Iraq, Sierra Leone, Pakistan, Somalia and Colombia, who argue that it would be
too dangerous for them to return home. Officials representing the U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees visit the detention center twice a week to assess
those requests.

Isabel Najera Franco, a commission officer, said that 266 applications were made
last year and 78 were granted -- and the numbers are increasing this year. She
said that once the United Nations grants refugee status, the people are allowed
to remain indefinitely in Mexico and can seek naturalization after five years.

Najera said Rawa's family has applied for refugee status but no decision has
been made. Rawa said her family cannot return to Iraq; she drew a finger across
her throat to show what happens to those who try to flee the country under
President Saddam Hussein. Her family asked that their last names not be used
because they fear reprisals against relatives still in Iraq.

Rawa said her family had hoped to start a new life in San Diego, where her
brother lives. She said they walked four days through mountains into Turkey,
where they hid for nearly a month while a smuggler arranged fake passports and
flights to Mexico. But he disappeared when they landed and they spent more than
a day in an airport cafeteria before suspicious police picked them up.

Now Rawa passes her days and nights in a room with her mother and a dozen other
women who share two sinks and a toilet. "It's miserable here," she said. "The
Mexicans are all nice. But how can I get to the United States?"

Another man, who said he was a refugee from the civil war in Sierra Leone, said
he came here by ship after seeing his mother and two sisters murdered before his
eyes. He is also seeking refugee status. Like many people here, he greeted
outsiders with a plea: "Can you help me?"

A Cuban couple and their two small children, who have not been to school in two
years, sat in a corner near a bank of phones. The 12-year-old boy's hair
recently fell out, his mother said, explaining that everyone's nerves are shot.

"I don't want luxury. I just want us to live a calm life," said Valentin Pupo
Moraga, the father.

He said his family fled Cuba two years ago and wound up in Honduras. From there,
they eventually boarded a bus to Mexico, with the aim of going to the United
States. In his hand he held a list of U.S. telephone numbers and names of
organizations he hopes might help him. But at a checkpoint in southern Mexico,
his bus was stopped and officials discovered the family had illegally entered
Mexico. Now they are here, unsure of what lies ahead.

In one small room at the center, a U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS) officer from the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City interviewed a group of
Chinese men who flew here and were trying to get into the United States. One by
one, they filed in, giving birth dates and names. Asked why they wanted to go to
the United States, they all answered the same: "To find a job."

"I don't care what kind of job, whatever is offered. I just want to go to New
York," said Liu Yilian, a thin 22-year-old man who was abandoned by his smuggler
at the airport in the resort city of Cancun.

The United States pays to deport some immigrants in other countries, such as
Mexico, when those immigrants are "clearly intending" to come to the United
States. INS officials said the U.S. government paid to deport 950 people from
Mexico last year, including many from China, India and Sri Lanka. Returning
people from those distant nations would be an "extraordinary expense" for Mexico
so the United States pays, INS officials said. The United States has paid
similar costs in other Latin American and Caribbean nations.

INS officials said the program saves money for the United States, because it
avoids detaining those same people in U.S. facilities and defending against
lengthy and costly legal appeals.

As U.S. officials arranged a flight for two dozen Chinese here back to China,
several of the men talked about what they faced upon return: a fine, and if they
did not have the money, several months in jail.

Some of the Chinese men said they paid a smuggler $ 4,000 each for the aborted
trip. Others said they agreed to pay the smuggler $ 40,000 from future earnings
in the United States.

Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, national security adviser to President Vicente Fox, said
Mexico's main concern is the increasingly powerful gangs that smuggle foreigners
through Mexico. Smuggling syndicates have become more organized and
well-connected throughout the world, increasingly offering services not just to
Mexican farm hands but also to businessmen from Asia and the Middle East.

Aguilar Zinser said that the serious mistreatment of immigrants has been
reported, especially along Mexico's southern border with Guatemala, where
illegal immigrants from all over Latin America cross on their way to the United
States. Mexico has tightened security along its southern border, partly because
of Fox's agreement to help stem the flow of immigrants to the United States.

Since Fox took office six months ago, there has been a massive shake-up at the
immigration agency. Aguilar Zinser said that "major irregularities" there were
being corrected. The irregularities include the recent case of a smuggler who
bribed at least 20 immigration officials and police to get them, with their
uniforms and official documents, to help illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              94 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 3, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Ashcroft Names Key Aides To Senior Posts at Justice;
Incremental Changes Expected Under New Attorney General

BYLINE: David A. Vise and Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1445 words


John D. Ashcroft's Justice Department began taking shape yesterday, as the new
attorney general named trusted aides to senior staff jobs and conferred with
Bush administration officials over the probable appointments of Larry D.
Thompson as deputy attorney general and Theodore Olson as solicitor general.

Justice Department officials outlined an initial Ashcroft agenda that will focus
on tougher enforcement of existing laws governing the sale of handguns; a new,
lifetime ban on the ownership of guns for juveniles who use firearms while
committing a crime; and following through on a Bush campaign pledge to break the
troubled Immigration and Naturalization Service into two parts. One of the new
agencies would focus on the enforcement of immigration laws, while the other
would emphasize the more rapid processing of applications for citizenship.

But Ashcroft himself said little publicly a day after he won confirmation by a
58 to 42 Senate vote in one of the most bitter battles over a Cabinet nominee in
recent times. Ashcroft toured the Justice Department's headquarters and shook
hands with scores of new employees. He also took a drug test that is required of
new employees.

Ashcroft "will outline his vision for the Justice Department early next week,"
said Mindy Tucker, the new Justice Department spokeswoman, who previously served
as a Bush campaign spokeswoman in Austin.

Thompson, a partner in the Atlanta law firm of King & Spalding and a former U.S.
attorney, is a conservative, African American lawyer whose appointment to the
high-profile No. 2 slot could help soften the criticism of Ashcroft that emerged
during the confirmation hearings over his stands on desegregation and
affirmative action, Bush administration officials said.

Thompson, a native of Missouri -- where Ashcroft was elected to high public
office five times -- served as an adviser to Supreme Court Justice Clarence
Thomas when Thomas underwent the same kind of bruising Senate confirmation
process that Ashcroft endured.

Olson, who as solicitor general would argue cases for the federal government
before the Supreme Court, twice represented Bush before the justices during the
post-election battle over the Florida vote. A leading figure in conservative
legal circles, he has argued 15 cases before the high court.

In the coming weeks, Ashcroft will face important decisions on critical issues
inherited from his predecessor, Janet Reno, including whether to continue
pursuing a multibillion-dollar lawsuit against tobacco companies. As a senator,
he was critical of that effort.

Antitrust matters on the agenda include how to proceed with the Microsoft case,
which is on appeal. Ashcroft will also struggle to hold down the Justice
Department's $ 23 billion budget. He is slated to receive his first budget
briefing on Monday.

Despite Ashcroft's record as a fierce opponent of abortion and new laws
restricting gun sales, observers from both ends of the political spectrum say
they anticipate that Ashcroft will make incremental, rather than radical,
changes in the Justice Department's approach to major policy issues. Ashcroft
emphasized during his confirmation hearings that, as attorney general, he would
enforce existing laws rather than seek the enactment of legislation overturning
laws with which he disagrees.

"There will be a conservative touchstone, but the methodology will be
incrementalism," said Clint Bolick of the Institute for Justice, a conservative
think tank that has provided recommendations to the Ashcroft transition team.
"When there is an opportunity, I expect Ashcroft will seize it, but I don't
think he'll go looking for a fight."

Ashcroft is likely to oversee the first federal executions since 1963, including
that of Oklahoma City bomber Timothy J. McVeigh. Ashcroft promised the Senate
that he would complete a study begun under Reno into alleged racial and
geographic disparities in the prosecution of federal death penalty cases.

During his confirmation hearings, Ashcroft said the Justice Department would
take the lead in making sure that people are not targeted by police because of
their race, an issue that he held hearings on as a senator. Justice Department
officials are monitoring a consent decree to curtail racial profiling by
officers in New Jersey.

Sens. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who led the
Senate opposition to Ashcroft, have vowed to give close scrutiny to all nominees
for important Justice posts -- including the top position in the civil rights
division, a job that entails the prosecution of race discrimination cases and
the enforcement of voting rights laws.

One candidate under consideration is Peter N. Kirsanow, a top Cleveland labor
lawyer and key player in the Center for New Black Leadership, a conservative
think tank. But one attorney close to the Bush transition said: "That is going
to be one tough, tough job to fill. It's so controversial. They are going to
tread very carefully."

Ashcroft sent out an e-mail to 102,000 of the far-flung department's 130,000
employees yesterday. Just days after he faced claims from opponents that
minorities would not trust him as attorney general, Ashcroft declared his
"unwavering" commitment to defending the rights of all Americans.

"On our shoulders rests the responsibility of upholding the American justice
tradition that strives to bring protection to the weak, freedom to the
restrained, liberty to the oppressed and security to all," he wrote.

Observers said Ashcroft will find it challenging to rapidly change the direction
of the department because to its complexity and size. It encompasses a number of
institutions, such as the rapidly growing Bureau of Prisons, the Drug
Enforcement Administration and the FBI.

"It's a big and lumbering agency, and changing its course directionally, if
that's what's desired, is a very tough task," said Charles J. Cooper, a Justice
Department official under President Ronald Reagan who is now in private
practice. "I think the most urgent challenge is just restoring a sense of trust
and respect for main Justice within the components, especially the FBI. There's
been very nearly open warfare there for years now."

Not everyone agrees that change will come slowly. Thomas L. Jipping, vice
president for legal policy at the Free Congress Foundation, said Ashcroft's
lengthy political career shows a man unafraid to forge ahead on controversial
issues.

"There's going to be a change or a shift in policy in most areas," Jipping said.
"If the left thinks that they will somehow drive the Justice Department, like
John Ashcroft is a puppy they've whacked with a paper, they're fooling
themselves. John Ashcroft will be the same attorney general he would be if he
had been unanimously confirmed."

Bolick said one test of Ashcroft will come with the proposed congressional
redistricting, which the Justice Department must approve in all or part of 16
states -- mostly in the South and Southwest -- under the Voting Rights Act.

The Supreme Court in recent years has generally frowned on making race central
to the drawing of election district boundaries, but the Clinton Justice
Department won lower court approval for creating some majority black districts
in the South and persuaded the Supreme Court to uphold a majority Hispanic
district in Chicago.

Ashcroft has given few hints to what his approach on such issues would be,
although he has been critical of affirmative action and other race-based
programs. Ashcroft came under heavy attack in the Senate Judiciary Committee for
vetoing bills as Missouri's governor that were aimed at increasing voter rolls
in St. Louis, which has a large African American population.

As he began to assemble his leadership team yesterday, Ashcroft appointed David
Ayres, who served as his chief of staff in the Senate, to the same post at
Justice. He named David Israelite, who worked at the Republican National
Committee, as deputy chief of staff.

Ashcroft also spoke with FBI Director Louis J. Freeh and former deputy attorney
general Eric H. Holder Jr.

Earlier in the day, Ashcroft eschewed the elevators and walked the steps and
hallways of the six-story Justice Department building for hours, shaking hands
with employees. Many said it was evident from the time Ashcroft began touring
the building at 9:00 a.m. until he settled into his fifth floor office a few
hours later that he can be personable and approachable.

"He played it real smart," a Justice Department official said. "The whole
'getting out and meeting the troops thing' was a brilliant idea. That type of
stuff in a big organization like this is well received."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              95 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 20, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Cuban Envoy Says He Was Kidnapped;
Deportation by Mexico Was Illegal, He Charges

BYLINE: Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY May 19


-- A Cuban diplomat who was mysteriously deported from Mexico in October as he
was seeking political asylum has turned up in a Havana court claiming that he
was kidnapped.

"I was kidnapped by force and taken illegally to Cuba," Pedro Riera Escalante
was quoted as saying in court Friday, before the head of a three-judge panel
ruled him out of order.

Riera, who was the Cuban consul in Mexico City from 1986 to 1992, has been
charged with falsification of documents, illegal departure and bribery, stemming
from his decision in 1999 to leave Cuba and reenter Mexico. News agencies
reported from Havana that he pleaded guilty to leaving Cuba with a false
passport and bribing officials at the Havana airport to help him.

Riera was pleading an asylum case with Mexican intelligence officials even as
Mexican immigration officials forcibly hauled him away from a coffee shop and
put him on a plane to Cuba. Exactly why he was deported has never been made
clear. Many Mexican commentators speculated that he had embarrassing information
about Mexican officials involved in his spying operations, which were largely
directed at the CIA.

The United States and international human rights organizations protested Riera's
deportation, saying they feared for his safety once he returned to Cuba.

Edelmiro Castellanos, a Mexico-based journalist for U.S.-funded Radio Marti,
which opposes the Cuban government, said at the time that Riera was one of the
highest-ranking Cuban intelligence officers ever to defect. Castellanos said he
was helping Riera and was present when he was hauled away by Mexican officials.

Mexican newspapers said at the time of his deportation that Riera was carrying
documents that detailed what he said was a two-decade career spying on the CIA.
Riera told others here that he had recruited journalists, businessmen and other
Mexicans to help him.

According to wire reports from Havana, there was no mention of any spying
activities in the courtroom Friday.

Riera, 49, is one five defendants in the case. The other four -- two Cuban
women, an officer of Cuba's Interior Ministry security force and an immigration
official -- are accused of helping him leave the island. If convicted, Riera
faces up to 12 years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              96 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 5, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 388 words


SANDPOINT, Idaho -- A judge agreed to release a woman whose arrest last week
prompted her children to hunker down in their home for five days, but the
woman's attorney said she refused to leave jail under the judge's terms.

Judge Barbara Buchanan said she would release JoAnn McGuckin, who has been held
on a felony child neglect charge, if she agrees to not violate custodial orders
involving six of her children and not try to contact them without authorization.

McGuckin's lawyer, Bryce Powell, told the judge his client would not accept the
conditions.

"My client demands dismissal of the charges and child protection proceedings and
an apology," Powell said.

LOS ANGELES -- A federal judge barred the deportation of an HIV-infected
3-year-old Thai boy brought into the United States as a pawn of smugglers,
despite the refusal of immigration officials to grant him asylum.

U.S. District Judge Dickran Tevrizian said he wanted Phanupong Khaisri -- a
toddler at the center of an international tug-of-war -- to remain in the United
States until he received a full hearing before a federal immigration judge and
possibly until he is 18.

The Thai government granted custody of the boy, whose father is dead and whose
mother is a prostitute, to his paternal grandparents, but Tevrizian said he
would not release the boy because his grandmother served 12 years in prison for
heroin trafficking. A Thai community development group will retain custody of
the boy.

NEW YORK -- A federal jury found that tobacco companies engaged in deceptive
business practices, ordering them to pay Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield up to
$ 17.8 million to help cover the costs of treating ailing New York smokers.

The jury awarded $ 17.8 million and $ 11.8 million under separate but
overlapping claims; it was not clear which amount would prevail. It found Empire
failed to prove fraud and conspiracy.  Philip Morris attorney Peter Bleakley
noted Empire was awarded only a fraction of the $ 800 million in damages it had
sought.

The Transportation Department is surveying passengers at Detroit Metro Airport
to determine whether minorities are unfairly targeted for baggage checks. The
Detroit airport was chosen because the area has a large population of blacks and
the nation's highest concentration of Arab Americans.

From news services

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              97 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 27, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Chinese Doctor Tells Of Organ Removals After Executions

BYLINE: Steven Mufson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 893 words


A Chinese man seeking political asylum in the United States says that as a
physician in China, he took part in removing corneas and harvesting skin from
more than 100 executed prisoners, including one who had not yet died.

Wang Guoqi, a burn specialist, said in a written statement that he also saw
other doctors remove vital organs from executed prisoners and that his hospital,
the Tianjin Paramilitary Police General Brigade Hospital, sold those organs for
enormous profits.

China executes more prisoners a year than any other nation, and some patients
from the United States and other Western countries travel there for organ
transplants.

Although China's practice of harvesting body parts after executions has been
widely alleged, Wang's asylum petition offers a rare, eyewitness account from
someone who was involved in a large number of cases. The House International
Relations Committee has invited him to testify today.

Wang, 38, came to the United States on April 30 with a tourist group and stayed
on rather than returning to China as scheduled May 14. He later made contact
with Harry Wu, a Chinese American who spent 19 years in prison in China for
political offenses.

Wu heads the Laogai Foundation, a nonprofit organization campaigning against the
collecting of organs from Chinese prisoners. He said that he went to great
lengths to verify Wang's identity and that both he and congressional staff
members found the doctor's statements "highly credible."

Wang's detailed statements, provided to The Washington Post by Wu's foundation,
include the dates and places of executions, the names of doctors involved in
organ removals and graphic descriptions of the medical procedures.

According to his statement, the police hospital often was notified in advance of
multiple executions, usually around the Chinese New Year or the government's
"strike hard" campaigns against crime. Wang said security officials were paid $
37 a corpse to tip off the hospital about executions. Kidneys later were sold to
wealthy or high-ranking people for more than $ 15,000 each, he said.

Wang said he worked at execution grounds and crematoriums, wearing plain clothes
rather than a police uniform. In many cases, he said, prisoners were shot, then
immediately placed in ambulances, where their kidneys were extracted within two
minutes of death.

Afterward, he and other doctors went to crematoriums and, in a small room next
to the cremation furnaces, carved skin from the arms, legs, chest and back of
each corpse. The skin was stored in saline solution at low temperatures to use
later on burn victims. He said he also extracted corneas and other tissue.

"After all extractable tissues and organs were taken, what remained was an ugly
heap of muscles, the blood vessels still bleeding, or all viscera exposed," he
said. "Then the corpse was handed to the workers at the crematorium."

Wang said his conscience has been "tortured" since an October 1995 incident in
Hebei Province, where he and other doctors arrived for the execution of a man
sentenced to death for robbery and murder. Before the execution, Wang
administered an injection of heparin to prevent blood clotting. A policeman told
the prisoner it was a tranquilizer.

An executioner then shot the prisoner, but the bullet did not immediately kill
him, and he lay on the ground convulsing, Wang said. Nevertheless, the doctors
were ordered to take him to the ambulance, where urologists extracted his
kidneys and left the scene with the county staff and executioner. Wang and other
burn surgeons remained inside the ambulance to harvest the skin. Then they threw
the half-dead prisoner in a plastic bag on a flatbed truck and left, he said.

"Whatever impact I have made in the lives of burn victims and transplant
patients does not excuse the unethical and immoral manner of extracting organs,"
Wang wrote.

He added that hospital authorities criticized him after he asked to be
transferred to different work. The hospital demanded he write a self-criticism
and promise not to expose its organ extraction and sale practices. In his
application for political asylum, he said he fears persecution if he returns to
China.

Wang said he obtained a passport under a false name for about $ 550 and joined a
tour group to the United States. The group visited Las Vegas, the Grand Canyon,
Universal Studios and Disneyland. He said there were 15 people in the group and,
to the best of his knowledge, none of them returned to China as scheduled.

According to the Laogai Foundation, there were 1,769 executions and 3,167 kidney
transplants in China in 1998. Wu noted that a 1984 Chinese regulation bars organ
removal from condemned criminals unless they, or their families, volunteer their
bodies for medical use. But he said that, in practice, prisoners and their
families are not consulted and the process is rife with corruption.

In its annual report on human rights this year, the State Department said that
"credible reports have alleged that organs from some executed prisoners were
removed, sold, and transplanted." Chinese officials "have confirmed that
executed prisoners are among the sources of organs for transplants but maintain
that consent is required from prisoners or their relatives before organs are
removed," the report added.

Staff writer Lena Sun contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              98 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   October 14, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 540 words


Bill Grants Citizenship

To Foreign-Born Children


Children adopted from abroad and other foreign-born children of American parents
will receive automatic U.S. citizenship under legislation Congress has passed
and sent to the president.

The legislation, which passed the House last month and the Senate late Thursday,
would confer automatic and retroactive citizenship on all foreign-born children
who are under the age of 18, admitted to the United States as lawful permanent
residents and in the legal and physical custody of at least one parent who is a
U.S. citizen.

"After what these parents have been through in bringing their children to the
United States, the naturalization process is an extra burden they shouldn't have
to bear," said Rep. William D. Delahunt (D-Mass.), a chief sponsor.

Delahunt said the legislation would also ease the consequences of a 1996
immigration law that makes noncitizens subject to mandatory deportation for
committing certain crimes even if they have lived in the United States since
infancy and have no ties to the country where they were born.

The Clinton administration supports the legislation. Last week, the president
signed into law another measure that implements the Hague Convention on
Intercountry Adoption. The treaty, signed by the United States in 1994, is
designed to set guidelines for international adoptions and restrict child
trafficking and fraud.


For the Record


* President Clinton signed into law a bill that will make it easier for his
successor to take over; it entitles the president-elect to federal funds for
computer and other systems as he sets up the new administration.


* The Senate passed a $ 630 million North Dakota water project bill that Canada
fears will send damaging fish and plants into Manitoba and eventually the Hudson
Bay. Many North Dakota communities lack adequate clean water supplies and the
state has been pushing for a large federally funded water project as
compensation for 550,000 acres of land lost a half century ago to Missouri River
dams. Canadian officials opposed the bill on grounds it would draw water out of
the Missouri River basin and drain it into the Red River of the North, which
flows into Lake Winnipeg and eventually to Hudson Bay.


* Imports of products made from dog and cat fur would be banned under a trade
bill that passed the Senate yesterday. Senate Finance Committee Chairman William
V. Roth Jr. (R-Del.), author of the dog and cat fur ban, said the trade bill
also includes a ban on importing "gray market" cigarettes, which are
manufactured abroad and bear U.S.-registered trademarks but undermine funding
for the states' tobacco settlement funds and potentially evade federal health
requirements. Another provision of the bill temporarily suspends tariffs on the
imports of two HIV-fighting drugs, DPC 961 and DPC 083.


* Hispanic farmers are the latest minority group to sue the Agriculture
Department for racial discrimination; 20,000 of them are seeking $ 20 billion,
alleging that they were unfairly denied loans and other assistance. The
department settled last year with black farmers, and a lawsuit filed on behalf
of American Indian producers is pending.



LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              99 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    October 22, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Restoration of Aid To Immigrants Sought; Clinton Aims to Reverse '96 Welfare
Cuts

Ellen Nakashima , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 672 words


When President Clinton signed legislation to scale back welfare in 1996, he
assuaged critics by pledging to mend its harshest provisions, notably those
affecting legal immigrants.

As he heads into the final days of the budgetary battle with Congress, Clinton
is trying to make good on that pledge. He is making restoration of food stamp
and health care benefits for legal immigrants a priority in year-end budget
negotiations.

It is part of a last legislative push as Clinton, in his final 100 days, turns
attention to issues that he believes will leave a lasting imprint, from securing
more education funding to supporting Third World debt relief to patching the
holes punched in what had been a six-decade-old government commitment to helping
the poor.

"Upon signing the welfare reform law, I made a commitment to reverse unnecessary
cuts in benefits to legal immigrants that had nothing to do with the law's goal
of moving people from welfare to work," he said last week.

"Now it is time to restore benefits to . . . legal immigrants who are working
hard and playing by the rules but are in need of assistance."

Under the 1996 law, legal immigrants who arrived after the law took effect are
banned for five years from receiving food stamps or health benefits under
Medicaid or the State Child Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). They may still
receive emergency medical care, but they are ineligible for basic medical
services that might reduce the need for such emergency care.

(In 1997 and 1998, the administration restored the benefits to some of these
immigrants if they had arrived before 1996.)

The administration now is backing proposals costing $ 1.3 billion over five
years that would lift the five-year ban on benefits for the most vulnerable:
pregnant mothers, children and the elderly.

But the idea does not please House leaders Bill Archer (R-Tex.), chairman of the
Ways and Means Committee, and Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the panel's
immigration subcommittee. They've called the health care proposal a "breach" of
the welfare overhaul.

"Chairman Archer believes these folks should be coming to America to live the
American dream, to earn a paycheck, not a welfare check," Ways and Means
Committee spokesman Greg Christ said.

Health benefits for legal immigrants is an issue that has united Clinton, Vice
President Gore and GOP Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, 8 percent of whose residents
are legal immigrants, most of them Latino.

Texas Gov. George W. Bush, the Florida governor's brother, has not taken a stand
on the federal legislation, though an aide said he has worked with the
legislature to provide money to elderly and disabled legal immigrants without
food stamp benefits. Like Florida, 8 percent of Texas's population is made up of
legal immigrants, mainly Latino.

"The provisions hurt Latino communities disproportionately," said Marcela
Urrutia, an analyst with the National Council of La Raza. "It's not only legal
immigrants, but also citizen children, whose families don't know that they can
get access. The 1996 legislation caused a lot of confusion."

As the welfare program has shrunk, so has the number of legal immigrant children
and pregnant women receiving medical care, from 37 percent in 1995 to 29 percent
in 1999, administration officials said. In the first year after the law took
effect, the percentage of legal immigrants receiving food stamps fell 63
percent, from 1.3 million to 484,400, they said.

This week, as Congress tries to wrap up its work, which Clinton said yesterday
in his radio address "is critical," administration officials are hoping to see
both sets of benefits included in the budget. The health care measure appears to
stand a slightly better chance because it has moved farther in the legislative
process.

"There's a lot of fluidity when negotiations are taking place at the very end,"
said Office of Management and Budget spokeswoman Linda Ricci. "We are looking
for opportunities to make both measures a reality."


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              100 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    October 23, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

Peruvian Ex-Spy Chief Leaves Panama

Anthony Faiola , Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Oct. 22


Peru's former spy chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, tonight abruptly left Panama
City, where he was seeking political asylum that human rights groups were
pressuring the Panamanian government to deny.

Diplomats close to the talks said his flight with a lawyer on a private plane
indicated that Panamanian authorities were not going to grant Montesinos full
asylum and that he was now attempting to find refuge in a third country or
perhaps return to Peru, where he maintains powerful friends in the military.

High-ranking sources from the Organization of American States said Montesinos,
who was Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori's chief of intelligence for 10
years, was last known to be heading toward Guayaquil, Ecuador. Panamanian
Foreign Minister Jose Miguel Aleman confirmed to journalists in Panama City that
Montesinos had left the country.

Diplomats immediately feared that Montesinos was trying to return to Peru.
Montesinos, whose alleged crimes include running death squads and protection
rings for arms and drug traffickers, fled Peru for Panama Sept. 24 after two
scandals caused a public outcry for Montesinos's arrest and prompted Fujimori to
call early elections in which he would not be an candidate.

Some diplomats worried tonight that Montesinos might be attempting to return to
Peru to pressure Congress behind the scenes into broadening amnesty laws, such
as Fujimori's government proposed today.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              101 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    November 17, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

WORLD In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A39

LENGTH: 930 words



THE AMERICAS

Fujimori Loses Control of Peru's Congress


LIMA, Peru--President Alberto Fujimori lost control of Congress yesterday,
further eroding his power, while aides tried to dispel rumors that he was
seeking political asylum in Asia.

With Fujimori attending a Pacific Rim trade summit in Brunei, opposition
lawmakers succeeded in wresting control of Congress from him for the first time
since 1992.

Opposition congressman Valentin Paniagua was elected president of Congress,
defeating Fujimori loyalist Ricardo Marcenaro, 64 to 51. The post became vacant
when another staunch ally of the president, Martha Hildebrandt, was voted out
Monday.

The defeat struck a serious blow to Fujimori's authority. Along with his control
of the courts, Fujimori's domination of the legislature had given him free rein
to govern virtually unopposed.

Meanwhile, swirling rumors that Fujimori planned to flee the country--denied by
his allies--underscored Peruvians' growing belief that his grip on power was
slipping away.

Jose Barba Caballero, a leader of a small opposition party, alleged that
Fujimori left Peru for Miami with 20 to 30 crates of personal belongings before
proceeding to Brunei. He said Fujimori was planning to seek political asylum in
Malaysia after the summit.

Fujimori aides and Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad denied the rumor.
Fujimori arrived in Tokyo early today, apparently en route home from Brunei. He
refused to comment on rumors that he was seeking political asylum in Asia.

Associated Press


Putschists Sentenced for Haiti Massacre


GONAIVES, Haiti--A Haitian court today sentenced in absentia more than 30 army
officers, including coup leader Raoul Cedras, and paramilitary militia leaders
to life in prison for their role in a 1994 massacre.

The 37 defendants were tried and sentenced on charges ranging from criminal
conspiracy to torture and murder for their alleged connection to an April 1994
dawn raid on Raboteau, a seaside shantytown of Gonaives.

The absent defendants include Cedras and his close associate Phillipe Biamby,
who received asylum in Panama; former Port-au-Prince police chief Michel
Francois, who is in Honduras; and paramilitary leader Emmanuel "Toto" Constant,
who lives in New York City. Prosecutors alleged that they masterminded the
attack.

The Raboteau slayings were part of a series of attacks undertaken to break
support for former president Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who became Haiti's first
democratically elected leader in 1991.

Associated Press


THE MIDDLE EAST

Syria to Free Half Its Political Prisoners


DAMASCUS, Syria--President Bashar Assad has signed an amnesty freeing nearly
half the estimated political prisoners in Syria, a move portrayed as a sign of
fresh thinking and welcomed by his opponents and human rights activists.

The amnesty of 600 political prisoners marked the 30th anniversary of the
revolution that brought Assad's late father, Hafez Assad, to power, state-run
newspapers reported. There are an estimated 1,500 political prisoners in Syria.

Hafez Assad, who tolerated no dissent and violently repressed Islamic extremists
during his three decades in power, occasionally granted amnesty to political
prisoners. His son released about 30 opposition members soon after his
inauguration in July.

"Syria is telling its citizens that a new phase has begun, one that is
characterized by forgiveness and love," parliament speaker Abdul Kader Kadoura
said.

Associated Press


ASIA

Japan Allows New Whaling Expedition


SHIMONOSEKI, Japan--As tension with the United States grows over its expanded
whaling program, Japan went ahead with another expedition, sending a fleet of
ships to waters off Antarctica.

The hunt, which began with a departure ceremony today at the port of Shimonoseki
on the southwestern tip of the main island of Honshu, was announced as President
Clinton is deciding whether to recommend sanctions against Japan.

Criticism of Japan's whaling program mounted earlier this year after Tokyo
expanded its hunt from minke whales to include Bryde's and sperm whales, both
protected under U.S. law. Japan argued that Bryde's and sperm whales are
plentiful and Japan's limited killing does not put them in danger of extinction.

The whaling program was discussed on the sidelines of the Asia Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit in Brunei, where Clinton told Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro
Mori that the hunt could damage U.S.-Japan relations.

Associated Press


N. Korea Removes Obstacle to Railroad


SEOUL--North Korea has accepted a U.N. proposal to let South Korea control a
section of their heavily armed border for construction of a railway linking the
two sides, defense officials in Seoul said.

The decision came at a meeting of military representatives from North Korea and
the U.S.-led U.N. Command at the border village of Panmunjom, inside the
2.5-mile-wide demilitarized zone separating the Koreas.

The move cleared a legal obstacle for both Koreas to cooperate on building the
railway and a four-lane highway next to it. The agreement was necessary because
of legal technicalities connected to the armistice that ended the Korean War in
1953.

Reconnection of the rail line, cut shortly before the Korean War began in 1950,
was a key agreement reached at a historic summit of the two Koreas' leaders in
June. The railway would link the two capitals, Seoul and Pyongyang, and continue
on to Shinuiju, a major city on North Korea's border with China.

Associated Press


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              102 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 8, 2001 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Chavez Is Under Fire Over Illegal Immigrant;
Guatemalan Lived In Designee's House

BYLINE: Thomas B. Edsall and Manuel Roig-Franzia, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1722 words


Linda Chavez, who has been chosen by President-elect Bush to be secretary of
labor, provided a room and hundreds, perhaps thousands, of dollars to an illegal
immigrant from Guatemala who did various "chores" around Chavez's house, a Bush
spokesman said yesterday.

Chavez was not aware of the woman's illegal status in the 1992-1993 period, said
Bush spokesman Tucker Eskew, and had taken the woman in as an act of charity,
not as an employee or as a "nanny" for her son, who was then about 13 years old.

Chavez defended her actions in a phone interview last night: "If someone came to
me needing shelter and needing a helping hand even under the same circumstances,
I would try to help them."

Chavez declined to go into detail about the time Marta Mercado spent in her
home, but, she said, "I would not turn away from my door a woman who had no
place to live and who had been badly mistreated and needed help."

Bush, who learned about the illegal immigrant yesterday after ABC News reported
it, will "absolutely" stand behind the Chavez nomination, Eskew said.

Chavez was already drawing criticism from Democrats concerned about her
opposition to affirmative action and her past attacks on raising the minimum
wage. The Mercado controversy gives them new ammunition.

"This is a very troubling new allegation which needs to be fully addressed at
the time of the hearings," Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who will chair
hearings on Chavez next week, said in a statement. "It's already an extremely
troubling nomination because of her long-standing hostility to the basic rights
of American workers."

Senate Democratic leader Thomas A. Daschle (S.D.) said on CBS's "Face the
Nation" that if Chavez employed an illegal immigrant, "it would present a very
serious problem. This is the labor secretary. The labor secretary ought to set
the example, ought to be able to enforce all of the laws."

A Senate Republican said she would withhold judgment. "There are a number of
questions there. I think it would be difficult to speculate on it until we have
all the facts," Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) told CNN's "Late Edition."

Three of Bush's Cabinet choices -- Chavez, Attorney General-designate John D.
Ashcroft and Interior Secretary-designate Gale A. Norton -- have provoked angry
responses from major liberal constituencies, including organized labor, civil
right groups, women's rights proponents and environmentalists.

Eskew said Bush welcomes a fight over Chavez. Bush "believes she is an
outstanding nominee, and we are all viewing this as an opportunity to cast light
on her big heart," he said.

Chavez took Mercado in "at the request of a friend who knew of Ms. Chavez doing
things like this before for those down on their luck or who needed shelter. [The
friend] asked Ms. Chavez to take the woman in and provide shelter and she did so
as an act of charity and compassion," Eskew said.

Eskew said he did not know who the friend was who asked Chavez to take in
Mercado, did not know how much money Chavez gave her and could not describe the
circumstances under which she left the Chavez household in Bethesda.

Asked if Chavez discussed the woman with the Bush lawyers who clear nominations,
Eskew said, "The vetters ask a range of serious questions, including things
about domestic employees and paying taxes. They don't, however, ask potential
nominees to enumerate every act of compassion."

In an interview last night at her split-level house in Beltsville, Mercado,
whose maiden name is Pineda, said that she spoke no English when she first
arrived here from Guatemala using false papers. But after some English lessons,
she said, she told Chavez, who did not speak Spanish, of her illegal status
about three months after moving into Chavez's house in late 1991.

Mercado said Chavez had arranged for her to work for a neighbor, who paid her in
cash. Chavez periodically also gave Mercado cash -- $ 100 or $ 200 every month
or two -- that Mercado said she saw as Chavez's way of helping her when she had
nothing.

"In reality, I was not an employee" of Chavez, Mercado said, although she said
she also viewed the money as Chavez's way of showing appreciation for Mercado's
helping with household chores.

Mercado said Chavez promised to help her gain legal status. But in the two years
she lived at Chavez's house, she learned from other friends that it would take a
long time to become documented. She said she returned to her native Guatemala in
late 1993, discouraged and uncertain about her prospects in the United States.

Six months later, Mercado said, she came back to the United States on a tourist
visa but not to Chavez's house. She said she stayed after the visa expired,
living with friends until her marriage to a U.S. citizen in 1996, which
eventually led to her legal residency. She lives with her husband, Ismel
Mercado, their son, her sister and her three daughters from a previous marriage.

After reporters started asking her questions about her relationship with Chavez,
Mercado went to Chavez's former home in Bethesda Saturday, according to Jesse
and Nicole Goodman, who had bought the house on Hillmead Road for $ 575,000 in
1998 from Chavez and her husband, Christopher Gersten.

Mercado said she then phoned Chavez at her home in Purcellville and spoke with
her late Saturday night. "I was very, very nervous, but I thought she was very
relaxed," Mercado said of the conversation. They recounted their history, back
to their first meeting, and Chavez told her to submit to an interview with the
FBI. "She said more than anything, it was important that I speak with the FBI."

FBI agents interviewed her at her home today, Mercado said.

Mercado lived in Chavez's Bethesda home during the early controversies of the
Clinton administration over the employment of illegal immigrants and the failure
to pay Social Security taxes by two failed nominees for attorney general, Zoe
Baird and Kimba Wood.

Chavez was sharply critical of Baird. On Dec. 21, 1993, she appeared on PBS's
"MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour" and said: "I think most of the American people were
upset during the Zoe Baird nomination that she had hired an illegal alien. That
was what upset them more than the fact that she did not pay Social Security
taxes."

Eskew said Chavez had helped people in need before and after Mercado. He said
she housed two refugees from Vietnam for two weeks and that she had paid for
parochial school educations for two Puerto Rican children in New York.

In the case of Mercado, Eskew said, Chavez "drove her to English classes, to job
interviews and helped her learn how to use the Metro" subway. During Mercado's
stay, Chavez "provided her with spending money from time to time" that was "in
the hundreds, if not more. It could be thousands," he said.

Mercado "did chores on an irregular basis," including "putting the dishes away,
helping out with the vacuuming" in the same way that any houseguest would do as
a courtesy to their host, according to Eskew. These were voluntary chores, not a
job, he said: "She did the kind of things that anyone who got food and shelter
would do around a house -- chores."

Elliott C. Lichtman, a Washington immigration lawyer, said that since the 1986
passage of the Immigration Reform and Control Act, employers who "knowingly
employ employees who are not authorized to work" within the United States are
subject to fines. He said the minimum financial requirements to qualify someone
as an employee are very low, and if the payments to Mercado were in the
thousands of dollars, the threshold had easily been reached.

Under immigration law, it is also illegal to harbor any person who is in the
country without proper documentation. Violators are subject to fine and
imprisonment.

Eskew countered that Chavez should be evaluated by "a common-sense standard,
government should not punish you for trying to help somebody else out in life."

The AFL-CIO, which already opposed the Chavez nomination before the Mercado
disclosures, was sharply critical in its statement: "Unfortunately, her
explanation sounds too much like the explanation of employers who have tried to
skirt the law by saying that individuals are not their employees. As secretary
of labor, Linda Chavez would have chief law enforcement responsibility for the
basic and fundamental protections that workers in this country . . . are
entitled to -- and she of all people should be held to the highest standard."

Other Bush Cabinet choices also came under fire over the weekend.

The Jerusalem Post reported yesterday that retired Army Gen. Colin L. Powell,
Bush's designee for secretary of state, had "received a large sum of money for
delivering a lecture subsidized by a senior Lebanese official, five days before
the U.S. election." The paper said the half-hour lecture, delivered at Tufts
University, was underwritten by Lebanese Deputy Prime Minister Issam Fares,
described as a billionaire businessman with close ties to Syria. Fares was
awarded an honorary doctor of international public affairs degree before
Powell's lecture, the Associated Press reported at the time.

The paper quoted "a source close to Fares" as saying the fee was $ 200,000. The
paper quoted Powell's spokesman, Col. William Smullen, as confirming Powell was
paid for the lecture with money from an endowment by Fares. Smullen would not
give the fee, which will be disclosed before Powell's confirmation hearings
later this month, but called the paper's figure "grossly exaggerated."

On Saturday, the Chicago Tribune reported that Bush's designee for defense
secretary, Donald H. Rumsfeld, answered briefly but in the affirmative when
President Richard M. Nixon launched into a stream of pejorative comments about
blacks. Bush transition officials said Rumsfeld never agreed with Nixon's
comments, preserved on tape in the National Archives, and became reticent when
he heard them.

Yesterday, Daschle said Democrats would vote against Ashcroft, Bush's pick for
attorney general, unless he satisfied their concerns about his civil rights
views.

And Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr. (D-Del.), who had previously said he was "inclined
to vote for" Ashcroft, barring new information, told NBC's "Meet the Press" that
"I may oppose his nomination."

Staff writers Mike Allen and David Brown contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2001



CORRECTION:  A Jan. 8 article incorrectly reported that Kimba Wood had hired an
illegal immigrant and failed to pay taxes on wages. In fact, Wood paid Social
Security taxes and did not break any immigration law, but the woman she had
hired was not a legally documented immigrant.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              103 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 9, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Backs Chavez As Controversy Swells;
Immigrant's Help Clouds Labor Choice

BYLINE: Thomas B. Edsall and George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1189 words


President-elect Bush and his top strategists worked yesterday to contain a
growing controversy over whether Labor Secretary-designate Linda Chavez violated
federal law by paying an illegal immigrant and accepting household help from her
during the early 1990s.

Bush told reporters that he thinks "she will make a fine secretary of labor."

He added that he did not learn until Sunday night -- well after he had made the
nomination -- that Chavez had paid and given a room to Marta Mercado, an illegal
immigrant from Guatemala who performed such chores as picking up after Chavez's
teenage sons, doing the laundry, walking the dog and washing the dishes.

"Any time new information comes up, we'll review all the facts on any nominee,"
Bush said. "I know there's going to be some withering questions for some of the
people that we've nominated for the positions, but I'm convinced that all of
them will be able to withstand the withering questions."

Mercado told The Washington Post that she informed Chavez of her illegal status
about three months after she moved into Chavez's Bethesda home. Bush spokesman
Tucker Eskew said Sunday and reiterated yesterday that Chavez told him "she did
not know the woman was an illegal alien, that is what she told me."

In addition, Eskew said Sunday that Mercado stayed for a year at the Chavez
home, but yesterday Mercado said she was there for two years, from late 1991 to
late 1993 -- through the period when Clinton's first nominee for attorney
general, Zoe Baird, was forced to withdraw after disclosures that she had
employed an illegal immigrant couple and failed to pay Social Security taxes on
their salaries.

The Chavez disclosures have made the labor secretary nominee the most vulnerable
of Bush's Cabinet choices. But liberal groups are gearing up to do battle
against the nominations of former senator John D. Ashcroft (R-Mo.) to be
attorney general, and former Colorado attorney general Gale A. Norton to be
interior secretary.

In addition, New Jersey Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, nominated to head the
Environmental Protection Agency, is likely to face questioning about her 1993
admission that she and her husband had employed two illegal immigrants, a
Portuguese couple who worked as their driver and nanny.

The focus yesterday was on Chavez. Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who will
chair the Chavez hearings, regards the disclosures as "very disturbing,"
according to a spokesman who added, "The cloud over her nomination is certainly
getting darker."

Bush's aides are worried that damaging news coverage will continue over the next
week, with the Chavez hearings tentatively scheduled to begin Jan. 16. "We need
to find some way to stop the bleeding," a GOP aide said.

Another Republican aide indicated that the Bush team is seeking some way to
publicize Chavez's assertion that her involvement with Mercado was an act of
charity and compassion for a woman who had reportedly been beaten, forced into a
homeless shelter and was desperately in need of help. "It's a powerful story,"
he said.

Mercado, the Guatemalan woman Chavez took in, yesterday defended Chavez, telling
reporters that Chavez gave her roughly $ 1,500 and that she did various chores
as a grateful guest in the Chavez home, not as an employee.

Mercado said she was interviewed for about one hour Sunday by two FBI agents.
The agents asked her about the work she did for Chavez and also asked to see a
copy of her green card, which proves she is a legal resident.

The immigration and tax law issues raised by the Chavez controversy are of
heightened importance because Chavez has been nominated to run the agency
overseeing workplace regulations and wages.

Immigration lawyers said that if Chavez actually employed Mercado, she would be
most vulnerable on her payments to the Guatemalan woman, which were apparently
far below the minimum wage, then $ 4.25 an hour. Mercado said she routinely did
housekeeping chores in the Chavez home.

Mercado said yesterday that she worked for one of Chavez's neighbors, Peggy
Zwisler, who paid her $ 120 a week to clean house and care for children for most
of the two-year period. She said Chavez helped her get the job. On Sunday,
Zwisler declined to comment about Mercado.

But another domestic helper for Zwisler told the Associated Press yesterday that
she believed Mercado also was working for Chavez. Sandra Johnson said she was
certain Mercado was working for Chavez rather than simply accepting donations
"because she has three girls back in her country that she had to support."

"The facts to be determined are fairly simple," said immigration lawyer Michael
Maggio. "Did Ms. Chavez have another maid? If she did, it would then seem
credible that [Mercado] was a houseguest. . . . If she doesn't have other
domestic help, but has a Guatemalan woman in the home, doing domestic chores, it
would seem she was a cleaning lady . . . who wasn't paid the minimum wage."

Mercado, speaking through her sister Rosario Pineda, said yesterday that Chavez
did not employ a housekeeper during the two years she lived in the home.

Mercado, who eventually became a legal resident after marrying a U.S. citizen,
now lives in Beltsville with her husband, their son, her sister and her three
daughters from a previous marriage.

Although the statute of limitations has run its course, several immigration
experts said Chavez might also have run afoul of the law prohibiting the
harboring of illegal immigrants. Enacted in 1986 as part of a sweeping revision
of immigration law, the law made it a crime for anyone who "conceals, harbors or
shields from detection" an immigrant while "knowing or in reckless disregard" of
the immigrant's illegal status. It carried a penalty of up to one year in prison
at the time Mercado lived with Chavez.

Maggio said he did not think the anti-harboring law "comes into play" in the
case of Chavez and Mercado, but other experts suggested it might.

Mercado said she told Chavez of her illegal status after living with the family
for about three months. "If that is true, then there is a serious possibility of
violating the harboring laws," said immigration lawyer Elliott C. Lichtman.

In 1975, a California woman was convicted for letting a relative from Mexico
live with her for two months, knowing of her illegal status. A federal appeals
court upheld the conviction, ruling that "harbor" simply meant "affording
shelter."

The 1986 law made it even more precarious for those who employ illegal
immigrants, by wiping out an old exemption that said offering employment was not
in itself harboring. The Immigration and Naturalization Service subsequently
said it would not enforce the law in cases involving employment alone. Jeanne A.
Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
said Chavez was under no obligation to report Mercado's illegal status to the
Internal Revenue Service, but it would have been "prudent" for the labor
secretary-designate to have stopped housing her once she learned of that status.

Staff writers Manuel Roig-Franzia and Helen Dewar contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              104 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 10, 2001 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Chavez Pulls Out as Labor Nominee;
Bush Pick Acknowledges She 'Wasn't Forthcoming' On Illegal Immigrant Issue

BYLINE: Dana Milbank and Thomas B. Edsall, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1338 words


President-elect Bush's embattled choice for labor secretary, Linda Chavez,
decrying Washington's "game of search and destroy," withdrew from the
confirmation process yesterday over revelations that she housed an illegal
alien.

In a defiant departure, Chavez, a conservative commentator and former Reagan
administration official, surrounded herself at Bush transition headquarters with
immigrants and others who stepped forward to offer testimonials about Chavez's
acts of compassion.

Chavez said it was her choice to withdraw. But Bush officials dropped their
support after allegations surfaced that she misled Bush's questioners by
omitting information about the illegal immigrant and may have sought to
influence a former neighbor's account of the relationship.

The Chavez episode illustrated the costs imposed by Bush's truncated transition
period and the difficulties he faces dealing with a closely divided Congress.
While Bush drew praise for quickly assessing the gravity of the Chavez
controversy and moving to put it behind him, he and his aides also were
criticized even by some allies for appearing to have been blindsided by each new
development.

Shortly after Chavez's withdrawal, Bush issued a terse statement in which he did
not repeat Chavez's complaints about having been treated unfairly.

"Linda is a good person, with a great deal of compassion for people from all
walks of life," the president-elect said. "Her upbringing and her life's work
prepared her well for the issues facing the Labor Department. I am disappointed
that Linda Chavez will not become our nation's next secretary of labor."

Chavez portrayed herself as the latest victim of "the politics of personal
destruction" and lined up the testimonials to underscore her claim that she
housed the illegal immigrant, Guatemalan Marta Mercado, as an act of charity,
not as an employee, which would have put her in violation of federal law.

Chavez's departure ended a brief controversy reminiscent of the nomination of
Zoe Baird to be President Clinton's attorney general. Baird withdrew after it
became known that she had employed an illegal alien couple and failed to pay
Social Security taxes. "I do believe that Zoe Baird was treated unfairly," said
Chavez, who had been critical of Baird during that controversy eight years ago.

Chavez, who had been targeted for defeat by organized labor after her nomination
a week ago, said she "would have made a great secretary of labor" but had
concluded since the illegal alien reports broke Sunday morning that she was
"becoming a distraction."

Attention turned immediately to a potential replacement. A transition source
indicated that Bush had a nominee in mind and was unlikely to turn to those most
often mentioned before her selection: former representative James M. Talent, a
Missouri Republican, former Republican Party official Rich Bond, and Rep.
Jennifer Dunn (R-Wash.)

Among those mentioned as possible choices were Stephen Perry, an African
American executive with Timken Co. in Ohio, who served in the administration of
then-Ohio Gov. George V. Voinovich; Eloise Anderson, a welfare reform specialist
who worked for Wisconsin Gov. Tommy G. Thompson; and former Peace Corps director
Elaine Chao.

In an interview before her public announcement, a distraught Chavez said she had
exercised "political bad judgment" in failing to raise the matter with Bush
vetters at the outset and said the Bush team was "unhappy that I wasn't
forthcoming about Marta."

Chavez indicated that she was aware of the potential problems related to Mercado
well before her interviews with either chief Bush vetter Fred Fielding or the
FBI, and that she took steps early on to prevent negative publicity.

When her candidacy for the job first became public about two weeks before she
was actually offered the job, Chavez said she started thinking about potential
problems and "it hit me I had Marta living with me. Marta was illegal. I knew
she was illegal."

Chavez said she called her former neighbor Margaret Swisler and asked: "Would
you feel it necessary to go public that Marta lived in my house? . . . What I
wanted to know was 'Are you going to go out to the press and say, 'Oh, by the
way, when you are looking at Linda Chavez, you might look at this woman who
lived at her house.' That was what I was asking, and that was to me a perfectly
reasonable thing."

Chavez said she was not suggesting that Swisler conceal the matter from the FBI.
She said she did not raise the matter with the FBI herself because "when the FBI
questioned me the first time, they didn't ask me any question that I considered
relevant. Marta wasn't the nanny. My children were grown. They were in high
school."

Chavez also accused a former aide to President Clinton of being the source of
the report, and charged that the FBI conducted "very accusatory" interviews with
questions implying that she was "importing slave labor or something."

The aide, former White House lawyer Neil Eggleston, who is a law partner of
Swisler's, denied any involvement. "I knew nothing about this until later in the
day on Sunday," after ABC News broke the allegation, "and I didn't speak to
anybody at ABC about this matter at all until people started calling me today,"
he said.

Chavez, in her news conference yesterday, said she did not "volunteer" the
information about Mercado in her first conversation with the vetters and blamed
the problem on the accelerated nomination process.

"Because of the circumstances of the Florida election, this administration has
not had that normal procedure" to conduct a lengthy background check, she said.
"And so they are working at some disadvantage."

Bush aides' public defenses of Chavez softened markedly overnight Monday. The
final straw appeared to be the news, first reported in yesterday's Wall Street
Journal, that the FBI was examining whether Chavez's conversation with Swisler
was an attempt to influence the neighbor's response to questions from the FBI.

Chavez had scheduled several appointments in Senate offices for Tuesday, but
after traveling to Capitol Hill in the morning without support from the Bush
team, she canceled later meetings, including one with Senate Republican Leader
Trent Lott (Miss.).

Senate Democrats delighted in Chavez's withdrawal. Sen. Edward M. Kennedy
(D-Mass.), a Chavez critic who was preparing to preside over her confirmation
hearings, said: "If there's a silver lining . . . it's the opportunity now to
name a labor secretary in the distinguished tradition of recent Republican
presidents."

The withdrawal of Chavez allows labor and other liberal interest groups to turn
their fire on former Missouri senator John D. Ashcroft, Bush's choice to be
attorney general. Ashcroft foes, confident of strong Democratic opposition to
Ashcroft, are turning their attention to Republican moderate Arlen Specter of
Pennsylvania and a few New England Republicans.

A broad coalition of liberal groups held a joint news conference yesterday to
demand that the Senate reject Ashcroft.

It is "simply not right to put someone who has John Ashcroft's views at the helm
of the Department of Justice that represents all Americans," said Wade
Henderson, executive director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights.

Conservatives in support of Ashcroft countered by circulating a remark by
Abraham Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League, quoted in the
Kansas City Star. "I believe he will be fair, he will be just," Foxman said.
"I'm ready to give him his due."

The Senate Judiciary Committee announced yesterday that hearings for Ashcroft
will begin Tuesday and will include testimony by Missouri Supreme Court Justice
Ronnie White, an African American whose nomination as a federal judge was
opposed by Ashcroft and rejected by the Senate. No date has been set for White's
appearance, which is likely to come later in the week, possibly Thursday.

Staff writers Helen Dewar, John Mintz, Dan Eggen and Peter Slevin contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2001



CORRECTION: A Jan. 10 article misspelled the name of Margaret M. Zwisler, a
former neighbor of Linda Chavez, the labor secretary designate who withdrew from
the confirmation process Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              105 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 17, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD;
In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 731 words


THE AMERICAS

MIAMI -- At least 30 people, many of them from the Dominican Republic, died and
more than 60 were missing after two boats thought to be carrying illegal
migrants sank in separate incidents in the Caribbean, officials from countries
in the region said yesterday.

The double tragedy -- the wrecks occurred off Haiti and the small island of St.
Martin -- highlighted the grim toll from a constant trickle of migrants in the
Caribbean who try to seek a better life by setting out for more prosperous
countries in often overcrowded and small vessels.

Officials in the capital of Haiti, Port-au-Prince, said that more than 15 people
from neighboring Dominican Republic died and more than 40 were missing and
feared dead after their boat sank off a small island near the southwest of
Haiti.

Further east in the Caribbean, rescuers searched for as many as 20 passengers,
possibly illegal migrants, missing in another shipwreck that killed at least 15
people, the U.S. Coast Guard said.

A Dutch Coast Guard vessel rescued two Puerto Ricans who were members of the
crew and handed them over to French authorities. The pair are now in French
police custody, said a government official in the French Caribbean island of
Martinique, which was coordinating the search.

Authorities in Santo Domingo said that most of the passengers were from the
Dominican Republic, but that Chinese and Haitian passengers were also aboard.

Reuters

RIO DE JANEIRO -- The chances of saving the world's biggest offshore oil rig,
hit by a series of blasts that apparently killed 10 people Thursday, are
diminishing, and it may sink within 48 hours, the rig's Brazilian owners said.

Henri Philippe Reichstul, the president of the state oil company Petrobras, also
told reporters the accident had jeopardized the company's oil production goals.
If the platform sinks, it may cause an environmental disaster.

Analysts have said that the accident deprives the company, and Latin America's
largest country, of at least 5 percent of this year's total daily output, now
about 1.3 million barrels per day.

Officials have said that for Petrobras, a month without the platform means
losses of $ 50 million.

ReutersASIA

NEW DELHI -- Promising to "clean up the dirt," India's prime minister announced
an inquiry into a bribery scandal that has cost him two cabinet ministers and
spurred calls for his government to resign.

Atal Bihari Vajpayee said the investigation, led by a sitting or retired Supreme
Court judge, would look into the allegations raised this week by journalists who
used hidden cameras and wads of cash to expose corruption in India's
arms-procurement system.

"You have my word, I will work to clean up the dirt that has come into view,"
Vajpayee said in an address broadcast on state-run Doordarshan television.

Vajpayee gave the unusual TV address after shouting lawmakers prevented him from
addressing Parliament for the third straight day.

The turmoil in Parliament led U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan to cancel a
visit there yesterday.

Associated PressTHE MIDDLE EAST

BAGHDAD, Iraq -- A device planted between two buses at a garage in the Iraqi
capital exploded, killing two people, the official Iraqi News Agency (INA)
reported.

Eyewitnesses said the blast injured 27 people, who were rushed to hospitals in
central Baghdad. Residents reported they had heard ambulance sirens wailing
after midnight.

INA quoted a security source as saying that "agents of treachery and vice" had
planted a highly explosive device at a public garage in the al-Karkh area and
that it had blown up just after midnight (4 p.m. EST Thursday).

INA said it was the second such explosion in Baghdad in a month.

ReutersFOR THE RECORD

East Timor's U.N. administrator formally set Aug. 30 as the date for the
territory's first free elections, for a constituent assembly. That legislature
will be given the task of drawing up a constitution ahead of full independence,
possibly next year. . . . Despite reassurances that the controlled plunge of the
Mir space station poses no threat to Japan, a public safety official said the
government may urge people to stay indoors to avoid being hit by debris.

"It's simple. They lied."

-- Enrique Klein, an Argentine cattle executive, speaking of government efforts
to conceal the outbreak of bovine foot-and-mouth disease -- Page A13

Compiled by Virginia Hamill

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              106 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 11, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Mexican Guest-Worker Plan Backed

BYLINE: ,Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Jan. 10


-- A group of U.S. senators painted an optimistic picture of U.S.-Mexico
relations today, pledging to forge a guest-worker program to slow the tide of
illegal immigration and to try to end a drug certification program that has
created tension between the two countries.

The five senators, who met with President Vicente Fox and several Mexican
ministers Tuesday, said the biggest achievement of their talks was unanimous
support for a program to bring Mexican workers to the United States legally.
They said this could reduce the number of illegal immigrants while providing
Mexican workers with protection under U.S. laws.

Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.), who led the delegation, said he believes the program
could be in place within a year and that he has no doubt President-elect Bush
would support it. The senators said they planned to start working on the program
next week and would encourage Bush, who will be sworn in on Jan. 20, to meet Fox
as soon as possible.

The Bush transition office said late today that it would not comment on the
proposal until after Bush takes office.

While no details have been worked out, Gramm said Fox and the senators discussed
a program to issue legal work permits, first to Mexican workers already in the
United States illegally -- as many as 7 million, by some estimates -- and
eventually to workers in Mexico. The size of the program would be based on
variables such as the U.S. unemployment rate.

The program could include worker training paid for by U.S. companies, as well as
health insurance and full protection for the workers under U.S. labor laws.
Gramm said it would significantly reduce illegal immigration by Mexicans, by far
the largest such group in the United States.

"Mexico stands to gain equitable treatment for its citizens . . . and the United
States gets control of its borders," Gramm said. "It's clear that it's the kind
of program that Mexico wants . . . and we think the American people can be
sold."

Gramm also predicted moves to end the U.S. drug certification program, under
which the State Department annually evaluates the drug-fighting performance of
other countries and imposes economic sanctions if they fail. The law has caused
resentment among countries around the world.

"It was a bad idea to begin with," Gramm said. "President Fox wants to get rid
of it. We want to get rid of it."

The senators also showered praise on Fox. "I've been a senator 28 years. . . .
I've never been privileged to sit with a chief executive of a foreign country
that impressed me more," said Sen. Pete V. Domenici (R-N.M.).

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              107 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 25, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

More Guest Workers? Not What We Should Pick

BYLINE: Mark Krikorian

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1200 words


During President Bush's recent visit to Mexico, he and Mexican President Vicente
Fox agreed to establish an "orderly framework for migration" between the two
countries. Among the proposals that their newly formed immigration working group
will review is a temporary work program for Mexicans -- many of whom now come to
the United States illegally. This would represent an expansion of the current
H2-A guest-worker visas, which allow some 30,000 farmworkers to enter the
country legally each year.

Increasing the number of guest workers is not a new idea. Last year, I testified
before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Claims against a bill
that would have created a large agricultural guest-worker program for the first
time since the so-called Bracero program, which brought close to 5 million
Mexican farmworkers to the United States between 1942 and 1964. Sens. Phil Gramm
(R-Tex.) and Bob Graham (D-Fla.) plan to introduce dueling guest-worker
proposals later this year. These have the potential to dwarf the Bracero
program, since there are some 3 million Mexican illegals already here, and
Gramm's proposal would not be limited to agriculture.

This is a misguided approach. My concern is not solely about the detrimental
effects of encouraging more people to cross the border to work in this country
-- although I do believe that today's mass immigration is causing severe social
and economic problems. I'm also concerned about the negative impact the policy
will have on American agriculture.

There's a widely held belief that large swaths of our economy could not function
without low-skilled, low-wage foreign laborers. In Gramm's words, "They are
vital to our economy, yet they are violating our laws." However a careful
examination of fruit and vegetable production demonstrates not only that our
economy can do perfectly well without foreign labor, but that the large-scale
availability of such labor actually impedes economic progress.

Similar claims about the importance of imported farmworkers to maintain the
superiority of American agriculture have been made in the past. In the early
1960s, during the hearings that led to the termination of the Bracero program
because of exploitation of Mexican workers, a spokesman for tomato farmers
claimed that "the use of braceros [imported laborers] is absolutely essential to
the survival of the tomato industry." Congress went ahead and discontinued the
program (which is still mired in controversy, with lawyers representing braceros
preparing to file suit to recover money deducted from bracero pay). Without the
cheap Mexican labor, farmers increasingly mechanized the harvest over the next
three decades, resulting in a quadrupling in the production of tomatoes destined
for processing -- and a fall in real prices.

This result nicely summarizes the threat guest-worker programs (or large-scale
illegal immigration) pose to America's agricultural competitiveness: By
artificially inflating the supply of labor, the government's interference in the
labor market keeps wages low, resulting in slowed mechanization, and stagnating
productivity in fruit and vegetable production.

The period from 1960 to 1975 -- roughly from the end of the Bracero program to
the beginning of the mass illegal immigration we are experiencing today -- was a
period of considerable mechanization, with the average labor hours per acre used
in harvesting fruits and vegetables dropping by about 20 percent. But a
continuing increase in the acreage and number of crops harvested mechanically
did not materialize as expected after 1975, in large part because the supply of
workers was artificially swollen by the growth in illegal immigration.

Farmers' mass access to foreign workers (illegal or legal) has caused the wages
of farmworkers to decrease over the past decade. A March 2000 report from the
Labor Department found that the real wages of farmworkers fell from $ 6.89 per
hour in 1989 to $ 6.18 per hour in 1998. A new guest-worker program, or
continued official acquiescence to illegal immigration, is likely to continue
this downward trend. This may seem superficially appealing to farmers, but from
a competitive point of view, vying with low-wage countries on the basis of labor
costs is a dead end. No modern society will ever be willing to reduce
farmworkers' wages enough to match those paid in Third World countries.

You can see how changing the labor market plays out in the fields. Through the
1980s, sugar companies in Florida imported West Indian guest workers to harvest
cane by hand. Then the industry was hit by a wave of lawsuits filed on behalf of
workers whose contracts had been violated. This proved so nettlesome that the
growers calculated it would be more profitable to mechanize the sugar harvest
than to honor farmworker contracts. Today, virtually all Florida sugar cane is
harvested by machine, resulting in dramatic increases in productivity, higher
wages and more civilized working conditions for the remaining workers. In short,
cutting off the stream of foreign labor promoted dramatic steps toward
modernization.

The raisin crop provides a graphic example of the opposite phenomenon. Raisin
grapes, grown in California's Central Valley, are the most labor-intensive
commercial crop in North America. Traditionally, the grapes are cut with a
knife, placed in a pan, then laid on a paper tray for drying. During the drying
period, they must be manually turned, then rolled and collected. But a new
cultivation method, called "dried-on-the-vine" (DOV) production, promises both
radical reductions in labor demand and improvements in quality. This innovative
method has not been widely adopted in the United States precisely because the
widespread availability of foreign workers is a disincentive to raisin farmers
to make the long-term capital investment needed to retrofit existing raisin
farms for DOV production.

There is also the danger that the slowed innovation caused by artificial
infusions of labor will allow other developed countries to leap ahead of us.
This is probably most striking in the cutting-edge field of robotic harvesting.
Though still in its infancy, great progress has been made in this third wave of
agricultural mechanization. But because of the mass availability of alien labor
in the United States, the European Union is well ahead of us in using the
potentially revolutionary technology. Enactment of a new guest-worker program
may help our competitors gain a permanent advantage over us in agriculture -- an
area where America has traditionally been the pacesetter.

It's heartening to see Bush and Fox engage on some of the major issues that
confront our two countries. But, whatever final form their new framework for
migration takes, the American president would do well to resist the siren song
of legalized foreign labor. It may look attractive in the short term, but in the
long term, it threatens to undermine the commerical viability of American
agriculture. For our country's good -- and for the good of agriculture itself --
we need to reject calls for a new guest-worker program and to get serious about
enforcing existing immigration law.

</body>

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              108 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 21, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

High-Tech Visa Approvals Down From Last Year

BYLINE: Carrie Johnson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 559 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service reported yesterday that the number of
approved H-1B visa petitions has dropped by nearly 30 percent compared with last
year at this time.

The visas for trained foreign-born workers are one more hot commodity that has
cooled as a result of the slowdown in technology spending and the crash of
high-tech stocks. Last year, companies desperate to keep up with demand
exhausted the annual nationwide quota of 115,000 H-1B visas in the first six
months of the fiscal year. After intense lobbying by technology firms, Congress
voted in October to increase the number of H-1B visas to 195,000.

But from October 2000 until earlier this month, the INS said, it had approved
petitions on behalf of 72,000 foreign-born workers under the H-1B program,
compared with more than 100,000 in the same period a year earlier.

Some of the companies that requested the most visas during the first six months
of 2000 -- such as Motorola Inc., Cisco Systems Inc. and Vienna's MicroStrategy
Inc. -- have since reduced their payrolls and financial projections.

In the past two months, Motorola has announced that it will cut 4,000 jobs and
Intel Corp. said it will eliminate 5,000. Cisco said it will reduce its
workforce by as many as 8,000 full-timers and 3,000 temporary and contract
workers.

"From our perspective, there are a lot more people in the marketplace right
now," including H-1B visa workers, said Ateesh Roye, senior technical recruiter
at the Mindbank Consulting Group, a technology employment agency in Vienna.

But Roye, who is himself here on a high-tech work visa, said many foreign
nationals are still finding work with subcontractors both in the United States
and in places such as India, which sends more visa holders to the United States
than any other nation.

Theresa Cardinal Brown, an associate director for business immigration at the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, said there are many reasons for the
apparent decline in H-1B approvals. Brown said some regional offices of the INS
are still processing requests filed as long ago as December. She also noted that
the new law excludes workers hired by universities and other higher-education
institutions -- as many as 12,000 -- from the visa cap.

Still, Brown said, "at the height of H-1B, when things were going crazy, the INS
was processing 15,000 applications a month." That pace does seem to have slowed,
according to the INS.

An agency spokesman said about 66,000 applications are pending, though some of
those are likely to be rejected or not covered under the visa cap. He declined
to speculate about the reason for the decline.

Critics of the H-1B program say it supports foreign workers to the detriment of
Americans. Groups such as the Congressional Black Caucus have said that the
ready availability of workers from overseas depresses wages for all employees
and is harmful to immigrant workers, who must return to their native countries
after six years if they do not get official sponsorship to remain in the United
States.

The new INS report covers corporate requests for visas filed from October 2000
through March 7. It does not take into account leftover petitions the INS
approved from late March to September of last year with Congress's permission.
Companies may not have hired as many foreign workers as were approved.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              109 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 27, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

INS to Grant Immigrants Some Grace;
Laid-Off Visa Holders Get Time to Find Jobs

BYLINE: Kenneth Bredemeier, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 727 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, prodded by immigration activists and
corporate America, said yesterday that it will issue new guidelines this summer
to give highly educated foreign workers who have lost U.S. jobs a grace period
in which to find new work and stay in the country.

The INS is "now working on regulations that would allow [the foreign workers] to
have a lapse of a certain time between jobs where they would still be in valid
[immigrant] status," INS spokeswoman Eyleen Schmidt said.

Various immigration and corporate groups have asked the INS for a grace period
of as long as six months, but Schmidt said the agency has not decided how long
it should be.

"Hopefully by mid-July we'll have a temporary field guidance" for INS offices,
she said, "and an actual regulation by August."

As the economy has slowed over the last several months, thousands of foreign
workers with coveted H-1B visas, which allow them to work in the United States
for up to six years, have been laid off, just as American workers have. Most of
the layoffs of H-1B visa holders have occurred at technology firms, including
many in the Washington area.

H-1B visas are good for three years, so the foreign workers who have them need a
midpoint renewal to stay here the maximum six years.

All laid-off workers face the immediate stress of finding a new job, but H-1B
visa holders also face the fact that without a job, and thus a company willing
to sponsor their stay here, they cannot legally remain in the United States and
could face deportation.

Yet, even as the layoffs have mounted, the INS said it has not sought to deport
any foreign worker. But other than an informal, 10-day waiting period after a
visa expires, the INS has no policy on how long college-educated foreign workers
can remain here if they are unemployed.

As a result, thousands of H-1B workers who have been laid off -- and no one
familiar with the issue can say with any certainty how many that is -- have
either scrambled to find new work with another visa sponsor or left for their
homelands for fear of being deported. Some companies have actively sought them
because of their highly technical skills.

One H-1B visa holder, Gary Lee, a 31-year-old industrial engineer at Lucent
Technologies in Orlando, said he is being laid off on Friday. And, with his bid
for permanent resident status still not resolved, he said, "I am looking for a
job right now."

The Taiwanese native, who said he has a master's degree from Texas Tech, married
a Taiwanese woman he met in the United States. The couple bought a house and now
have an eight-week-old son.

"Orlando now feels more like home to me" than Taiwan, Lee said. But with only a
year left on his H-1B visa, he realizes he has to move quickly to find new work
so he can continue the complicated process of getting his green card, which
would allow him to remain here permanently.

"I might get desperate in a year," he said. "They will not deport us
immediately. But, of course, I'm worried."

Several advocates for a grace period for H-1B workers applauded the INS effort
to set a policy on the issue.

"The law is unclear," said Lynn Shotwell, director of government relations for
the American Council on International Personnel, a Washington-based group of
immigration experts from multinational corporations that asked for a 90-day
grace period. "What we need is some certainty."

The American Immigration Lawyers Association, the Immigrants Support Network and
the Information Technology Association of America all had voiced support for
some definitive INS policy on what happens to visa holders who find themselves
unemployed.

However, Shailesh K. Gala, president of the New Jersey-based Immigrants Support
Network, said his group wants even more flexibility in the administration of the
H-1B program, under which as many as 175,000 foreign workers may enter the
United States in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, just short of the 190,000
limit authorized by Congress last year.

He said the INS decision to establish a grace period is "better than no clarity,
but it doesn't go far enough. The current system is entirely employer-based. An
H-1B should be valid for whatever time it was originally approved for. Since
there is no liability [for the government in the case of jobless visa holders],
why not allow them to stay?"

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              110 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 5, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

German Panel Moves To Boost Immigration;
New Policy Urged for Skilled Workers

BYLINE: Peter Finn, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1040 words

DATELINE: BERLIN July 4


A government-appointed commission recommended today that Germany break with
ingrained tradition by embracing the idea of immigration and accepting up to
20,000 foreigners annually as new permanent residents.

The commission report will become the basis for what Chancellor Gerhard
Schroeder's center-left coalition government hopes will be the country's first
comprehensive immigration bill, 45 years after the first Turkish "temporary
guest workers" came to Germany.

As Germany faces a demographic implosion caused by low birthrates, its
population of 82 million could fall by 25 percent in the next 50 years,
according to various studies. The 21-member panel urged the government to
maintain the country's prosperity by attracting as many as 50,000 skilled
foreign workers annually, using a combination of permanent residence and
temporary visas.

The new proposals, combined with changes last year in the citizenship law, could
put immigrants in Germany on largely the same legal ground as those in the
United States, Canada or Britain -- a wide-reaching change for a country that
has long defined itself racially and has formally eschewed immigration for
almost 100 years. Until last year, German citizenship was largely based on
blood, and German-born children and even grandchildren of foreign residents were
not automatically granted German citizenship.

But with 3.8 million people unemployed and violence against foreigners on the
rise, immigration remains a socially and politically charged issue here.
Although the commission's recommendations fall far short of industry estimates
of how many foreign workers are needed, the government hopes a modest proposal
will gain support from the conservative Christian Democratic Union and keep
immigration from becoming a divisive issue in next year's national elections.

"We are in an international competition for the best workers," said Rita
Suessmuth, a Christian Democrat who headed the commission. "We are a country of
immigration -- not just starting today, but already for quite a while."

Although the Christian Democratic Union's proposals are not radically different
from those of the commission, it has said it may not reach a compromise with the
government and it cannot promise that immigration issues will stay out of the
2002 campaign.

"Germany is not a classical immigration society," CDU leader Angela Merkel said
in an interview in today's Berliner Zeitung. "I believe there are no significant
differences with the immigration of highly qualified workers. But I am skeptical
with questions like, say, dealing with rejected asylum seekers, with illegal
foreigners, and with crime done by foreigners. There, the differences with
[Schroeder's coalition] are considerable."

Some industry groups have argued that Germany needs as many as 200,000 new
immigrant workers annually to sustain its labor ranks, compete globally and keep
its social security system afloat. Such large estimates are deeply unsettling to
many Germans. Government officials were at pains today to emphasize the
relatively limited nature of the panel's proposals.

"We will offer the workers urgently needed by German business, and who cannot be
found on the German labor market, a durable perspective so that our country
stays internationally competitive in key sectors," Interior Minister Otto Schily
said after receiving the report.

The panel, made up of politicians, religious leaders and representatives of
industry and trade unions, said Germany needs immigrants and should look on them
as an enriching element in society.

The panel recommended that Germany accept up to 20,000 highly skilled workers
annually for permanent residence through a Canadian-style points system ranking
potential immigrants on the basis of their education, skills and age. Another
10,000 visas would be set aside for business executives and students. An
additional 20,000 foreign workers would be given temporary visas to fill
positions in industries facing labor shortages, with an option to extend their
visas.

Germany already has experimented with temporary worker visa programs, with mixed
success. Under pressure from industry, Germany last year offered five-year
residence permits to 20,000 foreign computer experts. Only 8,000 people took the
offer, and immigration advocates here said limited visas encourage skilled
people to look instead to the United States, where they can become legal
permanent residents and, eventually, citizens.

"As long as foreigners feel nothing more than tolerated in a country, that
country will not be attractive," said Suessmuth.

An estimated 7.3 million foreigners now live in Germany despite the lack of a
comprehensive immigration policy. Most of them, or their parents, arrived as
temporary guest workers or as refugees benefiting from the country's generous
asylum laws. Their status here is governed by a thicket of bureaucratic rules
regulating entry, extension of stays, permanent residence and the possibility of
securing citizenship.

While Germans celebrate the Ghanaian-born striker on the national soccer team,
many feel less at ease with the sight of Muslim women wearing scarves in Turkish
neighborhoods. And the increasing presence of "foreigners" -- immigrant is a
word that has not entered common discourse here -- has stirred resonant debates
about the place and preservation of German identity, culture and pride in a
country with a multiethnic future.

As the country struggles with its xenophobic attitude toward foreigners, it is
also combating a rise in violence against immigrants. During 2000, Germany
experienced a 59 percent rise in reported far-right, anti-Semitic and racist
crime, according to official figures.

Last year, one of the most notorious acts of anti-immigrant violence occurred in
Dessau, where a longtime German resident from Mozambique was beaten to death in
a public park by neo-Nazis.

The Council of Europe, which monitors human rights in member countries, said in
a report Tuesday that German society's attitudes "toward those who are
considered as 'foreigners' " was a matter of "deep concern."

"Racism and intolerance, including anti-Semitism, are yet to be adequately
acknowledged and confronted," the report said.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              111 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 5, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Our Addiction to Foreign Workers

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 318 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service's announcement that it will issue new
guidelines this summer to give H-1B foreign guest workers who've lost their jobs
a grace period to find new work is another sorry episode in the history of these
detrimental immigration programs [Business, June 27]. The guidelines will allow
these workers to stay here without the job that was a requirement of the visa
and will shove aside American high-tech workers who also are in search of
employment.

This action follows last year's congressional stampede to balloon the number of
these visas from 115,000 to more than 200,000 per year for the next several
years. The rationale was based on industry-funded reports that grossly
exaggerated spot labor shortages in high tech. Meanwhile, neither the Labor
Department nor the Commerce Department nor the National Research Council (which
completed a congressionally mandated study) could substantiate the calamity
claimed by industry.

Ironically, at almost the moment that Congress opened the floodgates to an army
of H-1Bs in October, dot-com was morphing into dot-gone. While stockholders and
investors hemorrhaged billions, tens of thousands of workers lost their jobs. At
many high-tech companies, U.S. workers were canned while imported H-1B workers
stayed on.

If this grace period goes into effect, American tech workers will continue to
suffer because employers will be more inclined to give vacant jobs to low-wage,
easily exploitable guest workers. Worse, such bonus incentives as a grace period
only heighten employer addiction to guest workers and serve as a disincentive
for employers to provide training and skills upgrading in an industry where
African Americans and Latinos are woefully underrepresented and the pay gap for
women is substantial.

PAUL E. ALMEIDA

Washington

The writer is president of the Department for Professional Employees at the
AFL-CIO.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              112 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 8, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

German Panel Moves To Boost Immigration;
New Policy Urged for Skilled Workers

BYLINE: Peter Finn, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1040 words

DATELINE: BERLIN July 4


A government-appointed commission recommended today that Germany break with
ingrained tradition by embracing the idea of immigration and accepting up to
20,000 foreigners annually as new permanent residents.

The commission report will become the basis for what Chancellor Gerhard
Schroeder's center-left coalition government hopes will be the country's first
comprehensive immigration bill, 45 years after the first Turkish "temporary
guest workers" came to Germany.

As Germany faces a demographic implosion caused by low birthrates, its
population of 82 million could fall by 25 percent in the next 50 years,
according to various studies. The 21-member panel urged the government to
maintain the country's prosperity by attracting as many as 50,000 skilled
foreign workers annually, using a combination of permanent residence and
temporary visas.

The new proposals, combined with changes last year in the citizenship law, could
put immigrants in Germany on largely the same legal ground as those in the
United States, Canada or Britain -- a wide-reaching change for a country that
has long defined itself racially and has formally eschewed immigration for
almost 100 years. Until last year, German citizenship was largely based on
blood, and German-born children and even grandchildren of foreign residents were
not automatically granted German citizenship.

But with 3.8 million people unemployed and violence against foreigners on the
rise, immigration remains a socially and politically charged issue here.
Although the commission's recommendations fall far short of industry estimates
of how many foreign workers are needed, the government hopes a modest proposal
will gain support from the conservative Christian Democratic Union and keep
immigration from becoming a divisive issue in next year's national elections.

"We are in an international competition for the best workers," said Rita
Suessmuth, a Christian Democrat who headed the commission. "We are a country of
immigration -- not just starting today, but already for quite a while."

Although the Christian Democratic Union's proposals are not radically different
from those of the commission, it has said it may not reach a compromise with the
government and it cannot promise that immigration issues will stay out of the
2002 campaign.

"Germany is not a classical immigration society," CDU leader Angela Merkel said
in an interview in today's Berliner Zeitung. "I believe there are no significant
differences with the immigration of highly qualified workers. But I am skeptical
with questions like, say, dealing with rejected asylum seekers, with illegal
foreigners, and with crime done by foreigners. There, the differences with
[Schroeder's coalition] are considerable."

Some industry groups have argued that Germany needs as many as 200,000 new
immigrant workers annually to sustain its labor ranks, compete globally and keep
its social security system afloat. Such large estimates are deeply unsettling to
many Germans. Government officials were at pains today to emphasize the
relatively limited nature of the panel's proposals.

"We will offer the workers urgently needed by German business, and who cannot be
found on the German labor market, a durable perspective so that our country
stays internationally competitive in key sectors," Interior Minister Otto Schily
said after receiving the report.

The panel, made up of politicians, religious leaders and representatives of
industry and trade unions, said Germany needs immigrants and should look on them
as an enriching element in society.

The panel recommended that Germany accept up to 20,000 highly skilled workers
annually for permanent residence through a Canadian-style points system ranking
potential immigrants on the basis of their education, skills and age. Another
10,000 visas would be set aside for business executives and students. An
additional 20,000 foreign workers would be given temporary visas to fill
positions in industries facing labor shortages, with an option to extend their
visas.

Germany already has experimented with temporary worker visa programs, with mixed
success. Under pressure from industry, Germany last year offered five-year
residence permits to 20,000 foreign computer experts. Only 8,000 people took the
offer, and immigration advocates here said limited visas encourage skilled
people to look instead to the United States, where they can become legal
permanent residents and, eventually, citizens.

"As long as foreigners feel nothing more than tolerated in a country, that
country will not be attractive," said Suessmuth.

An estimated 7.3 million foreigners now live in Germany despite the lack of a
comprehensive immigration policy. Most of them, or their parents, arrived as
temporary guest workers or as refugees benefiting from the country's generous
asylum laws. Their status here is governed by a thicket of bureaucratic rules
regulating entry, extension of stays, permanent residence and the possibility of
securing citizenship.

While Germans celebrate the Ghanaian-born striker on the national soccer team,
many feel less at ease with the sight of Muslim women wearing scarves in Turkish
neighborhoods. And the increasing presence of "foreigners" -- immigrant is a
word that has not entered common discourse here -- has stirred resonant debates
about the place and preservation of German identity, culture and pride in a
country with a multiethnic future.

As the country struggles with its xenophobic attitude toward foreigners, it is
also combating a rise in violence against immigrants. During 2000, Germany
experienced a 59 percent rise in reported far-right, anti-Semitic and racist
crime, according to official figures.

Last year, one of the most notorious acts of anti-immigrant violence occurred in
Dessau, where a longtime German resident from Mozambique was beaten to death in
a public park by neo-Nazis.

The Council of Europe, which monitors human rights in member countries, said in
a report Tuesday that German society's attitudes "toward those who are
considered as 'foreigners' " was a matter of "deep concern."

"Racism and intolerance, including anti-Semitism, are yet to be adequately
acknowledged and confronted," the report said.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              113 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 16, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Amnesty Works for America

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 150 words


Peter Skerry is incorrect when he argues that "the American people get nothing"
from legalizing the status of undocumented immigrants [Outlook, Aug. 12]. All
working families would benefit from immigration reform that provides legal
status to immigrants who work hard and pay their taxes.

Our country depends on immigrant workers to care for our sick, clean our office
buildings, harvest our food, and provide other essential services. Yet many of
those workers face the threat of deportation if they ask employers to provide a
living wage and health coverage for their families. That, in turn, makes it
easier for employers to hold down pay and benefit levels for all working people.

Legalization would prevent employers from exploiting immigrant workers and
improve working conditions for us all.

ANDREW L. STERN

Washington

The writer is president of the Service Employees International Union.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              114 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  September 16, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

A Worn-Out Welcome Mat; Immigrant Professionals Forced to Leave as Visas Expire

Hanna Rosin , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2239 words

DATELINE: ELK GROVE VILLAGE, Ill.


There's six years worth of America stuffed into these packing crates: a Pooh
bear, Gap shirts, an E-Z carpet shampoo system. Plus one piece of paper,
explaining why Sanjay Sathya's suburban Chicago life is now boxed up in his
two-car garage, waiting for moving trucks.

"Here it is," he says, eyeing the paper with fresh bitterness. "H-1B Visa.
Useless now." Expiration date: 9/22/00. Position: senior program analyst.
Embossed on the background: the Statue of Liberty, arm holding the torch, her
head missing.

"What is it they say? Liberty? Equality? Pursuit of happiness? . . . Yeah,
right," he says. "I guess happiness is relative."

The fall of the Sathyas might be just the typical hard-luck story of any failed
immigrant family: They came in on temporary work visas, they wanted to stay, but
America turned them out. This year alone, about 40,000 people like Sathya who
arrived on this special visa and assumed they could settle in America forever
will find themselves heading back home, or to Canada, or someplace else they'd
rather not be.

And yet, their story was supposed to end differently. The H-1B visa was designed
so trained professionals could work for a limited time in the United States. It
became wildly popular in the mid-1990s when Microsoft, IBM and hundreds of
hungry high-tech start-ups across the country began using it to recruit an army
of high-tech workers for programming jobs. Some 420,000 are here now.

"The market was hot, hot," Sathya, 32, recalls. "They wanted us yesterday."

To lure these workers, Congress struck a special bargain: The time limit was
left in place, but made to seem irrelevant. Applicants no longer had to prove
they intended to return home, and the visa was dubbed "transitional," implying:
next stop, green card.

But so many immigrants streamed in so quickly that the gears jammed, at every
stage. Employers couldn't get certifications from the Department of Labor fast
enough. The INS couldn't keep up with applications for permanent residency. And
even if the Sathyas, who are from India, had made it that far, they might have
been thwarted by the 7 percent annual cap on green cards for immigrants from any
one country. About half the H-1B immigrants are from India.

Now, for the first massive wave of newcomers, the six-year clock has run out.
The high-tech companies still desperately need them, and they want to stay, but
right there on Sathya's paper is the time limit, bottom right corner.

"Who, who will help me?" Sathya pleads in a rare burst of self-pity. "My
latte-drinking lawyer? He already moved on to the next Indian name. My company?
They dropped me like a hot potato. The government? Who am I to them?

"It's shameful that this country can't deliver what it promised."

Sitting in a living room that's now technically somebody else's, drinking juice
from a plastic cup, Sathya is mostly, though, hard on himself. He feels
betrayed, yes, but also embarrassed, like the fool in "A Passage to India" who
believes he's befriended the British but somehow has misunderstood all their
cues.

"I take pride in what I do," he says. "I like to succeed. Isn't that what
America taught me? So now I'm embarrassed that what I set out to do, I failed.
That in some way--I'm not really sure how--I failed."

INS officials concede no one quite realized how quickly the number of H-1B
workers would soar toward half a million, or thought through all the
consequences, said spokeswoman Eyleen Schmidt. The INS plans to assign more
people to process the visas starting next month, which might ease the problem,
but can't solve it.

"It makes little sense," said Lindsay Lowell of the Institute for the Study of
International Migration, who's conducting a study for high-tech companies. "Here
these companies are scrambling to meet demand every year while thousands of
people are forced to leave."

Under pressure from the high-tech companies, Congress is scheduled to reform
H-1B visas by the end of the year. A bill sponsored by Sen. Spencer Abraham
(R-Mich.) would exempt the H-1B visa from country caps. Another by Reps. Zoe
Lofgren (D-Calif.) and David Dreier (R-Calif.) would allow holders of H-1B visas
to extend their departure deadlines until they are either denied or granted
green cards.

But both those proposals are sensitive; Democrats are wary of treating H-1B
immigrants differently from say, farm workers, divided families or refugees.

The one thing everyone agrees on--the Republican leadership, Democrats, the
White House, the high-tech lobbies--is that the machine must be fed, now. "There
is a critical shortage of high-tech workers," began a full-page ad last week in
the Wall Street Journal, paid for by one of the lobbies. The ad does not mention
that tens of thousands of workers are being forced to leave.

The most likely scenario is that Congress will put off systemic reform and agree
only to raise the annual cap from 115,000 H-1B immigrants to about 200,000.

As the old hands know, that will only make things worse; adding fresh, eager
workers to run through the same cycle of disappointment, further clogging the
visa process.

"They're trying to fill something, but it has a hole at the bottom," says
Sathya's wife, Asha, thoughtful from her last day at work, where everyone wants
to know when she'll be back.

These days, Web sites for newly formed Chinese and Indian activist groups brim
with diffuse anger, bewilderment, kitchen sink dramas like the Sathyas. People
take on names that sound like prison graffiti: "I'm a two-monther or
three-monther" (the amount of time they have remaining).

There's Raju Devinder, living out his final two months trapped in a New Jersey
apartment "fit for chickens," his house sold, his wife and daughter already back
in India. He is considering whether to leave them there and try his luck in
Germany, but he is still too nervous to tell them.

Or Shahan Jan, ripping day by day out of his hanging 2000 date book, making
reluctant plans to shut down his San Jose Internet business as the calendar
shrinks to cardboard and thumbtack.

"You don't buy a house and you wander, or you buy a house and regret it," says
Amar Annathur, a two-monther and a spokesman for the newly minted Immigrant
Support Network, a lobby in training. "You want to talk to the media, but you're
afraid that will ruin your chances. You just never know what will happen."

But for the Sathyas, it's too late to lobby. They've already decided to go to
Canada, wait it out, decide what to do next. And with only a week left until
they turn over their house keys, the details crowd out everything else. Should
they sell their second car? How do they forward the mail?

Mostly Sanjay worries about Shraya, his 4-year-old daughter: How will they find
a good pediatrician? Will she cry over her friends? Over their neighbor's dog,
Aspen? Over her Halloween costumes?

"All that weighs heavy," he says. "I just want to give her a nice, clean house.
Now I'll be taking her to a 30- or 40-story condo, where she'll have to take the
elevator to get to the park."

She echoes him back, padding down the steps in her pigtails and sherbet-striped
pants and pointing to one of the boxes: "Daddy, we're going to Canada." Then she
mumbles something else.

"Did you hear that?" her father asks, sullen again. "She said, 'And all my
friends are staying in Schaumberg,' " meaning the suburb next door where her
school is.

The bare home evokes memories. Like those two suitcases lined up in the hallway,
signs that he's lost the game now, but once symbols of freedom and infinite
possibility.

Sathya used to brag that he lived out of suitcases when he was younger, single
and tooling around America on his student visa, visiting friends in Houston,
getting his third graduate degree at UCLA.

Even when he decided to get more serious, to accept a job and apply for his
H-1B, he still had that bit of swagger. When he crossed the border through
Mexico as an H-1B applicant in 1994, he joked with the immigration official, a
guy not much older than he. The guy asked what he'd been doing in L.A., and
Sathya told him.

"They got a good basketball team," is all the guy said before stamping. Not:
What's your purpose here? How do you intend to support yourself? What property
do you have back in India? When are you going back?

The visa came through about four weeks later, in September 1994. He couldn't see
it at the time, but now he knows what it did to him, how it changed his
psychology. Before that, he never would have considered buying a house. Suddenly
he found himself sitting on his suitcase one night, making a list of desirable
cities, acceptable price ranges for a home, seeing straight through to old age.

He moved to Chicago to join a computer consulting firm. One year later, he flew
back to India in search of a bride. His mother arranged it all. She found 10
girls she thought he might like, daughters of friends of the family.

Sathya was drawn to one, the smart, level-headed, pretty Asha. They were married
right then, and soon she joined him on her own H-1B, as a computer consultant. A
year and a half later, Asha was pregnant.

Now there were more plans. With two salaries totaling six figures, they bought a
house, cream and brick in a tasteful development called Huntington Village. New,
nothing used, just like the rest on the block. But they picked this particular
one because the school bus stopped right at the mailbox.

Two years later, and Sathya himself had changed. Not just because he watched
"Ally McBeal" and "Monday Night Football," or because he was setting up "play
dates" for his daughter.

But because he'd become the kind of person who sets things up, a planner. Not
"fatalistic" and come what may and suffering from the "manana syndrome," like
the Indians back home. But a doer, a planner. Like an American.

"We planned, we hoped, we hoped, we wished, we wished, we dreamed," he says.
"But hope, wish--all those things don't mean anything now."

Sathya is not really sure when he first realized his six-year clock was running
out. But he dates his alarm once again to a document, this one a letter from the
company immigration lawyer assigned to his case.

It was written in the lawyer's usual friendly tone, so only after reading it
twice did Sathya notice the paragraph. Because of certain delays, the letter
read, "someone in client's position might want to consider spending one year out
of the country."

"This is an option I believe is not being considered seriously enough by parties
involved," it read, and was signed, "I hope this is helpful."

"Helpful! I know to him I'm just an employee number, but this is my life!"
Sathya said at the time.

For the next few months, Sathya skipped breakfast and placed frantic calls to
the Labor Department, to the INS, to see if they could speed things along. But
no one could help, and after a while it seemed hopeless.

One by one, plans went on hold. "We wanted a second child," he said. "But when
you don't know where you will go . . ."

One night they talked over a new plan, one that would unravel all previous
plans. They heard from a friend whose H-1B ran out last year that Canada gives
young, highly skilled immigrants an instant green card, "easy as filling out a
credit card application," Sathya says.

So that's where they decided to go, at least for a while. In a year, Sathya can
apply for a new H-1B and start the whole process all over again. Or the family
could stay in Canada. Or go back to India.

Their last full day in the United States arrives. The moving truck has come and
gone, taking whatever they didn't sell. Tomorrow they turn over the keys to the
new owners.

"Tonight will be very depressing," because the family has to sleep on the floor.
"[Shraya] can't even have her own bed anymore."

Tomorrow they'll get in the minivan and head out to Toronto. They'll stop in
Guelph to visit their friend Raj Advani, the one who sold them on Canada, who
will tell them what to expect. Advani went there about nine months ago, after
his own H-1B ran out.

Advani is looking forward to the visit too. He has a decent apartment and a good
job, but not many friends. And it all feels temporary.

"It's like doing time," says Advani. "And if I seem calm, it's just because I've
turned to stone."

It's moving day and Sanjay loads up the last of the stuff in the minivan. They
take with them precious few things--some toys for Shraya, the car seat, some
technical books, plus that piece of paper, the cause of his grief.

"I don't know why I keep it," he says. "I should burn it."

But then, that's no way to push off. So he adds: "Just kidding," in his studied
American cool, before driving away.



HIGH-TECH VISAS

Total H-1B population, in thousands

Projected: 460,914


SOURCE: Lindsay Lowell, Institute for the Study of International Migration



HIGH-TECH VISAS

Most H-1B visas are granted to high-tech workers from India.


H-1B visas granted, by country (in thousands)


India

1989: 2,144

1999: 55,047


Britain

1999: 6,665


China

1999: 5,779


Japan

1999: 3,339


Philippines

1999: 3,065


France

1999: 2,633


Germany

1999: 2,451


Mexico

1999: 2,419


Australia

1999: 1,651


Russia

1999: 1,619


SOURCE: Lindsay Lowell, Institute for the Study of International Migration



LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IG,,TWP

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              115 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  September 27, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Senate Poised To Expand Visas; Democrats Push to Ease Hispanic Immigration

Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 447 words


The Senate signaled its intention to pass legislation increasing visas for
highly skilled foreign workers yesterday, in a preelection bid to satisfy the
powerful high-tech industry's huge demand for employees.

But Republican leaders blocked a Democratic move to include provisions aimed at
easing restrictions on Hispanic immigration, and Democrats responded by
demanding that the provisions be included in a major spending bill.

If Republicans refuse, Democratic leaders said President Clinton will veto the
spending bill, which would fund activities of the Commerce, Justice and State
departments for next year, and produced letters showing they had enough votes to
sustain the veto.

Yesterday's developments enhanced already strong prospects for passage of the
high-tech bill before Congress adjourns next month and appeared to ensure a
major fight over immigration from Latin America just as both parties and their
presidential candidates are competing for the increasingly important Hispanic
vote.

The 94 to 3 vote was the second procedural tally on the high-tech bill that
demonstrated the bill's strong bipartisan support after months of aggressive
lobbying by the technology industry. Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.)
predicted an "overwhelming" vote for passage by early next week.

This bill would raise from 115,000 to 195,000 the number of so-called H-1B visas
that can be issued for foreign workers to come to the United States for up to
six years to fill specialized jobs that companies say they cannot fill with
American workers. Without new legislation, the limit would drop to 107,500 next
year. Companies have estimated that 300,000 jobs are going unfilled because of a
lack of skilled workers.

Clinton has indicated he supports an increase, and House Majority Leader Richard
K. Armey (R-Tex.) said the House would take up the Senate measure quickly if it
could be passed without amendments.

The Democratic-drafted Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act would expand amnesty
for immigrants who live illegally in this country to cover those who have been
here since 1986, including many who were excluded from an earlier amnesty law
because of bureaucratic delays. It would also make it easier for some
immigrants, including Central Americans and Haitians, to obtain permanent
residency and allow holders of expired visas to apply for legal residency
without returning to their countries of origin.

Republicans accused Democrats of trying to torpedo the high-tech bill with their
amendments, while Democrats accused Republicans of wanting to sideline the
Hispanic provisions without taking votes to keep from angering Hispanic voters.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              116 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    October 7, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Visas Bill Brings Tech A Manpower Win; Enactment Eases Job Switching

Carrie Johnson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 721 words


The high-tech industry fulfilled one of its top legislative priorities earlier
this week when Congress voted to create more employment visas for foreign
workers.

But, besides hiking the number of visas from 115,000 to 195,000, the bill makes
it easier for voracious tech firms to lure top foreign employees away from their
competitors.

A "portability provision" would give workers in this country on H1B visas an
easier way to change jobs. H1B visas are temporary employment permits used to
bring skilled employees from overseas into the United States.

The initiative has long been one of the priorities of the tech sector, where
companies come and go and job hopping several times a year has become
commonplace. Foreign-born workers, however, often are dissuaded from switching
jobs because of fear they will run into problems in the processing of their visa
paperwork, which must be adjusted when they change employers. Any roadblock
could mean they would have to return to their native homes.

Under terms in the new legislation, H1B workers would be free to start new jobs
without having to wait for the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
formally approve their applications. In the past, the INS could take weeks or
months to rubber stamp the changes before workers could change
employers--something that, according to Diane Ostering, an immigration manager
at PricewaterhouseCoopers, resulted in companies missing out on some of the most
promising candidates.

Of course, companies also like the legislation because their technology
recruiters will find it easier to poach foreign workers from their competitors
down the block. "The most important thing is our work force is able to have
mobility," said Laura Ipsen, a government affairs director at Cisco Systems Inc.
in San Jose. "It's the people who are fueling the Internet economy, not the
machines."

The new mobility provision will have a strong impact for consulting firms, said
Ostering. "The consulting field especially is the type of industry where people
come and go," she said. "It can take 30, 45, 60 days to get a change of status,"
making it difficult to deploy teams of technology advisers at a moment's notice.

Proponents of the legislation said the measure dampens some criticism that the
H1B program is a modern-day form of indentured servitude, wherein employees
sometimes feel stuck performing middling jobs only to be sent back home after
their six-year permit is up.

The program has become a bugaboo for some American-born computer programmers,
who argue that it allows employers to import cheaper foreign labor and costs
them jobs. Groups of technical workers, such as the Programmers Guild and the
American Engineering Association, banded together to fight the bill.

According to a recent report by the General Accounting Office, the average H1B
worker is an Indian male between the ages of 25 and 29 who earns a salary of $
45,000. The GAO report also said the program was "vulnerable to abuse" because
federal agencies have trouble making sure that workers are properly treated and
paid market rates. A provision in the House bill, requiring employers to present
tax forms showing how much H1B holders were paid, was dropped from the final
version of the legislation.

"They're creating a market in which employers don't have to cultivate
[home-grown] programmer talent because there's a constant flow of new people,"
said Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, a frequent critic of
immigration policies.

Another key component of the legislation makes it easier for some foreign
workers to gain access to green cards and permanent residency status in the
United States.

For many of the people who have entered the United States each year under the
H1B program, an ultimate goal is remaining in the country permanently. But the
INS imposes a strict quota of 15,000 green cards per country per year--putting
in a bind workers from countries such as India and China, who comprise more than
half of the H1B permit holders. The new H1B language directs the INS to make
available the unused green card allocations of other countries to applicants
from oversubscribed countries. It also extends the amount of time H1B workers
can remain in the United States while waiting for green cards.


LOAD-DATE: October 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              117 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     October 8, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LOUDOUN EXTRA; Pg. V02

LENGTH: 243 words


Owed an Apology


Recently, several spokespersons for pro-developer organizations have stepped
forward with the preposterous assertion that the smart growth movement is
somehow associated with an anti-immigration advertising campaign.

These people owe the smart growth organizations an apology. The motivation for
these ads has nothing to do with the growth issue. Has anyone noticed that
during this ad campaign, a bill has been under discussion in the U.S. Congress
that would raise the number of so-called H-1B visas that can be issued for
foreign workers from 115,000 to 195,000?

These visas allow foreign workers to come to the United States for several years
to fill specialized jobs in U.S. companies. Without new legislation, next year's
limit for these visas would drop to 107,500. Many of the jobs for H-1B workers
are in the high-tech industry.

It is extremely likely that this legislation is the reason this bizarre
advertising campaign has come to Loudoun. Immigration is not and, as far as I
can see, has never been, an issue in Loudoun's population growth. Immigration
is, however, an issue in the employment practices of the high-tech firms that
have recently come to Loudoun. I could never figure out why anyone would think
that Loudouners would get excited about immigration. But I can definitely see
why they would think that some Loudoun employers might, given this pending
legislation.

Valerie Kelly

Middleburg


LOAD-DATE: October 08, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              118 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 24, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Ashcroft Intervenes To Shield Thai Boy;
U.S. Agencies Ordered To Halt Efforts to Deport Ill Child Used as Decoy

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 781 words


Attorney General John D. Ashcroft yesterday ordered the government to halt
efforts to deport an AIDS-stricken Thai boy who was used as a decoy for
smuggling prostitutes into the United States.

Ashcroft took the unusual step of intervening personally in an immigration case
by granting "humanitarian parole" to Phanupong Khaisri, now 4, who will be
allowed to remain in the country without threat of deportation. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service has also been ordered to process his application for
a special visa available to victims of human smuggling.

While Ashcroft's order stopped short of granting permanent residence for the
child, INS officials said yesterday that the boy is now unlikely to be sent back
to Thailand.

"There is a process the application has to go through, but I think we can assume
he will be approved," one INS official said. "This ends the discussion: He's not
going home."

In the wake of the celebrated Elian Gonzalez case, the boy's plight focused
worldwide attention on the problems of human trafficking and the exploitation of
children.

The boy, known by the nickname "Got," was detained at Los Angeles International
Airport in April 2000 with a man and a woman who falsely claimed he was their
son. Investigators later determined that the boy, seriously ill with an ear
infection and chicken pox, had been rented out by his mother as a prop in
efforts to smuggle women into the United States for prostitution.

The child's presence allowed the trio to pose as a family traveling abroad when,
in fact, the man was allegedly smuggling the woman into the United States for
prostitution.

"Stories like Got's can't help but move us," Ashcroft said at a news conference
in Los Angeles after a meeting with the boy's lawyer and guardians. "Human
trafficking victims are too often people like Got: too young, too frightened and
too trapped in their circumstances to speak for themselves."

The Thai government and the boy's grandparents sought to have Got returned, but
human rights groups and community organizations in Los Angeles said that his
family was unfit and that he faced certain death if sent home. His mother, who
has given up custody, was a heroin-addicted prostitute, his father committed
suicide and his grandmother has served prison time for a drug offense.

U.S. District Judge Dickran Tevrizian has repeatedly barred Got's deportation to
Thailand, saying it would be "giving the kid a death sentence" to deport him.
Tevrizian ruled last month that the child should be allowed to remain in the
United States until he is 18 and can decide for himself whether to stay.

In court proceedings, the INS has steadfastly pushed for Got's deportation under
the presumption that family wishes should be honored in all but the most extreme
cases. Ashcroft said yesterday that the Thai boy's case fits that description.

Got's attorney, Peter A. Schey, called Ashcroft's order "a major turnaround" in
the case and agreed it should guarantee that the boy will remain in the United
States. Under the order, the INS must accept an application from Got for a
so-called "T visa," which is issued to victims of human trafficking under
legislation approved by Congress last year.

But Schey criticized the INS and the Bush administration for failing to
implement regulations allowing such visas to be issued, a delay that activists
say already has resulted in hundreds of deportations for victims of slavery and
smuggling operations.

"We're dealing with an extremely vulnerable population," Schey said. "They're
afraid, they have no incomes, they have no homes and they have no lawyers. . .
but the government is treating them like routine illegal aliens to be deported."

INS officials say they hope to finalize the visa regulations soon. Ashcroft has
also indicated a strong interest in trafficking issues, recently announcing new
rules aimed at more aggressive prosecution of international smugglers.

Dorothea P. Kraeger, a Phoenix attorney representing Got's grandparents, said
her clients have not given up hope of gaining custody of the child. Kraeger said
that because Ashcroft's order does not summarily grant the boy a visa or
residence, a legal challenge is still possible.

"We still intend to go forward to the court and present the grandmother's side
of the story," Kraeger said. "This is not a final decision in this case."

The boy is staying with a Los Angeles couple who would like to adopt him
permanently, Schey said. He is attending preschool and takes an anti-HIV drug
cocktail twice a day, a regimen that has dramatically improved his health, Schey
said.

"He is doing very well now," Schey said. "His prognosis is excellent."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              119 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 2, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Left Out In the Cold;
Budget Deal Hurts Central Americans

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1546 words


Just two months ago, Salvadorans, Guatemalans and other refugees from Central
America were ecstatic: President Clinton had threatened to veto a final budget
deal unless more than a million immigrants -- including them -- were allowed a
chance at becoming legal residents.

But in the wake of elections that favored Republicans, and facing fierce GOP
opposition to broader proposals, Clinton dropped his threat and agreed to an
immigration package last month that helps just over half as many people. Most
come from Mexico, India and other populous countries with long lines of
immigrants waiting for green cards.

Those from Central America, however, are largely out of luck, victims of an
ideological struggle dating to the Cold War and played out in a political
showdown over the federal budget.

In the end, about 400,000 immigrants from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras,
plus 50,000 or so from Haiti and Liberia, find themselves with little reasonable
chance at becoming legal U.S. residents, let alone citizens. And many, including
tens of thousands in the Washington area, are likely to face new threats of
deportation after more than a decade of living here.

The outcome has enraged immigrant advocates, who were as disappointed by the
White House's retreat as they were by opposition from Republicans. Some members
of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus accused Clinton of using them to curry
Democratic favor among Latino voters, only to abandon them after Election Day.

"Most of these people came here at a time of extraordinary strife in Central
America that we had a big hand in," said Angela Kelley, deputy director of the
National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group. "The Central Americans have
the strongest case for relief, and yet they got absolutely nothing. The politics
in this just stink."

Those who favor more stringent immigration rules, however, praised the final
package, arguing that the measures are properly tailored to help only those who
truly need it.

"It always becomes, 'Let's just make a special rule for this small group,' and
then it gets larger and larger until you include everyone," said David Ray,
spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform. "When you start
granting pocket amnesties, giving amnesty to one group or another, then everyone
else starts crying foul. The other 6 million people who are in this country
illegally say, 'What about me?' "

The dispute over Central American refugees has its roots in the 1980s, when
several waves of immigrants came to the United States fleeing the region's civil
wars and political strife. Most, but not all, have been trapped in political and
legal limbo over their immigrant status ever since.

The exceptions are those arriving from Nicaragua before 1995, who along with
Cuban refugees were given special amnesty under a 1997 law. Some had fought for
guerrillas supported by the Reagan administration.

But the same has never been granted to other Central American illegals, most of
whom fled right-wing military regimes backed by Washington in wars with Marxist
rebels. The 1997 law allowed some Salvadorans and Guatemalans to fight
deportation under more lenient rules than before but stopped well short of the
amnesty afforded Nicaraguans.

Hondurans were left out of that package altogether; many are still in the United
States only because of temporary protection given to them after Hurricane Mitch
devastated their homeland.

This year, after Clinton proposed a bill easing the way to legal residency for
more than a million immigrants, GOP congressional leaders stood firm against
bringing Central Americans, Haitians and Liberians into parity with Nicaraguans
and Cubans. Those involved in the negotiations said that dropping the issue
emerged as a key to breaking the budget deadlock, which threatened to shut down
the federal government.

"The Republicans were dead set against anything for Central Americans, it's that
simple," said Maria Echaveste, White House deputy chief of staff.

The final package largely mirrors a proposal by Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.) called
the Legal Immigration Family Equity Act, focusing primarily on relatives of
legal U.S. residents trapped in the immigration process. Gramm spokesman Larry
Neal said the senator opposed Clinton's bill because it effectively acted as a
"broad amnesty" for too many people.

"This legislation was written expressly for the purpose of giving people an
opportunity to unite their families," Gramm said in a statement about his
original bill.

The measures signed by Clinton on Dec. 21 help three main classes of immigrants.

The largest group includes more than 300,000 spouses and minor children of legal
residents who have been waiting more than three years for visas. A new category
of visa will allow these applicants to bypass backlogs of up to seven years in
Mexico and other populous countries, where the demand for visas far outweighs
the number available under annual quotas.

Another provision will allow as many as 200,000 illegal immigrants to pay a $
1,000 fine in order to adjust their immigration status if they apply by April.
Without this provision -- which was tried successfully once before -- these
immigrants legally would have to return home for as many as 10 years before
reapplying for a green card; in practice, most would just remain here illegally.

Finally, an estimated 150,000 immigrants who missed out on a broad amnesty in
1986 will be allowed to apply for citizenship. This group was involved in a
series of class-action lawsuits against the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which initially ruled against them because of brief trips they took out
of the country.

By and large, these provisions will help those from countries with the heaviest
rates of immigration into the United States, including Mexico, India, China and
the Philippines.

"The bill would allow nearly 700,000 immigrants who have worked, lived and paid
taxes in the United States for years to stay here legally without fear of being
separated from their families," Clinton said before signing the legislation.

But relatively few Central Americans are likely to be helped, experts said, in
part because many of their relatives also are here illegally and can't serve as
U.S. sponsors.

The final bill outraged members of the 17-member, all-Democrat Congressional
Hispanic Caucus. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) fired off a blistering letter
accusing Clinton of a "lack of fortitude" and of breaking his word to Hispanics.

The caucus also feels betrayed after agreeing to support an earlier GOP
priority: an increase in visas for high-tech workers, mostly from India and
China, needed by Internet and technology firms.

"Let's not kid ourselves: They played Cold War politics, and they were
cold-hearted about it," said Gutierrez, whose district includes a large number
of Mexican immigrants, but who has been a champion of parity for Central
Americans. "They play politically with the immigration issue, and they don't
play fairly with it. . . . I'm not happy with how either side handled this."

But Echaveste, the White House deputy, said Gutierrez is unfair in his criticism
of Clinton, arguing that there may have been no immigration reforms at all this
year if the president had not issued his veto threat.

Aides to Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.), Sen. Orrin G. Hatch
(R-Utah) and other GOP lawmakers told the administration that the 1997 amnesty,
although pushed by Republicans at the time, was a mistake that should not be
repeated for other Central Americans, according to Echaveste.

Skeptical Democrats ascribe a more political motive to the GOP, which has strong
support among conservative Cuban and Nicaraguan immigrants. Hispanics overall
voted against President-elect Bush in November by nearly 2 to 1.

"They were willing to provide citizenship for people who they think might become
Republican, but not to do the same for people that they think might support
Democrats," Echaveste said. "That's the only distinction anyone can think of for
treating the two groups differently."

Conservatives argue the opposite: that Democrats want to legalize as many
potential supporters as possible and that Clinton was pandering to Hispanic
voters with an empty veto threat. "The vast majority of those who would have
been amnestied, and eventually become citizens, would be Democratic voters," Ray
said.

Jose Pertierra, a Washington immigration lawyer, says few of his Central
American clients pay attention to such political arguments. All they know is
that many of them have been cut out of the deal, he said.

Pertierra recalls one single mother from El Salvador, age 25, who rushed into
his office shortly after the compromise legislation was announced. She heard the
immigration deal had been passed and wanted to file paperwork to avert being
deported along with her 6-year-old child, a U.S. citizen by birth.

When he explained that the package didn't include her, Pertierra said, she broke
down in sobs.

"There's nothing I can do for her unless she's prepared to go back to El
Salvador," Pertierra said. "She either lays low or goes back home for 10 years.
. . . After all the high hopes people had, Central Americans are the big losers
in this."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              120 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 6, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Required Viewing

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 200 words


Contrary to Philip Kennicott's review [Style, Jan. 1], Gian Carlo Menotti's "The
Consul" is anything but dated.

In 1996, Congress passed legislation that increased significantly the
documentation required of immigrants seeking to join close family members in the
United States, resulting in the same type of confusion and delays experienced by
characters in "The Consul."

Even more troubling, many countries -- as did the unnamed one in the opera --
use visa policies to deter asylum seekers from gaining admission to their
territory. Bona fide refugees, recognizing the unlikelihood of obtaining visas,
resort to human smugglers and traffickers whose only interest is in exploiting
them for profit. Others find borders with neighboring countries closed or too
dangerous to cross and become internal refugees.

Countries clearly have the right to regulate admissions, but they also have
responsibilities under national and international law to protect refugees from
persecution.

I would make "The Consul" required viewing for all officials who lose sight of
the serious harm that visa policies and their unfeeling implementation can have
on immigrants and refugees.

SUSAN F. MARTIN

Washington

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              121 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 6, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Sydney Visitors Overextend Stay

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 787 words


Some people just can't put the Sydney Olympics behind them.

Immigration officers are searching for 108 Olympic and Paralympic participants
who stayed illegally in Australia after their visas expired, an immigration
department spokesman said yesterday.

Team members from 61 countries are still in Australia more than two months after
the Paralympics finished and three months after the Olympic flame was
extinguished, although only a few are athletes.

The biggest group is 11 people from the United States. Other defaulters include
eight people from the United Kingdom and smaller numbers from Spain, Germany,
Russia, Nigeria, Japan, Equatorial Guinea, Cuba and Gabon.

The Australian government wants the overstays to leave voluntarily, but
immigration officers are searching for defaulters and would deport them if
necessary.

Boxing

British featherweight Paul Ingle is able to speak and sit up in bed as he
continues his recovery from brain injuries suffered in a world title fight.

Ingle, 28, had emergency surgery to remove a blood clot from his brain after
losing his IBF title to South Africa's Mbulelo Botile at the Sheffield (England)
Arena Dec. 16.

Baseball

After paying more than $ 13 million to obtain the rights to Ichiro Suzuki, the
Seattle Mariners agreed to pay the outfielder $ 14,088,000 for the next three
seasons.

Suzuki, a seven-time batting champion in Japan, will receive a $ 5 million
signing bonus and salaries of $ 4 million in 2001, $ 2 million in 2002 and $ 3
million in 2003, according to contract details obtained by the Associated Press.
. . .

The Cleveland Indians apparently are close to a one-year, $ 12 million contract
with free agent outfielder Juan Gonzalez, a controversial bust with the Detroit
Tigers last season.

Technically, the Tigers have until midnight Tuesday to sign Gonzalez, whose only
season in Detroit was a disappointment. But the Tigers, who offered Gonzalez a
one-year deal through arbitration, have made it clear they have no intention of
pursuing him further. . . .

The Texas Rangers have made a contract offer to free agent right-hander David
Cone, 38, whom they would like to add to their rotation.

Kansas City also is after Cone, who is from that area and formerly played for
the team. But the Royals want to turn him into a closer. Cone, who went 4-14
last season for the New York Yankees, has won 184 games in his 15-year career. .
. .

Yankees outfielder David Justice had surgery to repair a double hernia and is
expected to be ready for the start of spring training late next month.

Courts

One of Rae Carruth's former girlfriends testified in Charlotte that the former
NFL player was furious when she became pregnant by him, threatening her and
insisting she have an abortion.

Amber Turner, 21, said Carruth also joked about killing his oldest son and the
child's mother, and fretted about his ability to pay support for the child of
Cherica Adams. Turner said Carruth demanded she have an abortion, which she did
in 1998.

However, on cross-examination by defense attorney David Rudolf, Turner confirmed
that she twice denied that Carruth ever threatened her.

Carruth, 26, is accused of plotting the fatal shooting of Adams, who was eight
months pregnant with their son. She was shot in November 1999 and died a month
later. The baby survived and lives with Adams's mother. . . .

Anthony Taylor, 31, was found guilty Thursday in Sacramento of using golfer
Tiger Woods's identity to apply for credit cards and accrue about $ 17,000 in
unpaid expenses. A Sacramento Superior Court jury will meet Monday to hear
sentencing arguments.

Tennis

World No. 1 Martina Hingis gave top-seeded Switzerland a winning start in the
Hopman Cup final with a 7-5, 6-4 victory over the United States's Monica Seles
in Perth, Australia.

It was Hingis's eighth consecutive win over the fourth-ranked Seles.

Football

Oakland Raiders quarterback Rich Gannon and Philadelphia Eagles Coach Andy Reid
were honored Thursday by the Maxwell Football Club of Philadelphia.

Gannon won the 42nd Bert Bell Trophy as the player of the year and Reid won the
12th Greasy Neale Award as coach of the year. . . . John Butler received a
five-year contract, believed to be worth $ 7.5 million, to become executive vice
president and general manager of the Chargers. . . . Lovie Smith, Tampa Bay's
longtime linebackers coach, confirmed that he has joined the St. Louis Rams as
defensive coordinator. The Rams also hired Bobby April as special teams coach.

Basketball

Phoenix waived point guard Elliot Perry, clearing a roster spot for Penny
Hardaway.

Hardaway, who has not played this season while recovering from knee surgery,
plans to play Sunday when the Suns host Minnesota.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              122 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 8, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Reaching Out to His New Flock;
Archbishop Visits Parish, Preaches Inclusive Message

BYLINE: Fredrick Kunkle, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 635 words


Gliding among French, Spanish and English, newly installed Roman Catholic
Archbishop Theodore E. McCarrick delivered a message of inclusion yesterday to a
congregation jammed with immigrants -- and asked for their prayers as a newcomer
himself.

"It doesn't matter who you are. It doesn't matter what country you come from,"
McCarrick told parishioners at Shrine of the Sacred Heart in Northwest
Washington. "Everyone belongs to the family of God."

McCarrick, the former archbishop of Newark, has embarked on a get-acquainted
tour of his new see, the Archdiocese of Washington. Since his installation last
week, he has officially visited three of the District's 13 parishes, including
the Cathedral of St. Matthew, on Rhode Island Avenue NW, and St. Augustine
Church, the first black Catholic church in the nation's capital.

McCarrick plans to celebrate Mass at parishes in Calvert, St. Mary's and Charles
counties next weekend. To underscore his mission of reaching out to immigrants
and refugees, he paid an early visit yesterday to Sacred Heart, a bejeweled
Italian Romanesque church built by Irish immigrants more than 100 years ago that
now celebrates Mass in English, Spanish, Haitian Creole and Vietnamese.

"We're very happy to have him in the archdiocese, because we know he's attentive
to immigrants -- because our parish is a parish of immigrants," said Little
Sister Laura Lee, a nun with the Little Sisters of Jesus.

McCarrick assumed the role as head of the see in the nation's capital after
serving 14 years as leader of 1.4 million Catholics in northern New Jersey.
Cardinal James A. Hickey stepped down after a 20-year reign marked by outreach
to immigrants and the poor in the Washington Archdiocese, which serves the
District and five counties in Maryland.

As Newark's archbishop, McCarrick used his mix of compassion and political savvy
to pursue a strong agenda toward social justice, particularly in welcoming
immigrants, while gaining influence at the Vatican, observers said. He also was
an effective fundraiser and ordained more priests than any other U.S. bishop. He
regularly crossed four counties in New Jersey to visit the 240 parishes in his
care.

McCarrick, a native of New York, also was known for conducting heaven's business
in a down-to-earth style. He speaks five languages fluently and understands
Polish and Portuguese. Fond of anecdotes, he often cracks jokes at his own
expense.

About 4,000 parishioners got their first look at the new Washington prelate
during a Mass of Installation on Thursday at the Basilica of the Shrine of the
Immaculate Conception in Washington. He was officially installed Wednesday in a
private service at the Cathedral of St. Matthew.

Yesterday's Mass marked the close of the Christmas season and the end of the
Jubilee Year, a worldwide celebration by Catholics of the 2,000th anniversary of
Christ's birth. The festivities also celebrated Epiphany, a day when the church
observes the anniversary of the visit to the infant Jesus by three kings from
the East.

The smell of incense was mixed with the aroma of Central American pastries as
the archbishop's procession swung up the stairs of the church yesterday
afternoon, followed by parishioners dressed as the three Magi.

Keeping with the spiritual Esperanto of the day, McCarrick looked out across
faces in every shade of the human family and delivered a homily that emphasized
Christianity's universality. The parishioners -- some in flannel shirts and work
boots, others in their Sunday finest -- listened as McCarrick told how the Magi
represent every nation.

"I think everyone hopes he'll continue doing what Cardinal Hickey has been doing
-- outreach to the immigrants," said Kurt Vorndran, a transplanted Midwesterner
who lives in the District and works for a labor union.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              123 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 9, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Mercado: Chavez Was 'Like A Friend';
Immigrant Says She Was Not an Employee

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 723 words


Marta Mercado's passage from obscurity to political footnote of the moment wends
from a Guatemalan ice cream factory through a Virginia abused women's shelter
and into the quiet elegance of the Bethesda home of Labor Secretary-designate
Linda Chavez.

Like thousands of other Central Americans willing to break immigration laws for
a shot at achieving prosperity in the United States, Mercado came to the
Washington area in 1991, drawn by tales of "the marvels of this country." She
paid $ 2,000 for counterfeit documents to fool immigration officials.

Mercado was fleeing a foundering marriage and the drudgery of a life that held
little more than the prospect of her $ 100-a-month ice cream factory salary and
a little extra from her homemade tortilla business.

Mercado, now 40, said something terrible happened shortly after her arrival.
Although she won't say under what circumstances, Mercado ended up in a police
cruiser that took her to a shelter for abused women in Northern Virginia, where
she lived for 10 days.

Not long after that, she met Chavez through a friend of Erika DeLeon, a
Woodbridge woman who had been letting Mercado stay at her home.

Mercado did not speak English at the time and said she couldn't understand what
was discussed with the woman she still calls "Miss Linda." But within days she
found herself living in a sunny bedroom in Chavez's California
contemporary-style Bethesda home.

As Mercado described it in interviews Sunday and yesterday, the relationship
that developed in that period, from late 1991 to late 1993, took on many hues.
At times, Mercado said, Chavez's home was like a sanctuary. Chavez gave her a
key. She helped Mercado find English courses and a women's support group.

"I thought of her like a friend; I could confide in her," she said.

Money also changed hands. Mercado said that during the two years she lived
there, Chavez gave her about $ 1,500 in occasional $ 100 and $ 200 cash
increments. Mercado viewed the money as Chavez's way of helping a needy person.
Mercado said that she thought the payments were also made in appreciation for
the work she did around the house.

Mercado insisted that she was not an employee. But she recounted a litany of
household chores that she performed for Chavez and her husband, Christopher
Gersten, and the couple's two teenage boys. Mercado said she routinely picked up
after the boys, did laundry, cleaned house, took care of the family's dog and
watched the home during her high-powered hosts' frequent out-of-town trips.

Although Mercado did not do those tasks every day at the Chavez home -- some
days she was attending school or working for neighbors -- the help was a
frequent occurrence in a busy household in which there was no other cleaning
help.

When Chavez threw a party for her son Rudy's confirmation, Mercado said she
helped the caterers, cleaning up after the guests and tidying the home. "I lent
a hand," she said.

Chavez did not speak Spanish and Mercado spoke little English. The language
barrier made Mercado uncomfortable, she said, and she often kept to herself and
suffered from depression.

One night, when Mercado got lost and returned home late, Chavez asked her to
check in whenever she arrived at the home and to call if she would be late,
Mercado said.

Three months into her stay, Mercado says Chavez offered to help her become a
legal resident. But months passed, and Mercado's legal residency documents never
appeared, despite what she says were fervent attempts to acquire them.

Deflated, she returned to Guatemala in late 1993. Six months later, when Mercado
returned to the United States using a tourist visa, she again sought Chavez's
help because the visa had expired. But this time, Mercado said, Chavez seemed
more concerned about her status as an illegal alien and did not invite her to
stay there.

"She was a little more worried then," Mercado said.

Now, she lives in a split-level house in Beltsville with Ismael Mercado, a Metro
bus driver whom she married in 1996. They met when she took the wrong bus.

Yesterday, reporters and camera crews waited hours in the freezing rain for a
chance to interview her as she sat patiently on her floral-print sofa.

"I never expected something like this to happen to me," Mercado said. "I hope
that everything is going to be okay for Miss Linda."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              124 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 9, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 131 words


Because of a production error, the tables of best-performing mutual funds for
the fourth quarter and full year of 2000 were incorrect in the Jan. 7 Business
section. The correct tables will be published next Sunday.

A Jan. 8 article incorrectly reported that Kimba Wood had hired an illegal
immigrant and failed to pay taxes on wages. In fact, Wood paid Social Security
taxes and did not break any immigration law, but the woman she had hired was not
a legally documented immigrant.

A Jan. 6 article on new postal rates misstated the date of the last postal
increase. The increase was in January 1999.

The What's the Deal? column in the Jan. 7 Travel section erroneously listed a $
399 package deal to Cancun from Baltimore-Washington International Airport. The
deal is not available.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              125 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 22, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Quake Spurs Church To More Than Prayer;
Thousands Back Temporary Relief On Immigration

BYLINE: Emily Wax, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 618 words


Thousands of Central American immigrants signed petitions at Washington area
churches yesterday urging President Bush to temporarily legalize the residency
of Salvadoran nationals living in the United States because of the devastating
earthquake that struck their country.

Outside St. Anthony's Church in Falls Church, 3,000 parishioners lined up in the
stinging cold clutching letters to the president and waving signs that read,
"Help Salvadorans."

"We think this is so important," said the Rev. Jose Hoyos, associate pastor.
"Our immigration laws allow us to help people who can't go back to such a
horrible situation."

Immigration and Naturalization Service spokeswoman Karen Kraushaar said that
officials from her office met with officials from the government of El Salvador
after the Jan. 13 earthquake and that the request is "under review." State
Department officials also said they are looking into the request.

INS officials already have said they will halt the deportation of 1,100
Salvadoran nationals in the United States in light of the earthquake, Kraushaar
said.

Granting temporary protective status to all Salvadoran nationals in the United
States would go a step further by changing their legal status until the damage
from the earthquake is resolved, Kraushaar said. Several hundred Central
American nationals were granted protective status after Hurricane Mitch in 1998.

To the Washington area's Salvadoran Americans, who number about 135,000 and make
up the country's largest Salvadoran community after Los Angeles, that fact
brought hope in a time of sadness.

The massive quake, which was followed by 1,300 tremors or aftershocks last week,
damaged 12 of El Salvador's 14 provinces. More than 600 people were killed and
more than 21,000 houses destroyed, the Salvadoran government reported.

Since the earthquake, Salvadoran Americans and other Hispanics have been working
feverishly to raise money for victims of the earthquake, appealing from pulpits,
organizing radio marathons and sending volunteers into the streets.

His hands cracked from the cold, Manuel Amya, 54, a construction worker from
Annandale, brought $ 400 in a brown paper bag to the pastor at St. Anthony's
yesterday. He raised the money by walking the strip malls of Fairfax County.

Five other men, all from Herndon, rushed into church with $ 775 wrapped in white
paper. They looked happy and proud.

"We just hit the streets and kept asking everyone to help our country," said
Guillermo Lemus Hernandez, 33.

They all came to the church yesterday to attend a special Mass at which
Arlington Bishop Paul Loverde prayed for those lost in the earthquake and for
their families who live here.

Above the soft strumming of guitar music played by a traditional Salvadoran
band, Loverde talked of unity in the Hispanic community during this time of
worry.

"Together we will be able to get through this terrible tragedy," Loverde said in
Spanish. "Our hearts are one."

Under delicate windows of stained glass and wood carvings of Jesus, parishioners
filled the seats and lined row after row, some standing outside to hear.

Throughout the service at St. Anthony's, men and women pulled their children
close, kissing their cheeks. Some bowed their heads and pulled out tissues.
Others stood up holding candles for those who had died.

Children sat silently. Later, they talked about when they first heard the news.

"We were all at the movies, and my dad pulled up and told us," said Victor Lobo,
10. "We were so speechless."

Victor stayed up through the night packing old clothes, flashlights and tents
for his relatives in El Salvador.

"Everyone wants to help," he said. "The people don't even have homes."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              126 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 4, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The Pain of Forced Patriotism . . .

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 583 words


Virginia State Sen. Warren Barry has proposed a bill that would require public
school students to recite the Pledge of Allegiance each morning. The bill is
supported by Gov. James Gilmore and by lawmakers who believe that it would
bolster patriotism among young people. But reports on the bill barely mention
the potential effect it could have on the children of immigrants and foreign
residents.

I was an immigrant child at a Brooklyn high school in the middle '60s, when New
York City public schools required a daily Pledge of Allegiance. The decision to
immigrate had been my parents', not mine, and my loyalties lay with my former
homeland, Israel. I could not swear allegiance to the United States without
feeling like a fraud.

I wanted to stay out of trouble, though, so I stood up with the other students,
placed my right hand on my heart and mumbled the pledge while browsing through
papers on my desk.

In my senior year, my homeroom teacher, who was troubled by the growing civil
rights and antiwar movements, decided to restore young people's patriotism. He
rebuked me, the only immigrant in the class, for my "disrespectful" attitude,
even though many of my classmates clowned around during the pledge. I was
supposed to look straight ahead and say the pledge loud and clear, he told me,
not mumble it. However, senior year was busy, and I soon forgot about the
rebuke.

Commencement Day came. I was my class salutatorian, and the printed program
listed me as the recipient of several academic awards. But I was not among the
students called to the stage. Thinking that there had been a bureaucratic
screw-up, after commencement I went to the school office to make inquiries. My
guidance counselor told me that the omission was not an error. I had been chosen
for the awards, but my homeroom teacher decided that I should not get them
because I wouldn't say the Pledge of Allegiance properly. Despite my best
efforts to be inoffensive, I had been perceived as being defiant. The guidance
counselor concurred with my homeroom teacher but apologized that the decision
had come too late to remove my name from the program.

Stunned, I reacted in the only way I could think of: I cried. I also expressed
fears that the incident would "go on my permanent record" and retroactively
affect my college acceptance. The guidance counselor assured me that there would
be no further repercussions. I had been punished enough.

I knew I could not tell my parents; they would never understand and would be
greatly upset. I told only my best friend, who encouraged me to sue the school
with the help of the ACLU, but I didn't pursue the issue. Time eventually
accomplished what arbitrary authority could not: I became increasingly
acculturated into American society, but the injustice still stung.

The Virginia bill about requiring the Pledge of Allegiance in public schools
opened the floodgates of painful memory. I would like to say to my fellow
citizens and my state legislators:

Don't do it.

Patriotism cannot be legislated. Requiring students to recite the Pledge of
Allegiance will only create another area of potential conflict between staff and
students, hurt the children of immigrants and other foreign residents, further
alienate those students who are already alienated and frustrate teachers. Even a
policy that allows students to be excused may cause harm because there will
always be some misguided or overzealous enforcer. Believe me, it's not worth it.

-- Aliza Kolker

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              127 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 10, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration: We Have Choices

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 227 words


We can have no honest discussion about dropout rates, costs or student
performance in this country without acknowledging the impact of our nation's
immigration policy on education reform. Today, immigration accounts for more
than half our population growth. Almost one-third of all immigrants lack a
high-school education, and most do not speak English.

In Texas, one-quarter of young students are the children of immigrants. They
drop out three times as often as other students. Texas has to build two new
schools a week to keep up with enrollments.

California taxpayers spend $ 3.5 billion a year to educate foreign-born
school-age children, and Miami schools accept 1,200 new foreign-born students
every month.

We might expect second-generation immigrants to do better. Among Hispanics who
make up more than half the immigrant population, however, the dropout rate is
even higher for the second generation.

This does not augur well for immigrants, who will have difficulty finding jobs
and supporting their families.

We have a choice: Change immigration policy or give priority to immigrants with
skills and education or, in the alternative, begin immediately to spend an
additional billion dollars annually for schools.

LAMAR SMITH

U.S. Representative (R-Tex.)

Washington

The writer is a member and former chairman of the House immigration
subcommittee.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              128 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 17, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Bush, Fox Discuss Border Issues;
Meeting in Mexico, Presidents Agree to Form Immigration Panel

BYLINE: Mike Allen and Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: SAN CRISTOBAL, Mexico Feb. 16


-- President Bush, on his first trip abroad since taking office, met Mexican
President Vicente Fox today for a ranch-house summit that burnished the newly
inaugurated leaders' foreign-policy credentials but left for later the specifics
of how to make the two nations more neighborly.

The two men, both of whom wore cowboy boots and stripped off their ties after an
airport arrival ceremony, announced no concrete decisions, but they assigned
their cabinets to negotiate an agreement to make it easier for Mexicans to get
temporary legal work in the United States, while maintaining a firm border. In a
statement, the two said they would work to develop "an orderly framework for
migration that ensures humane treatment, legal security and dignified labor
conditions."

About 2.7 million of the 5 million people illegally in the United States are
Mexican, and one of Fox's most oft-stated priorities is to improve their
treatment.

The U.S. relationship with Mexico often has been more businesslike than warm,
and officials in both countries said they believed the new presidents -- who met
twice when they were governors and once last August -- would inaugurate franker
and more productive relations.

Their statement said the United States and Mexico would work more closely in
areas ranging from education to energy and from the environment to trade. "We
want to move beyond the limitations of the past and boldly seize the
unprecedented opportunity before us," the statement said.

During a 28-minute joint appearance on the lawn between Fox's white-stuccoed
house and his tennis court, Bush said he was sending an intentional signal by
staying in the Americas for his first foreign visit.

"We are welcoming a new day in the relationship between America and Mexico,"
Bush said. "Each nation has a new president and a new perspective. Geography has
made us neighbors. Cooperation and respect will make us partners, and the
promise of the partnership was renewed and reinvigorated today."

The skies were crystal blue over San Cristobal, Fox's home town 200 miles
northwest of Mexico City in the central state of Guanajuato. The only cloud came
from news that shortly before Bush and Fox took the stage, U.S. and British
aircraft bombed targets in Iraq. Many Mexicans criticized Bush's decision to
conduct his administration's first major military strike at a time when the news
could overshadow a day Mexico had awaited for so long.

The joint statement said the panel on migration and labor would include
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General John D. Ashcroft on the
U.S. side and, on the Mexican side, Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda and
Interior Minister Santiago Creel. The group was charged with conducting "formal,
high-level negotiations aimed at achieving short- and long-term agreements."

Bush also said he was open to considering proposals on Capitol Hill to change
the process that requires the United States to certify Mexico's drug-fighting
efforts each year, which many here consider demeaning.

"I'm certainly going to take the message back to the members of Congress that I
firmly believe that President Fox will do everything in his power to root out
the drug lords and to halt drug trafficking as best as he possibly can," Bush
said.

Bush said much of his conversation with Fox was devoted to ways the United
States could encourage Mexican oil and gas production, which would make more
available for export. This is a sensitive issue in Mexico, whose constitution
bars foreign ownership of its oil industry.

"We spoke about the California problems," Bush said. "We are speaking about the
possibility of creating an energy policy that will be common to all the northern
part of the country and into Canada, the United States and Mexico and part of
Central America."

But the presidents spent more time on tone than substance, reflecting each man's
goals. Bush needed a friendly and gaffe-free trip to quiet critics who doubt his
foreign-policy skills. Fox hoped to show Mexicans skeptical of his bold promises
for change that the leader of the United States liked his ideas and placed a
high priority on Mexico.

Fox said in English, "Mister President, I want you to know that we consider you
a friend of Mexico, a friend of Mexicans and a friend of mine."

Bush replied in solid but awkward Spanish: "You make me feel as if I'm among
family."

Shortly after touching down in nearby Leon, Bush went to the hacienda of Fox's
mother, Mercedes Quesada. U.S. officials said Fox's invitation reflected the two
men's close relationship. Bush kissed her, and left two gold-wrapped packages
from Neiman Marcus.

It was a day full of such atmospherics: Bush and Fox meeting the press in shirt
sleeves under a shady tree, then sharing an elaborate Mexican lunch. Fox
presented Bush with two pairs of cowboy boots made by his brothers' company and
a silver belt buckle that said "BUSH," reminiscent of the "FOX" buckle that has
become an emblem of the new Mexican president.

But there were some photo opportunities Bush skipped. Although a horse named
Maximiliana was ready for Bush to join Fox for a ride, the president passed. And
when a Mexican man in San Cristobal handed Bush a huge sombrero, Bush accepted
it but declined to put it on.

Bush offered winks and Spanish greetings for some among the crowds that turned
out in San Cristobal for a glimpse of the presidents. At one point, Bush shook
the hand of Salvador Orozco, 35, a local grocery store owner, and greeted him in
Spanish, calling him "Amigo Mexicano."

Orozco said Bush's visit was an electrifying moment for him and for all the
villagers who had a chance to meet him. "I imagine that this day will be
celebrated every year from now on," Orozco said.

After 7 1/2 hours here, Bush left for his own ranch in Texas.

Mexicans in the United States were calling the town all day, said Maria del
Carmen Munoz, 21, who runs the small store that has the town's only telephones.
Outside Fox's ranch, no one has a telephone at home in San Cristobal, so
everyone uses the five phone booths in del Carmen's store.

Correspondent Mary Jordan in Mexico City contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              129 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 22, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 424 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has recommended political asylum for
former Colombian judge and diplomat Consuelo Sanchez. She had requested asylum
last October after the Colombian Embassy, where she had worked as consul for 12
years, told her it was time to return home.

The Colombian government had spirited Sanchez, then a federal judge, out of the
country in 1988, when her life was threatened after she signed an arrest warrant
for Pablo Escobar, then Colombia's most powerful and dangerous drug trafficker.
Escobar was killed in 1993 and the Medellin cartel he headed eventually was
disbanded. Colombian security forces in recent years had concluded Sanchez was
in no more danger than millions of others in that violence-wracked country.

But Sanchez, 44, countered that her government was simply trying to downplay the
threat level from drug traffickers to please U.S. officials with influence over
foreign aid. Her asylum request was supported by Human Rights Watch and Senate
Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), among others.
Yesterday's INS recommendation is tantamount to approval, awaiting only a
routine FBI check, Sanchez's U.S. attorney said.

The U.S. budget surplus climbed in January from a year ago as the federal
government remained firmly on track to post an expected fourth straight annual
surplus, the Treasury Department said yesterday.

The department said the government took in $ 76.38 billion more than it spent
last month, compared with $ 62.15 billion in January 2000.

The Congressional Budget Office is predicting that the surplus for all of this
year will total a record $ 281 billion, up 18.6 percent from the $ 236.9 billion
surplus recorded in fiscal 2000.

This year's surplus would be the fourth straight, a stretch that has not been
equaled since the government recorded 11 straight surpluses ending in 1930.

As Oregon reported that 27 terminally ill people used the state's
assisted-suicide law to end their lives last year, Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) urged
the Bush administration not to do anything that would thwart the unique statute.

"There is no evidence of a crisis that would compel the federal government to
pursue extraordinary means to overturn Oregon's law," Wyden wrote to Attorney
General John D. Ashcroft, amid indications that some Republicans may try again
to undo the law.

Oregon is the only state that allows terminally ill patients to die with a
doctor's help.

-- Compiled from reports by staff writer Karen DeYoung, the Associated Press and
Reuters

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              130 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 25, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Catch 275,000 or Catch-22?

BYLINE: Reed Karaim

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 983 words


TUCSON

If things go according to plan, the desert along the United States' southern
border will soon be bristling with a thousand blue flags. They will mark the
places where Humane Borders, a Tucson-based coalition of church and citizen
groups, will put water stations to aid migrants on their dangerous -- and
illegal -- crossing into the United States.

Each station will be identified by a 3-by-4-foot flag on top of a 30-foot pole,
visible for miles in the crystalline air of southern Arizona. The flags are
intended as symbols of water, but they also stand as a symbol for the confused
and contradictory nature of America's current border policy. Those water
stations beneath the blue flags will be going in with the quiet approval of the
very agency that is spending millions to deter migrants. In effect they signal
the moral impossibility of halting illegal immigration by focusing on the border
alone.

The flags will be there because migrants have been dying as they try to reach
America. No one knows for sure how many, but the stories have been
heartbreaking: women and children lost in the arid Sonoran desert; a dying
mother who gave her last drops of water to her infant child. And the number of
fatalities has grown. The death count climbed from 231 in 1999 to 369 in 2000,
according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Other estimates are
even higher, more than 500 by some counts.

Much of the responsibility for this lies with callous smugglers, who pack their
human cargo into unsafe vehicles, drop their charges off in harsh terrain with
little water or food, or sometimes simply rob and murder those paying them for
safe passage. But it is also partly the result of a stepped-up U.S. effort to
slow the traffic. In seven years, the number of Border Patrol agents has more
than doubled, to 9,335. The agency's budget has tripled, and should top $ 1.4
billion this year. A recent trip down to the small city of Douglas, Ariz.,
brought home to me the significance of that buildup. Just six years ago, there
were about 60 agents patrolling a 30-mile section of border that is one of the
major thoroughfares for illegals. Today there are more than 600. They have been
helped by miles of new 12-foot-high fencing, bright stadium lights and high-tech
surveillance hardware worthy of a James Bond movie.

This kind of law enforcement has been systematically applied to the most
troublesome spots on the border, like Douglas, and there is evidence it may be
having an effect. Apprehensions of illegal crossers along the entire border fell
22 percent from Oct. 1 through January, compared with the previous year. (The
number of apprehensions is considered a good indicator of the number of
attempts.) Inevitably, however, this success has come at a price. Migrants and
the smugglers who guide them have moved to more remote areas and are taking
greater risks. The preliminary findings of a University of Houston study
released to coincide with the meeting of Presidents Bush and Vicente Fox of
Mexico nine days ago blamed the United States' stricter border policy for "the
white crosses and unidentified graves lining the landscape of the U.S.-Mexico
border."

But in reality, the U.S. effort very quickly comes up against our own sense of
decency.  The water stations will go up, and U.S. agents will not try to stop
them. "We are not in an adversarial relationship with the U.S. Border Patrol,"
Robin Hoover, president of Humane Borders, told me as he described the water
stations. "They don't want to pick up dead bodies any more than we do."

Indeed, as David Aguilar, chief patrol agent for the Tucson Sector, noted, the
Border Patrol has greatly stepped up its search-and-rescue efforts, and is
working with Mexican officials to warn migrants away from dangerous crossings.
"We have a responsibility to enforce our laws, but concurrent with that, we have
a responsibility to protect and save lives," he said.

All of which results in a Catch-22. In mounting these rescue efforts, the patrol
ends up making the border safer to cross. As word sifts back to villages in
Mexico, this has the paradoxical result of undermining the effort to deter
crossings. Couple that with the fact that migrants know that most will simply be
returned to their side of the border if they are caught, and more are inevitably
encouraged to make the attempt -- which then requires greater enforcement, which
then leads to increased rescue efforts, and on and on. Although Hoover argues
that nobody crosses the border for a drink of water, it seems hard to escape the
notion that the water stations will only close this self-defeating circle. Yet
are we going to leave people to die of dehydration and exposure?

We won't -- because Mexico is our neighbor, not our enemy, and because we are,
finally, not the kind of people to stand by and watch others die. We are the
kind of country that sets out water in the desert and that runs a Border Patrol
that can be an illegal migrant's best friend if he is lost and thirsty.

This means our southern border is, practically speaking, indefensible. It means
the solution to the problem of illegal migration won't come from the border
itself, but from the kinds of sweeping initiatives that might result from the
dialogue that Bush and Fox started. In the end, we must agree on some sort of
system that regularizes and legalizes temporary economic migration into the
United States. The interwoven nature of our economies means we should work
together to create more jobs in the parts of Mexico that send the most migrants
to our country.

We must find a broader solution, because we don't have the heart for the war we
are waging. As those blue flags that will be soon waving over the Sonoran wastes
make clear, we aren't willing to do what it would take to win. Maybe that
represents a kind of surrender, but it's one we should be proud of.

</body>

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              131 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 15, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Hoops and Dreams;
50 Become Citizens at Wizards Game

BYLINE: Peter Carlson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 997 words


After the first quarter of last night's Washington Wizards game at MCI Center, a
blindfolded fan stumbled around the basketball court, chasing a man clad in a
giant inflated costume while the crowd howled with laughter.

After the second quarter, 50 immigrants from 50 different countries lined up on
the court, swore an oath and became citizens of the United States and the fans
gave them a standing ovation.

Is this a great country or what?

The event, sponsored by the Wizards and the local chapter of the American Jewish
Committee, may have lacked the gravitas of the typical courthouse naturalization
ceremony but it did have a certain grand and gaudy American gusto, complete with
cheerleaders, canned music and airborne advertising zeppelins.

"When you have it in a courthouse, the public doesn't see the ceremony,"
explained Warren A. Lewis, district director of the Washington office of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, who administered the oath. "It's good
for others to see that people still come to the United States and try to make it
better."

Daiana Ban ales-Dorman, 30, a Uruguayan immigrant who's lived in Northern
Virginia for 18 years, was a bit surprised when she received notice that she
would become an American at halftime at a Wizards game. "I said, 'I have to go
where?' " she recalled. "Bringing the immigrants to a ballgame -- if they gave
us free hot dogs and Coca-Cola, I'd say, 'What could be more American?' "

She was sitting with the other prospective citizens in two rows of seats at one
end of the arena, each of them holding a tiny American flag and a Wizards goody
bag containing a plastic watch, a Mystics T-shirt and two tickets to a Mystics
game. Out on the court, the Wizards and the Detroit Pistons were taking some
warm-up shots while two white zeppelins floated overhead, one of them
advertising a local bar, the other advertising Blue Cross Blue Shield.

Ban ales-Dorman, who graduated from Annandale High School and George Mason
University and now works for a group called Hispanics Against Child Abuse and
Neglect, said she didn't expect Wizards fans to remain in their seats at
halftime to watch the ceremony. "Most people get up and leave unless it's like a
floor show with cheerleaders," she said.

"The most important thing for me is the ceremony, not the game," said Carlos
Pasquel, 37, an immigrant from Ecuador now living in Arlington and working as a
computer network engineer. "This was my dream, to come to the United States. I
was a fan of this country because of your principles and your values. We don't
have these values so much in my country -- liberty and respect and dignity."

But not too much dignity. Out on the court, cheerleaders in tiny white skirts
and bikini tops waved pom-poms and the Wizards gave high fives to a mascot who
then flipped over and started walking on his hands while heavy metal music
thumped out of the public address system.

The game began and within a few moments the hapless Wizards, who started the
night with a dismal 15-48 record, were down by two points. Bright neon ads for
Toyota and Sprite flashed on and off around the arena while the public address
system blared out the foot-stomping noise that citizens of less technologically
advanced nations must actually stomp their feet to make. Is this a great country
or what?

After the first quarter ended and the blindfolded fan chased the inflated mascot
around the court, INS officials led the immigrants down to the staging area in
preparation for their ceremony. They marched past a cotton candy stand with a
sign that read "E Pluribus M'mmm" and an ad for the Powerball lottery: "You
Could Be a Millionaire!"

"They should have given us pom-poms instead of these flags," Ban ales-Dorman
said, smiling. "But I don't want to sound cynical. I'm actually very excited.
It's all I've been talking about all week. I'm very excited to be able to vote."

Under the stands, in an area perfumed with the smell of popcorn, the immigrants
lined up in alphabetical order of their countries -- from Albania and Algeria to
Vietnam and Zaire. When the first half ended, with the Wizards leading 50-39,
they marched onto the court to the tune of "America the Beautiful," passing the
Wizards cheerleaders on their way in.

"We present a special ceremony for the naturalization of 50 immigrants from 50
countries around the globe," the announcer said. "Just minutes from now, they
will be full-fledged American citizens!"

The crowd -- perhaps intoxicated by a rare Wizards lead -- buzzed and hummed and
didn't pay much attention. Then Rabbi Laszlo Berkowits of Temple Rodef Shalom in
Falls Church told the story of his immigrant experience. He was rescued from
Auschwitz in 1945 by the U.S. Army, then came to America, joined the Army and
became a citizen while serving as a private first class.

"Being a citizen of the United States is a great opportunity to live as a human
being in freedom," he said.

By then, the crowd's buzz had subsided. They listened quietly as Lewis read the
names of the countries and each immigrant stepped forward. When he got to
Uruguay, Ban ales-Dorman smiled and waved her little American flag.

Lewis instructed the immigrants to raise their right hands and then he
administered the oath of citizenship: " . . . I will support and defend the
Constitution and laws of the United States of America against all enemies
foreign and domestic . . ."

When he finished, the fans gave America's newest citizens a long, loud standing
ovation.

The new citizens marched back out. Under the stands, INS officials herded them
into two lines and gave them their official citizenship papers.

"Hello. Congratulations. Make sure you sign it," said the bureaucrat who gave
out each certificate. "Hello. Congratulations. Make sure you sign it."

Ban ales-Dorman looked at her certificate and smiled broadly. "I'm so happy,"
she said. "I'm going to register to vote tomorrow."

By the way, the Wizards won, 103 to 96.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              132 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 16, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Fueling Big U.S. Cities;
N.Y. Population Tops 8 Million, a Record

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1070 words


New York's population topped 8 million in the 2000 Census, a record for the
nation's biggest city and a vivid illustration of the impact of surging
immigration that is transforming the nation.

According to census figures released yesterday, the city grew only because of
rising numbers of Asians and Hispanics. The black population is stable and the
number of non-Hispanic whites fell over the past decade.

New York is the biggest urban beneficiary of a wave of immigration that is
producing a split picture among the nation's older big cities, where
deterioration and flight have been dominant themes for decades.

Cities that attract immigrants have turned around decades of population loss.
Those include Chicago, whose population grew for the first time since 1950,
reaching 2.9 million.

Cities that have not lured as many immigrants lost population over the decade,
including Pittsburgh, St. Louis and to some extent Washington. But no other big
city has bounced back more than New York.

New York, always a city of newcomers, grew 9.4 percent from 1990, when the
population count was just over 7.3 million.

"New York is a prototypical case of a place where if not for immigration, it
would not be the vibrant city that it is," said William Frey, a demographer at
the University of Michigan and the Milken Institute.

"The lifeblood of the cities and hope for the cities is continued immigration,"
he said. Immigrants, he said, "will bring along vibrancy and bring along new
conflicts as well."

Even as New York was drawing more immigrants, it was enjoying an improved
reputation for quality of life, thanks to plunging crime rates and better
services.

"There's no question New York City is in a renaissance as a city," Mayor Rudolph
W. Giuliani said yesterday.

The city's population figures were higher not only because of immigration, but
also because the 2000 Census found people who had not been counted in the past,
officials said. Still angry that the 1990 Census missed more than 200,000 New
Yorkers, city officials pushed the Census Bureau to look for people at 370,000
addresses not on the official list. Grass-roots groups campaigned hard to get
reluctant immigrants to fill out the forms.

At least half the population increase, though, is real growth, according to John
Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of
New York Graduate Center. "It's a reflection of the very great strength of the
city's economy in the 1990s, and the fact that a lot of interesting things are
going on here," he said.

Nevertheless, many people were missed, according to advocacy groups. Several key
New York politicians -- although not the mayor -- have joined a lawsuit by Los
Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco and other cities seeking to force the Census
Bureau to release figures that have been statistically adjusted to compensate
for those who were missed.

To be sure, not everyone moving to New York City is an immigrant. Joseph Teri, a
49-year-old bartender, recently bought a place in Manhattan's revitalized Lower
East Side, where many of his neighbors are couples in their forties and fifties
who raised their children and then moved to the city from the suburbs.

"A lot of these suburbanites don't need the big houses anymore," he said. "They
need to be near the culture again."

In a city whose ethnic neighborhoods are famous worldwide, at least a third of
New Yorkers are foreign-born. The mix is continually changing: A smaller share
of black city residents were born in this country and a larger share are
Caribbean immigrants. The city's Latino population, dominated in the past by
Puerto Ricans, is increasingly Dominican.

And whereas the Dominican Republic for years provided the most new immigrants,
city planners say the former Soviet Union now does.

The effects are far-reaching. Because immigrants as a group are younger than
native-born Americans and have bigger families, the city's child population is
rising and its school system is overcrowded.

Election ballots, already printed in Spanish and Chinese, may need to add
another language because of an influx of Koreans. There is talk of new political
coalitions between Latinos and Asian American advocacy groups.

By the numbers, New York is more diverse than it was in 1990. It is 65 percent
minority now, compared with 57 percent a decade ago. Latinos outnumber
non-Hispanic blacks by a growing margin. About one in 10 New Yorkers is Asian
American, a group that grew more than 50 percent. One in 20 New Yorkers is
multiracial.

But beneath that surface of increasing diversity, the racial and ethnic groups
live increasingly different lives, said sociologist John Logan of the University
at Albany, who analyzed the figures released yesterday.

Blacks and whites in New York are no more likely to share neighborhoods than
they were a decade ago, when New York was one of the nation's most segregated
cities, according to Logan. Asian Americans and Hispanics in the city are more
likely to live in segregated racial or ethnic enclaves than they were a decade
ago, he said.

Despite the appearance of diversity, Logan said, "we're living very separately.
We're not changing our pattern."

New York's history reflects the fortunes of many older American cities, but also
its unique status. The city's population plunged in the 1970s, when a fiscal
crisis prompted a federal bailout. It has fought its way back since then.

"There was a lot of discussion about the older large city no longer being an
efficient entity," said Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the city planning
commission. "Everyone was going to migrate to edge cities. Was New York really a
dinosaur? It was time to prepare to turn out the lights."

The census figures show that by pressing for a good count and focusing on making
the city better, "the city can thrive in a competitive environment," he said.

Cecilia Fang, a 22-year-old NBC News associate, said the city seems more
prosperous than when she arrived from Taiwan as a child. And the city may be
better at welcoming immigrants, she said: "I remember when I was young and I was
here, there was still a lot of prejudice."

The expectations that immigrants bring to New York have not changed. "It's still
New York City," she said. "People still see it as they once saw the American
dream."

Database editor Sarah Cohen and staff writer Christine Haughney contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              133 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 19, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Region's Immigrants Building a Better Life -- Back Home

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1597 words


It was a Saturday night charity bash in Fairfax County, and El Salvador's new
economic elite was stepping out.

Maids. Gardeners. Truck drivers. They packed the Shriners hall on Arlington
Boulevard, gyrating to pounding merengue, chugging beer and tossing crumpled
bills into a cardboard box to help earthquake victims in El Salvador.

These struggling Northern Virginia immigrants might have a lowly role in the
U.S. labor force. But in El Salvador, they have become coveted foreign
investors. Two Salvadoran diplomats were assiduously courting the boogieing
benefactors, some of whom barely finished eighth grade.

The immigrants who sponsored the dance have bestowed a string of gifts on their
Salvadoran home town of Chinameca in the past few years: a new Red Cross clinic,
an ambulance, a public laundry center, restrooms for a school. Through
Washington area parties, bake sales and business donations, the immigrant club
estimates it has raised more than $ 300,000 for the impoverished town.

"El Salvador survives thanks to the money they send home," said Sussy
Quintanilla, the community affairs envoy at the Salvadoran Embassy, referring to
her country's 1.5 million emigrants, most of whom left for the United States.

Indeed, as their numbers have soared, immigrants in the United States have
become the leading source of development aid for many countries -- especially in
Latin America, the source of more than half of foreign-born U.S. residents. And
the flood of "migra-dollars" now extends well beyond remittances wired to
relatives for medicine or tortillas. Increasingly, Latin American governments
and international aid agencies are seeking to direct these billions of dollars
into schools, roads and other development projects.

The amount sent home by Salvadoran immigrants, a mere $ 10 million in 1980, will
total about $ 2 billion this year, according to the Salvadoran Embassy in
Washington -- a sum equivalent to the annual world profits of McDonald's Corp.

Rene Leon, El Salvador's ambassador to the United States, estimates that 10
percent of the immigrant assistance to his country comes from Salvadoran groups
donating to community projects. Those groups are often "hometown associations"
like the Chinameca club, composed of Salvadorans in a U.S. city who came from
the same town or state and are funding improvements there.

Mexican immigrants in the United States, who send home an estimated $ 7 billion
a year, have formed at least 600 such associations -- including clubs in
Alexandria, Manassas and Riverdale -- and Mexico's government is encouraging the
trend by matching many of the contributions.

The importance of this international money flow was underscored last month when
the Salvadoran government persuaded President Bush to let Salvadorans who are in
the United States illegally apply for 18-month work permits so that their
remittances would help their country recover from its two devastating
earthquakes. The Honduran foreign minister, Roberto Flores, was in Washington
last week to seek an extension of a similar measure granted to his country in
1999.

Latinos in the Washington area, as in other parts of the United States, take
pride in their status as coveted investors and in the impact their dollars are
having.

"This is the number one help for our country," declared Carlos Robles, a
Salvadoran immigrant who runs an Alexandria travel agency and helped organize
the recent benefit dance in Fairfax County. "There are rich people who have big
estates and grow coffee [in El Salvador]. We're bigger than them."

But these money transfers also are feeding a debate that echoes from rural
Salvadoran pueblos to emigre neighborhoods such as Mount Pleasant. Do the gifts
breed dependency in Latin America and encourage further migration? Do they come
at too high a price, draining resources that could otherwise be invested in
low-income immigrant communities in this country?

Saul Solorzano, director of the Central American Resource Center in Columbia
Heights, calls the remittances "a necessary loss, because people want to support
their relatives."

But, he said, "in many cases, that means they will not be able to save enough
money to provide a better education to their children here. It also means they
will not be able to have more money for housing and other basic necessities."

Alfredo Tolosa, 51, who lives in Falls Church and is a gardener at the Potomac
School in McLean, sends home about $ 400 a month, up to 20 percent of his
paycheck. In addition to sending money to his mother, a brother's family and a
nephew and niece orphaned by El Salvador's civil war, Tolosa, who emigrated in
1979, also contributes to hometown fundraisers.

"Since God gave us this opportunity, I want to help my family," said Tolosa, a
silver-haired man who wore a starched, pinstriped shirt to the recent
fundraising dance in Fairfax. He also wants to help his country. And he said he
trusts Salvadoran clubs more than the Salvadoran government.

"Even if it's just a dollar, I know it will get there," he said.

The Northern Virginia group that organized the dance calls itself the United
Community of Chinameca. It was formed a decade ago, after two dozen residents of
the Washington area traveled home at Christmas to that city, which is about 75
miles east of San Salvador. They were struck by the dilapidated state of the
local church.

"We decided to fix up the church, paint it and buy pews," recalled Francisco
Castro, 42, project manager at Fairfax Circle Villa apartments. "We thought only
about working on the church. But then we continued getting the letters, the
requests [from Chinameca]. We gained the fame of being able to send help from
the United States."

Castro's group is one of about a dozen Salvadoran hometown associations in the
Washington area, which has the second-biggest Salvadoran immigrant population in
the country. Los Angeles, with the largest number of Salvadoran immigrants, has
more than 100 associations.

Salvadoran diplomats in the United States often get involved in the clubs' work
by mediating with officials back home, removing bureaucratic hurdles and
identifying potential donors here. Fostering closer ties with Salvadorans living
abroad has become a top foreign-policy priority in El Salvador and is handled by
the country's vice president.

Mexican President Vicente Fox recently appointed a special representative to
attend to Mexican immigrants' concerns and gave him an office in the
presidential palace. "Every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, I'm informed about
the projects of the clubs" in the United States, said the representative, Juan
Hernandez. The projects the clubs are funding range in value from $ 1,000 to
more than $ 1 million, he said.

Other Latin American countries, such as Guatemala and the Dominican Republic,
benefit from similar groups.

And the hometown associations have become a hot topic among international
development organizations. Today, the World Bank will co-sponsor a conference on
using remittances as a development tool. In May, the Inter-American Development
Bank will host a similar meeting.

The development organizations acknowledge that remittances are now much bigger
than their own aid. In Latin America, the migrant money has soared from $ 1.2
billion in 1980 to $ 14.1 billion in 1999, according to World Bank estimates.
That growth is part of a worldwide trend reflecting increased migration,
relatively cheap travel and easier ways to send money home, experts say.
Globally, the bank estimates that remittances to developing countries have
ballooned nearly fourfold in the last 20 years, to about $ 50 billion.

Although the money has provided desperately needed assistance to poor areas,
analysts caution that there are downsides.

In countries such as El Salvador, some officials worry about the development of
a culture of dependency, fearing that residents won't want to work because of
the cash arriving from abroad.

In the United States, analysts are divided on whether the growing dependence on
dollars will prompt more Latin Americans to leave their homelands. Some say the
donations spur immigration by reinforcing the belief that wealth can be
accumulated quickly in this country. Others maintain that the gifts hold down
immigration by providing subsistence for people who might otherwise head for El
Norte.

Another issue is to what extent immigrant communities in the United States are
being held back because their resources are flowing abroad. Some experts cite
the example of Cuban Americans, saying their communities have thrived in part
because they were long unable to send money home and invested it instead in
businesses and education here.

Many of the Salvadoran immigrants at the Fairfax dance spoke of making heavy
sacrifices to support relatives and neighbors back home.

Francisco Hernandez, 43, a construction foreman, and his wife, Vilma, 39, a
housecleaner, work four jobs between them, including their office-cleaning work
at night. They send up to $ 500 a month to family in El Salvador, in addition to
participating in the fundraisers of the Chinameca club.

"We pay the rent, and we have nothing left," Vilma Hernandez said. And they make
their rent payments, she said, only because their 24-year-old son, a
construction worker, chips in.

But she sees no alternative. She and her husband must buy medicine for her
mother, and they pay tuition at technical school for their two children still in
El Salvador.

"We feel the strain," she said. "But at least we are allowing others to live
better."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              134 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 21, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

TB Reported on Rise in N.Va., District;
Officials Attribute Increase to Surge of Immigrants, Especially Poor

BYLINE: William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 760 words


Tuberculosis is spreading in Northern Virginia and the District, riding a wave
of immigration locally even as the disease continues its slide to record low
levels nationwide, health officials announced yesterday.

According to provisional 2000 figures from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
in Atlanta, the number of TB cases in the District rose by 21 percent last year
over 1999, while in Northern Virginia, the number was up 5 percent; in contrast,
statewide totals for both Virginia and Maryland declined. Numbers for suburban
Maryland were unavailable.

Nationally, reported TB cases were down 6.6 percent last year from 1999, and
down 10.8 percent from 1998, according to the CDC's preliminary tabulations.

The increased local incidence of tuberculosis, a bacterial disease that usually
attacks the lungs and ranks as one of the world's great killers, reflects not
only the surge of immigrants to the Washington area but also the prevalence of
poverty among some, particularly those recently arrived from Africa, Southeast
Asia and Latin America, officials said.

"TB has always been a disease of the disenfranchised," said Venkatarama Koppaka
Rao, director of the division of tuberculosis control at the Virginia Department
of Health and keynote speaker yesterday at a TB conference in Fairfax County.
"People living in poverty are often forced to live in close quarters,"
facilitating transmission, he said.

Rao was reluctant to single out particular ethnic groups, saying, "The
occurrence of TB reflects the diversity" that increasingly characterizes the
region.

Across Virginia, health officials reported 292 active cases of tuberculosis last
year, a drop of 12.6 percent from 1999. That represented the largest percentage
decline since 1994 and the lowest number ever recorded in the state.

At the same time, the number of TB cases in Fairfax County jumped 15 percent,
spearheading the 5 percent rise in Northern Virginia, health officials said.
Foreign-born residents accounted for 92 percent of the county's total, officials
said.

In all, Northern Virginia -- Fairfax, Arlington, Loudoun and Prince William
counties plus Alexandria -- reported 149 active cases of TB last year, more than
half of the state's tally; 89 were in Fairfax.

There were no reported deaths from tuberculosis in the region.

Health officials who attended yesterday's conference at Inova Fairfax Hospital
called "Mobilizing for Tuberculosis Control in Northern Virginia" stopped short
of describing the surge in cases as a crisis, but they voiced concern about the
spread of a disease that has been in decline in this country for years.

"It's something that we need to make sure we take care of now before it becomes
a major problem," said James Lamberti, a pulmonologist at Inova Fairfax.

While tuberculosis ranks as the top infectious disease in the world and has been
on the rise around the globe in recent years, it has been on the decline in the
United States since the 1950s. The CDC's preliminary numbers for last year --
16,372 active cases nationally and a rate of 5.8 cases per 100,000 residents --
are the lowest on record.

Like Virginia, Maryland has seen a decline in TB infections: 283 cases in 2000,
down 12.7 percent from 1998. Virginia's 292 cases represented a 13.9 percent
drop from two years earlier.

The District reported 85 cases last year, up from 70 in 1999 but fewer than the
107 in 1998.

Margaret Tipple, chief of the District government's TB control program, said
last year's rise for the most part "reflects better case reporting rather than
an increase in transmission."

In Fairfax, there has been "a slow but steady increase" in TB reports, said
Health Department Director Linda Fisher. While the county's growing population
accounts for some of the rise, the infection rate indicates the disease is
outpacing that growth. The county's 89 TB cases in 2000 represent an infection
rate of 9.1 per 100,000 people, compared with 7.7 in 1997, Fisher said.

"I don't think we have a crisis," said Del. Jeannemarie Devolites (R-Fairfax),
"but . . . clearly we have incidents of TB being brought in." She said some of
the increase may be linked to illegal immigrants, who undergo no health checks
when they enter the country.

But health officials said even the TB screening required of legal immigrants may
be inadequate because it usually does not detect inactive TB bacteria.
Worldwide, an estimated 1.7 billion people -- about a third of the population --
carry the bacteria that causes TB, but only a tiny proportion develop active TB.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              135 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 21, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

TB Cases Reported On Rise in N.Va., D.C.;
Officials Cite Surge Of Immigrants, Poverty

BYLINE: William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 759 words


Tuberculosis is spreading in the District and Northern Virginia, riding a wave
of immigration locally even as the disease continues its slide to record low
levels nationwide, health officials announced yesterday.

According to the provisional 2000 figures from the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control in Atlanta, the number of TB cases in the District rose by 21 percent
last year over 1999, while in Northern Virginia, the number was up 5 percent; in
contrast, statewide totals for both Virginia and Maryland declined. Numbers for
suburban Maryland were unavailable.

Nationally, reported TB cases were down 6.6 percent last year from 1999, and
down 10.8 percent from 1998, according to the CDC's preliminary tabulations.

The increased local incidence of tuberculosis, a bacterial disease that usually
attacks the lungs and ranks as one of the world's great killers, reflects not
only the surge of immigrants to the Washington area but also the prevalence of
poverty among some, particularly those recently arrived from Africa, Southeast
Asia and Latin America, officials said.

"TB has always been a disease of the disenfranchised," said Venkatarama Koppaka
Rao, director of the division of tuberculosis control at the Virginia Department
of Health and keynote speaker at a TB conference yesterday in Fairfax County.
"People living in poverty are often forced to live in close quarters,"
facilitating transmission, he said.

There were no reported fatalities from tuberculosis in the region last year, and
health officials who attended yesterday's conference at Inova Fairfax Hospital
stopped short of describing the surge in cases as a crisis. But they did express
concern about the spread of a disease that has been in decline in the United
States for years.

"It's something that we need to make sure we take care of now before it becomes
a major problem," said James Lamberti, a pulmonologist at the hospital.

The District reported 85 cases of TB last year, up from 70 the year before, but
fewer than the 107 reported in 1998. Margaret Tipple, chief of the District
government's TB control program, said last year's rise for the most part
"reflects better case reporting rather than an increase in transmission." She
said the city has had no outbreaks of tuberculosis that pose a general health
risk.

Maryland had a decline in TB infections last year: 283 active cases, down 3.7
percent from the year before and 12.7 percent from 1998.

Virginia, too, reported a decline: 292 cases last year, down 12.6 percent from
1999 -- the largest percentage drop since 1994 and the lowest number ever in the
state.

At the same time, however, the number of cases in Fairfax jumped 15 percent,
spearheading the 5 percent increase across Northern Virginia, officials said.
Foreign-born residents accounted for 92 percent of the county's 89 new TB cases,
officials said.

In all, Northern Virginia -- Fairfax, Arlington, Loudoun and Prince William
counties plus the city of Alexandria -- reported 149 active cases of TB last
year, more than half of the state's tally.

"I'm very concerned about this situation," said Linda Fisher, director of the
Fairfax County Health Department. "It indicates we cannot be complacent about
TB."

While tuberculosis ranks as the top infectious disease in the world and has been
on the rise around the globe in recent years, particularly in Africa, it has
been on the decline in the United States since the 1950s. The CDC's preliminary
numbers for last year -- 16,372 active cases nationally and a rate of 5.8 cases
per 100,000 residents -- are the lowest it has ever recorded.

Del. Jeannemarie Devolites (R-Fairfax), reflecting on the county's rising TB
profile, said she wouldn't call it a crisis, "but . . . clearly we have
incidents of TB being brought in." She said some of the increase may be linked
to illegal immigrants, who undergo no health checks when they enter the country.
"If you have that many people coming in illegally, the checkpoints we have in
place are going to be bypassed."

But health officials said even the TB screening required of legal immigrants may
be inadequate because it usually does not detect the presence of inactive TB
bacteria. Worldwide, an estimated 1.7 billion people -- about a third of the
population -- carry the bacteria that causes TB, but only a tiny proportion
develop active TB.

Some immigrants with latent TB may be developing the active disease after
arriving in the United States because of stress related to making new lives in
this country, doctors at the conference said.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              136 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 429 words


BUFFALO -- A Coast Guard boat patrolling for illegal immigrants capsized on the
Niagara River along the U.S.-Canadian border, and two of four crewmen died
yesterday morning after floating for hours in the icy water.

The 21-foot boat was found bow up along the shore of Lake Ontario about a mile
east of the mouth of the river, and the crewmen were rescued soon after midnight
a couple of miles away, said Chief Petty Officer Adam Wine at the Coast Guard's
Buffalo station. "A four-foot wave hit the bow of the boat, swamping it and
flipping it over," Wine said of the Friday night incident.

Petty Officer Scott Chism, 25, of Lakeside, Calif., and Seaman Chris Ferreby,
23, of Morristown, N.J., were in cardiac arrest when they were pulled from the
water, and both died yesterday morning, Wine said. The other crewmen were
treated for hypothermia.

MIAMI -- A Miami-Dade County circuit judge ordered the Cuban government to pay
the former wife of a Cuban spy $ 20 million, saying that it had helped
orchestrate a sham marriage aimed at prying into the Cuban exile community.

Reversing an earlier decision, Judge Alan Postman agreed on Friday that Ana
Margarita Martinez, formerly married to Juan Pablo Roque, is entitled to
punitive damages from Cuba.

Postman previously denied punitive damages, believing he was barred from
ordering a foreign government to pay them. He reversed his ruling after lawyers
determined that he could impose the penalty.

EDMOND, Okla. -- One of two convicted murderers who held an elderly couple
hostage in their home was found dead inside the house late last night,
authorities said.

Oklahoma County Sheriff John Whetsel said William B. Davis may have killed
himself. The other inmate, Douglas E. Gray, surrendered, Whetsel said. The two
men escaped from prison last week.

Hostage Gilbert Tuepker, 73, walked out of his home and was reunited with his
wife, Mildred, 72, who had been freed earlier in the evening, police said.

PENSACOLA, Fla. -- A former medical examiner was convicted on Friday of killing
his wife with a lethal injection nearly 10 years ago, a crime he allegedly
covered up by having her embalmed before an autopsy could be performed.

The embalming preserved the muscle relaxant in the body of Kay Sybers, who was
52 when she died in 1991.

In closing arguments, prosecutor Harry Shorstein said William Sybers, 68, killed
his wife so he could marry his mistress, which he did in 1994, and avoid losing
at least half of $ 6 million in joint assets.

Sybers could be sentenced to death or life in prison.

From news services

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              137 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 27, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hungarian Activist Zoltan Szaz Dies

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 385 words


Zoltan Michael Szaz, 71, who had served as international relations secretary of
the American Hungarian Federation in Washington, died March 8 at the home of a
friend in Herndon after a stroke. He lived in Herndon.

Dr. Szaz, who lived in the Washington area since 1973, also served as national
secretary of the National Confederation of Ethnic Groups.

Over the years, he worked for causes related to Hungarians and Hungarian
immigrants to this country. He was involved in efforts to safeguard the rights
of the large Hungarian minority that lives in Romania's Transylvania region and
had lobbied both the U.S. and foreign governments.

Dr. Szaz, a former professor, lectured at universities in this country and
abroad and wrote for general and specialist publications. He also worked off and
on as a speechwriter and edited publications for such groups as the American
Foreign Policy Institute.

In the 1980s, he began a business representing Hungarian immigrants seeking
official U.S. documention, such as work permits.

Dr. Szaz was born in Budapest and in 1945 fled with his family to Germany, where
he attended college before coming to this country in 1950. He was a 1950 cum
laude graduate of St. John's College in Minnesota, then received a master's
degree in modern European history and a doctorate in international law and
international relations from Catholic University.

From the mid-1960s to early 1970s, he taught history at St. John's University in
New York and political science at Seton Hall University in New Jersey and Troy
State University in Alabama.

He was the author of the book "Germany's Eastern Frontiers," published by the
Henry Regnery publishing company. He received numerous awards, including one for
his services to the Republican Party; the Ellis Island Medal of Honor of the
National Ethnic Coalition of Organizations; and the Little Cross of Hungary,
which he received from the Hungarian government in 1998.

His marriage to the former Jayne Anne Davis ended in divorce.

Survivors include his wife, the former Susan Almassy, whom he married in 1995
and who lives in Vienna; four children from his first marriage, Claire Anne Szaz
of Severna Park, Mary Carole Ewell of Vienna, and Christopher Michael Szaz and
Anna-Maria Lynch, both of Raleigh, N.C.; and two grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OBITUARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              138 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico Seeks U.S. Shift In Immigration Policy

BYLINE: Mary Jordan and Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1282 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


The new Mexican government plans to urge the Bush administration to change U.S.
immigration policy to allow far more Mexicans to enter the United States legally
and give a new legal status to those now working there illegally.

The Mexican proposals, although still tentative, constitute the first test for a
pledge of better cross-border relations -- in particular on the issue of
immigration -- adopted by President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox at an
effusive summit meeting in Fox's hometown of San Cristobal on Feb. 16.

Fox's ideas will be presented to U.S. officials at a high-level meeting in
Washington on Wednesday, the first of what is expected to be a series of
negotiations in pursuit of an improved immigration relationship. In a sign of
the importance of this goal, Bush has assigned Secretary of State Colin L.
Powell and Attorney General John Ashcroft to represent the United States and Fox
has assigned Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda and Interior Minister Santiago
Creel.

Castaneda said Mexico has four main areas of concern: "regularizing" conditions
for illegal workers; improving safety for Mexicans crossing the border, who face
dangers ranging from dehydration to vigilantes; raising the number of permanent
visas the United States allots to Mexico; and creating a guest worker program
that would ensure decent working conditions.

"We are not saying that we want all the rights to become available to Mexicans
overnight," Castaneda said. "It is not all or nothing."

Mexican officials said Fox wants to focus on step-by-step, practical
improvements in the lives of Mexican immigrants in the United States, such as
the ability to get a driver's license, rent an apartment or -- most important --
live without fear of expulsion by U.S. authorities.

In an interview, Fox stressed that he is not necessarily seeking permanent
residency or U.S. citizenship for these people, just a status that allows them
to remain legally in the United States for a certain time to work and to enjoy
other legal rights and protections.

"Their jobs must be recognized, must be legalized," he said. "And this does not
have anything to do with them becoming Americans. Maybe they don't even want to
become Americans. They just want to work."

Fox's approach marks a sharp departure for the Mexican government. In the past,
it has said illegal immigration is a response to the economic situation here and
in the United States -- and is largely Washington's to deal with. But Fox has
promised to be leader not just of the people in Mexico but of Mexicans living in
the United States.

Bush, who developed an expertise in the situation of Mexican immigrants as
governor of Texas, also has encouraged new approaches to immigration.

"This is the first time the Mexican and American presidents have agreed to
actually put immigration on the table and see what might come out of it," said
Demetrios G. Papademetriou, a specialist at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Washington.

U.S. officials said they have not yet seen the Mexican proposals but, in the
spirit of the Bush-Fox summit meeting, everything is on the table as the talks
begin.

Any plan emerging from the negotiations to change the legal status of
undocumented workers would need approval in Congress, where there is resistance
to more generous immigration laws. But Mexican officials are encouraged by the
fact that past foes of expanded immigration programs, such as Sen. Phil Gramm
(R-Tex.), support allowing more Mexicans into the country legally. Gramm plans
to sponsor a guest worker program permitting more Mexicans to work legally for a
limited time period -- without placing them on the track toward citizenship.

One of the most significant shifts in the immigration debate is a matter of
letters: Instead of what they refer to as "the A-word," amnesty, both sides are
now talking about "the R-word," regularization.

Critics of immigration oppose the idea of granting amnesty, the first step
toward permanent residency and citizenship, to people who have broken U.S. laws
by sneaking into the country. But Fox and his top aides are trying to avoid that
highly charged fight by focusing on the still evolving concept of regularization
-- ensuring better living conditions and basic health, education and labor
rights for illegal immigrants while they are in the country.

Fox, in the interview, said the status of "illegal immigrants who are
contributing productively, with quality, to the U.S. economy" must be changed.
Fox said it is imperative to give Mexican workers "access to rights of working
people so they would not need to be hiding away."

The numbers in hiding are huge. The new U.S. census suggests that there may be
far more than the previous estimate of 6 million undocumented workers in the
United States, more than half of whom are Mexican. The Mexican Embassy estimates
that in the Washington area alone there are about 30,000 Mexican immigrants,
legal and illegal.

What Fox and Bush are ultimately steering toward is a better life for people
such as Rosa, an office cleaner in Alexandria, who lives a life framed by no's.

No, the Mexican immigrant cannot rent an apartment. No, she cannot open a bank
account. No, her husband, an electrician, has no guarantee he will be paid
fairly, if at all. And no, there is no escaping the fear that she or her husband
could be deported at any moment by immigration officials, known by two of the
scariest words in Mexican Spanish, la migra.

"If they grab him, how will we survive?" asked Rosa, a tall, big-boned mother of
three, wearing blue jeans and sneakers, who has been working illegally in the
Washington area for six years.

For fear of being forced to leave Alexandria, which has recently become a hub
for Mexican immigrants, she declined to give her last name.

For Rosa, 31, citizenship is a distant dream. Her more immediate wish is a
Social Security number, a "social" as she calls it, allowing her and her husband
to seek better jobs and an escape from the shadows.

She and her husband entered the country on tourist visas with their three young
children and moved in with Rosa's sister in Alexandria. At one point about 30
relatives lived in the small apartment.

She and her husband decided to take the savings from under the mattress and find
a home of their own. Instead they found humiliation. One Northern Virginia
apartment complex after the next turned them away for lack of a Social Security
number.

"I'd like to have a social to be able to rent, to get credit, to go to the
clinic," she said dreamily. "We Mexicans are the ones who work the most . . .
we'd like to be regularized."

Juan Hernandez, head of the office of Mexicans living abroad, a position created
by Fox, said there is no denying Mexicans are breaking the law by entering the
United States without proper papers. But he said the current system encourages
them "to keep on breaking more laws" by, for example, making it impossible for
them to drive legally or to buy insurance.

Hernandez cited one case of how a small change can make a big difference. After
lobbying from the Mexican government, many American credit unions recently
dropped their practice of requiring a Social Security number to open accounts.
They immediately started attracting illegal Mexican residents who can also use
the credit unions' expanding network of ATMs in Mexico as a way to send money
back home.

Illegal workers have been paying couriers to hand-carry cash across the border
or wiring the money at great expense. An estimated $ 7 billion a year is sent to
Mexico each year by Mexicans working in the United States.

Sheridan reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              139 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

UPDATE;
On the News

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 614 words


In 1999, disturbed by charges that scores of immigrant day laborers had gone
unpaid by contractors, Fairfax County police officers in the largely Hispanic
community of Culmore, near Baileys Crossroads, decided to intercede, calling on
accused contractors to resolve the disputes.

From the beginning, they faced hurdles, the thorniest challenge coming in the
officers' lack of legal clout. The effort to assist the Culmore workers has been
spearheaded by Officer Harry Foxwell, who doesn't have any real authority to
mediate in wage disputes that are essentially civil matters. Foxwell relies on
the aura of his badge and his own brand of moral suasion to lure contractors to
the table. Sometimes it works. But if the contractors refuse to appear, Foxwell
and the workers generally have found themselves at a dead end.

"We've gotten some contractors to pay up, but not a lot," a frustrated Foxwell
said in 1999. "What we need are some attorneys willing to help us for free."

Enter Tim Freilich, a staff attorney for the Virginia Justice Center, a
three-lawyer project of the Charlottesville-Albemarle Legal Aid Society, which
has been successful in recovering more than $ 400,000 in back wages for migrant
farmworkers and other immigrant laborers since its founding in 1997.

Last September, Freilich set up weekly worker clinics in Culmore and the
Shirlington community of Arlington, another spot with the problem.

Freilich has accepted about 180 civil cases from Northern Virginia immigrant
workers, already recovering more than $ 30,000 for 50 laborers -- largely in
out-of-court settlements.

"Where we have names of contractors, we have a good chance of winning," Freilich
said. "But we have so many [workers] coming forward now that I've had to put a
temporary hold on taking new cases."

Buoyed by Freilich's swift successes, Foxwell put out the word around Baileys
Crossroads that he needs more lawyers. "Tim got a judgment against a
[contractor] in Arlington for three workers who were stiffed of $ 4,000,"
Foxwell said. "That shows we can do something about this. But when you say you
need attorneys who will work for free, the [response] is slow. But we're getting
closer."

-- Michael Leahy

A Houston-based company seeking to build an $ 800 million power plant in Loudoun
County has filed an application with Virginia's State Corporation Commission,
its first formal step toward gaining approval for the project.

Tractebel Power Inc., an arm of Tractebel SA, of Belgium, has asked the
commission for permission to construct a natural gas power plant on an 80-acre
site in an industrial park just south of Leesburg.

Company officials said the Lee Center Business Park, where a 1990 proposal to
build a power plant failed, is an ideal location because gas and power lines
cross it. Mark Barry, a company vice president, said the plant would include
about 10 acres of buildings with four towers 125 to 150 feet tall.

Tractebel's proposal asks the commission to approve two possible options for a
plant with a capacity of up to 1,400 megawatts.

Company officials said the plant is needed to meet a growing demand for
electricity in Northern Virginia.

The proposal has been met with opposition from some residents, environmental
groups and politicians who worry about air quality and aesthetics.

Kenneth J. Schrad, a spokesman for the State Corporation Commission, said the
panel will schedule a public hearing in Loudoun and a separate hearing in
Richmond. Schrad said a final decision could be made as soon as the fall.

Tractebel also will need approval from the Virginia Department of Environmental
Quality and the Loudoun County Board of Supervisors.

-- Maria Glod

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              140 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 5, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico Proposes Immigration Pact To Cut Down Third-Country Passage

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1005 words


The Mexican government is prepared to crack down on the growing stream of
foreigners who use the country as a transit point in their efforts to sneak into
the United States, a senior official said yesterday as Mexico and the United
States kicked off unprecedented high-level talks on creating a new immigration
agreement.

Mexican Interior Minister Santiago Creel said the offer represents a shift in
policy by the opposition government that came to power last December, ending
seven decades of one-party rule.

"For the first time, the Mexican government is recognizing that we have a
responsibility regarding the migratory flows" toward the United States, Creel
told a news conference after talks with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and
Attorney General John D. Ashcroft.

Before the talks, Creel outlined to Washington Post editors and reporters
specific steps his country could take to stop immigrants from entering the
United States illegally via Mexico. They include tighter enforcement of Mexico's
border with Guatemala; requiring more foreign citizens to obtain visas for
visits to Mexico; and cracking down on corrupt Mexican border guards who work
with international smuggling gangs.

A U.S. official said the Mexican ideas represented a welcome break from the
government's tradition of treating migration north largely as a U.S problem.

"Increased cooperation by the Mexican government in interdicting the flow of
undocumented migrants across Mexico would certainly be a positive step, and one
which would be very favorably perceived by the [U.S.] negotiators," said a
Justice Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity.

But critics were unimpressed. They said the Mexican proposals would affect a
relatively small number of people.

Arrests of non-Mexican illegal immigrants by U.S. border guards totaled 28,598
in 2000, up from 16,935 in fiscal year 1993, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Most of those detained were Central Americans. That is
just a small fraction of the 1.6 million Mexicans arrested trying to cross the
border illegally last year.

But the INS also reported a surprising drop in the number of arrests of illegal
immigrants along the U.S.-Mexican border during the first half of fiscal 2001.
The number plunged 24 percent, the first decline along the entire border since
U.S. authorities ratcheted up enforcement in 1994 with the introduction of
Operation Gatekeeper.

Officials and immigration experts said the statistics could reflect stiffer U.S.
enforcement and the improving Mexican economy.

The talks that began yesterday are the highest-level meetings ever aimed at
hammering out a joint agreement to impose order on the chaotic flow of Mexican
immigrants to the United States. They come amid an increasing clamor by U.S.
employers for additional workers for agriculture and other service jobs, and
renewed discussion in Congress of establishing a "guest worker" program in the
United States.

Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda said U.S. officials were "very
receptive" Wednesday to his delegation's proposals for a new agreement. His
country is seeking the guest worker program, an increased number of permanent
visas, greater protections for illegal immigrants and a yet-to-be-defined system
to "regularize" Mexican illegal immigrants, who are believed to make up more
than half the estimated 6 million illegal residents of the United States.

Yesterday's meeting focused on such nitty-gritty details as an agenda to
continue the negotiations at a lower level. President Bush and Mexican President
Vicente Fox, who agreed at their Feb. 16 summit to seek new immigration
agreements, will examine more concrete proposals when Fox visits the United
States sometime this fall, officials said.

Both sides have been guarded about what they are willing to accept in a new
agreement, which will likely require the approval of both countries' congresses.
Bush administration officials, however, oppose a blanket amnesty for illegal
immigrants.

Creel said that in exchange for more legal avenues for Mexicans to work in the
United States, his government was prepared to step up its attempts to stop
foreigners from crossing his country on their way to the U.S. border.

On Mexico's southern border, for example, "we think that we could do much, much
better than today at establishing more immigration points, and enforcement of
immigration law," he said. "We have seen the corruption from past
administrations can be combated much more efficiently."

Immigration experts say "pass through" migration has increased across the globe
in recent years. But Mexico plays a unique role because it borders the United
States and because international smuggling gangs have been able to work with
corrupt Mexican border guards to sneak people through the country, according to
experts and government officials.

In an indication of the trend, Mexico expelled 88,004 illegal immigrants in the
first half of 2000, up nearly 26 percent from a year earlier, according to the
latest official figures. Most arrests were made in the southern part of the
country.

U.S. officials have long criticized Mexico for failing to cooperate on border
control issues. For its part, Mexico often viewed migration to the United States
as a legitimate flow of workers who contributed to its neighbor's development,
and an escape valve for its own struggling economy.

Critics charge that the practical effects of the Mexican proposals could be
small.

"One of the few things the Mexican side might have brought to the table would
have been an offer to limit illegal emigration from Mexico to the U.S.," said
Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, which opposes expanded
immigration. "They have made it clear that is out of the question," Krikorian
said.

In fact, Creel said there are no plans to restrict Mexicans' movement near the
border. Experts said any such attempt could violate the Mexican constitution.

Staff writer Dan Eggen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              141 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 6, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Can America Assimilate?

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A37

LENGTH: 1014 words


The latest census seems to have been a consciousness-raising exercise -- at
least for the press. It has inspired a series of stories recognizing that
large-scale immigration is transforming America. "Diversity" is, of course, the
reigning cliche, but even while the press overuses the term, there's been a
subtle and useful shift in tone and message. Stories increasingly abandon the
uncritical celebration of "diversity" for a more realistic assessment that
immigration also brings new social problems and tensions.

Here's a sample of recent front-page articles:

* "Troubling Label for Hispanics: 'Girls Most Likely to Drop Out' " (New York
Times, March 25): "According to government data, 26 percent of Hispanic girls
leave school without a diploma, compared with 13 percent of black girls and 6.9
percent of white girls. The only group that has a higher dropout rate among all
students is Hispanic boys (31 percent). . . ."

* "Hispanic Growth Reveals Isolation -- Trend Might Take Decades to Reverse"
(USA Today, March 26): "The millions of Hispanic immigrants to the USA in the
1990s are spreading throughout the country, but they are living in increasingly
segregated neighborhoods. . . . The average Hispanic lives in a neighborhood
that is 44 percent Hispanic."

* "A Magnet for Illegal Immigrants -- Surge in Undocumented Population Swamps
Area Service Providers" (The Washington Post, March 27): "Those who teach,
counsel and heal low-income immigrants say they are struggling to help a group
that has swelled beyond official estimates."

We may be glimpsing a new attitude toward immigration. What's long been ignored
is America's capacity to assimilate immigrants -- how many can we easily absorb.
The bland assumption has been that a society as wealthy and tolerant as ours
doesn't have to worry. Immigrants will enrich our culture, energize the economy
and reconfirm our humanitarian heritage. Anyone who voiced doubts (who wondered,
for example, whether our wealth or virtues might have limits) risked being
labeled a racist or reactionary.

Well, the census demolishes the case for complacency. The Census Bureau had
estimated that the nation's population would increase from 249 million in 1990
to 275 million in 2000, with about 35 percent of the gain coming from
immigration. In fact, the census counted 281 million -- 6 million more than
estimated. Where did the extra people come from? No one knows, but the easiest
explanation is illegal immigration. There are other possibilities: The census
simply may have counted some people missed in 1990. Either way, immigration --
mostly legal -- has had a huge impact. Already, a fifth of school-age children
come from immigrant families. (Most are citizens, having been born here.)

As a society, America's central interest lies in assimilating these families.
This means more than having them join the economic mainstream. It also means
that they think of themselves primarily as Americans. If the United States
simply becomes a collection of self-designated "minorities," then the country
will have changed for the worse.

We first need to admit that assimilation is desirable. The term has fallen into
disrepute because it's viewed "by its antagonists as a means of imposing
cultural conformity on America's minority groups," as Peter Salins recently
wrote in his book "Assimilation American Style." To those who worship
"multiculturalism" and "diversity," assimilation is dated and detestable.

American assimilation never demanded this sort of rigid cultural conformity,
said Salins, now provost of the State University of New York. People could
retain ethnic traditions and affections. Italian Americans could still love
Italy. But assimilation did require three things, he argued. First, immigrant
families had to accept English as the national language. Second, they had "to
take pride in their American identity" and their country's democratic
principles. And, finally, they had to embrace the so-called Protestant ethic --
"to be self-reliant, hardworking, and morally upright."

Assimilation is mostly a spontaneous process, driven by the economy, popular
culture and the belief in individual opportunity. People are caught in an
updraft of activity, new ideas and temptations. A Washington Post survey last
year asked Latinos the language of their TV programs. Among the
first-generation, 31 percent watched mainly Spanish programs and 42 percent
watched "equally" in Spanish and English; by the third generation, 88 percent
watched English programs. On many issues, the attitudes of third-generation
Latinos mirrored those of other Americans. But assimilation has never been easy
for immigrants or Americans already here.

That's true now. Progress for many low-skilled immigrants has been grudging.
About 30 percent of immigrant children are in poverty, says a report from the
Urban Institute; in 1999, wages for immigrant Hispanic men were only 68 percent
of those of U.S.-born workers. Meanwhile, there's always a danger of an
anti-immigrant backlash, particularly if there's a recession. Americans exhibit
spasms of prejudice and insecurity. Benjamin Franklin once complained about
German immigrants, "who will shortly be so numerous as to Germanize us instead
of our Anglifying them." There are many stains on the national record:
anti-Irish sentiment in the 1840s; the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, barring
Chinese immigrants; the Immigration Act of 1924, whose quotas tried to limit
Italian and Jewish immigration.

We may face a paradox. To benefit from immigration, we may need a little less of
it. People need time to adjust. American institutions (schools, hospitals) and
sensibilities can be overwhelmed by too many newcomers -- a reality ignored in
the recent economic boom, when the demand for workers seemed insatiable. We may
also need to favor skilled over unskilled immigrants, further improving the odds
for assimilation. Of course, all these controversial propositions pose difficult
philosophical and practical problems. But we aren't debating them. This is
neglect -- and not benign.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              142 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Overload

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 75 words


Mexican President Vicente Fox's view of immigration takes chutzpah to new
heights ["Mexico Seeks Shift in Immigration Policy," front page, April 2].

With the American population nearing 300 million, problems with electric-power
outages, water shortages, traffic congestion, etc., the United States doesn't
need more population.

Perhaps Mr. Fox ought to use his country's oil riches to give his people a
better life there.

REUBEN HAMASIAN

Rockville

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              143 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 11, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Separated by a Wall of Words;
Many Immigrants, Children Speak Different Languages

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1560 words


Sung Jong Chang and her 16-year-old son have trouble talking to each other. They
barely communicate, in fact.

The reason cuts far deeper than the normal parent-teenager divide. Chang, a
Korean immigrant who works seven days a week in the family's restaurant
business, speaks almost no English. Her son, John Kim, who came to this country
as a toddler, knows little Korean.

At home in Fairfax City, she watches Korean television and videos. In the car,
she listens to Korean radio. At work and church, she speaks Korean with her
friends and colleagues. Working 12 hours a day, she has little opportunity, or
need even, to learn a new language.

John, however, is 100 percent Americanized. His friendships, his classes at
school, his tastes -- all are firmly rooted in the English language and U.S.
culture.

In a society that insistently hammers into parents the importance of talking to,
and spending time with, their children, many immigrants can hardly do either.

Working one or more jobs to provide for their families leaves little time for
family life, never mind learning English. At the same time, there is evidence
that the children of today's immigrants are losing their parents' language much
faster than second-generation children did years ago.

The result, say sociologists and others who study the effects of immigration, is
a troubling new family dynamic on the rise in this country: a generation of
children growing up almost strangers to their parents.

"For most of us, it would be an easy choice," said Kathleen Harris, a sociology
professor at the University of North Carolina. "Of course you would learn to
communicate with your child. But not if it meant you couldn't have food on your
table."

Twelve years after arriving in the United States, Chang has come to believe that
she is losing her son across a great cultural chasm. It pains her greatly -- but
she lacks the means to tell him even that much.

Instead, she relies on her daughter to speak for her. Eighteen-year-old Sun Mi
Kim, who grew up speaking English and is now learning Korean, serves as
go-between for her mother and brother, translating nearly everything that passes
between them, even their shouting matches.

But because Sun Mi's Korean is limited, much is left unspoken -- and many
feelings unexplored -- in the family.

Now, when Chang sees her son despondent when she comes home at night after her
long workday, she wonders if their language barrier has taken its toll.

"I'm afraid that by now my son might have given up trying to communicate," the
47-year-old mother said through a translator one recent afternoon while taking a
break from her kitchen duties at one of the family's two restaurants.

Previous waves of U.S. immigrants converted from their native languages to
English over three or four generations, with a buffer in between: An
English-speaking child might grow up having difficulty talking to his
Italian-born grandfather, for example, but usually the generation sandwiched in
the middle was fluent in both languages.

Now the switchover is happening much more rapidly, said Ruben G. Rumbaut, a
sociologist at Michigan State University. "We are seeing this country become a
language graveyard for the second generation," he said, with children and
parents living under the same roof but unable to talk to one another.

In an ongoing study of 5,300 immigrant families, Rumbaut has found that 73
percent of the youngsters surveyed in 1991 said English was their primary
language by the time they reached seventh grade, but 94 percent of the parents
spoke another language at home. In 1995, the parents' figure was about the same,
while the number of children speaking mainly English had jumped to 88 percent.

A survey of immigrant families in Fairfax County last year found that 53 percent
of the households had at least one parent or guardian who spoke little or no
English; in 27 percent of the families, no parent or guardian could speak
English.

The language barrier separating parent and child may be particularly acute among
Asians. Although a higher percentage know some English when they emigrate,
according to a 1995 University of North Carolina study of 21,000 immigrant
youths, Asian children lose their native language much faster than do Hispanic
children.

That's partly because Hispanic youths usually live in larger communities where
there are many Spanish speakers. Asian communities, in contrast, tend to be much
smaller and may have several languages, depending on how many countries are
represented, said Pyong Gap Min, a sociology professor at Queens College in New
York.

Also, Spanish has been woven into the fabric of life in many U.S. communities.

"How many high schools teach Korean or Vietnamese? But every high school teaches
Spanish," Min said. "It's almost a first language here."

Adding to the dissolution of communication is the fact that many cultures --
particularly those in Asia -- do not encourage parents sitting down for
heart-to-hearts with their children or getting actively involved at their
schools, said Esther Park, a family counselor for the Korean Community Service
Center in Annandale.

The most these parents are likely to do is push their children to get good
grades, she said. "But if parents only talk about grades, their children's
self-esteem becomes dependent on their school achievement, rather than their
parents' love. Then, getting a C in school can be devastating."

Adding to the divide, Park said, is the fact that many second-generation
children have never heard their parents' stories and thus cannot relate to what
brought them to this country in the first place and why they spend so much time
at their jobs.

"There's little understanding between the two generations," she said. "The
children don't understand why the parents work so hard. But these parents have
kind of a wartime mentality and are trying to make as much money as they can."

Sung Jong Chang grew up in a Korea devastated by war. Her parents had little
food or money. When she immigrated here in 1988, she said, she was determined
that her own family would not face the same deprivations.

After working in a relative's deli and at other jobs, she and her husband, Il
Rang Kim, 55, had saved enough to open two Japanese restaurants near their home.
Now both put in long hours and take just two days off each year: Thanksgiving
and New Year's.

Yes, the restaurants have afforded their family a better life. But Chang has
missed all but one of her children's orchestra concerts. She doesn't have the
time or language skills to help them with their homework. She's not even sure
she'll be able to make it to Sun Mi's high school graduation in June.

John, who was 5 when his parents immigrated, says he's used to not having them
around. While they were at work, he was either with school friends or watching
television at home.

He doesn't remember when he lost the little Korean he spoke as a toddler.

As little as he now speaks with his mother, it's even worse with his father, who
knows no English. "We, like, never talk," John said.

When he has a problem or gets in trouble at school, it's Sun Mi he tells.

"It's easier to talk to my sister because she speaks English and she'll
understand me," he said. With his mother, by contrast, "I'll say something, and
my mom will interpret it a different way, and then she'll say something and I'll
interpret it a different way."

Maria Demarest, 53, a native of Colombia who lives in Arlington County, says
Hispanic families, too, face language hurdles. Demarest, a parent liaison to the
Hispanic community for Fairfax County public schools, said she sees many
children who are embarrassed by having immigrant parents.

Demarest remembers years ago, dropping her oldest son off at pre-kindergarten.
He asked her not to speak Spanish in front of the other children.

Demarest, who eventually made the effort to learn more English, wonders whether
second-generation children are fast losing an appreciation of their ethnic
heritage.

"He really opened my ears," she said of her son. "I thought, 'I'm losing my
child right here.' You want to speak to your children in your own language; you
want to talk about certain topics from your heart, but it's hard when you can
only speak broken English."

Even when language is not an absolute barrier, work sometimes is.

James Joong-mok Son, a Korean immigrant who runs the Capitol Hill Supermarket in
Washington, said he regrets not having spent more time with his four daughters
as they were growing up. Now Son, 61, is thinking about retiring after working
12 hours a day, seven days a week, since coming here in 1974.

He will suddenly have a lot of time on his hands, he realizes, but his youngest
is a senior in high school and will soon be leaving for college.

"I look at other American families, going on vacations and have good memories.
We've never gone away much as a family," Son said softly, standing in the tiny
market where he has spent most of his waking hours since he opened it in 1991.

"Now it is time to retire, and it's too late to go on vacations because they are
all grown up and have jobs. It's hard for first-generation. I just work hard,
just work very hard. But I always urge them now, take vacations with your
children. I worry they will not have good memories like American families."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              144 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 20, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

METRO;
In Brief

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1022 words


THE REGION

The Rockville-based Jewish Federation of Greater Washington has selected Misha
Galperin, a Russian immigrant who came to this country with the help of the
Jewish community, as its executive vice president.

Galperin, formerly chief operating officer at UJA-Federation of New York,
succeeds Ted B. Farber and is the first-ever Russian immigrant to head a Jewish
Federation branch.

"We were looking for a man with energy, with a passion and with a vision," said
federation President Diane S. Feinberg, head of the search committee that
selected Galperin. "He has all what we're looking for: Jewish Federation
experience, international experience and Judaic knowledge."

Galperin, who came to this country in 1976 from Odessa and trained as a
psychologist at New York University, said he will work to foster closer ties
among Washington Jews who make up a "very young community" that is
"geographically spread out."

VIRGINIA

Two sections of the George Washington Memorial Parkway are set to undergo major
repaving work, with intermittent lane closures starting tonight and continuing
through Aug. 31, federal highway engineers have announced.

Repairs will be made between Alexandria and Interstate 395, and from Spout Run
Parkway north to the Capital Beltway.

Much of the work is planned for weekends, weather permitting. But officials
caution that motorists should expect delays.

Starting at 8 tonight, one northbound lane of the parkway between Spout Run and
the Beltway will be closed for up to four miles. The road will reopen completely
by 5 a.m. Monday.

Next week, rolling closures can be expected between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. on the
southbound side of that same stretch. Additional closures could take place
between 8 p.m. and 5 a.m.

Two Virginia cities were ranked among the nation's top 50 metropolitan areas for
best adapting to the new economy, a Washington-based think tank announced
yesterday.

Overall, Richmond ranked 27th in the nation, with 32.3 points out of a possible
100. Norfolk came in 44th, with 22.4 points, according to officials at the
Progressive Policy Institute, an arm of the Democratic Leadership Council.

"One of the reasons Richmond did well is a bit of an anomaly," said Rob D.
Atkinson, vice president and director of the institute's Technology and New
Economy Project and one of the authors of the index.

While the organization ranked Richmond third in the nation for its number of
manufacturing companies that export products, "it's principally tobacco and
cigarettes," Atkinson said.

Richmond was ranked seventh in workforce education and 44th in computer use in
schools, Atkinson said. Richmond, however, came in second-to-last for the number
of residents online.

Norfolk was ranked 17th in the nation for post-secondary education in the
workforce and 10th in the nation for its online population, Atkinson said. The
city ranked last for the percentage of jobs in fast-growing companies.

THE DISTRICT

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft has selected veteran prosecutor Kenneth L.
Wainstein to run the U.S. attorney's office in Washington on an interim basis
while the Bush administration searches for a permanent replacement for Wilma A.
Lewis.

Lewis steps down at midnight tonight, ending a three-year tenure. The president
selects U.S. attorneys, subject to Senate confirmation. Lewis, 44, who was
nominated by President Bill Clinton, said she will join the law firm of Crowell
& Moring.

Wainstein, 39, joined the U.S. attorney's office in 1992 and became Lewis's
principal assistant last fall. He is a former chief of the office's Superior
Court division and handled numerous high-profile criminal cases in federal and
local courts. They included the federal prosecution of Carl Derek Cooper, who
pleaded guilty last year to charges stemming from the killings of three
employees at a Starbucks coffee shop in 1997.

Wainstein will be sworn in by Chief U.S. District Judge Norma Holloway Johnson.

David A. Clark, a former postmaster for the District of Columbia, was named
yesterday as director of the D.C. Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.

The announcement by Mayor Anthony A. Williams (D) came seven months after the
previous director, Lloyd Jordan, resigned to work at a private firm. Clark, who
starts work Monday as acting director until council approval, will receive a
salary of $ 132,395.

Clark served as the postmaster of Washington from December 1992 to January 1999.
During his tenure as postmaster, he was credited with increasing customer
satisfaction ratings from 71 percent to 90 percent.

MARYLAND

In a symbolic vote taken yesterday by the local Fraternal Order of Police, 92
percent of Prince George's County officers who participated said they have no
confidence in Police Chief John S. Farrell, who took over the troubled
department nearly six years ago.

Of the 1,058 officers who cast ballots, 972 said they don't agree with Farrell's
leadership, union members said. More than 1,400 officers are on the force.

Many officers contend that Farrell doesn't support them, that he waits too long
before addressing the media after controversial incidents and that he rarely
takes blame when the department is at fault, according to union President John
"Rodney" Bartlett.

But Farrell said yesterday morning that the vote won't affect his management
style.

"In my years here, it has been my policy to make sure my door is always open,
and it has been open," he said. "My telephone and my pager have been for direct
communication with me. That was yesterday, that is today and that will be
tomorrow."

"It is like going back to the Roman Colosseum. I think that we're watching, in
my mind, an act of vengeance, and vengeance is never justified. Vengeance
belongs to God. . . . He's the master of life."

-- Cardinal Theodore E. McCarrick on the plan to let relatives of Oklahoma City
bombing victims watch a closed-circuit telecast of next month's execution of
Timothy McVeigh.  -- Page A4

Compiled from reports by staff writers Caryle Murphy, Marylou Tousignant, Bill
Miller, Jamie Stockwell and Carol D. Leonnig and the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              145 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 20, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

METRO;
In Brief

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1044 words


THE REGION

The Rockville-based Jewish Federation of Greater Washington has selected Misha
Galperin, a Russian immigrant who came to this country with the help of the
Jewish community, as its executive vice president.

Galperin, formerly chief operating officer at UJA-Federation of New York,
succeeds Ted B. Farber and is the first-ever Russian immigrant to head a Jewish
Federation branch.

"We were looking for a man with energy, with a passion and with a vision," said
federation President Diane S. Feinberg, head of the search committee that
selected Galperin. "He has all what we're looking for: Jewish Federation
experience, international experience and Judaic knowledge."

Galperin, who came to this country in 1976 from Odessa and trained as a
psychologist at New York University, said he will work to foster closer ties
among Washington Jews who make up a "very young community" that is
"geographically spread out."

THE DISTRICT

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft has selected veteran prosecutor Kenneth L.
Wainstein to run the U.S. attorney's office in Washington on an interim basis
while the Bush administration searches for a permanent replacement for Wilma A.
Lewis.

Lewis steps down at midnight tonight, ending a three-year tenure. The president
selects U.S. attorneys, subject to Senate confirmation. Lewis, 44, who was
nominated by President Bill Clinton, said she will join the law firm of Crowell
& Moring.

Wainstein, 39, joined the U.S. attorney's office in 1992 and became Lewis's
principal assistant last fall. He is a former chief of the office's Superior
Court division and handled numerous high-profile criminal cases in federal and
local courts. They included the federal prosecution of Carl Derek Cooper, who
pleaded guilty last year to charges stemming from the killings of three
employees at a Starbucks coffee shop in 1997.

Wainstein will be sworn in by Chief U.S. District Judge Norma Holloway Johnson.

David A. Clark, a former postmaster for the District of Columbia, was named
yesterday as director of the D.C. Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.

The announcement by Mayor Anthony A. Williams (D) came seven months after the
previous director, Lloyd Jordan, resigned to work at a private firm. Clark, who
starts work Monday as acting director until council approval, will receive a
salary of $ 132,395.

Clark served as the postmaster of Washington from December 1992 to January 1999.

He began his career with the U.S. Postal Service as a part-time letter carrier
in Arkansas City, Kan. During his tenure as postmaster, he was credited with
increasing customer satisfaction ratings from 71 percent to 90 percent.

The early front-runner for the job, Nabur Martinez, could not come to agreement
with the District on salary terms, according to city officials.

MARYLAND

In a symbolic vote yesterday by the local Fraternal Order of Police, 92 percent
of Prince George's County officers who participated said they have no confidence
in Police Chief John S. Farrell, who took over the troubled department nearly
six years ago.

Of the 1,058 officers who cast ballots, 972 said they don't agree with Farrell's
leadership, union members said. More than 1,400 officers are on the force.

Many officers contend that Farrell doesn't support them, that he waits too long
before addressing the media after controversial incidents and that he rarely
takes blame when the department is at fault, according to union President John
"Rodney" Bartlett.

But Farrell said yesterday morning that the vote won't affect his management
style.

"In my years here, it has been my policy to make sure my door is always open,
and it has been open," he said. "My telephone and my pager have been for direct
communication with me. That was yesterday, that is today and that will be
tomorrow."

Maryland's "Madonna of the Trail" is wanted up the road.

Cumberland officials hope to move a statue of a pioneer mother from its spot
outside Bethesda's post office, where it was placed in 1929, to Cumberland, 130
miles away, to symbolize their city's transportation history.

Bethesda officials say the statue stays put.

"Not in my lifetime," Bethesda Chamber of Commerce President Jack Alexander said
Wednesday.

"You all are welcome to come look at it," he said, "but you're not leaving with
our madonna."

The 18-foot cast stone memorial is one of 12 identical markers the National
Society of the Daughters the American Revolution erected in the late 1920s along
a coast-to-coast route approximating trails early settlers took west.

The route, from Washington to Los Angeles, includes parts of U.S. Route 40,
which runs through Cumberland. U.S. 40 evolved from the National Road, the first
federally funded highway and a key to Cumberland's tourism strategy.

"There is a madonna of the National Road," Cumberland City Administrator Jeff
Repp said. "Ours is in Bethesda."

VIRGINIA

Two sections of the George Washington Memorial Parkway are set to undergo major
repaving work, with intermittent lane closures starting tonight and continuing
through Aug. 31, federal highway engineers have announced.

Repairs will be made between Alexandria and Interstate 395, and from Spout Run
Parkway north to the Capital Beltway.

Much of the work is planned for weekends, weather permitting. But officials
caution that motorists should expect delays.

Starting at 8 tonight, one northbound lane of the parkway between Spout Run and
the Beltway will be closed for up to four miles. The road will reopen completely
by 5 a.m. Monday.

Next week, rolling closures can be expected between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. on the
southbound side of that same stretch. Additional closures could take place
between 8 p.m. and 5 a.m.

"It is like going back to the Roman Colosseum. I think that we're watching, in
my mind, an act of vengeance, and vengeance is never justified. Vengeance
belongs to God. . . . He's the master of life."

-- Cardinal Theodore E. McCarrick on the plan to let relatives of Oklahoma City
bombing victims watch a closed-circuit telecast of next month's execution of
Timothy McVeigh.  -- Page A4

Compiled from reports by staff writers Caryle Murphy, Bill Miller, Carol D.
Leonnig, Jamie Stockwell and Marylou Tousignant and the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              146 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 24, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Md. Family Ensnared In Immigration Maze;
After Changes in Law, Couple Faces Deportation

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1193 words


When the day finally came to pick up their green cards, Mayra and Juan Gonzalez
could not stop smiling.

Not when the official reviewing their records at the federal immigration office
in Baltimore abruptly called in a colleague. Not even when that colleague led
them through a door marked "Detention" and began quizzing them in rapid-fire
English that the Guatemalan couple found hard to follow.

"What is he saying?" Mayra Gonzalez asked an official who spoke Spanish.

His answer struck her like a thunderbolt: Because of changes in the law and a
crucial deadline missed, their immigration status had long ago changed from
legal to illegal. The couple had lived in the United States since 1985, had been
granted permission to work here 10 years ago and have four children who are U.S.
citizens born and raised in Maryland. Suddenly, the nanny and the carpenter were
subject to immediate deportation.

Juan Gonzalez, 35, was detained on the spot and is set to be deported next
Tuesday. Mayra Gonzalez, 37, was allowed to return to their Silver Spring home
to arrange for the care of their children, but she is scheduled for deportation
June 30.

The two are most troubled over their four children, ages 8 to 15. Leaving them
in the United States seems inconceivable. But taking them to Guatemala means
robbing them of opportunities the Gonzalezes have spent their lives working to
give them.

"It's like I'm having a nightmare," said Mayra Gonzalez, whose employers and
friends have helped hire a new lawyer to fight the deportation orders. "I can't
believe this is actually happening to us."

However, immigration lawyers say her family's predicament has become all too
common -- the result of immigration laws grown so complex over the past decade
that even experts have trouble deciphering them.

In the past 10 years, there have been at least eight major changes to
immigration law, each introducing a multiplicity of provisions that often target
specific nationalities, involve constantly changing filing deadlines and can be
counter-intuitive as well as retroactive.

"It has become increasingly complicated even for seasoned practitioners to know
exactly how all the new provisions intersect with each other, much less for
someone who doesn't have access to an attorney or to complete information," said
Kathy Doan, of the Central American Resource Center in the District.

Officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service conceded as much.

"Immigration law is a mystery and a mastery of obfuscation, and the lawyers who
can figure it out are worth their weight in gold," said INS spokeswoman Karen
Kraushaar.

As they feel their way through the maze, immigrants risk falling into
innumerable pitfalls. There are college students who lose their student visas
because they inadvertently take too few courses. There are longtime residents
who apply for citizenship only to be summarily deported for a minor offense
decades earlier.

Then there is the case of Mayra and Juan Gonzalez -- whose legal situation
changed four times in 16 years without their knowledge.

The two acknowledge entering the United States illegally in 1985, but they say
it was the only way to escape grinding poverty.

Mayra Gonzalez, who recalls eating little more than tortillas and salt as a
child, had left school at age 10 to work in a bakery. Juan Gonzalez never made
it past middle school. And so the couple left their 3-year-old son with Mayra
Gonzalez's mother and set off for a five-day hike through the Mexican desert
into Arizona. Mayra Gonzalez was seven months pregnant with their second child.

Hours after crossing the border, they were arrested by an immigration patrol and
locked up in a holding center.

About a month later, though, they were released after Mayra's brother in
Maryland paid a bond. The couple say they thought they were free to go, unaware
a deportation order was still in effect.

Six years later, the INS agreed to suspend the deportation orders of all
Guatemalans in the United States since 1990 to settle a class-action suit on
behalf of Guatemalans denied political asylum.

Juan Gonzalez signed up and received working papers.

The permit was handy, and the couple worked long hours -- he as construction
worker, she as a nanny. Still, they found it hard to support their family, much
less make enough money to return to live in Guatemala with the son they left
behind.

"I don't cry about it anymore like I did in the beginning," Mayra Gonzalez said
of the separation. "But as a parent, you really suffer inside."

Meanwhile, unbeknown to the Gonzalezes, the rules of the immigration game began
to change.

First, negotiators in the class-action suit agreed that Guatemalans must submit
formal asylum applications by 1995. Oblivious, the Gonzalezes did not, and their
deportation order was reinstated.

Then a new immigration act Congress passed in 1997 opened the door again,
allowing certain Guatemalans to become permanent residents if they could show
that returning to their native land would cause extreme hardship.

But those with deportation orders needed to apply by September 1998. Once again,
the Gonzalezes were unaware of the deadline.

"I've personally come across more than a hundred people who missed the
deadline," Robert Foss, of the Central American Resource Center in Los Angeles,
who calls it a nationwide problem.

Such people get little sympathy from Dan Stein, of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, a group advocating for immigration limits.

"It's difficult to understand what our obligation is to people who just keep
missing deadlines or blowing their opportunities," he said.

Foss counters that families such as the Gonzalezes had little reason to suspect
that they had outstanding deportation orders. "Once people get a work permit,
they think they're fine with the government."

And the Gonzalez family even had a lawyer at the time. But instead of using the
1997 law, she helped them apply for residency under the sponsorship of the
construction company that employs Juan Gonzalez.

Now Mayra Gonzalez takes comfort in the support she has received from her
community -- her friends and family, her children's teachers, the parents of the
children she looks after and of her children's schoolmates.

All have written to Congress and the INS vouching for the family's character and
strong work ethic, brought food to the house and donated money to pay a new
attorney, Jose Pertierra.

Pertierra has lobbied several Congress members to introduce legislation to help
the Gonzalez family and others in their situation. And he is arguing that the
INS should waive the 1998 deadline. So far, he has only persuaded the agency to
released Juan Gonzalez from detention and to extend his deportation date to next
Tuesday. Mayra Gonzalez's has been extended to June 30.

The couple are grappling with whether to take their children with them if they
are forced to return.

Mayra Gonzalez cannot decide.

"I want to fight this until the last possible moment -- even it means getting on
my knees and begging the most important officials in the INS to realize they are
destroying a family," she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              147 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 25, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrating In, Settling Out;
Study Finds Half of '90s Legal Arrivals Live Beyond Beltway

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1342 words


Nearly half of the legal immigrants arriving in the Washington area in the 1990s
settled outside the Capital Beltway, putting Washington in the vanguard of
cities where immigration is creating melting-pot suburbs rather than urban
Chinatowns or Little Italys, a major new study has found.

The study, to be released today by the Brookings Institution, underlines the
capital region's transformation into a prime destination for immigrants,
concluding that nearly a quarter-million arrived in the area legally from 1990
to 1998. In 1998, only New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Miami were more
popular among new legal immigrants.

No single country of origin dominated the flow. Washington represents a new kind
of immigrant hub, both because of the "rainbow effect" -- people came from 193
countries and territories -- and because of the newcomers' dispersal, the study
found.

"In terms of the [immigrant] flow of the '90s, nobody else looks like this"
among major American cities, said Audrey Singer, a social demographer at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, who wrote the report with scholars
from George Washington University.

The report is in line with recent census figures showing that the region's
growth has been powered by its increasing black, Hispanic and Asian populations.
But the census numbers were broad racial and ethnic categories and included
U.S.-born minorities. The Brookings study offers a far more finely drawn
portrait of recent immigrants.

It presents the Washington area as an extreme example of a new phenomenon: In
the 1990s, 87 percent of the more than 240,000 legal immigrants who came to the
area headed to the suburbs rather than to the District.

Drawn by jobs, good schools and recommendations from relatives and friends,
people such as Prasanthi Tipperaju are shunning the tradition in which U.S.
immigrants have first headed to ethnic enclaves.

"It's a nice place to live," said Tipperaju, a native of India who moved to
Gaithersburg in 1991 to be near her job as a biochemist in Frederick and her
husband's NASA job in Greenbelt. "People are friendly. If you're friendly to
them, they're friendly to you. It doesn't have to be your own community."

In the allure of its suburbs, Washington is remarkable, even compared with other
"new immigration" cities. In Miami, about half of new immigrants choose the
suburbs; in Houston, about one-quarter do, said Samantha Friedman, a sociologist
and co-author of the study.

Not only do Washington's new immigrants prefer the suburbs, but 46 percent of
those who arrived legally from 1990 to 1998 moved to communities outside the
Beltway, the study found.

Many of those immigrants were following the money -- work opportunities ranging
from high-tech jobs in office parks to employment as gardeners at grassy housing
developments.

Jay Li, 30, a Chinese computer scientist, had never even heard of Northern
Virginia's high-tech corridor before he got a master's degree at the University
of Michigan in 1998. Then he moved to Reston for a job at a consulting firm.

"People say this is a good, booming area for high tech," Li said.

Other newcomers follow friends or relatives who have settled in the outer
suburbs. At Olde Towne International Grocery in downtown Gaithersburg,
shopkeepers Ben and Esperanza Aggrey see fresh arrivals from the Philippines
just about every week.

"About 15 or 20 years ago, the homes here were priced a little lower than the
ones closer to the Beltway. A few [Filipinos] moved up here and told everybody
else," explained Ben Aggrey, a Ghanaian whose wife is a Filipino.

Gaithersburg's 19th-century downtown offers a glimpse of how the outer suburbs
are being transformed. The "Olde Towne" of red-brick buildings with shingled
eaves includes four antique stores, a gourmet coffee shop and a microbrewery
restaurant.

But Gaithersburg Antiques sits next to Libreria Diamante, a Spanish-language
bookstore. And a shopper poking in Olde Towne's grocery stores finds pinatas,
Thai jasmine rice and 17 varieties of dried chili peppers. At Gaithersburg
Elementary School down the street, students from 53 countries are learning their
ABCs.

The Brookings report found immigrants scattering into nearly every Zip code in
the Washington area. For example, Salvadoran immigrants who arrived legally in
the 1990s moved to 185 of the 258 metropolitan area Zip codes -- and 62 Zip
codes had more than 100 Salvadorans each. Recent Indian immigrants appeared in
174 Zip codes, with 51 of them having more than 100 Indians each.

Such dispersal of immigrants raises fundamental questions about assimilation and
local services. How do immigrants living in far-flung suburban neighborhoods
maintain their cultural identity? And how can institutions help immigrants whose
home countries range from Afghanistan to Zaire?

Gaithersburg offers some clues about how the new suburban immigrants adapt.

Here, no one bowls alone. There are the Vietnamese-language Boy Scouts, the
Muslim girls' basketball group, the East Central American Soccer League. Still
more activities revolve around ethnic associations or local churches and the
mosque. And there are regional media, from Amharic-language radio to
Spanish-language newspapers.

Ethnic activities, in other words, are alive and well in Gaithersburg and
adjoining towns. You just have to drive to them, as you do to most everything
else in the suburbs.

In Gaithersburg, as in many Washington suburbs, few major tensions seem to have
arisen as the quiet dairy-farming town has evolved into a polyglot community of
nearly 53,000. That may be because Montgomery County, one of the wealthiest
counties in the country, has the resources to offer extensive English as a
Second Language programs in the schools.

It may also be because many immigrants blend in. Gaithersburg turned up on the
list of top 10 immigrant Zip codes in the Washington area in the Brookings
study, a result largely of the influx of immigrants from India, China, Taiwan
and Iran. That was news to local officials.

"I didn't realize we were up to 14 percent Asian," said Fred Felton, the
assistant city manager, as he pulled out a chart with the recent census data.
"That surprises me. They absolutely don't cluster."

The biggest source of immigrants to the United States is Latin America. But 42
percent of the Washington area immigrants covered by the Brookings study came
from Asia, including the Middle East, compared with 31.5 percent from Latin
America and the Caribbean and 16.2 percent from Africa.

In addition to its strong economy, the Washington area drew immigrants in the
1990s because of its international institutions, the District's status as the
nation's capital and nonprofit groups' sponsorship of refugees.

Those factors also help explain the tremendous expansion of the area's
foreign-born population during the past three decades -- from 1 in 22 residents
in 1970 to about 1 in 6 today, or a total of about 750,000 people.

The Brookings study includes only people who moved directly to the Washington
area with valid immigrant visas, or changed to legal permanent residents from a
temporary status such as refugee or student. It doesn't tally illegal immigrants
or many who moved here from other U.S. cities. But the study's authors say their
report covers the majority of the foreign-born residents who settled here during
the 1990s.

Figures from another source, the Census Bureau's Current Population Survey, show
that a greater share of foreign-born residents than U.S.-born residents live in
communities beyond the District, Alexandria and Arlington. This pattern is
especially true for immigrants from Asia and South America, according to figures
compiled by Jeffrey Passel, of the Urban Institute.

The census survey data also indicate that the large influx of Asians is not a
new phenomenon. They show that people from Asian countries outnumber those from
Latin America and the Caribbean among all foreign-born people in the Washington
area, including undocumented immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              148 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 26, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Outside Beltway, a New World;
As Immigrants Surge Into Suburbs, Areas Struggle With Change

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1124 words


The small town of Herndon is a world away from the dense immigrant enclaves that
have burgeoned in and around major U.S. cities with each new wave from abroad.

Its tidy town center boasts historic Victorian homes. Residents annually
re-enact the 1863 Confederate raid on its train station. The town has prospered
enough with the high-tech boom -- median annual household income is $ 90,000,
according to the market research firm Claritas -- to boast a Starbucks, an
Internet bar and its own spate of McMansion development 15 miles west of
Washington.

It has also become an important destination for immigrants. Today, more than one
in four of Herndon's 22,000 residents are Hispanic, according to new census
data, up from fewer than one in 10 in 1990. Herndon's decade reflects the
findings of a Brookings Institution study released yesterday: that nearly half
of the legal immigrants who came to the Washington area in the 1990s settled
outside the Capital Beltway.

Like other outlying areas hit with a burst of immigration, Herndon is grappling
for the first time with such swift demographic change. While the newcomers have
been welcomed by service employers, the assimilation of thousands of people with
limited income and English skills has been accompanied by tension.

"Large cultural shifts do not happen without incident," said Eileen D. Curtis,
president of the Herndon Dulles Chamber of Commerce. "This is a fragile time."

Indeed, disagreements have erupted with enough frequency -- most of them over
homes crowded with immigrants and a day-labor pool that congregates on the
town's main street -- that earlier this month mediators were hired to initiate
community discussions about residents' concerns.

"The purpose . . . is to air all sides of the issues," Mayor Thomas Davis Rust
said of the town's latest effort to confront change.

Two years ago, in an attempt to defuse disputes over crowded or ill-kept homes,
the Neighborhood Resource Center opened to educate residents on trash, occupancy
and other regulations and provide services such as tutoring. The town also added
a part-time zoning staffer to monitor complaints about crowding.

Its Hispanic Task Force evolved into Vecinos Unidos, Neighbors United, a
volunteer group that runs a homework assistance program and sponsors soccer
teams. "The parents are sometimes working two to three jobs and face a language
barrier," said Robin Runser, a volunteer and former board member with Vecinos
Unidos. "We are there to give the children a hand in successfully integrating
into the schools and the community."

And the town has sent 19 of its 49 sworn police officers to a weeklong course
that teaches them enough Spanish to help with traffic stops and victim
interviews.

Although none of Herndon's six council members is Hispanic, Rust said, "the
council and I are very much aware of the rising Hispanic population. We have
attempted over the last 10 years to provide opportunities" for assimilation.

The changes in Herndon foreshadow what many other suburban communities may soon
face, demographers say.

"The suburbs have replaced Ellis Island and inner-city factories as a key entry
point for new immigrants," said Pierrette Hondagneu-Sotelo, a professor at the
University of Southern California who has studied Hispanic immigration. "The new
economy relies not only on high-tech workers but also on an army of nannies,
gardeners, cleaners, cooks, painters."

In more than three dozen interviews, Hispanic immigrants reported a wide array
of jobs, many of them in construction and the service sector: hotels,
restaurants, landscaping and cleaning businesses.

Some had become owners of small construction, landscaping and cleaning
companies.

The service economy around Herndon is what attracted Jesus Carrillo, 20, who
came from El Salvador and quickly found a job cutting grass. "I came here for
the work," he said in Spanish one day during a break in his English classes at
the neighborhood resource center.

The town's central flash point is the 7-Eleven on Elden Street, where dozens of
Spanish-speaking men collect each weekday to seek day jobs, often in
construction, at $ 7 to $ 8 an hour. Critics find their collective presence
unsettling -- some women have complained of catcalls, for example -- and say it
gives the town a bad image.

"We are here trying to get jobs, not cause problems," Ramon Perez, 43, said as
he waited recently outside the 7-Eleven, where a security guard kept shooing the
men onto the public sidewalk. "You don't get up at 6 in the morning to have a
party here."

Perez, his wife and another couple share a $ 1,220-a-month apartment in Herndon.
For the most part, the neighbors have been understanding, he said, perhaps
recognizing that this new workforce is vital to the economy.

"If all the immigrants here today went home, this country would be in trouble,"
Perez said.

But not everyone accepts the doubling and tripling up that immigrants often
resort to in order to afford the area's high cost of living. Friction over
crowding has been felt in several Herndon neighborhoods, and the phone lines at
Town Hall regularly light up with complaints about too many people under one
roof, too many parked cars or too much noise or trash.

Earlier this year, the owners of a four-bedroom house on Sunrise Court were
fined $ 100 for exceeding the maximum occupancy of 12. Town officials said about
18 immigrants were living there.

Owner Jose Serpas, a 28-year-old construction worker, said members of his
extended family were staying with him temporarily, helping with his mortgage
payment. Although he agreed not to exceed the occupancy limit again, Serpas
said, he resented his neighbors' meddling. "All I want to do is have my house
like other people," he said. "But they're always looking at me."

Neighbors who had complained declined to be interviewed.

Ana Rochac, a Salvadoran immigrant who runs a travel agency in Herndon,
acknowledged that the complaints are sometimes valid, but said that rather than
"snooping into people's lives," officials should do more to educate new
arrivals.

"Most immigrants would be more than willing to live by the rules -- as long as
they knew" what they were, she said. Back home, "the rules were different. They
are not used to being told what to do in their own houses. They should be
educated, not punished."

Herndon officials say they are trying: Offenders are warned first and fined only
as a last resort.

Rochac, who came to Herndon in 1989, said the town will succeed only when it
addresses immigration as an opportunity, not a problem. "What the town needs to
do is build a bridge between the two cultures," she said. "It could be a very
positive thing -- the town could be enriched."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              149 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 26, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Outside Beltway, a New World;
As Immigrants Surge Into Suburbs, Herndon Struggles With Change

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1124 words


The small town of Herndon is a world away from the dense immigrant enclaves that
have burgeoned in and around major U.S. cities with each new wave from abroad.

Its tidy town center boasts historic Victorian homes. Residents annually
re-enact the 1863 Confederate raid on its train station. The town has prospered
enough with the high-tech boom -- median annual household income is $ 90,000,
according to the market research firm Claritas -- to boast a Starbucks, an
Internet bar and its own spate of McMansion development 15 miles west of
Washington.

It has also become an important destination for immigrants. Today, more than one
in four of Herndon's 22,000 residents are Hispanic, according to new census
data, up from fewer than one in 10 in 1990. Herndon's decade reflects the
findings of a Brookings Institution study released yesterday: that nearly half
of the legal immigrants who came to the Washington area in the 1990s settled
outside the Capital Beltway.

Like other outlying areas hit with a burst of immigration, Herndon is grappling
for the first time with such swift demographic change. While the newcomers have
been welcomed by service employers, the assimilation of thousands of people with
limited income and English skills has been accompanied by tension.

"Large cultural shifts do not happen without incident," said Eileen D. Curtis,
president of the Herndon Dulles Chamber of Commerce. "This is a fragile time."

Indeed, disagreements have erupted with enough frequency -- most of them over
homes crowded with immigrants and a day-labor pool that congregates on the
town's main street -- that earlier this month mediators were hired to initiate
community discussions about residents' concerns.

"The purpose . . . is to air all sides of the issues," Mayor Thomas Davis Rust
said of the town's latest effort to confront change.

Two years ago, in an attempt to defuse disputes over crowded or ill-kept homes,
the Neighborhood Resource Center opened to educate residents on trash, occupancy
and other regulations and provide services such as tutoring. The town also added
a part-time zoning staffer to monitor complaints about crowding.

Its Hispanic Task Force evolved into Vecinos Unidos, Neighbors United, a
volunteer group that runs a homework assistance program and sponsors soccer
teams. "The parents are sometimes working two to three jobs and face a language
barrier," said Robin Runser, a volunteer and former board member with Vecinos
Unidos. "We are there to give the children a hand in successfully integrating
into the schools and the community."

And the town has sent 19 of its 49 sworn police officers to a weeklong course
that teaches them enough Spanish to help with traffic stops and victim
interviews.

Although none of Herndon's six council members is Hispanic, Rust said, "the
council and I are very much aware of the rising Hispanic population. We have
attempted over the last 10 years to provide opportunities" for assimilation.

The changes in Herndon foreshadow what many other suburban communities may soon
face, demographers say.

"The suburbs have replaced Ellis Island and inner-city factories as a key entry
point for new immigrants," said Pierrette Hondagneu-Sotelo, a professor at the
University of Southern California who has studied Hispanic immigration. "The new
economy relies not only on high-tech workers but also on an army of nannies,
gardeners, cleaners, cooks, painters."

In more than three dozen interviews, Hispanic immigrants reported a wide array
of jobs, many of them in construction and the service sector: hotels,
restaurants, landscaping and cleaning businesses. Some had become owners of
small construction, landscaping and cleaning companies.

The service economy around Herndon is what attracted Jesus Carrillo, 20, who
came from El Salvador and quickly found a job cutting grass. "I came here for
the work," he said in Spanish one day during a break in his English classes at
the neighborhood resource center.

The town's central flash point is the 7-Eleven on Elden Street, where dozens of
Spanish-speaking men collect each weekday to seek day jobs, often in
construction, at $ 7 to $ 8 an hour. Critics find their collective presence
unsettling -- some women have complained of catcalls, for example -- and say it
gives the town a bad image.

"We are here trying to get jobs, not cause problems," Ramon Perez, 43, said as
he waited recently outside the 7-Eleven, where a security guard kept shooing the
men onto the public sidewalk. "You don't get up at 6 in the morning to have a
party here."

Perez, his wife and another couple share a $ 1,220-a-month apartment in Herndon.
For the most part, the neighbors have been understanding, he said, perhaps
recognizing that this new workforce is vital to the economy.

"If all the immigrants here today went home, this country would be in trouble,"
Perez said.

But not everyone accepts the doubling and tripling up that immigrants often
resort to in order to afford the area's high cost of living. Friction over
crowding has been felt in several Herndon neighborhoods, and the phone lines at
Town Hall regularly light up with complaints about too many people under one
roof, too many parked cars or too much noise or trash.

Earlier this year, the owners of a four-bedroom house on Sunrise Court were
fined $ 100 for exceeding the maximum occupancy of 12. Town officials said about
18 immigrants were living there.

Owner Jose Serpas, a 28-year-old construction worker, said members of his
extended family were staying with him temporarily, helping with his mortgage
payment. Although he agreed not to exceed the occupancy limit again, Serpas
said, he resented his neighbors' meddling. "All I want to do is have my house
like other people," he said. "But they're always looking at me."

Neighbors who had complained declined to be interviewed.

Ana Rochac, a Salvadoran immigrant who runs a travel agency in Herndon,
acknowledged that the complaints are sometimes valid, but said that rather than
"snooping into people's lives," officials should do more to educate new
arrivals.

"Most immigrants would be more than willing to live by the rules -- as long as
they knew" what they were, she said. Back home, "the rules were different. They
are not used to being told what to do in their own houses. They should be
educated, not punished."

Herndon officials say they are trying: Offenders are warned first and fined only
as a last resort.

Rochac, who came to Herndon in 1989, said the town will succeed only when it
addresses immigration as an opportunity, not a problem. "What the town needs to
do is build a bridge between the two cultures," she said. "It could be a very
positive thing -- the town could be enriched."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              150 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 28, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

METRO;
In Brief

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 947 words


THE REGION

The regional office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service will stay open
until midnight Monday to handle an expected crush of last-minute applications
from people seeking to take advantage of an immigration program that expires
that day.

The program, known as Section 245(i), has provided a four-month window for
undocumented immigrants to request green cards here, with a $ 1,000 fine, rather
than travel to their homelands to do the paperwork.

Applicants must have a relative or employer as a sponsor, and the requests must
be filed or postmarked by midnight Monday.

Ernestine Fobbs, public information officer for the INS in the District, said
there has already been "a significant increase in applications this year" for
permanent residency visas.

The D.C. area office, which covers the District and Northern Virginia, is at
4420 N. Fairfax Dr., Arlington. Fobbs said applications from Maryland residents
will be accepted at that office and at the INS office at 100 S. Charles St. in
Baltimore.

More information about the program is available through the agency's toll-free
customer service number, 1-800-375-5283.

VIRGINIA

The Fairfax County School Board on Thursday unanimously endorsed a record $
377.9 million list of school construction projects to appear on the Nov. 6
ballot.

The list also requires the approval of the county's Board of Supervisors.

The construction, renovation and repair projects should ease crowding in the
school district, which grows by 4,000 students a year, and would also improve
buildings that are old and dilapidated.

The bond referendum also includes $ 22 million to upgrade the school's
technology infrastructure, especially wiring.

THE DISTRICT

The District mailed property assessment notices to about 36,000 owners yesterday
for the 2002 tax year and advised residents in pricey neighborhoods to brace for
sticker shock.

"There are a few very desirable areas, or hot markets, where increases in
assessments reflect a surge in real estate market activity," said D.C. Deputy
Chief Financial Officer Herbert J. Huff.

Values in Cleveland Park jumped 46 percent, but most neighborhoods grew
modestly. The D.C. property tax rate of 96 cents per $ 100 of assessed value
remains the region's lowest.

The D.C. Office of Tax and Revenue has set up a hot line for resident queries as
the city shifts from triennial to annual assessments: 202-727-9138.

The Downtown Cluster of Congregations yesterday urged Mayor Anthony A. Williams
(D) to reverse a decision to block construction of a shelter for homeless women
at the eastern edge of downtown.

Officials called off the project after they realized luxury apartments are
planned on both sides of the historic firehouse at 438 Massachusetts Ave. NW.

"Housing downtown can and should mean housing for the homeless, poor and needy
as well as housing for those of greater means," wrote Terrance J. Lynch,
executive director of the 37-member association. He added that city officials
have displayed "an unacceptable attitude."

Eric W. Price, the city's deputy mayor for economic development, has apologized
for miscommunication among community development officials and has promised to
find another space for the shelter.

A Howard University classroom building was evacuated yesterday after a chemical
spill in a cleaning mishap caused a janitor to lose consciousness.

University spokeswoman Donna Brock said the accident happened when someone left
a box used to collect broken glass on the floor of the chemistry building.

A custodian was cleaning the area when water from his mop activated ammonia
residue on the glass.

A student found the man unconscious, but the man had come to by the time rescue
workers arrived. He was treated at the university hospital for exposure to a
"mild acidic," Brock said. She said that fire officials evacuated the building
as a precaution.

The D.C. Historic Preservation Review Board voted unanimously Thursday to
designate a 104-year-old house in the Forest Hills area of Northwest a historic
landmark, effectively blocking a Jewish school from razing it for a new school.

"It's a big victory for the neighborhood," said Gary Stevens, president of the
Forest Hills Neighborhood Alliance, which has been fighting the plans by the
Jewish Primary Day School of the Nation's Capital.

The school purchased the house, called the Owl's Nest, and 2.1 adjoining acres
this year. Margaret Hahn, the school's president, said the school is evaluating
its options.

MARYLAND

MARC commuter rail service will resume Monday on the Brunswick Line, Maryland
transportation officials announced yesterday.

The line has been out of commission since a CSX freight train derailed Tuesday
night. Freight and Amtrak service have resumed, but MARC decided to wait until
the two tracks were completely repaired.

For three days this week, the 5,000 commuters who use the Brunswick Line daily
between Martinsburg, W.Va., and Union Station in the District rode shuttle buses
between the Brunswick, Point of Rocks and Germantown MARC stations and the Shady
Grove Metro station.

"Metro is too important to the local region. [Rep. Don Young, of Alaska] thinks
the situation has gotten ridiculous, and he just wants to solve a problem that
he sees in a manner acceptable to everyone."

-- Steve Hansen, spokesman for the House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee, on efforts to defuse the controversy over whether to rename the Metro
station at Reagan National Airport for the former president.  -- Page A1

Compiled from reports by Mary Beth Sheridan, Liz Seymour, Spencer S. Hsu, Sewell
Chan, Amy Argetsinger and Caryle Murphy and the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              151 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 28, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Green-Card Offer Ends Monday

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 127 words


The regional office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service will stay open
until midnight Monday to handle an expected crush of last-minute applications
from people seeking to take advantage of an immigration program that expires
that day.

The program, Section 245(i), has provided a four-month window for undocumented
immigrants to request green cards here, with a $ 1,000 fine.

Applicants must have a relative or employer as a sponsor, and the requests must
be filed or postmarked by midnight Monday.

The D.C. area office is at 4420 N. Fairfax Dr., Arlington. Applications from
Maryland residents will be accepted at that office and at the INS office in
Baltimore, at 100 S. Charles St. More information about the program is available
at 1-800-375-5283.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              152 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 29, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

METRO;
In Brief

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 956 words


THE REGION

The regional office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service will stay open
until midnight Monday to handle an expected rush of last-minute applications
from people seeking to take advantage of an immigration program that will expire
that day.

The program, known as Section 245 (i), has provided a four-month window for
undocumented immigrants to request green cards here, with a $ 1,000 fine, rather
than travel to their homelands to do the paperwork. Applicants must have a
relative or employer as a sponsor, and the requests must be filed or postmarked
by midnight Monday.

Ernestine Fobbs, public information officer for the INS in the District, said
there has been "a significant increase in applications this year" for permanent
residency visas.

The D.C. area office, which covers the District and Northern Virginia, is at
4420 N. Fairfax Dr., Arlington. Fobbs said applications from Maryland residents
will be accepted at that office and at the INS office in Baltimore, at 100 S.
Charles St. More information about the program is available through the agency's
toll-free customer service number, 1-800-375-5283.

MARYLAND

Mike Tyson's wife, two of their children and her parents escaped injury Friday
night after a fire heavily damaged a house owned by the heavyweight boxer, a
spokesman said.

The fire caused an estimated $ 1.5 million damage to Tyson's house in the 8300
block of Persimmon Tree Road in Potomac, said Pete Piringer, a Montgomery County
fire department spokesman.

Tysonm who was training in Las Vegas, issued a statement through spokesman Adam
Grant in New York.

"My wife and my family were safely evacuated from our home," Tyson said in the
statement. "We are very blessed and thankful that there were no injuries
associated with this incident. I look forward to reuniting with them soon."

The two-alarm fire began at 6:30 p.m. and was fought by 80 firefighters, another
department spokesman said. It took 30 to 45 minutes to put out the blaze.

One firefighter injured his finger, and another suffered chest pains. Both were
taken to Suburban Hospital.

In his statement, Tyson thanked the fire department and law enforcement
officials for their quick response and the help they provided to his family.

The cause of the blaze was under investigation.

MARC commuter rail service will resume Monday on the Brunswick Line, Maryland
transportation officials announced.

The line has been out of commission since a CSX freight train derailed Tuesday
night. Freight and Amtrak service have resumed, but MARC decided to wait until
the two tracks were completely repaired.

For three days this week, the 5,000 commuters who use the Brunswick Line between
Martinsburg, W.Va., and Union Station in the District rode shuttle buses between
the Brunswick, Point of Rocks and Germantown MARC stations and the Shady Grove
Metro station.

THE DISTRICT

The D.C. Historic Preservation Review Board voted unanimously Thursday to
designate a 104-year-old home in the Northwest area of Forest Hills a landmark,
effectively blocking a Jewish school from razing the property to build a school.

"It's a big victory for the neighborhood," said Gary Stevens, president of the
Forest Hills Neighborhood Alliance, which has been fighting construction of a
building by the Jewish Primary Day School of the Nation's Capitol.

Said Margaret Hahn, president of the school, "We are currently evaluating our
options, in light of this development, and our rights as property owners, to
determine how best to proceed with our plans to build a school on the property."

The school purchased the home, called the Owl's Nest, and an adjoining 2.1 acres
this year.

VIRGINIA

An inmate died in her cell at the Virginia Beach city jail early Thursday, hours
before she was scheduled to see a medical specialist for the condition that led
to her death, sheriff's spokeswoman Paula Miller said.

Kathy Kearns, 43, was pronounced dead at 4:35 a.m.

Preliminary autopsy reports indicate that she died from a chronic condition, but
Miller said she was prevented by law from disclosing the condition.

Kearns had served nearly 13 months of a 14-month sentence for a felony
conspiracy conviction for failure to appear, driving under the influence and
driving on a revoked license.

She is the first person to die at the jail since 1998, Miller said.

Another curiously strong mint-flavored product will soon hit the market, but
this one delivers more than a breath-freshening burst of flavor.

Ariva, a lozenge consisting mostly of powdered tobacco, can provide a jolt of
nicotine to users anywhere where smoking is prohibited.

Star Scientific Inc., a tobacco company based in Chester, Va., plans to
test-market the product beginning in late summer or early fall in Richmond and
Dallas. A box of 20 lozenges will sell for about $ 3 -- about the price of a
pack of 20 cigarettes.

Paul L. Perito, the company's chairman, said Ariva is for "adult smokers who
want an alternative to cigarettes in the many smoke-free environments they
confront on a daily basis."

Star Scientific, which aims to develop less toxic tobacco products, calls the
lozenges "cigaletts," company spokeswoman Sara T. Machir said Friday.

"There are some cultures, Latino cultures, where school personnel are perceived
as doctors. And if a doctor said it, that was it. So they think, 'What do I have
to offer?' For many of them, that has to be something that is learned."

-- August Bullock, supervisor of multicultural education at Dale City
Elementary, about the school's year-long effort to get parents more involved in
their children's education. -- Page C1

Compiled from reports by staff writers Mary Beth Sheridan and Caryle Murphy and
the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              153 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 1, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Rush for Residency;
Immigrants Flood INS as Special Program Ends

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and Christine Haughney, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1028 words


Tens of thousands of undocumented foreigners packed U.S. immigration centers,
besieged lawyers' offices and said "I do" in assembly-line weddings yesterday as
they scrambled to apply for residency under a special program that expired at
midnight.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service kept many of its offices open until
the last minute to handle the record crush. Still, many immigrants missed the
deadline because overwhelmed lawyers could not give them appointments to help
them with the necessary paperwork, immigrant advocates said.

Several members of Congress and a key U.S. Catholic bishop called in vain for an
extension of the program, which gave illegal immigrants a four-month window to
apply for residency without first having to leave the United States.

"The deadline must be extended," insisted Bishop Nicholas DiMarzio of Camden,
N.J., chairman of the U.S. Catholic Bishops' Migration Committee, which
organized efforts to help immigrants fill out the forms. "Our programs have been
unable to meet the demand for services."

Like many immigration offices across the country, the Washington area INS center
on North Fairfax Drive in Arlington opened its doors yesterday to a line snaking
around the building. Throughout the day, the office was a tableau of desperation
and confusion.

Santos Hernandez, a Mexican landscape worker, had driven to Arlington from North
Carolina after discovering that he was required to pass a physical -- and that
all the INS-approved doctors in his area were too booked to give him one.

After waiting in line for several hours yesterday, Hernandez and his brother
stared blankly as a frazzled immigration officer demanded in English to know
what they wanted.

"We came for the program that expires today. Everyone talks about this,"
Hernandez murmured in Spanish, clutching a tan envelope of tattered documents.
But his quest would end in failure an hour later.

Just a few miles away, the D.C. Department of Employment Services took
applications from immigrants being sponsored by businesses in the area. "This is
the busiest we've ever seen it," supervisor Dorothy Robinson said. She said her
office alone was on track to receive at least 1,000 applications by midnight --
as many as it usually receives in a year.

Usually, undocumented immigrants seeking U.S. residency must apply at the U.S.
consulate in their native land. But in December, Congress passed the special
measure that allowed them to apply while still in the United States, as long as
they did so by April 30 and paid a $ 1,000 penalty. The change was important
because most illegal immigrants are barred from returning, for a period of three
to 10 years, if they leave the United States.

INS officials estimated that 640,000 illegal immigrants nationwide would apply
for residency under the measure, which required that the immigrant be sponsored
by an employer or a close family member.

The lines didn't form just at INS offices. Across the country, couples rushed to
get married so that one spouse -- the legal U.S. resident -- could sponsor the
other.

In New York, couples had gathered as early as 2 a.m. in recent weeks to secure
one of the 700 daily passes for weddings at the Manhattan municipal building,
said Denise Collins, spokeswoman for the Department of Citywide Administrative
Services. The number of marriage ceremonies and licenses citywide was twice as
high on Friday as for the same date last year, according to city clerk Carlos
Cuevas.

Yesterday, Lynda Rosado lined up at 4 a.m. for one of the passes, finally tying
the knot after nine years of dating Bernardino Hernandez, an undocumented
Mexican immigrant. Around her, couples exchanged sweet nothings in English,
Spanish and Cantonese. Vendors hawked $ 20 bouquets and cardboard "you and me
forever" frames.

But Rosado quickly got down to business. "We'll celebrate later," she said after
the brief wedding ceremony. "Now we're going straight to a lawyer."

Not everyone was lucky enough to get into a lawyer's office, however. Many
lawyers were booked solid weeks ago, said Judy Golub, a lobbyist for the
American Immigration Lawyers' Association. Although a lawyer's assistance was
not required, many immigrants needed help filling out the complex forms.

Because such problems caused some immigrants to miss the deadline, several U.S.
legislators have submitted bills to extend the special measure, known as Section
245(i). But they have been unsuccessful.

In an effort to avoid a last-minute crush, immigrant aid groups such as the
Spanish Catholic Center in Gaithersburg worked frantically to spread the word
about the program and make appointments for people who needed help with
applications.

One recent Friday night, Celia Rivas, the immigration services coordinator,
started appointments to work on immigrant applications at 6:30 p.m. She was so
swamped she finished 24 hours later.

"I wanted to avoid April 30 being the day everyone came for services," she said.

Still, many immigrants didn't find out about the measure until the last few days
or were confused by it.

Hernandez, the Mexican landscaper, thought he could just drop off his documents
at the Arlington INS office. But he needed to fill out special forms. So he went
to the car and returned with his longtime American girlfriend, Renee Garland,
33. Nearly three hours after they had arrived at the INS office, with their two
small children in tow, the couple made it to the front of the documents line.

It was a short-lived victory.

"He's your boyfriend?" the officer asked Garland, who nodded yes. "When you
gonna get married?" the officer asked.

Garland suggested that her boyfriend could be sponsored by his employer. But the
landscaper had simply typed a one-paragraph letter verifying that Hernandez
worked for him.

"Where's the form from his boss?" the immigration officer asked. Garland,
crestfallen, acknowledged that she didn't know he needed one. And Hernandez
wasn't about to get married yesterday. Garland slunk away from the line, hitting
a seemingly insurmountable roadblock on the road to her boyfriend's citizenship.

"I don't know what I'm going to do," she sighed.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              154 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 6, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bush: Respect Mexican Immigrants;
President and Responding Democrats Broadcast in Spanish

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 407 words


President Bush called for greater respect for legal immigrants from Mexico
yesterday, declaring in his weekly radio address that his administration is
committed to a "welcoming spirit."

His address and the Democratic response were recorded in English and Spanish in
honor of Cinco de Mayo, a Mexican holiday. Some strategists in both parties say
Spanish-speaking voters, who voted heavily Democratic in the last presidential
race but are being aggressively courted by Republicans, could decide the 2004
presidential election.

Bush said legal immigrants "have an equal place in the American story" and
"their culture and contribution must be treated with respect."

"In the United States, I'm happy to say, we're putting old fears and quarrels
behind us," Bush said. "We know that we must protect the integrity of our
border, yet we understand how that border can be viewed from the other side, as
the gateway to better wages and a better life."

Democrats released two responses. Terence McAuliffe, chairman of the Democratic
National Committee, said the party will push to modernize voting machines and
electoral procedures. "We owe it to the civil rights foot soldiers who marched
from Selma to Montgomery," he said. Last week, the party announced an $ 80,000
Spanish-language television ad campaign.

For some Spanish-language stations, House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt
(D-Mo.) responded along with Rep. Silvestre Reyes (D-Tex.), chairman of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Gephardt said it was the first in a series of
weekly radio addresses in Spanish by House Democrats.

Reyes criticized Bush for waiting until after a deadline had passed and people
had waited in long lines to advocate legislation extending a deadline for
immigrants to remain in the United States while they pursue legal residency.

Bush, who spent yesterday at Camp David, called Cinco de Mayo, which
commemorates the victory of Mexican troops over invading French forces in 1862,
a "tribute to the strong and independent spirit of the Mexican people."

"We celebrated a little early at the White House this year, on quatro Mayo, with
a fiesta on the South Lawn," Bush said. "With the mariachi music, folklorika
dancing and an ample supply of Mexican food, for a little while, it was just
like being in Texas again."

Bush usually throws out a few Spanish phrases when meeting with Hispanic
audiences, but his staff says he is not fluent in the language.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              155 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 10, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

People Find Their Places, Some in Clusters

BYLINE: William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FAIRFAX EXTRA; Pg. T06

LENGTH: 1033 words


As in other parts of the Washington area, the changing demographic landscape in
Fairfax County reflects the broad-brush strokes of immigration. It is a canvas
that shows both a growing ethnic and racial diversity and a wide dispersion of
newcomers, a tableau that stands in sharp contrast to the clustering that
immigrant destinations elsewhere in the country have experienced.

Nevertheless, some patterns and peculiarities are discernible in Fairfax maps
assembled by The Washington Post, based on data from the 2000 census.

The county's changing demographics, experts say, are closely tied to housing --
including type, availability and affordability. So, too, is the dispersal of
children; areas with the highest percentages of youngsters tend to be along the
outer edges of the county where families can find the newest, roomiest and least
expensive single-family homes for their budgets.

Beneath the surface, there may be more clustering by national origin than is
apparent from the maps, according to Anne Cahill, a demographer for the Fairfax
County government. This has tended to be the case for "Asians," a rubric that
includes a diverse array of nationalities with no common language and little
else to unite them. Hispanic immigrants also come from a variety of countries,
but they have a common language that -- more than national origin -- can be a
deciding factor in where they live.

A recent study published by the Brookings Institution found that the Washington
area was the fifth most popular U.S. destination for legal immigrants between
1990 and 1998, trailing New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Miami. During that
period, nearly 250,000 legal immigrants from 193 countries and territories chose
to live in the Washington area, 87 percent of them in the Virginia and Maryland
suburbs. No single country of origin dominated -- the largest single group,
Salvadorans, accounted for 10.5 percent of the total -- and the newcomers were
scattered widely across the region.

In Fairfax County, according to 2000 census figures, immigrants contributed to
an ethnic redistribution that saw the share of whites drop from 81 percent of
the population in 1990 to 70 percent last year.

At the same time, the Asian population grew from 8 percent to 13 percent, the
largest share of any county in Virginia.

Hispanics, who can be of any race, went from 6 percent of the population to 11
percent. Both minority groups now outnumber blacks, whose share of the county
population grew by 1 percentage point to 9 percent. A new multiracial category
was chosen by 4 percent of the population, the largest share in the state.

As shown in The Washington Post maps, the highest concentrations of blacks are
along the Route 1 corridor, reflecting historical patterns.

From just south of Alexandria to the Occoquan River, the corridor has sections
with populations that range from 30 percent to 46 percent black. There, large
numbers of black families have resided in communities such as Gum Springs for
years, Cahill said.

Pockets where blacks make up 15 percent to 30 percent of the population also can
be found farther to the north and west -- on the southern edge of Fairfax City,
near Centreville and straddling Herndon.

Whites are distributed widely across the county. But their highest percentages
of the population -- from 80 percent to 98 percent -- tend to be in sparsely
populated areas where homes, including some of the most expensive in the county,
have the largest lots.

Although the percentages in those areas may be high, Cahill said, the numbers of
people they represent are lower than in more crowded communities where whites
account for less than 80 percent of the population.

Hispanics, Fairfax County's fastest-growing group over the last decade, are
concentrated most heavily inside the Beltway, where they make up 25 percent to
55 percent of the population in certain pockets around Baileys Crossroads and
along Routes 236 and 29.

But communities of Hispanics also have formed along the Route 1 corridor, near
the Springfield Mixing Bowl and around Herndon.

Much of this is probably related to the location of affordable housing,
especially rental units, which tend to attract new immigrants.

Asians have settled in much of the county since they began arriving in large
numbers during the 1980s.

The highest concentrations -- where they make up one-fifth to one-third of the
population -- follow the Beltway and stretch like fingers to the south along
Interstate 95 and west along Interstate 66.

The broader areas that show shares of 5 percent to 20 percent may indicate moves
into owned housing as many families have climbed the economic ladder.

But appearances may be a bit deceiving where the Asian population is concerned,
Cahill said.

"When they're all lumped together, it looks like they're fairly evenly
distributed," she said.

When county demographers looked closely at 1990 census data, however, they found
"more clustering" of Vietnamese, Koreans and other Asian groups by nationality
than the overall numbers suggested, she says.

Asians and Hispanics appear to be significant contributors to the new
multiracial category, the heaviest concentrations of which -- 6 percent to 12
percent of the population -- show up around Baileys Crossroads and between
Alexandria and Annandale.

Areas where children account for 30 percent to 44 percent of inhabitants occupy
large swaths of territory along the border with Loudoun County, as well as
pockets in the southern part of the county, where new subdivisions have sprung
up in recent years.

That is where young families can find the biggest houses for their money, said
Supervisor Michael R. Frey (R-Sully), who has seen his district transformed in
recent years, drawing more immigrants and families with children.

"Job growth around the airport and the Route 28 corridor has meant a lot of
younger people," he said. "And young people with children want to be around
other young people with children."

The changes are most visible in the schools, which are fast becoming crowded
despite a spate of new construction.

"I can't think of a school in Sully District that doesn't have some trailers,"
Frey said.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              156 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Vendor Extortion Buys Man a Prison Term;
Immigrants Had to Pay For D.C. Sidewalk Spots

BYLINE: Neely Tucker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 609 words


They were all immigrants, all working vending carts along the District's busiest
streets for a living, and Ghulam Mangal told his Arab-speaking colleagues and
clients that he owned some of the most lucrative sidewalk spots in town. To park
their hot dog stands on "his" sidewalk, he told them, you have to pay.

It was a $ 50,000 hustle over three years, court testimony and evidence showed,
and Mangal was sentenced yesterday to more than four years in prison by a D.C.
Superior Court judge for extorting, defrauding or assaulting three vendors so
they would pay him for parking their hot dog stands on public property.

The 40-year-old native of Afghanistan, who was granted political asylum in 1998
after fighting the Soviet incursion into his central Asian nation, was also
ordered to repay $ 23,000 to the three Egyptian and Ethiopian victims after his
release. The monthly payments of $ 335 will stretch into the next decade,
mirroring the payoffs he once bullied them to make.

"These crimes are most reprehensible because the defendant victimized some of
our community's most vulnerable members -- recent immigrants, hard-working
people with limited English skills," said Judge Ann O'Regan Keary. "He tricked
them into paying for public spaces . . . in a disturbing pattern of
exploitation."

Defense attorney Bernard Grimm submitted several letters from Mangal's friends
and supporters, each attesting that the crimes were out of character.

"Clearly many people hold the defendant in high regard, and he has served his
country in the past and has been the victim of political events," Keary agreed.

The case was a rare window into the lives of recent immigrants who buy or rent
carts to place on the streets of the nation's capital, hoping to make enough
money off the sales of chips, sodas and hot dogs to build a new life and to
boost the income of relatives back home.

Only 874 vending licenses are issued by the city -- a number that has been
frozen for years, awaiting new legislation -- and the sidewalk spots are
theoretically available to the first vendor to show up each day.

But in reality, an informal squatters-rights policy has emerged, as vendors know
one another and usually respect traditional sidewalk claims.

The last violent clash to come through the courts was apparently in 1995, when
four vendors were convicted of torching a rival's stand, which had been moved
into their spot along 21st Street and Constitution Avenue NW.

Prosecutors say Mangal had a vending license but lost it when he visited his
family in Pakistan, and a moratorium on new licenses was imposed during his
travels.

The self-proclaimed Taliban fighter nonetheless continued to claim "his" five
spots around town, renting them out to newer, less informed immigrants,
prosecutors Mike Fitzpatrick and Daniel Butler charged.

"I felt foolish and I felt used," wrote Sabri Mesabbah in a letter to the court,
after the Egyptian-born immigrant was tricked into paying Mangal $ 14,000 over
two years to park a cart at 13th and F streets NW. "The worst feeling . . . is
that this was done to me by a fellow Muslim brother."

Mangal was convicted by a jury Feb. 21 of nine felonies, including extortion,
assault, fraud and obstruction of justice.

The most serious offense, the jury found, was his forcing Elsayeda Abdelgewad,
another Egyptian immigrant, and her husband into paying $ 23,000 for a lucrative
spot at 20th and Q streets NW.

"I know Ghulam Mangal has the potential to kill me or have his Taliban brothers
carry out his death wish on me and my family. Every day I live with this
threat," Abdelgewad wrote in a translated letter to the court.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              157 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Extortion of D.C. Vendors Nets $50,000 -- and Prison;
Immigrants Were Made to Pay for Sidewalk Spots

BYLINE: Neely Tucker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 609 words


They were all immigrants, all working vending carts along the District's busiest
streets for a living, and Ghulam Mangal told his Arab-speaking colleagues and
clients that he owned some of the most lucrative sidewalk spots in town. To park
their hot dog stands on "his" sidewalk, he told them, you have to pay.

It was a $ 50,000 hustle over three years, court testimony and evidence showed,
and Mangal was sentenced yesterday to more than four years in prison by a D.C.
Superior Court judge for extorting, defrauding or assaulting three vendors so
they would pay him for parking their hot dog stands on public property.

The 40-year-old native of Afghanistan, who was granted political asylum in 1998
after fighting the Soviet incursion into his central Asian nation, was also
ordered to repay $ 23,000 to the three Egyptian and Ethiopian victims after his
release. The monthly payments of $ 335 will stretch into the next decade,
mirroring the payoffs he once bullied them to make.

"These crimes are most reprehensible because the defendant victimized some of
our community's most vulnerable members -- recent immigrants, hard-working
people with limited English skills," said Judge Ann O'Regan Keary. "He tricked
them into paying for public spaces . . . in a disturbing pattern of
exploitation."

Defense attorney Bernard Grimm submitted several letters from Mangal's friends
and supporters, each attesting that the crimes were out of character.

"Clearly many people hold the defendant in high regard, and he has served his
country in the past and has been the victim of political events," Keary agreed.

The case was a rare window into the lives of recent immigrants who buy or rent
carts to place on the streets of the nation's capital, hoping to make enough
money off the sales of chips, sodas and hot dogs to build a new life and to
boost the income of relatives back home.

Only 874 vending licenses are issued by the city -- a number that has been
frozen for years, awaiting new legislation -- and the sidewalk spots are
theoretically available to the first vendor to show up each day.

But in reality, an informal squatters-rights policy has emerged, as vendors know
one another and usually respect traditional sidewalk claims.

The last violent clash to come through the courts was apparently in 1995, when
four vendors were convicted of torching a rival's stand, which had been moved
into their spot along 21st Street and Constitution Avenue NW.

Prosecutors say Mangal had a vending license but lost it when he visited his
family in Pakistan, and a moratorium on new licenses was imposed during his
travels.

The self-proclaimed Taliban fighter nonetheless continued to claim "his" five
spots around town, renting them out to newer, less informed immigrants,
prosecutors Mike Fitzpatrick and Daniel Butler charged.

"I felt foolish and I felt used," wrote Sabri Mesabbah in a letter to the court,
after the Egyptian-born immigrant was tricked into paying Mangal $ 14,000 over
two years to park a cart at 13th and F streets NW. "The worst feeling . . . is
that this was done to me by a fellow Muslim brother."

Mangal was convicted by a jury Feb. 21 of nine felonies, including extortion,
assault, fraud and obstruction of justice.

The most serious offense, the jury found, was his forcing Elsayeda Abdelgewad,
another Egyptian immigrant, and her husband into paying $ 23,000 for a lucrative
spot at 20th and Q streets NW.

"I know Ghulam Mangal has the potential to kill me or have his Taliban brothers
carry out his death wish on me and my family. Every day I live with this
threat," Abdelgewad wrote in a translated letter to the court.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              158 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 22, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Today in Congress

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 638 words


SENATE

Meets at 9:30 a.m.

Committees:

Armed Services -- 9:30 a.m. Nominations of Douglas J. Feith as undersecretary of
defense for policy, Susan M. Livingstone as Navy undersecretary, Jack Couch as
assistant secretary of defense for international security policy and Jessie
Roberson as assistant energy secretary for environmental management. 216 Hart
Office Building.

Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs -- 10 a.m. Economic policy subc. How market
losses have affected consumer confidence. Federal Reserve Governor Laurence
Meyer. 538 Dirksen Office Building.

Commerce, Science & Transportation -- 9:30 a.m. Amtrak. DOT Inspector General
Kenneth Mead. 253 Russell Office Building.

Commerce, Science & Transportation -- 2:30 p.m. Consumer affairs, foreign
commerce & tourism subc. Effect of prescription drug advertising on consumers.
253 ROB.

Foreign Relations -- 2 p.m. Nominations of Lorne W. Craner as assistant
secretary of state for democracy, human rights & labor; Ruth Davis as Foreign
Service director; Carl Ford as assistant secretary of state for intelligence &
research; and Paul Kelley as assistant secretary of state for legislative
affairs. 419 DOB.

Governmental Affairs -- 9 a.m. Nominations of Erik Christian & Maurice Ross as
D.C. Superior Court associate judges. 342 DOB.

Judiciary -- 2 p.m. Immigration subc. Immigrants' health care needs. 226 DOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Technology, terrorism & govt. info subc. Cybercrime. 226
DOB.

HOUSE

Meets at 9 a.m.

Committees:

Agriculture -- 10 a.m. Livestock & horticulture subc. Dairy policy. 1300
Longworth House Office Building.

Appropriations -- 10 a.m. Commerce, Justice, State, judiciary subc. FCC budget.
FCC Chairman Michael Powell. 2359 Rayburn House Office Building.

Appropriations -- 2 p.m. Commerce, Justice, State, judiciary subc. Securities
and Exchange Commission. SEC Chairman Laura Unger. 2359 RHOB.

Appropriations -- 10 a.m. Labor, HHS & education subc. 2358 RHOB.

Appropriations -- 2 p.m. Labor, HHS & education subc. Labor Secretary Elaine
Chao. 2358 RHOB.

Appropriations -- 10:30 a.m. VA, HUD & ind. agencies subc. Arlington Cemetery
budget. H-143 Capitol.

Appropriations -- 11:30 a.m. VA, HUD & ind. agencies subc. American Battle
Monuments Commission. Retired Maj. Gen. John Herrling, secretary of the American
Battle Monuments Commission, testifies. H-143 Capitol.

Armed Services -- 2 p.m. Military readiness subc. Constraints & challenges
facing military training ranges. 2212 RHOB.

Armed Services -- 10 a.m. Terrorism. 2112 RHOB.

Energy & Commerce -- 2 p.m. Commerce, trade & consumer protection subc. Digital
trade. 2322 RHOB.

Financial Services -- 2 p.m. Treasury secretary's annual speech on state of the
world financial system. 2128 RHOB.

Financial Services -- 9:30 a.m. Housing & comm. opp. subc. Housing
affordability. 2128 RHOB.

Government Reform -- 10 a.m. Natl. sec., veterans affairs & intl. relations
subc. Military practice of taking parts from one plane to fix another. 2247
RHOB.

Government Reform -- 10 a.m. Technology & procurement subc. Government's
acquisition of services. 2154 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 2 p.m. Broadband competition. 2141 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Courts, Internet & intellectual property subc. Patent
issues. 2141 RHOB.

Resources -- 10 a.m. Energy & mineral resources subc. Short-term solutions for
increasing energy supply from public lands. 1324 LHOB.

Resources -- 3 p.m. Forest Health subc. Joint hearing with water & power
resources subc. on bypass flows in forests. 1334 LHOB.

Science -- 10 a.m. Voting technology. 2318 RHOB.

Transportation & Infrastructure -- 3 p.m. Railroads subc. Obstacles to rail
improvements. 2167 RHOB.

Ways & Means -- 2 p.m. Human resources subc. Welfare & marriage issues. B-318
RHOB.

Ways & Means -- 10 a.m. Social Security subc. Protecting Social Security
numbers. 1100 LHOB.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              159 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 27, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Boom Bolsters Indian Community;
Need for Tech Workers Brings New Wave of Immigrants

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1707 words


The cultural isolation that immigrants from India often experience in the United
States has proven acute enough, over the years, to give rise to a telling
stereotype.

An ABCD, as they are known among Indians, is an American-born confused Desi -- a
person of Indian descent considered too willing to spurn old country ways in
favor of American-style temptations, like casual dating or cheeseburgers.

"You have to understand how difficult it was for people a generation ago to come
to this country," said Ashul Govil, a high school senior from Chantilly whose
India-born parents immigrated here.

"India is such a very different place -- the marriages are arranged, the major
religion is Hinduism -- and then they came to this place where there were very
few people like them."

That is changing. Even in an era of vast migration to the United States, this
statistic stands out in the 2000 Census: The number of Indians in the Washington
area, as in the nation, doubled in the past decade.

Attributable in part to the U.S. high-tech industry's demand for skilled
workers, the region's Indian population has swelled by unexpected proportions,
from 38,000 in 1990 to more than 78,000 in 2000, apparently becoming the most
populous Asian group in the area.

Nationally, their numbers have grown from 800,000 in 1990 to more than 1.6
million.

As a result, some Indians say, the cultural strains once felt by immigrants and
their children have eased enough to render the idea of an ABCD, if not obsolete,
then certainly less compelling.

Govil and his family worship at a Hindu temple built two years ago in
Springfield. He and his friends can see Hindi movies at Loehmann's Cinema in
Falls Church. And they listen, some fanatically, to bhangra, a traditional
Punjabi music that in recent years has been transformed by deejays into a
thumping disco sound that plays in nightclubs across the country.

Govil gets his bhangra CDs at the Shivam Music store near his home.

"It is easier to hold on to our roots now," he said. "We use that term [ABCD]
less and less."

In fact, said Nidhi Berry, a classmate at Thomas Jefferson High School,
second-generation Indians "have a tendency to compete with each other about how
Indian we are. A lot of kids, I think, know that we are losing touch with our
culture because we are growing up here. Therefore, they feel better than other
Indian kids if, say, they speak Hindi better. Or if they don't date, that's
another way to feel more Indian, because culturally, dating is taboo."

Perhaps nowhere is the recent wave of Indians more evident than at Rajdhani
Mandir, a Hindu temple in Chantilly. Its sanctuary of idols and barefoot
worshipers stand as a spiritual anomaly amid the Dulles corridor's new-economy
bustle.

Although temple construction was finished only last year, Rajdhani Mandir
already boasts 5,000 members, most of them linked to jobs in the high-tech
sector, according to temple members.

Many arrived under an expanded visa program that has allowed U.S. companies to
import hundreds of thousands of skilled workers in recent years. The largest
number have come from India, many from its southern regions. The H1B visa
program also has drawn Pakistanis, Bangladeshis and other South Asians to the
Washington area.

In Northern Virginia, the hub of the region's high-tech industry, the number of
Indians rose from 13,900 in 1990 to more than 36,100 in 2000. The government's
profile of the typical H1B worker is an Indian male, 25 to 29, making about $
45,000 a year.

Among the recent arrivals is 29-year-old Rajesh Kempasagara, a software
consultant for EDS Corp. in Reston. Like many new Indian immigrants, he seems
less at ease here than those in the second generation.

He arrived from Bangalore in southern India five years ago, lives alone in a
two-bedroom condo in Fairfax City, doesn't date and doesn't really aspire to.

"I would prefer a girl of the same background," he said. "But when girls from
India come here, not many come single."

Nevertheless, he could be married shortly. His parents are sending him pictures
of available women in India, with information about their backgrounds.

"My parents are going to pick a girl for me," he said. "But contrary to what
some people may think, I will have some choices. They make the short list, and
then I get to make the decision."

Meanwhile, by networking -- everyone back home seems to know someone in the
United States -- he has developed a circle of friends who entertain one another
at each others' homes. He is pleased he can buy Indian spices at stores near his
home. Maybe best of all, he can even find movies in Kannada, his native
language, at the India A-1 Grocery on Lee Highway in Arlington.

Unlike other twentysomethings, however, he doesn't go to nightclubs. He went
once and says he is unlikely to go again.

"It's very easy to get addicted and forget the more important things," he said,
"like focusing on developing oneself and growing as a person and improving one's
software skills."

Leaders of the Indian community discuss immigration in terms of three distinct
but overlapping flows.

The first began in the 1960s when students and professionals came by the
thousands. Well-educated, they took jobs that helped make Indians one of the
highest-paid immigrant groups in the nation.

The second opened up when parents, sisters and brothers of the first group
arrived under family reunification rules. Some of them had less education and
took jobs as taxi drivers, clerks, small business operators and factory workers.

And in the '90s came the tech-boom influx.

But it was those early immigrants who some credit with setting the tone for a
community that emphasizes educational striving, particularly in the technical
arena.

"The first generation that came became professionals and has placed a great,
great deal of importance on education," said novelist Chitra Banerjee
Divakaruni, whose first collection of stories about Indians in the United States
won the American Book Award in 1996. "They made great sacrifices to make sure
that their children are placed in good schools and universities, mostly in
technical fields, because they are considered to provide a more certain
lifestyle."

"In India, parents have a big say-so in the child's professional choice, and
engineering is a reliable field that you know is going to be around for a long
time, so that's what they do," said Kavita Khanna, 33, a trustee of the
Chantilly temple who works as a systems integration consultant.

Indian universities as well as the country's growing high-tech industry have
groomed generations of stellar candidates for U.S. employment.

Many come from the prestigious India Institute of Technology, founded in the
1950s by Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to train a professional class that
could build and manage industrial development projects. Today, the Indian
government runs six IIT campuses.

While Indian leaders would prefer to keep some of those graduates in the
country, engineers are frequently drawn to the United States by the success
stories of those who came before, such as Vinod Khosla, co-founder of Sun
Microsystems Inc., and Sabeer Bhatia, who started Hotmail.

"People say that in Silicon Valley there are 25,000 Indians who are
millionaires," said Reggie Aggarwal, founder and chief executive of Cvent, an
event-planning and marketing firm. He said he employs four or five H1B
visa-holders. "It's natural that people are going to migrate to where they see
success."

About 425,000 workers had H1B visas in 2000, according to B. Lindsay Lowell,
director of research at Georgetown University's Institute for the Study of
International Migration.

Roughly 40 percent of them, or about 170,000, came from India. Counting their
dependents, the number of Indians in this country related to the program is
thought to be about 270,000.

"India has become the dominant nation [in the visa program] quite certainly
because it has a large supply of computer-trained workers and, quite likely,
because prior waves of Indian information-technology workers have successfully
established a beachhead in the industry," Lowell said.

He noted, for example, that of the top 100 companies with H1B workers in 1998,
60 percent had chief executives with South Asian surnames.

"Immigration happens through networks," he said.

Embodying the Indian success story in the United States -- and the rise in
population -- are people such as Shiv Krishnan, his wife and two daughters.

Krishnan counts himself among the first group of Indian immigrants, arriving
from Madras in 1979 as an engineering student seeking a master's degree.

In 1984, he wed. It was a "semi-arranged" marriage, he said, and he brought his
wife here. His parents followed, as did his four sisters. Two married Indians
here, one came as a doctoral student in chemistry and one as a doctor.

He started his own company, Indus Corp., a Vienna-based information-technology
firm that employs more than 200, including a handful with H1B visas, he said.
His wife, Meena, runs Schoolranks.com, an Internet site offering information on
school quality.

The family is building a brick colonial in McLean -- living, he says, as
Americans and as Indians.

This dual life may be clearest in the lives of his daughters, 11-year-old Preeti
and 7-year-old Priya.

He and his wife are raising them in the Hindu religion, and the family has a
special place in their home for prayer. But Krishnan said they don't get to
their Lanham temple as often as they'd like because of a hectic schedule filled
with suburban American passions: tennis, gymnastics, swimming.

His girls celebrate two birthdays, one "American" and the other "Indian," based
on the Hindu calendar.

And they observe Christmas along with Diwali, the Indian festival of lights.

"I feel blessed to be comfortable in both settings," Krishnan said.

Indeed, the only cloud he sees on the horizon makes him sound like a typical
worried parent, only more so: Like many U.S.-born fathers, he fears his older
daughter will soon ask about going out with boys.

"Having grown up without dating, that is going to be the challenge," he said. "I
haven't thought about it, and I'm not looking forward to it."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              160 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Researchers See a World Of Struggles

BYLINE: Emily Wax, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 820 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.


Every Thursday night in a small conference room at one of America's most
prestigious universities, a group of academic researchers talks about the
education of some of the nation's most unseen students -- its immigrant
children.

Hands soar into the air. The graduate and doctoral students interrupt, their
voices running over one another.

They are armed with field notes and anecdotes and a need to speak out about how
so many schools, from the Washington region to Boston to California, are
struggling with their new student populations.

One researcher tells of a Dominican child who was told to take off a beaded
necklace that displays his country's flag -- by a teacher wearing a shamrock.
Another tells of an immigrant student who wants to attend college but cannot
because of the family's illegal status.

This is the Harvard Immigration Project, a five-year study of 400
first-generation immigrant students on both coasts of the United States. The
study considers not just test scores but also what project co-directors Marcelo
Suarez-Orozco and Carola Suarez-Orozco call the "psychocultural aspects" of
being an immigrant student in America's public schools.

"This is not going away. This is our future. The census data says that, even
more than we thought," said Marcelo Suarez-Orozco, a professor of education at
the Harvard University Graduate School of Education. "And social engagement is
very, very powerful. If they are not socially engaged, they are not going to
invest in themselves or in school."

Through recorded interviews with students and educators, the study is tracking
how teachers treat students, how students treat each other and how the social
side -- the emotional side -- of the achievement gap can drive test scores. The
husband-and-wife team has published one book, "The Children of Immigration," and
plan another at the end of the study next year. The first book chronicles the
struggles of immigrant students in the schools and looks at the reasons why
assimilation is different today than it was at the turn of the 20th century.

The book and the research are linked to a graduate-level class at Harvard called
"Immigrant Youth," a seminar that attempts to explain the immigrant experience
to future teachers.

At Harvard, 27 researchers, who are paid $ 18 an hour, are trying to learn what
assimilation is like for immigrants and why some immigrant students achieve even
though many fall behind.

Working with small groups of students, the researchers submit case studies that
detail the students' social interactions, grades, living situations, immigration
history, religious backgrounds and perceptions of American racial
discrimination.

"It's really just stunning what the immigrant census data is showing," says
Carola Suarez-Orozco, as she teaches her class. "We are seeing the complete
transformation of the United States, and by extension the schools."

Across the country at Berkeley High School in California, students, teachers and
parents are studying immigrant students in the school's own Diversity Project.
Since 1998, they have been looking at all aspects of school life: learning,
technology, discipline and the students' tendency to socially segregate
themselves by ethnicity.

"This kind of thing is starting to be on everyone's mind," said Berkeley High
teacher Dana Moran. "It's really like we have two schools. And the Latino
students feel very marginalized. They are not very integrated into the rest of
the school in terms of the social activities."

Both projects are studying the effects of today's demographic shifts:

* The country is seeing the largest wave of immigration in its history, with
most immigrants coming from Asian, Caribbean, and Central and Latin American
countries.

* One of five students is an immigrant, and 80 percent of those are students of
color.

* In two generations, nearly half the population will be people of color and the
children and grandchildren of today's immigrants. This is showing up even in
places far from the country's borders: In Dodge City, Kan., for example, more
than 30 percent of the children enrolled in school are children of immigrants.

All of these facts are felt, seen and heard in highly intimate ways through both
of these studies. And both seek to answer the same questions educators wrestle
with in Arlington.

Berkeley High is investigating why black and Latino students are disciplined
more often than white students, and it implemented a plan to keep a database of
all disciplinary actions and to intervene between students and teachers when
necessary.

The school also interviewed Latino parents about whether its environment has
welcomed or discouraged them.

"The gap is there in every large urban high school throughout the United
States," said Frank Lynch, Berkeley's principal. "If there is a high school that
knows what to do about it, then we want to bottle it and sell it to everyone."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              161 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 30, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Understanding Their Language

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 84 words


Popies: Preppy dressers, usually white students who buy their clothes at
name-brand stores.

Fresas: Snobby students of any background. Some are critical of recent immigrant
students.

La migra: Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Chicas: Girlfriends.

Loca: Crazy.

Saltenas: Turnovers filled with beef or chicken and a soupy mix of peas, egg,
raisins, olives and potatoes. They are served in Bolivia, usually for breakfast,
but they are eaten at all times of the day in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              162 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 31, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For a Premium, INS to Expedite Visa Processing

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 944 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service will begin allowing foreign
celebrities, athletes, executives and other specific types of workers to pay $
1,000 to get work visa applications processed within 15 days instead of waiting
the usual three months or more.

INS officials said the Premium Processing Program, to be launched on Friday,
will generate $ 80 million a year and allow the agency to hire hundreds of extra
workers to help all visa applicants.

But many immigration experts said the program will create a disturbing
two-tiered system by giving special access to wealthy foreigners and large
corporations. Critics also said that by focusing resources on those applicants,
the INS may end up imposing even longer waits on petitioners of more modest
means.

"The government ought to be processing immigration documents expeditiously for
everybody," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Washington-based think tank. "You don't go to the
department of motor vehicles and pay extra to get ahead in line. . . . If we as
a country decide we want to let in immigrants, we ought to fully fund an
efficient mechanism for processing those immigrants."

INS officials said, however, that businesses have long complained about delays
in the immigration process and now they will be able to be more competitive by
paying extra for faster service. INS officials estimate that 80,000 workers a
year will eventually take part in the program, which will be expanded in late
summer to include the popular H-1B visa for technology workers.

"One of the larger motivating factors behind the Premium Processing Program was
that it will give us a way to get extra revenue to hire more adjudicators and
modernize all our systems across the board," said INS spokeswoman Eyleen
Schmidt. "We think this will help everyone."

The fast-track processing program was pushed by the INS and approved by Congress
and President Bill Clinton last year as a little-noticed provision in an
appropriations bill. The $ 1,000 fee, according to the legislation, "shall be
used to provide certain premium-processing services to business customers" and
can be adjusted for inflation in coming years by the attorney general.

The program will start by focusing on a half-dozen limited categories of visas,
which allow citizens of other countries to work in the United States for limited
periods.

One is used by notable athletes and celebrities, from foreign-born baseball
players to international rock stars, while another includes scientists, authors
and others with artistic or specialized skills. Many executives and managers in
multinational corporations will also be immediately eligible to apply for
expedited service, as will some temporary agricultural and service workers.

By the end of August, Schmidt said, the INS will expand the program to include
all "nonimmigrant workers" who want employment in the United States but are not
seeking permanent residence. Officials said there are no immediate plans to
offer faster processing to immigrant workers seeking green cards, which allow
foreign citizens to work permanently in this country. It takes an average of
nine months to get a green card application processed, officials said.

The $ 1,000 fee would be paid on top of the normal $ 110 processing charge. In
the case of technology companies filing H-1B visa petitions, the fee would be
added on top of $ 1,110 in current charges. The money will be returned if the
applicant does not receive a response from the INS within 15 days, but the fee
does not guarantee approval, Schmidt said.

The new money will allow the INS to hire 450 new employees in fiscal 2002 who
will work on processing all types of petitions, officials said. "We will make
sure we have the resources on hand not to jeopardize other services," Schmidt
said.

But many immigration lawyers and experts argue that the need for the fee is the
result of meager funding from Congress. Most federal money to the INS is spent
on the U.S. Border Patrol and other enforcement tasks, while most immigration
services are paid for with user fees.

"This is the 'money talks' scenario," said Crystal Williams of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "The INS's need for more money is what led to
this. They're so desperate for funds to clear their backlogs."

Carl Shusterman, a Los Angeles immigration lawyer who handles many
employer-based visa requests, said some of his clients could be helped by the
new program, but many others could be hurt.

"You used to have to have a reason to have things expedited," Shusterman said.
"Now you don't need a reason, you just need a check. For a lot of small
companies or individuals, they're not in a position to shove out an extra $
1,000. I'm not sure this is fair to them."

At the four INS service centers that process visa petitions, the wait times are
an average of 60 to 90 days for the categories of workers who will be eligible
for the new program, officials said.

The INS completed about 3 million visa requests and other petitions last year
and granted citizenship to 1 million others.

INS officials said the premium program should not have much impact on the State
Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs, which actually issues visas to
applicants overseas after they have won the approval of the INS. Many of those
eligible for faster processing are already in the country, Schmidt said.

Schmidt said that President Bush's 2002 budget requires that $ 20 million of the
money brought in by the new fee program must be dedicated to improving services
for immigrants sponsored by family members rather than employers.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              163 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 1, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Cutting in the Visa Line

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A30

LENGTH: 314 words


TIRED OF THOSE long lines at the Immigration and Naturalization Service? Weary
of waiting months for approval of a visa allowing you or a prospective employee
to come to work in the United States? Starting today, some applicants will have
a way to skip all that tiresome delay, if they're willing to pay for the
privilege. For a $ 1,000 fee, "premium processing" promises action on certain
work visa applications within 15 days, or your money back. Aimed at speeding
action on workers whom businesses want to bring in from overseas for a limited
time, the program will begin with foreign-born athletes, performers, scientists
and corporate executives, as well as some temporary agricultural or service
workers. By the end of the summer it's expected to cover all applicants aiming
to work in the United States but not seeking permanent residence. It does not
apply to those seeking green cards, which allow immigrants to remain and work
permanently in this country.

The benefit to those who pay is obvious: They get a 15-day turnaround instead of
the 60 to 90 days the process usually takes, though paying the fee is not a
guarantee the visa will be approved. INS officials say other would-be immigrants
stand to gain as well, because the money generated by the new fees will be used
to hire more workers who can help process all visa applications. Maybe so. But
you shouldn't be able to buy your way to the front of the immigration line. If
the waits are too long, they should be fixed for everyone.

Congress, which has poured money into border enforcement, should fund the
agency's immigration operations at a level that would allow all applicants to be
handled expeditiously. That would send the right message about this country to
those seeking to work here -- a message of fairness and equality, not the
suggestion that the skids can be greased for those ready, or able, to pay.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              164 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 8, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

17,000 Visas Issued in Expanded H1-B Plan

BYLINE: Carrie Johnson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E10

LENGTH: 274 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has issued 117,000 permits allowing
foreign nationals to work in the United States so far this fiscal year under an
expanded H1-B visa program.

By this time last year, INS had exhausted its supply of the visas for
professionals and other skilled workers.

Congress increased the number of permits from 115,000 a year to 195,000 a year
for the next three years. Congress also created exemptions for workers hired by
universities and research groups, who were previously included under the visa
cap.

For those reasons, year-to-year comparisons are difficult to make.

"There's no constant this year," said Eyleen Schmidt, an INS spokeswoman.

Approvals fell sharply in February, only to increase in March before settling
around 18,000 a month for April and May, according to INS figures. About 40,000
petitions await INS processing. Schmidt said it is impossible to say whether all
of the visas authorized will be issued before the fiscal year ends in September.

Demand for H1-B visas is one measure of the strength of high-tech businesses.
About 40 percent of the work permits go to employees involved with technology.
Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America,
said he doesn't expect businesses to exceed the visa limit for the year but
workers admitted under the program remain "a vital part of the labor force."

Critics of the program argue that it favors foreign-born workers at the expense
of Americans. H1-B visa holders can stay in the country for up to six years but
must return home if they do not get official sponsorship to remain in the United
States.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              165 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 10, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Expediting the Visa Line

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 265 words


I agree with the gist of the June 1 editorial "Cutting in the Visa Line" that
"you shouldn't be able to buy your way to the front of the immigration line."
Yet aside from valid ethical concerns about such a practice is an even more
troubling aspect to the Immigration and Naturalization Service's plan to offer
"expedited processing" for a $ 1,000 fee.

Many visa categories covered by this program -- applicants aiming to work in the
United States but not seeking permanent residence -- are governed by strict
quotas that are filled before year's end on a regular basis. Thus, the steep
"premium" fee would do more than just buy people a chance to skip the wait. It
would buy them a place at the front of a line where the end regularly gets cut
off.

The new visa program thus will not only change the wait for having a visa
approved based on the fee paid to the INS but, more fundamentally, the odds of
approval. That is hardly in keeping with the spirit upon which this country was
founded.

NIKOLAS WIN MYINT

Washington

*

I have three problems with the immigration editorial.

(1) It took a "dog in the manger" approach of "if I or someone can't have it or
use it, no one can." That is a self-centered thought process.

(2) The approach will generate money to improve the entire system. The Post's
approach costs money. Citizens already are overtaxed; the suggestion for more
taxes without a better result is not appreciated.

(3) These are aliens whom companies need and want to contribute to our economic
success. I see no excuse for delaying their entry.

TOM LEMKE

Rochester, Minn.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              166 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 14, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Study Cites Abuse of Migrant Domestics

BYLINE: Newsday

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A31

LENGTH: 263 words


Employers of migrant domestic workers often abuse them, forcing them to work
long hours for little pay, and U.S. visa programs only facilitate the unfair
treatment, according to a report to be released today by an international human
rights organization.

The 56-page report from Human Rights Watch argues that reform of the visa system
and better monitoring by U.S. agencies of the immigrants' working conditions are
needed.

"Often these employers come from a powerful, elite class, and they are abusing
the rights of some of the most powerless," said Carol Pier, a researcher at
Human Rights Watch and author of the report. "This is a serious human rights
abuse in the United States, but it has remained largely hidden from public
view."

The report, which reviewed 43 migrant domestic-worker cases, found that the
average hourly wage was $ 2.14 and the average workday was 14 hours. Most
workers were also not allowed to leave their employers' homes without
permission.

State Department figures show that in the past two years, more than 3,500
domestic workers a year have been brought to the United States by their
employers.

Under the current visa system, if the workers leave their employers, they lose
their legal status in the United States, making immigrants fearful of reporting
abuse or finding new employment, Pier said.

State Department officials said they had worked as intermediaries in some of the
abuse cases brought to their attention. The agency has also tried to circulate
information to employers on their responsibilities and to workers on their
rights.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              167 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 15, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Journey Ends at Mount Vernon;
In the Presence of Tourists and History, Immigrants Sworn In as U.S. Citizens

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 593 words


Two kinds of people lined the great lawn of Mount Vernon yesterday: those who
were waiting to tour the mansion that George Washington called his home, and
those who were waiting to officially claim the country he founded as their own.

As a long line of tourists watched -- some of them clicking their cameras --
nearly 100 immigrants marched single file across the grass in a naturalization
ceremony at Mount Vernon that organizers hope to make an annual event. The
newcomers then took the oath of allegiance, and in that moment, what for some of
them had been a long struggle to immigrate ended. They had become U.S. citizens.

Long Kim Vuong, 61, of Herndon, beamed as she was given her naturalization
certificate and a tiny American flag. All morning in the muggy heat, the
diminutive Vietnamese woman had stood, a stoic look on her face. Now, she
smiled, waved her small flag and bowed slightly to the immigration officials who
had sworn her in. Her daughter gave her a hug.

Her family's journey to this country had cost them dearly.

After the fall of Saigon in 1975, Vuong and her husband decided to send their
teenage son to America among the throngs of South Vietnamese leaving on boats.
He never made it. He drowned when his ship was sunk by pirates.

In 1979, Vuong sent her only other child, daughter Tuyet Tran, who was 17 at the
time. The family left "one at a time. In case something happened, we wouldn't
all be lost," said Tran, now 38 and studying to be a dental hygienist.

Tran landed at a Vietnamese refugee camp in Thailand and then made her way to
the United States, helped by aid groups. By 1991, immigration restrictions had
relaxed, and Tran was able to bring her parents to America. Her father is set to
become a citizen later this year.

Edita Nazaraite and John Migala, who became citizens together yesterday, also
fled communism. An artist, Nazaraite fled Lithuania because of government
censorship. Migala was an entrepreneur in Poland, yearning for better business
opportunities. They defected on the same day in 1984, leaving their families
behind.

The two met at a Red Cross office in Athens and ended up in the same refugee
camp, where they fell in love. They moved to Canada, married and then came to
the United States.

They were able to see their parents only after the collapse of the Soviet Union
in 1991.

Now they run a house painting company in Herndon. "I enjoy having my own
business, being master of my own time," said Nazaraite, who still keeps up with
her artwork. "You can see we are truly becoming American."

The faces of those who became citizens at Mount Vernon yesterday reflected the
area's immigration trends, which show Hispanics and Asians are the
fastest-growing ethnic groups.

In Northern Virginia, according to the 2000 Census, the number of Asians grew by
81 percent and Hispanics by 107 percent in the 1990s. Hispanics can be of any
race. During the same period, Northern Virginia's black population grew by about
44 percent, while the number of whites increased by 7 percent.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it performed nearly 900,000
naturalizations last year -- or about 2,500 every day. With so many people
applying for citizenship, the agency jumps at opportunities to hold ceremonies
at historic places, said Robert Schofield, the acting head of the INS district
office.

The significance of becoming a citizen at the home of America's first president
was not lost on Nazaraite.

"It's an emotional moment for us," she said. "I think we paid quite a lot to be
here."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              168 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 15, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants' Journey Ends at Mount Vernon;
Amid Tourists and History, Group Sworn In as Citizens

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 593 words


Two kinds of people lined the great lawn of Mount Vernon yesterday: those who
were waiting to tour the mansion that George Washington called his home, and
those who were waiting to officially claim the country he founded as their own.

As a long line of tourists watched -- some of them clicking their cameras --
nearly 100 immigrants marched single file across the grass in a naturalization
ceremony at Mount Vernon that organizers hope to make an annual event. The
newcomers then took the oath of allegiance, and in that moment, what for some of
them had been a long struggle to immigrate ended. They had become U.S. citizens.

Long Kim Vuong, 61, of Herndon, beamed as she was given her naturalization
certificate and a tiny American flag. All morning in the muggy heat, the
diminutive Vietnamese woman had stood, a stoic look on her face. Now, she
smiled, waved her small flag and bowed slightly to the immigration officials who
had sworn her in. Her daughter gave her a hug.

Her family's journey to this country had cost them dearly.

After the fall of Saigon in 1975, Vuong and her husband decided to send their
teenage son to America among the throngs of South Vietnamese leaving on boats.
He never made it. He drowned when his ship was sunk by pirates.

In 1979, Vuong sent her only other child, daughter Tuyet Tran, who was 17 at the
time. The family left "one at a time. In case something happened, we wouldn't
all be lost," said Tran, now 38 and studying to be a dental hygienist.

Tran landed at a Vietnamese refugee camp in Thailand and then made her way to
the United States, helped by aid groups. By 1991, immigration restrictions had
relaxed, and Tran was able to bring her parents to America. Her father is set to
become a citizen later this year.

Edita Nazaraite and John Migala, who became citizens together yesterday, also
fled communism. An artist, Nazaraite fled Lithuania because of government
censorship. Migala was an entrepreneur in Poland, yearning for better business
opportunities. They defected on the same day in 1984, leaving their families
behind.

The two met at a Red Cross office in Athens and ended up in the same refugee
camp, where they fell in love. They moved to Canada, married and then came to
the United States.

They were able to see their parents only after the collapse of the Soviet Union
in 1991.

Now they run a house painting company in Herndon. "I enjoy having my own
business, being master of my own time," said Nazaraite, who still keeps up with
her artwork. "You can see we are truly becoming American."

The faces of those who became citizens at Mount Vernon yesterday reflected the
area's immigration trends, which show Hispanics and Asians are the
fastest-growing ethnic groups.

In Northern Virginia, according to the 2000 Census, the number of Asians grew by
81 percent and Hispanics by 107 percent in the 1990s. Hispanics can be of any
race. During the same period, Northern Virginia's black population grew by about
44 percent, while the number of whites increased by 7 percent.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it performed nearly 900,000
naturalizations last year -- or about 2,500 every day. With so many people
applying for citizenship, the agency jumps at opportunities to hold ceremonies
at historic places, said Robert Schofield, the acting head of the INS district
office.

The significance of becoming a citizen at the home of America's first president
was not lost on Nazaraite.

"It's an emotional moment for us," she said. "I think we paid quite a lot to be
here."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              169 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 21, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Special Permit Draws Flood of Salvadorans

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 849 words


Spurred by an aggressive campaign by their government, Salvadoran immigrants in
Washington and other U.S. cities are applying in unexpectedly large numbers for
a new benefit that allows them to live and work temporarily in the United
States.

U.S. authorities had initially predicted that as many as 150,000 Salvadorans
would take advantage of the program, announced in March by President Bush as
part of an effort to help El Salvador recover from two devastating earthquakes.
But the Immigration and Naturalization Service says that more than 166,000 have
signed up -- and immigrants still have another 15 months to apply.

Authorities say the final turnout could be a milestone, surpassing the 190,000
Salvadorans who got a toehold in this country through a similar work-permit
program established in 1991 as El Salvador's civil war was drawing to a close.

Social service agencies in the Washington area have been swamped in recent weeks
by applicants seeking help with their paperwork. "People have arrived in massive
numbers, and they continue coming. We had to hire two additional people to help
us," said Gustavo Torres, director of Casa de Maryland, which has offices in
Silver Spring, Takoma Park and Germantown.

Under the program, known as Temporary Protected Status, Salvadorans who have
been in the United States since Feb. 13, the date of the second earthquake, can
apply for work permits lasting until September 2002.

The Salvadoran government estimates that a quarter-million immigrants may
eventually apply, about 15 percent of them from the Washington area, which has
the nation's second-biggest Salvadoran community.

The flood of applicants reflects the large number of Salvadorans who have poured
into the United States, many undocumented, in the decade since the benefit was
extended to Salvadoran immigrants who fled during the 1980-92 civil war. Census
figures released yesterday show 11,741 people of Salvadoran ancestry in the
District, an increase of about 10 percent in a decade. Figures for the rest of
the Washington area are not yet available.

The high turnout for the work-permit program also reflects how the growing
population of immigrants is prompting a new form of cross-border politics.

Embassy officials estimated that the Salvadoran immigrants would send nearly $ 2
billion back to their country this year, the equivalent of 13 percent of El
Salvador's domestic output. "The government has realized that getting [some kind
of] legalization for undocumented people helps the Salvadoran economy," Torres
said.

To urge its expatriate citizens to take advantage of the new work-permit
program, the Salvadoran government has launched a media blitz in the United
States. It set up a toll-free hot line, met with community groups and
distributed 300,000 Spanish-language guides -- complete with comic-book
illustrations for those with little education -- to explain the U.S. program.
Back home, the government has urged Salvadorans to spread the word to relatives
in the United States.

Several immigrants who were applying this week through Carecen, a social service
agency in Columbia Heights, agreed that the work program would make a big
difference in the lives of their families, both here and in El Salvador.

David Martinez, 35, a husky Salvadoran with long hair cascading over a faded
T-shirt, plays guitar at birthdays and baptisms in the Washington area. But
since sneaking over the U.S. border eight years ago, he hasn't been able to
apply for a steadier job. "This is the beginning of living well in this
country," Martinez said. The work permit, he said, will enable him to get a
better-paying construction job.

For Yanira Cortes, 23, now employed as a babysitter, the work document is a
symbol of everything she longed for when she sneaked across the U.S. border a
year ago to come to Washington, leaving behind her 5- and 7-year-old daughters.

"We hope to have something for ourselves, a house, and to give the kids a better
education than we had," said the curly-haired Cortes, who only finished eighth
grade and hopes to eventually send for her children.

The temporary protection program, in fact, isn't aimed at addressing such
long-term goals. But the U.S. government has often renewed such permits, which
have also been granted at various times to immigrants from other countries
suffering war or natural disaster.

Many of the Salvadorans who applied for the special benefit in 1991 are now
becoming permanent legal residents, after a decade in which they won extension
after extension of their work permits.

Such a pattern worries advocates of tighter immigration controls.

"There's nothing as permanent as a temporary refugee," says Mark Krikorian,
executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies. "Once people have been
allowed to remain in the country for a very long time, they put down roots,
their children grow up, and it becomes increasingly difficult to send them back.
So we need to understand at the outset that a grant of temporary protection is
almost certainly likely to turn into permanent immigration."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              170 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 21, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Work Permit Draws Flood of Salvadorans

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 850 words


Spurred by an aggressive campaign by their government, Salvadoran immigrants in
Washington and other U.S. cities are applying in unexpectedly large numbers for
a new benefit that allows them to live and work temporarily in the United
States.

U.S. authorities had initially predicted that as many as 150,000 Salvadorans
would take advantage of the program, announced in March by President Bush as
part of an effort to help El Salvador recover from two devastating earthquakes.
But the Immigration and Naturalization Service says that more than 166,000 have
signed up -- and immigrants still have another 15 months to apply.

Authorities say the final turnout could be a milestone, surpassing the 190,000
Salvadorans who got a toehold in this country through a similar work-permit
program established in 1991 as El Salvador's civil war was drawing to a close.

Social service agencies in the Washington area have been swamped in recent weeks
by applicants seeking help with their paperwork. "People have arrived in massive
numbers, and they continue coming. We had to hire two additional people to help
us," said Gustavo Torres, director of Casa de Maryland, which has offices in
Silver Spring, Takoma Park and Germantown.

Under the program, known as Temporary Protected Status, Salvadorans who have
been in the United States since Feb. 13, the date of the second earthquake, can
apply for work permits lasting until September 2002.

The Salvadoran government estimates that a quarter-million immigrants may
eventually apply, about 15 percent of them from the Washington area, which has
the nation's second-biggest Salvadoran community.

The flood of applicants reflects the large number of Salvadorans who have poured
into the United States, many undocumented, in the decade since the benefit was
extended to Salvadoran immigrants who fled during the 1980-92 civil war. Census
figures released yesterday show 11,741 people of Salvadoran ancestry in the
District, an increase of about 10 percent in a decade. Figures for the rest of
the Washington area are not yet available.

The high turnout for the work-permit program also reflects how the growing
population of immigrants is prompting a new form of cross-border politics.

Embassy officials estimated that the Salvadoran immigrants would send nearly $ 2
billion back to their country this year, the equivalent of 13 percent of El
Salvador's domestic output. "The government has realized that getting [some kind
of] legalization for undocumented people helps the Salvadoran economy," Torres
said.

To urge its expatriate citizens to take advantage of the new work-permit
program, the Salvadoran government has launched a media blitz in the United
States. It set up a toll-free hot line, met with community groups and
distributed 300,000 Spanish-language guides -- complete with comic-book
illustrations for those with little education -- to explain the U.S. program.
Back home, the government has urged Salvadorans to spread the word to relatives
in the United States.

Several immigrants who were applying this week through Carecen, a social service
agency in Columbia Heights, agreed that the work program would make a big
difference in the lives of their families, both here and in El Salvador.

David Martinez, 35, a husky Salvadoran with long hair cascading over a faded
T-shirt, plays guitar at birthdays and baptisms in the Washington area. But
since sneaking over the U.S. border eight years ago, he hasn't been able to
apply for a steadier job.

"This is the beginning of living well in this country," Martinez said. The work
permit, he said, will enable him to get a better-paying construction job.

For Yanira Cortes, 23, now employed as a babysitter, the work document is a
symbol of everything she longed for when she sneaked across the U.S. border a
year ago to come to Washington, leaving behind her 5- and 7-year-old daughters.

"We hope to have something for ourselves, a house, and to give the kids a better
education than we had," said the curly-haired Cortes, who only finished eighth
grade and hopes to eventually send for her children.

The temporary protection program, in fact, isn't aimed at addressing such
long-term goals. But the U.S. government has often renewed such permits, which
have also been granted at various times to immigrants from other countries
suffering war or natural disaster.

Many of the Salvadorans who applied for the special benefit in 1991 are now
becoming permanent legal residents, after a decade in which they won extension
after extension of their work permits.

Such a pattern worries advocates of tighter immigration controls.

"There's nothing as permanent as a temporary refugee," says Mark Krikorian,
executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies. "Once people have been
allowed to remain in the country for a very long time, they put down roots,
their children grow up, and it becomes increasingly difficult to send them back.
So we need to understand at the outset that a grant of temporary protection is
almost certainly likely to turn into permanent immigration."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              171 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 23, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

U.S., Mexico Set New Border Effort

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 584 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY June 22


Mexico and the United States today announced a new effort to reduce violence,
death and disorder along their shared 2,000-mile border.

The plan is designed to stem the number of immigrants illegally crossing the
border, to improve joint efforts to locate and rescue immigrants attempting to
cross in dangerous desert areas, and to crack down on organized crime gangs
specializing in human smuggling.

The border accord results from an agreement reached by President Bush and
Mexican President Vicente Fox at a summit in Mexico in February. The two
leaders, both elected last year, pledged a new era of cooperation between their
nations -- starting with regaining control of the chaotic and dangerous border.

"This is the first step toward a border that both countries can be proud of,"
Enrique Berruga of Mexico's Foreign Ministry told reporters today.

The agreement calls for both nations to take steps they have resisted in the
past. The United States promised to immediately review its controversial border
control operations, which include heavy fortifications and a growing number of
Border Patrol agents. Increased security measures in populated areas have forced
immigrants to seek out more dangerous routes across the desert or mountains.

Washington also promised to begin immediately a pilot program of arming U.S.
Border Patrol agents with nonlethal weapons, as Mexican officials have .

In a separate announcement today in San Diego, Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS) officials said the program would involve arming agents in the San
Diego area with 45 "pepperball launchers."

The air-powered devices allow agents to fire pellets of a pepper-like chemical
about 100 feet. Officials said the devices would give Border Patrol agents a way
to fend off rock-throwing and other attacks without resort to gunfire. The
agents would still carry regular weapons as well.

Also breaking with past practice, Mexico agreed to stop migrants before they
attempt crossings in dangerous areas, particularly desert regions such as the
Arizona wasteland where 14 Mexicans died last month. Mexico historically has
argued that it could not stop people -- even those standing near the border and
obviously intending to cross -- because its constitution guarantees freedom of
movement.

"Mexicans still have the right of free passage," said Javier Moctezuma of
Mexico's Interior Ministry. "But in certain high-risk zones, the state has the
obligation to stop them for their own safety."

Moctezuma and Berruga said 491 Mexicans died crossing the border last year and
157 have died already this year six since the 14 recent deaths in Arizona.

Mexico also said it would increase its Beta Group patrols, which offer
assistance and advice to would-be migrants along the border. Mexico also
promised to expand its programs to publicize the perils of trying to cross the
border.

The plan calls for both nations to conduct an "unprecedented binational effort"
to combat human smuggling. Johnny N. Williams, western regional director of the
INS, said in an interview that the new efforts would involve greater sharing of
intelligence on suspected smugglers who have often benefited from the lack of
cross-border law enforcement efforts.

Mexico and the United States also said they would conduct aerial surveillance
along the border to search for stranded immigrants. U.S. officials said they
would use more helicopters to beef up search-and-rescue efforts, especially in
the hot and dangerous summer months.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              172 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 24, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Europe's 'Diversity Envy'

BYLINE: David Ignatius

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 837 words


BERLIN -- You know we have really entered a new century when a group of
Germany's top political leaders spends hours talking about how badly the country
needs more immigrants.

"Our system needs people from the outside, because they add creativity," argued
Hans-Olaf Henkel, one of the leaders of Germany's employers' federation. He was
speaking at a conference here last week sponsored by the German newspaper,
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.

"We have become a de facto country of immigration," explained the country's
interior minister, Otto Schilly. He bemoaned the fact that so many smart
immigrants have been leaving German universities for greener pastures in the
United States.

"We need them!" argued Rita Sussmuth, a Christian Democrat who chaired a
bipartisan commission on immigration that will deliver its final report July 4.
According to press leaks, her panel will recommend that Germany move to a new
"points system" to select 40,000 immigrants who can legally become permanent
residents each year. Applicants will win points if they're young, healthy --
and, especially, well-educated. Schilly says a version of the proposal will
probably be enacted into law by the end of the year.

The German immigration plan isn't exactly open borders, but it's a big step
toward embracing the idea that foreign brainpower is desirable in today's global
economy. And it's a huge change for a country like Germany, which long sought to
protect its ethnic and cultural homogeneity.

Long after the Nazi horrors were past, Germany still worried about how to
assimilate foreigners, such as the thousands of Turkish guest workers who came
here freely until 1973. Even now, many ordinary Germans are frightened that the
country will be overwhelmed by waves of immigrants arriving from the poorer
parts of Europe, as the European Union expands eastward.

"The children will have to go to German schools and grow up speaking German, so
that they can integrate into German society," insists Friedrich Merz, the leader
of the conservative opposition in the Bundestag. But he, too, wants to attract
more clever foreigners into the country.

I've been hearing a similar "diversity envy" in many wealthy countries recently.
One big reason is that the native-born populations of advanced countries such as
Germany, Japan and Sweden are shrinking, because of declining birthrates. To
maintain prosperous economies, these countries will need foreign workers --
which means there's likely to be increasing competition for the best and
brightest.

A senior Japanese foreign ministry official complained to me several months ago
about his country's difficulty in attracting bright Indian computer scientists
-- the sort of people who head from Bombay technical schools straight to Silicon
Valley. I answered that it's no surprise, surely, that these talented foreigners
aren't eager to emigrate to a Japan that is so homogenous its national slogan
used to be: "The nail that sticks out gets pounded down."

The hunger for Bombay software engineers is so intense in Germany, meanwhile,
that an Indian emigre who runs a curry restaurant here joked to Henkel recently
that because he was Indian, people assumed he must be a computer expert.

What should please Americans is that our often chaotic cultural diversity --
which led to bitter debates a decade ago in which some people actually wished
aloud that the United States could be more like Japan! -- has ended up being one
of America's secret weapons. Our universities attract the world's best and
brightest, our capital markets allow these newcomers to finance businesses and
make millions overnight (and, with the Nasdaq crash, lose millions overnight,
too).

You can hear the same anguished arguments about diversity today in Germany that
were common in the early '90s in the United States. Foreigners must learn the
language, they must assimilate and accept national values. And one hears the
same fear about political backlash from ordinary workers who don't want a new
influx of foreigners -- the German equivalent of the Pat Buchanan voters in the
United States.

If they really intend to attract talented immigrants, countries like Germany
will need to make big cultural changes. Embracing diversity hasn't been easy,
even for the United States -- a country whose national myth is that "the people
who leave the old country" are the good people. How much harder it will be for
the countries of Europe, which implicitly believe that "the people who stay" are
the good ones.

But it's one world -- in an intriguing new way that the aging and shrinking
populations of Germany and Japan can't escape. It became obvious during the
1990s that globalization meant easy mobility of capital across national borders.
In this decade, globalization will increasingly mean mobility of labor, too.

To compete in this global labor market, societies that have traditionally prized
order will have to accustom themselves to a new level of social disruption -- or
risk falling behind.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              173 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Justices Decide Immigrants Have Right to Review

BYLINE: Charles Lane, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 805 words


The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that immigrants who have been convicted of
crimes in the United States may not be sent back to their countries of origin
unless they first have an opportunity to mount a legal challenge to their
deportation orders in federal court.

The ruling blunts the impact of changes in immigration law enacted by Congress
to make it easier for the government to remove criminal aliens. It could benefit
thousands of people who once enjoyed legal resident status in the United States
but now face removal because of past brushes with the law.

Prior to April 1997, when the 1996 law went into effect, convicted criminals who
were not U.S. citizens could be deported. However, if they hadn't served five
years in prison they could apply for a waiver of deportation from the Justice
Department based on extenuating circumstances such as evidence of
rehabilitation, family ties in the United States or a lack of a connection to
their country of origin. If the application was denied, an immigrant could
appeal to a federal court.

But in the 1996 law, Congress greatly expanded the kinds of crimes for which a
person could be deported, and made deportation automatic, limiting opportunities
for judicial review. As enforced by the Clinton administration, the provisions
were also applied retroactively to persons convicted of offenses prior to 1996.

This created anomalies, such as cases of adults who were adopted by American
families as small children but never naturalized, and who faced deportation for
drug possession.

By identical votes of 5-4, the court, in opinions written by Justice John Paul
Stevens, held in two closely related cases that the 1996 law did not include a
clear statement of a desire to deny judicial review to such immigrants. Thus,
the court held, the law does not override the long-standing presumption that
courts should be able to review executive agency decisions, or repeal the
courts' traditional power to grant writs of habeas corpus -- the traditional
remedy for legally indefensible denials of liberty by a federal agency.

The rulings mean that the law cannot be applied retroactively to those convicted
before it took effect, and that even those convicted afterward are entitled to
some court review of their deportation orders.

Justices Anthony M. Kennedy, David H. Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G.
Breyer joined Stevens in the majority.

"This is a ringing endorsement of the right to judicial review and of
immigrants' access to the courts," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the
American Civil Liberties Union Immigrant Rights Project, who argued the cases on
behalf of four different immigrants.

In dissent, Justice Antonin Scalia, joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist
and Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Clarence Thomas, said the majority had
defeated Congress's clear intent to make it easier for the government to expel
immigrants convicted of crimes.

"[I]t brings forth a version of the statute that affords criminal aliens more
opportunities for delay-inducing judicial review than are afforded to
non-criminal aliens, or even than were afforded to criminal aliens prior to this
legislation concededly designed to expedite their removal," Scalia wrote.

The cases are INS v. St. Cyr, No. 00-767, and Calcano-Martinez v. INS, No.
00-1011.

Separately, the court announced that it will review an Oklahoma case involving
students' privacy rights. Kristja Falvo, a mother of three young schoolchildren,
sued the Owasso Independent School District over some teachers' practice of
permitting children to grade one another's test papers and announce the results
in class.

The school district argued that this saved time for harried teachers, and helped
students learn from each other's mistakes. But Falvo said it exposed children to
embarrassment and humiliation, and violated a federal law protecting the privacy
of students' educational records.

A lower federal court agreed and the school district appealed. The case, Owasso
Independent School District v. Falvo, No. 00-1073, will be heard by the Supreme
Court next fall; a decision is expected by July 2002.

In another indication of the ramifications of its decision earlier this year to
reconsider the constitutionality of executing mentally retarded people, the
court granted a stay of execution to Glenn Holladay, a convicted murderer on
death row in Alabama who said that he scored well below 60 on three intelligence
tests administered to him during childhood.

Like Ernest McCarver, a convicted murderer in North Carolina whose case the
court will take up next fall, Holladay argues that a national consensus has
formed that the execution of persons with such low cognitive ability would
constitute "cruel and unusual" punishment. The case is Holladay v. Alabama, No.
00-10728.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              174 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 29, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

VARIOUS ARTISTS "New York City ...

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. T07

LENGTH: 429 words


The wave of immigration that washed into New York City at the end of the 19th
century is the stuff of legend or, at least, of a thousand books and movies. But
the immigration surge at the end of the 20th century was just as profound and
far more global in character. It has filled the city's five boroughs with music,
food, clothes and customs from every corner of the world. And if this recent
immigration hasn't yet been captured between covers or on the screen, it will be
celebrated as a special theme at this year's Smithsonian Folklife Festival on
the National Mall.

Accompanying the festival showcase is a new album, "New York City: Global Beat
of the Boroughs," a two-CD, 31-track package sold for the price of a single CD.
This is the music not of the city's show-biz industry but of its neighborhoods,
where Irish Americans such as Eileen Ivers fiddle a jig for a barroom ceili in
the Bronx, where African Americans such as Timothy Wright lead a Brooklyn
congregation in call-and-response hymns, where Jewish Americans such as the
Klezmatics sing in Yiddish during an Upper West Side wedding, where West Indians
parade down Brooklyn's Eastern Parkway on Labor Day with their tuned steel
drums, and where "Nuyoricans" such as Los Pleneros de la 21 play bomba dances in
Spanish Harlem.

These examples of New York ethnic music are familiar by now; more surprising are
the recent arrivals from Eastern Europe and the Arab Middle East. The
Gypsy-flavored Balkan music of the Yuri Yunakov Ensemble and the Sau Family
Orchestra builds a bridge between West European melodies and Middle Eastern
modes; Palestinian violinist Simon Shaheen brings a remarkable sophistication to
those modes on "Olive Harvest." Merita Halili, an Albanian folk star
transplanted to Manhattan, reprises one of her homeland hits with an Islamic
melisma, while the Ukrainian band Cheres plays an energetic dance tune on
clarinet, fiddle, bass and hammered dulcimer. The United Nations may be
headquartered on East 42nd Street, but the concept is lived out in most of New
York's neighborhoods.

-- Geoffrey Himes

Cherish the Ladies, Cheres, Merita Halili & the Raif Hyseni Orchestra, the Sau
Family Orchestra, Simon Shaheen, Los Macondos, Abdoulaye Diabate & Super Manden,
Los Pleneros de la 21 and others appear as part of the New York City Program at
the Smithsonian Folklife Festival on the Mall through July 1 and July 4-8. * To
hear a free Sound Bite from "New York City: Global Beat of the Boroughs," call
Post-Haste at 202/334-9000 and press 8124. (Prince William residents, call
690-4110.)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              175 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 1, 2001 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Criminals Given 1 More Chance;
High Court Says Hill Can't Cut Off All Rights

BYLINE: Hanna Rosin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1373 words


On Wednesday, Shelly Jaques got a call from an officer at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Baltimore. "Come say goodbye to your husband," the
officer said. "He's being deported to Haiti."

But Jaques, an American citizen who lives in Silver Spring, knew that the
Supreme Court last week gave her husband one more chance to avoid deportation.
So she spent Friday frantically driving around Maryland, waving a printout at
any lawyer who would listen.

"It's our only chance," she said. "He's all I know."

The cause of Shelly Jaques's hope was one of two Supreme Court decisions made
last week expanding the rights of immigrants who have committed crimes. More
than many Supreme Court decisions, these two are likely to have an immediate and
dramatic effect on thousands of people.

A ruling Monday affects noncitizen felons, such as Ricardo Jaques, who were
ordered automatically deported after serving their sentences. Now, they can be
granted exemptions if they can prove they are not a threat to the community, a
change that could affect hundreds of thousands of people who are about to be
deported or who already have been deported. They may be able to return,
according to legal experts.

The second case, decided on Wednesday, affects about 2,700 INS "lifers,"
immigrants who have been ordered deported but whose countries have refused to
take them back. The Supreme Court ruled that the INS can no longer hold them
indefinitely, so most of them likely will be released in the United States in
the next few months.

As a group, the people affected usually don't attract much sympathy. When
Washington turns tough on crime, noncitizens who have run afoul of the law are
usually the most vulnerable. But with these two cases, the Supreme Court has
said that Congress cannot curtail their rights at whim.

"It has implications for a whole range of immigration policies," said Judy
Rabinovitz, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union involved with one
of the cases. "It means that just because these people aren't citizens doesn't
automatically mean they are not subject to constitutional scrutiny."

In 1996, Congress passed various immigration reforms cutting off the rights of
noncitizens who commit crimes. The general thrust was to encourage the INS to
detain people the agency could not immediately deport.

One unanticipated consequence was the creation of a class of people who had been
ordered deported but whose countries would not take them back.

About half of these 2,700 lifers are from Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Cuba,
countries that generally refuse to take back their own citizens. The other half
are from dozens of countries that won't issue travel documents for a variety of
reasons.

Some come from countries that won't recognize them as citizens if they don't
have a passport. Some are stateless, like Palestinians. Some come from warring
countries, such as Sierre Leone, where there are no officials to issue travel
documents. Others are from countries famous for stalling for years, such as
Haiti and Jamaica.

The Southeast Asians among the lifers tend to have a similar profile: Generally
they are children of boat people who came over after the Vietnam War and
received legal status as refugees. Then they got caught up in Asian gangs, said
Jim Ben Zoni, a lawyer who has represented dozens of them.

Since the 1996 reforms, these indefinite detainees were people in limbo. After
they served their sentences, they were immediately transferred to INS detention
centers or county jails the agency uses to house detainees.

In the INS detention system, prisoners usually come and go, but these detainees
got stuck, sometimes for years. Very few -- 5 percent, estimates Chris Nugent of
the American Bar Association -- have attorneys. And until this week, most had no
hope of getting released.

Because their fates were so unsettled, these detainees tended to get more
frustrated. Two years ago, some Cuban lifers held in Louisiana took guards
hostage to protest their detention. After the incident, most of them were
released on parole.

From an Arizona jail, Chukwuemeka Okezie Monu had been calling his lone
remaining advocate for weeks, asking the same question: "Did the Supreme Court
decision come out yet?"

Monu served a sentence for credit card fraud; right after that, he was
transferred to INS custody in 1998, to a jail in Arizona. He says he's British,
and has gathered school records and identity papers in an effort to prove it.
But the British government won't believe him, he thinks because his name is
ethnic.

For 2 1/2 years, he has watched detainees come and go. His attorney dropped his
case long ago; even the INS officer assigned to review his case no longer
visits, having declared his case hopeless until Monu comes up with more
evidence.

"I'm the man from nowhere," he said. "I've been just numb. Living in a vacuum.
Now, this is the first sign of hope I've had in years."

The Supreme Court case decided Monday affects a much larger group of people.
Before 1996, noncitizen felons who had been ordered deported were given the
opportunity to prove to an immigration judge that they should be allowed to
stay.

Most were first offenders who had committed low-level drug crimes or crimes such
as shoplifting or bouncing checks. To get an exemption from deportation, they
had to convince a judge that they were penitent and had a compelling reason to
stay, such as business or family. More than half were successful.

Marga Sanders was teaching a GED class at a jail in St. Mary's County, Md., that
had a contract to house INS detainees. Students would complain to her, "I
shouldn't be here. I've already served my time," but Sanders would just answer,
"Yeah, yeah, take it to the judge."

But one of them persisted, and Sanders took a closer look at his case. That man
was Ricardo Jaques, 26, and Sanders was moved by his story.

In 1995, before the immigration reform laws, he pleaded guilty to drug
possession; he was sentenced to five years but served only three months on
probation.

Four years later, he was picked up by police in Silver Spring after they found
marijuana on the basketball court where he was playing. They referred him to INS
agents, who, once they saw his conviction, ordered Jaques deported.

Today he sits in a facility in Oakdale, La., waiting for the plane back to
Haiti, where he hasn't been since he was 12.

Sanders became a sort of schoolroom activist, and ran across a list of typical
cases likely to be affected by the Supreme Court ruling: a man from Guyana
ordered deported after being arrested for taking his wife's car in a domestic
dispute; another from Sierre Leone who had held up a 7-Eleven and then turned
himself in.

After the two rulings, the INS is likely to be flooded with people seeking
relief. Just last year, 71,747 people were deported for criminal offenses, and
an unknown number of those could have been eligible for an exemption.

With the lifers, the burden of proof rests on the agency to show that a
detainee's country is likely to take them back within a reasonable amount of
time. The INS could either issue a blanket ruling releasing everyone in six
months, or argue case by case. The court gave the agency 25 days to decide.

The INS still has not decided how to proceed, according to spokesman Bill
Strassberger. With the lifers, at least, the INS doesn't seem to relish the
prospect of letting them go.

Under a review process, the INS has already released about 6,000 long-term
prisoners since 1996. So the ones who are left are "no shining stars,"
Strassberger said. "These are not just jaywalkers and shoplifters. We're talking
about real serious offenders who have no right to be here if they've violated
the law."

Some observers predicted, however, that the new rules might come as a relief to
INS officials.

"If you are an INS district director, you don't want to have your picture in the
paper saying so-and-so released an ax murderer," said David Martin, a law
professor at the University of Virginia and a former general counsel at the INS.
"These new rules are cleaner, so might come as a relief."

In the meantime, people like Monu wait, impatiently.

"I'm counting those 25 days," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 03, 2001, Tuesday



CORRECTION:

 A July 1 article about immigrants affected by two Supreme Court decisions last
week incorrectly reported the circumstances of Ricardo Jaques' conviction on a
drug charge. He pleaded not guilty, was convicted and received a sentence of
five years, which was suspended while he served three years' probation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              176 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 1, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Making It

BYLINE: Reviewed by Peter Skerry

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. T07

LENGTH: 1115 words


THE NEW AMERICANS

How the Melting Pot Can Work Again

By Michael Barone

Regnery. 338 pp. $ 27.95The United States may be a nation of immigrants, but for
most Americans immigration remains a contentious and confusing topic. Focusing
on what may be the largest influx of immigrants in our history, journalist
Michael Barone seeks to clarify the issue, but with limited success.

There are few more astute observers of American politics than Barone, co-author
of the indispensable Almanac of American Politics. He has an eye for telling
detail: Did you know that the founder of Planters Peanuts was an Italian
immigrant who settled in Virginia just before World War I? And his brief
analysis of the 1965 immigration law, on which current policy is based, is
politically astute.

But Barone's larger analysis is flawed. As his subtitle suggests, he thinks that
America can and should repeat its historical success with assimilation. Noting
that "we've been here before," he argues: "Minority groups of 2000 resemble in
important ways immigrant groups of 1900. In many ways blacks resemble Irish,
Latinos resemble Italians, Asians resemble Jews." Of these three comparisons,
the most familiar and least controversial is between Jews and Asians, both
groups having been manifestly successful. The difficulties arise with the other
two comparisons.

Barone wisely notes that "the notion that all immigrants from Europe were
regarded as white Europeans and accepted without prejudice is an artifact of
1990s 'multiculturalism' and an anachronism with no historical basis." And he
highlights the fundamentally different situations of blacks and Latinos,
challenging "the underlying assumption that a characteristic American racism
subjects all 'people of color' to discrimination that produces similar
responses."

But Barone goes awry when he likens today's African Americans to the immigrant
Irish. Hardly novel, this analogy puts the problems of blacks into some
much-needed perspective. Yet Barone goes too far when he writes that "it took
120 years from their initial inrush for the Irish to be fully interwoven into
the fabric of American society" and then concludes that "there is still reason
to hope that it will not take as long for the American blacks whose mass
migration [out of the South] began sixty years ago." This ignores not only that
the black exodus North began much earlier than 1940 but also that African
Americans do not date their progress from that exodus but from their arrival in
slave ships almost four centuries ago.

The analogy between today's Latinos and yesterday's Italians has also been made
before, but Barone explores it more thoroughly than anyone else to date. And
there are definite parallels. Both groups have displayed strong family values
forged in countries of origin where weak institutions inspired little
confidence. As a result, Latinos are "arguably the most family-oriented group"
in America. Yet as Barone explains, these same family values have contributed to
a de-emphasis on education among both groups: "There is surely some fear among
[Latino] parents, as there was very strongly with Italians, that higher
education status will take a child away from his family." Estimating that
Italians took 80 years to fully enter the mainstream, Barone predicts that "with
luck, it will take [Latinos] less than eighty years."

What does "with luck" mean? To Barone it means that we eliminate programs like
bilingual education and affirmative action, which embody "the civil rights
paradigm" and "nurture a sense of grievance that tends to retard rather than
promote assimilation." And what does he mean by "assimilation"? Barone is
probably right about the civil rights paradigm impeding the economic and social
progress of Latinos (though he offers scant evidence for this claim). But when
it comes to political progress, Latinos are assimilating. Affirmative action,
bilingual education, media politics, public-interest organizations -- these have
filled the void left by the demise of the local machines that (as Barone shows)
defined political reality for immigrants a century ago.

Shaped by the justifiable impatience of the black civil rights movement, today's
political institutions foster a generalized impatience with the disadvantages
faced by immigrants. Native-born Americans are arguably less tolerant than they
once were of immigrants being unable to speak English. And immigrants themselves
are definitely more impatient for advancement -- hence the notion that because
Latinos (including many recent immigrants) constitute 32 percent of California's
population, they ought to constitute 32 percent of students at the University of
California. Today's Latinos are simply not prepared to wait as long as the
Italians did.

While Barone acknowledges this aspect of contemporary politics, he also
dismisses it as the rearguard action of misguided elites in foundations and
campus ethnic-studies programs nurturing forgotten grievances and the guttering
flame of 1960s protest. This conveniently glosses over recent riots involving
Latino immigrants in Los Angeles, Miami and Washington, D.C. Nevertheless,
Barone is right to say that protest politics is of no consequence. But he is
wrong to insist that Latinos have forgotten old wounds such as the forced
repatriation of Mexican-origin individuals (including many U.S. citizens) during
the Depression and Operation Wetback during the Eisenhower era. Such episodes
are not only retold in popular culture (for example, the film "Mi Familia");
they are also reinforced by new offenses, such as passage of California's
Proposition 187, which sought to end most public services to illegal immigrants.
Finally, Barone overlooks that the angry street politics of the 1960s has moved
indoors to the courts, Congress and federal agencies, where his fellow Yale Law
graduates coolly ply their trade.

Ultimately, Barone fails to explain "how the melting pot can work again" because
he ignores the fundamental changes in American politics since the last great
wave of newcomers. It is almost certainly true that elite-sponsored policies
such as affirmative action and bilingual education fail to advance immigrant
social and economic progress. But Barone wishes away the reality that such
programs are how today's disadvantaged groups measure their political progress.
Getting rid of affirmative action and bilingual education amounts to fighting
something with nothing. This may allow Barone and other conservatives to feel
good about immigrants, but politically it is an illusion. *

Peter Skerry, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, teaches political
science at Claremont McKenna College.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              177 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 17, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Amnesty Proposal Is Huge Gamble for Bush;
President Could Be Rewarded With Hispanic Vote but Risks Angering GOP's
Conservative Wing

BYLINE: Thomas B. Edsall, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 981 words


A proposal to grant amnesty to as many as 3 million illegal Mexican immigrants
represents a major political gamble for President Bush, who could reap rewards
from Hispanic voters on Election Day but touch off a bruising intraparty fight
by angering the GOP's conservative wing.

An interdepartmental group formed by the White House to suggest reforms of
immigration policy is expected to include the option of granting legal residency
to undocumented Mexican immigrants who have been working in the United States.
The report raises the possibility of the illegal immigrants ultimately becoming
citizens.

Such a move would be warmly received not only by Mexican immigrants but also by
some business and labor groups eager to tap a large pool of new workers. But it
already has been condemned by conservatives in Bush's own party, who view it as
rewarding people who have broken the law.

Some of Bush's closest political advisers are strong proponents of trying to
wrest Hispanic voters from Democrats. Matthew Dowd, who oversaw polling for the
Bush campaign, argued that if Bush does nothing to improve his margin among
Hispanic voters, who backed former vice president Al Gore, 65 percent to 35
percent, Bush will lose in 2004 because of the steadily rising number of Latino
voters in the United States.

Dowd said the immigration proposal would not guarantee a large increase in
Hispanic support but would be a "door opener," a move that would help dispel the
GOP's anti-immigrant image.

Georgia-based GOP pollster Whit Ayres supported the proposal more strongly.
Bush, Ayres said, won half the southern Hispanic vote in 2000, and "he clearly
has the potential to win two-thirds in 2004. Nationally, he could bump up from
one-third to half of the Hispanic vote, given the fundamental values of so many
Hispanic families, with their emphasis on work and family structure."

But those scenarios were flatly rejected by Dan Stein, executive director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR).

"Bush may end up selling out the party," Stein said. "Recently naturalized
Mexican immigrants will never vote Republican in large numbers. The Democrats'
core message will always be appealing to this bloc. Immigration is not going to
save the Republican Party, immigration is going to kill the Republican Party."

Stein was particularly critical of Bush's chief political architect, Karl Rove,
a leading advocate of aggressively seeking to build Hispanic support. Rove
pushed for Bush's decision to end Navy bombing exercises on the Puerto Rican
island of Vieques.

"Karl Rove is wrong. He is simply wrong about this kind of political calculus,"
Stein said.

Bush won substantially more Hispanic support than 1996 Republican presidential
nominee Robert J. Dole. In his successful 1998 race for reelection as governor
of Texas, Bush captured just under 50 percent of the Hispanic vote, an
exceptionally high share for a Republican.

But the amnesty proposal -- authored by a group headed by Secretary of State
Colin L. Powell, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, Mexican Foreign Minister
Jorge G. Castaneda and Interior Minister Santiago Creel -- is certain to meet
resistance from conservatives. Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.) yesterday told the
Associated Press in Houston that the idea is "very bad policy" that "rewards
lawlessness."

Added Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), chairman of the Congressional Immigration
Reform Caucus: "This is a kick in the teeth to the thousands of individuals
across the world who are legally attempting to enter the United States."

Immigrants from other nations, who would not benefit from the proposal, also
voiced discontent.

"The criteria should not be based on nationality," said Cecilia Munoz, vice
president of the National Council of La Raza, which was meeting in Milwaukee.
"The criteria should be if you're working, paying taxes, contributing, then
legalization should be extended."

"Immigration law is supposed to be for everybody," said Samedi Florvil of the
Haitian Refugee Center in Miami.

But Republican Sens. Sam Brownback (Kan.) and Chuck Hagel (Neb.) strongly
endorsed the proposal, contending that Congress would support it.

"When this president leads on an issue of such international importance, his
party will follow. In the context of an historic international agreement with
Mexico, you can be certain that President Bush will receive broad support among
members of his party and, with the proper elements in such an agreement, among
Democrats as well," the pair said in a joint statement.

A similar, but more modest proposal aimed primarily at agricultural workers and
spearheaded by Rep. Howard L. Berman (D-Calif.) failed to win final approval
last year in part because some agribusiness leaders opposed some protections for
workers included in the legislation.

Independent and partisan analysts have contended that Hispanic support for the
GOP suffered long-term damage when former California governor Pete Wilson (R)
led the campaign for California's Proposition 187 in 1994. The measure, approved
by voters, cut off some state benefits to illegal immigrants.

"It [187] was very bad timing if you look at the demographics of the state,"
said University of California at San Diego political scientist Gary Jacobson.
"It was deeply offensive to Mexican Americans" and was promoted by an
"inflammatory" ad campaign.

An analysis by Bernd Schwieren, a GOP political consultant in California, shows
that minority support for Republicans declined substantially in the state after
the passage of Proposition 187. The average Hispanic vote for Republican
candidates fell from 30.7 percent between 1988 and 1994 to 22.8 percent from
1996 to 2000. The Asian American vote fell from 46 percent to 39.2 percent, and
the black vote from 14.1 percent to 10.6 percent.

Staff writer Cheryl W. Thompson contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              178 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 25, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A Stir on Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 487 words


THE ADMINISTRATION is contemplating major changes in U.S. immigration policy,
particularly as regards Mexico. It's a process that could have a good result.
Mexican President Vicente Fox has been urging that, as part of a new
relationship, the flow of would-be workers from his country to the United States
be "regularized." The term is vague and has been left so on purpose. But
basically it is a call for a more accommodative policy -- a recognition that
neither country is going to stop the flow and that both would do better to try
to regulate it generously instead.

President Bush would like to accommodate his counterpart. He has all kinds of
reasons to do so. It would be a coup to establish a new relationship with Mexico
and to be seen as having taken a serious step toward reducing illegal
immigration. A system making it easier to recruit workers from across the border
would please Mr. Bush's business allies. A move to make it easier for Mexicans
to enter and leave the country legally would likewise help the president among
Hispanic voters, a rapidly growing group whose future support both parties
regard as crucial. Nor would it likely embroil him with labor as in the past;
the unions have also become supporters of easier immigration, which they see
among much else as a possible source of increased membership.

But immigration policy isn't easy to change. The issues are complicated, and the
politics even more so. Mr. Bush, if he does move in the direction of a more open
border, is certain to face opposition from the hard-liners within his own party
who have written most U.S. immigration policy in recent years. Just the hint of
a more open policy brought objections last week. Hispanic and other advocacy
groups will also insist that any attempt to make it easier to cross the border
in the future include an effort somehow to "regularize" the status of illegal
immigrants already here, and indeed it would be awkward not to do so. But
amnesty or anything like it for illegal immigrants creates its own problems. Why
should people follow the rules and wait for years to enter the country legally
if, in the name of bowing to reality, the rules are going to be waived
periodically in favor of those who have broken them and entered illegally? And
what is the fairness of that?

There are likely to be disputes as well about the rights of any people --
workers? their families? -- who are allowed easier entry. Will the workers be
given the full protection of U.S. labor law, including the right to organize?
What benefits will they and their dependents be eligible for? The parties can be
expected to divide on some of these issues if they arise. They too will
doubtless be used to demonstrate which party has the interests of Hispanics most
at heart. So obstacles exist, and the president has yet to say, or decide,
exactly what it is he wants to do. But a breeze is blowing in a promising
direction.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              179 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 27, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Bush May Expand Residency Plan;
Immigrants Other Than Mexicans Could Be Considered

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 632 words


President Bush said yesterday he might expand his legal-residency plan to
include immigrants from countries besides Mexico, but reiterated his opposition
to a "blanket amnesty."

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General John D. Ashcroft have
recommended a temporary-worker program that would include ways for some workers
to gain permanent residency status.

The plan is part of a continuing administration dialogue with Mexican President
Vicente Fox, who is due to visit the White House on Sept. 5. Advocates for
immigrants from other countries said they should be included, too, and Bush said
he is willing to listen.

"We'll consider all folks here," Bush said, taking a few questions after an Oval
Office ceremony. "Obviously, the Mexican issue is at the forefront because we're
preparing for my first state visit with my friend, Vicente Fox. But I'm
open-minded. I'll listen to all proposals that people have in mind."

Bush stressed -- as other administration officials have -- the limits of the
proposal.

"A word was creeping in the vernacular about this issue, called 'amnesty,' " he
said. "I oppose blanket amnesty. The American people need to know that. I do
believe, though, that when we find willing employer and willing employee, we
ought to match the two."

White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said Bush has "made no decisions about
the exact groups that may be liable for more humane and legal treatment as a
part of an expanded or improved guest worker program."

Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of Service Employees International
Union, which says it represents more immigrants than any other union, praised
Bush's willingness to consider expanding the proposed program.

"Our immigration policy should be evenhanded for everybody, not just those from
one country," she said.

Also yesterday, Bush received two boosts for his "faith-based" initiative when
Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman (D-Conn.) said he plans to introduce a bill in
September or early October, and Sen. Zell Miller (D-Ga.) sent colleagues a
letter supporting the president's plan. "We cannot wait," Miller wrote.

The legislation, which would expand funding to religious charities, recently
passed a divided House but has been stalled in the Senate. Bush met at the White
House yesterday with Lieberman and Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.), and said he would
be willing to compromise on the initiative to revive the legislation's prospects
in the Senate.

In response to a request from Santorum, Bush indicated to the senators he would
be willing to increase funding for the initiative, the senators' aides said.
Bush had proposed spending $ 84 billion over 10 years to allow charitable
deductions for those who don't itemize their taxes, but the House reduced that
amount to $ 6.3 billion.

Bush also indicated he would compromise on provisions in the House measure that
could exempt religious charities from state and local anti-discrimination laws,
an issue that provoked a dispute in the House.

"I mentioned it, and he expressed a total openness to consider the removal of
that provision in the Senate legislation," Lieberman said.

Bush told the senators his goal is to get a version of the legislation through
the Senate by the end of the year. "My sense was they are willing to deal on
anything just to get it passed," a Senate aide said after the meeting.

On another matter, Bush said the U.S. "no-fly zone strategy is still in place"
despite an Iraqi effort to hit a high-altitude American U-2 spy plane with a
missile this week.

"We're going to keep the pressure on Iraq," he said. "There's no question that
Saddam Hussein is still a menace and a problem, and the United States and our
allies must put the pressure on him."

Staff writer Dana Milbank contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              180 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 27, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

METRO;
In Brief

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1020 words


THE REGION

Salvadoran immigrants are applying in record numbers for a program allowing them
to temporarily live and work in the United States, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service reported yesterday.

So far, 220,058 Salvadorans have signed up for Temporary Protected Status, and
"the number continues to climb," said Dan Kane, a spokesman for the INS. The
Salvadoran Embassy had estimated that 15 percent would be from the Washington
area, home to the nation's second-biggest Salvadoran community.

President Bush announced that Salvadorans who were in this country as of Feb. 13
could qualify for the 18-month program. Bush's gesture was aimed at helping El
Salvador after it suffered two devastating earthquakes early this year.

MARYLAND

The Montgomery County Humane Society will continue to run the county's animal
shelter after county officials signed a $ 1.17 million contract with the
nonprofit agency.

The society had decided to terminate its contract because it said it could not
afford to operate the shelter and pay workers a decent wage on the nearly $
948,000 annual budget it received from the county. The new contract, announced
yesterday by County Executive Douglas M. Duncan (D), includes money for staff
training and a pay increase of $ 1.75 an hour that brings the starting hourly
wage for shelter employees to $ 8 an hour. The contract also includes $ 32,000
for rehabilitation services provided by the Second Chance Wildlife Center..

A state-sponsored task force to address problems with day laborers,
transportation and crime in Langley Park and Takoma Park held its first meeting
yesterday.

The 26-member Crossroads Task Force was convened at the request of Gov. Parris
N. Glendening (D) to bring together representatives from the three jurisdictions
-- Montgomery and Prince George's counties and the City of Takoma Park -- that
share responsibility for the area around the intersection of University
Boulevard and New Hampshire Avenue. The area has a high concentration of
immigrant and low-income residents.

One of the group's mandates is to help identify a permanent site for the roughly
100 laborers who regularly gather at the intersection to look for daily work. A
new site was recently found two miles down New Hampshire Avenue in response to
complaints by business owners and residents that the day laborers harass and
scare off customers. However, that site will be available for only six months.

The next meeting is set for 3 p.m. Aug. 29 at the Langley Park Community Center,
1500 Merrimac Dr. The meetings are open to the public.

Rainy weather and slick roads caused a head-on collision that killed two
teenagers and injured two other people in Charles County yesterday afternoon,
authorities said.

The 17-year-old driver of a Chevy Cavalier lost control of the car and crossed
the center lane of Route 5 in Hughesville, striking a Ford pickup about 5:30
p.m., said Maryland State Police. The crash killed the driver and Joseph
Marcheggiani, 18, police said. Another passenger, Steve Terrell, 18, was treated
at a hospital and released, police said. All three Chevy passengers were from
Mechanicsville. Police did not identify the driver.

The driver of the truck, Dallas Windsor, 32, of Mechanicsville, was taken to
Calvert Memorial Hospital; his condition was not released.

THE DISTRICT

District school officials yesterday announced the beginning of the Barnard
Elementary School modernization project, which they said is to be completed in
the fall of 2003.

Construction will begin on school property near the current building in
Northwest, and students will continue to attend classes during the construction.
The modernization will give the school a capacity of 480 students, up from the
current 410, officials said.

The D.C. school board is seeking to modernize or replace all the schools in the
system in the next 15 years. The first phase of the modernization effort,
including construction at Barnard, has been behind schedule.

A bill to expand the District's college tuition assistance program to cover all
high school graduates who live in the city was passed by the House Government
Reform Committee on Wednesday on a voice vote.

The bill, sponsored by Rep. Constance A. Morella (R-Md.) and whose co-sponsors
include Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) and Rep. Thomas M. Davis III
(R-Va.), would amend a two-year-old program under which recent high school
graduates can receive $ 2,500 a year to attend local private universities and up
to $ 10,000 a year to attend public colleges across the country at in-state
tuition rates.

The bill would expand the program to include existing college seniors, who were
excluded from the initial program, and people who graduated from high school
before 1997. A House vote is expected as early as Tuesday.

A bill to redesignate the family division of D.C. Superior Court as a separate
court was introduced yesterday in the House.

The bill, introduced by House Majority Whip Tom DeLay (R-Tex.), Rep. Thomas M.
Davis III (R-Va.), Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) and Rep. Constance A.
Morella (R-Md.), is aimed at improving family court services in the District by
changing the way the current family division operates.

The bill would assign more judges to hear family matters, particularly cases of
abuse and neglect; hire magistrate judges to hear those cases; appoint a special
master to dispose of a backlog of thousands of cases; and require the mayor to
appoint a social services liaison to help judges match children with city
programs.

"Before I departed Beijing, I was warned not to talk about anything. Not to talk
about my time, my experience in China, in any form. . . . But with America
standing behind me, with this fine people standing behind me, I'm not scared."

-- Gao Zhan, the McLean scholar who was jailed during a family vacation in China
and who returned to the United States yesterday.  -- Page A1

Compiled from reports by staff writers Mary Beth Sheridan, Jo Becker, Nurith C.
Aizenman, Justin Blum, Spencer S. Hsu, Clarence Williams and Arthur Santana and
the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              181 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 27, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

METRO;
In Brief

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1023 words


THE REGION

Salvadoran immigrants are applying in record numbers for a program allowing them
to temporarily live and work in the United States, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service reported yesterday.

So far, 220,058 Salvadorans have signed up for Temporary Protected Status, and
"the number continues to climb," said Dan Kane, a spokesman for the INS. The
Salvadoran Embassy had estimated that 15 percent would be from the Washington
area, home to the nation's second-biggest Salvadoran community.

The new applicants exceed the 190,000 Salvadorans, many of them refugees from
the Central American country's civil war, who benefited from a similar program
in 1991. And they dwarf the 150,000 whom U.S. authorities had expected this time
around.

President Bush announced that Salvadorans who were in this country as of Feb. 13
could qualify for the 18-month program. Bush's gesture was aimed at helping El
Salvador after it suffered two devastating earthquakes early this year.

Money sent home by Salvadoran immigrants has become crucial to the country's
economy.

Three disabled D.C. residents and an advocacy group filed a federal lawsuit
against CVS Corp. yesterday, alleging that its area drugstores have so much
merchandise cluttering the aisles that they are often inaccessible to people
using wheelchairs.

The suit accuses the drugstore chain, which has scores of locations in the area,
of violating the Americans With Disabilities Act. It says clogged aisles, high
counters, heavy doors and inadequate parking unfairly affect disabled customers.

"I think they should change their name to MIS -- Messy, Inaccessible Store,"
said Margaret Mann, one of the plaintiffs, saying her shopping trips often
become ordeals.

Mann and customers Jorge Pineda and Judith E. Heumann complained about their
experiences to the Disability Rights Council of Greater Washington, which filed
the suit in U.S. District Court. The group recently settled a similar lawsuit
against Shoppers Food Warehouse and has won changes at other area businesses.
CVS is the first drugstore to be targeted with litigation, the advocates said.

VIRGINIA

A Henrico County man says he will appeal a judge's order that he take down the
U.S. flag that flies outside his home.

Richard Oulton made the decision yesterday after Circuit Court Judge L.A. Harris
Jr. ordered him to pay $ 82,000 in legal fees to the Wyndham Homeowners
Association.

The association claimed in a lawsuit against Oulton that his 25-foot flagpole
violates neighborhood covenants. Harris agreed and gave Oulton a Sept. 7
deadline for removing the flagpole.

However, Oulton says he might be able to keep the flag flying for years while he
appeals the case to higher courts.

Front Royal's police chief is pushing for a law that would limit the number of
pawnshops in the town.

The proposal is expected to be on the town's agenda for the next few months.
Town Attorney Blair Mitchell says pawnshops facilitate crime. He says Front
Royal police have told him they catch two or three people a month trying to sell
stolen items at pawnshops.

Norma Rizer, a local pawnshop owner, defended the businesses. She said that
national studies have shown that only 0.1 percent of stolen goods end up in
pawnshops and that the percentage is even lower in her store.

THE DISTRICT

District school officials yesterday announced the beginning of the Barnard
Elementary School modernization project, which they said is to be completed in
the fall of 2003.

Construction will begin on school property near the current building in
Northwest, and students will continue to attend classes during the construction.
The modernization will give the school a capacity of 480 students, up from the
current 410, officials said.

The D.C. school board is seeking to modernize or replace all the schools in the
system in the next 15 years. The first phase of the modernization effort,
including construction at Barnard, has been behind schedule.

MARYLAND

The senior rabbi of Bethesda's Congregation Beth El, whose questionable handling
of a synagogue charity fund sparked a bitter and emotional split in the
50-year-old Jewish congregation, has decided to resign from the post he has held
for 13 years.

Rabbi Jonathan Z. Maltzman, who two months ago won a vote of confidence from
congregants and was negotiating a three-year extension of his contract as late
as last week, will instead step down Sept. 1.

Maltzman will receive a severance package of one year's salary with benefits --
worth about $ 170,000 -- and an internal investigation of his stewardship of the
charity fund will cease, sources said. Synagogue leaders also will ask the
Montgomery County state's attorney's office to shut down its investigation of
the charity fund, sources said.

"The ideal of shalom -- peace and harmony -- must take precedence over
everything else," Maltzman said in a letter yesterday to his congregants. "In
order to promote shalom, to heal the fissures within our congregation, I have
chosen to resign."

A state-sponsored task force to address problems with day laborers,
transportation and crime in Langley Park and Takoma Park held its first meeting
yesterday.

The 26-member Crossroads Task Force was convened at the request of Gov. Parris
N. Glendening (D) to bring together representatives from the three jurisdictions
-- Montgomery and Prince George's counties and the City of Takoma Park -- that
share responsibility for the roughly four-square-mile zone around the
intersection of University Boulevard and New Hampshire Avenue. The area has a
high concentration of immigrant and low-income residents.

"Before I departed Beijing, I was warned not to talk about anything. Not to talk
about my time, my experience in China, in any form. . . . But with America
standing behind me, with this fine people standing behind me, I'm not scared."

-- Gao Zhan, the McLean scholar who was jailed during a family vacation in China
and who returned to the United States yesterday.  -- Page A1

Compiled from reports by staff writers Mary Beth Sheridan, Caryle Murphy, Justin
Blum and Bill Miller and the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              182 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 27, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

An Immigrant Makes Migration a Subject for Life

BYLINE: Nora Boustany

SECTION: A SECTION; DIPLOMATIC DISPATCHES NORA BOUSTANY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 904 words


Demetrios G. Papademetriou likes to call it "the super specialist's revenge."

Bridging the worlds of academia and think tanks, he took the topic of migration
and borders, mastered it and turned it into a personal and professional passion.
The issue is the soft underbelly of globalization, touching the most sensitive
nerves about living space, jobs, identity and culture.

This week Papademetriou, 55, leaves the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, where he has been a senior associate and co-director of the International
Migration Policy Program, to start the Migration Policy Institute, an
independently funded spinoff. In that unique Washington space between knowledge
and policy, the Greek-born American scholar has made it his business to
translate the wordy world of academic papers into options.

In the Greek coastal city of Patras, his father urged the 18-year-old Demetrios,
a young man with good grades who was constantly criticizing the system he lived
in, to compete for a Marshall Plan scholarship to an American university. In
1964, he won and headed off to Wilkes College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., where he
received his BA in political science and history in 1970. "At first, I was
completely lost. I spoke little English." But "the rest is history," said a
smiling Papademetriou, with soft blue eyes and white beard. His office is
stacked with cardboard boxes and the neat clutter of a man who knows his mind.

He washed dishes and waited on tables until the month he defended his PhD
dissertation on "The Social and Political Implications of European Labor" at the
University of Maryland in 1976. His father's remittances from Greece were
limited to $ 150 a month, $ 60 of which went for rent. His daily dinner
consisted of two eggs, over easy, and three slices of bread, which cost 40
cents.

He ended up teaching in the area of immigration for seven years until he was
named executive editor of the International Migration Review in New York. "I
became attached to the topic because it was what I knew," he said. "Running a
professional journal kept me imbued. For the first time, the subject became my
life and my life became the subject. Before, it was just a job. After that I
drew no distinction between what I did for a living and the rest of my life."

That experience was also his springboard into more direct involvement in
policymaking. When President Jimmy Carter formed a commission on immigration and
refugee policy, Papademetriou said he knew his topic "had legs."

He worked at the Labor Department in 1988 as director of immigration policy and
joined Carnegie in 1992 with the encouragement of Doris Meissner. At Carnegie,
he turned the program he ran into a financially independent unit with
governments around the world consulting him before formulating immigration
policy. He claims vast experience in countries as varied as those of the former
Soviet Union, as well as Italy, Portugal, France, South Africa and Canada.

"He is a larger-than-life figure," said Meissner, who headed the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in the Clinton administration. "He lives and breathes his
work."

One morning, on his way to work -- which is usually at 4:30 a.m. -- he pulled
over to the side of Interstate 395 to jot down a thought. When the police came
up to his window, Papademetriou was stooped over a yellow pad, pen in hand. "He
became director of a project I created and took it to an entirely new level,"
Meissner said.

"He understands the practical realities of the policymaking process," she added.
He played an important role during the first Bush administration in work leading
to the 1990 changes in immigration law, and at negotiations that led to the
North American Free Trade Agreement, Meissner noted.

Now he gets to start his own think tank with a global role. "One of the most
influential institutions will be born next month voicing its opinion around the
world, not just to Capitol Hill," said Moises Naim, editor of Foreign Policy,
the bimonthly review published by Carnegie.

Papademetriou said his success comes from his "bullishness, being an immigrant
and believing in the value of what I do, never to take anything for granted,
never to take no for an answer." He has never been paid by a foreign government
and is often at odds with some who come seeking his counsel. "We are just
advocates for good public policy, not pro-immigrant this or anti-that," he said.

One of his favorite recent successes is a paper on U.S.-Mexico migration issues
that took four years of biannual secret meetings to develop. Three of the
Mexican participants ended up as key figures in the new administration of
President Vicente Fox. "I just wanted a consensus document. Then Fox gets
elected. This was serendipity," he said. "We sent a letter to both him and
President Bush on Feb. 14. They met on Feb. 16. There were ideas on the table
coming out of our report."

"I will only see myself as being as good as the next product I produced or the
next argument I won. This is not about hard work. This is about identity," the
burly scholar emphasized.

He had a touch of "cultural wistfulness" while visiting Patras last year during
its fabled carnival. He had missed the familiarity of the tastes, odors and
sounds. But he sees himself through the lens of the United States. "This is my
point of reference, this is my frame of comparison," he said. "I was shaped
here, not there."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              183 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 31, 2001 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Crimes That Demand Deportation

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 143 words


The July 22 editorial "Immigration Improvements" ignored two important facts.

It criticized current law for deporting illegal aliens who have committed "even
petty crimes."

The list of crimes that trigger deportation ranges from murder, rape, drug
trafficking, arms trafficking and national security violations to kidnapping,
child pornography, espionage and crimes of theft or violence. I don't think most
Americans would consider them "petty."

Also, the editorial laments detaining criminal aliens while deportation
proceedings against them are pending. Prior to current law, before criminal
aliens were detained, close to 90 percent failed to appear at their deportation
hearings -- the reason why current law is necessary.

LAMAR SMITH

U.S. Representative (R-Tex.)

Washington

The writer is a member and former chairman of the House immigration
subcommittee.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              184 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 2, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Organization Reaching Out Statewide;
Columbia Group to Train Interpreters

BYLINE: Susan DeFord, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: HOWARD EXTRA; Pg. T06

LENGTH: 375 words


A Columbia organization that assists immigrants is expanding beyond Howard
County under a new state contract to provide trained interpreters.

The Foreign-born Information & Referral Network (FIRN) will begin training 25
interpreters this month to serve Maryland's immigrants. The 20-year-old
organization has a one-year, $ 176,000 contract with the Maryland Office for New
Americans to provide the interpreters at hospitals and social service agencies.

"It's a new step for FIRN," said Laura Pfeifer, the organization's coordinator
for interpreter training. "We feel there's a need for it."

The group's long-standing practice of serving diverse immigrant populations
appealed to state officials, who expect the need for interpreters to be greatest
in Montgomery and Prince George's counties. Organizations assisting immigrants
in those counties often have ties to particular ethnic groups.

"FIRN serves all comers," said Martin Ford, associate director of the Maryland
Office for New Americans. Last year, FIRN assisted nearly 1,900 foreign-born
clients in Howard.

Maryland officials are trying to comply with an order last year from President
Bill Clinton that requires federally funded institutions to make their services
accessible to non-English speakers. They've signed a second contract for trained
interpreters with CTS Language Link, a Vancouver, Wash., group with a Baltimore
office.

The need for interpreters is greatest among political refugees, although they
constitute less than 10 percent of this country's immigrants, Ford said.

"Their circumstances are pretty dire," he said. "They often need many services."

Immigrants who don't speak English frequently have trouble in health care
facilities. "That's where we find the biggest problem," Pfeifer said. "It's so
important to understand your doctor's visit."

FIRN wants to train speakers of the most common immigrant languages, which
include the Amharic language of Ethiopia, Arabic, Farsi, Serbo-Croatian,
Spanish, Vietnamese, French and Russian. The 40-hour training course for paid
interpreters examines the techniques, ethics and etiquette of the role. Training
for another 25 interpreters will be held in the fall.

Interested candidates should call FIRN at 410-992-1923.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              185 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 2, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

METRO;
In Brief

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1019 words


VIRGINIA

Federal authorities yesterday continued questioning four Tanzanian Boy Scouts
who left the National Scout Jamboree in Fort A.P. Hill on Sunday and were found
unharmed 30 hours later in Washington.

Officials from the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Tanzanian
Embassy said the Scouts, who are between 14 and 17 years old, were hoping to
stay in the United States so they could attend an American school. A Justice
Department official said the boys may have been looking for a school Monday
after they hitchhiked from the Jamboree, held 80 miles south of Washington. The
32,000 Scouts who attended the quadrennial event returned home yesterday.

The four boys are part of a nine-member contingent from Tanzania. The Scouts,
who have not requested formal asylum, have been staying in a foster home in
Alexandria since Tuesday evening, Tanzanian officials said. Federal authorities
said that the Scouts' parents have been contacted and that the boys will be
offered legal counsel if requested.

The State Board of Elections is considering a pilot program to allow Virginia
National Guardsmen stationed in Bosnia to vote via the Internet this fall.

About 600 members of the 29th Infantry Division will be deployed to Bosnia in
September, two months before the Nov. 6 general election, when the three
statewide offices and all 100 House of Delegates seats are on the ballot.

Under the proposal, a soldier would apply for an absentee ballot. State election
officials would travel to Bosnia for voter identification and education and
would set up computers for voting. Votes would be encrypted and would be
unscrambled by election workers in Richmond. The ballots would be tabulated on
Election Day.

Tysons Corner Center officials said yesterday that they have equipped the mall
with six automated external defibrillators for use by public safety officials
and managers in medical emergencies.

A defibrillator supplies an electrical shock to restart the heart during a
cardiac arrest.

Four of the new devices are in the mall, and two are in public safety vehicles
for quick response in parking areas, officials said. In preparation, the mall's
management and public safety staff completed American Heart Association
training.

THE DISTRICT

The District's first sales tax holiday begins tomorrow and runs through Aug. 12.
During the moratorium, the city's 5.75 percent sales tax will not apply to a
long list of merchandise traditionally bought during the back-to-school shopping
period, such as school supplies, clothing and footwear costing less than $ 101
an item.

D.C. Council member Carol Schwartz (R-At Large), who introduced legislation last
fall to create the tax holiday, will be joined by other city officials at a news
conference at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow at the Hecht's store downtown.

Detailed information on the tax holiday is available on Schwartz's council Web
page, www.dccouncil.washington.dc.us/schwartz, or by calling her office at
202-724-8105.

A new nonprofit organization announced yesterday that it would pay to treat 100
healthy American elm trees in the District with injections designed to prevent
Dutch elm disease.

The Casey Trees Endowment Fund, which is under the auspices of the Garden Club
of America and funded through a $ 50 million gift from the Eugene B. Casey
Foundation, said in a statement that trees throughout the city would be infused
with Arbotect 20-S, which can protect the trees for as long as three growing
seasons.

About 8,000 American elms remain in the District, the statement said.

Ben's Chili Bowl, a District culinary landmark, was closed yesterday as a result
of a fire but plans to reopen for lunch today, a restaurant spokesman said.

A small gas leak in a grill set off a smoky fire about 4 a.m. yesterday, the
D.C. fire department said. City inspectors must approve the repair before the U
Street NW restaurant can reopen, said Kamal Ali, who runs Ben's with his
brother.

Normally, he said, Ben's closes only for Christmas and Thanksgiving. He said
many people telephoned yesterday to ask, "Are the half-smokes safe?"

MARYLAND

The Montgomery County Council has voted to modify the qualifications for members
of the county's Commission on Landlord-Tenant Relations, making it more
difficult for those who make money from residential tenants to represent tenants
on the board.

Under the plan, residents who make $ 10,000 or more a year from tenant income
could no longer represent tenants on the board. And lawyers who represent
landlords in more than 10 cases a year could not serve as tenant
representatives.

The changes, approved Tuesday, came after tenant advocates complained about
possible conflicts of interest.

A Maryland Circuit Court judge said he may rule as early as tomorrow on a
request from a group of watermen to block the state's plans to end the
commercial crabbing season a month early.

After a Maryland legislative committee failed to enact new harvest restrictions
in time for the April 1 start of the crabbing season, Gov. Parris N. Glendening
(D) said he would close the season at the end of October.

Natural resource officials also imposed an eight-hour workday on watermen this
summer to stem the decline of blue crabs throughout the Chesapeake Bay and to
meet the terms of a pact with Virginia to reduce harvests by 15 percent over
three years.

Watermen filed suit against the restrictions, seeking an injunction from
Worcester County Circuit Court Judge Thomas Groten. Maryland officials said the
latest crab harvest numbers continue to show below-average catches.

"People were trying to make out that I was some sort of racist in one comment
and some sort of anti-Semite in another. Nothing could be further from the
truth."

-- David L. Blackshear, who said he resigned as executive director of the
Maryland Aviation Administration after being accused of making offensive remarks
to black and female employees.  -- Page A1

Compiled from reports by staff writers Anita Huslin, Chris L. Jenkins, Carol D.
Leonnig, Leef Smith, Steve Twomey, Martin Weil and Clarence Williams and the
Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              186 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 17, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

2 Va. Men Convicted Of Bilking Immigrants;
Visa Scheme's Victims Invested $21 Million

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 695 words


Two men who collected millions of dollars from immigrants seeking U.S. visas
were convicted in federal court in Alexandria yesterday on 61 counts of
conspiracy, money laundering and fraud for devising a scheme that left many
investors with no visa and no money.

Prosecutors estimated that James F. O'Connor, 44, of Fauquier, and James A.
Geisler, 48, of Springfield, took in more than $ 21 million through their
operation in a suite of offices in Herndon. The two men, who ran the Interbank
Group, told potential clients they could take advantage of a new U.S. law
granting permanent residency status -- a green card -- to foreign investors who
put $ 500,000 into an American business.

And, the Interbank sales pitch went, the investors would only have to pay $
100,000, plus a $ 20,000 service fee, and the other $ 400,000 would be financed
by loans arranged through Interbank. Lawyers attending yesterday's hearing, who
were representing victims who lost their $ 120,000 and their visa applications,
said at least 100 people, and maybe more than 200, from around the world took
Interbank up on its offer.

Federal prosecutors argued that there were no $ 400,000 loans, only a series of
transactions designed to convince the Immigration and Naturalization Service
that Interbank's clients had invested $ 500,000. The INS raided Interbank's
offices in August 1998, and prosecutors obtained indictments against O'Connor
and Geisler in August 2000.

O'Connor and Geisler declined to comment after the verdict. U.S. District Judge
T.S. Ellis III allowed them to remain free on bond pending sentencing Nov. 2.
Prosecutors estimate that they may face 20 years or more in prison.

The three-week trial, held this spring, was unusual. Both sides waived a jury,
an infrequent event in criminal cases. O'Connor and Geisler decided to represent
themselves, though Ellis appointed lawyers as "standby counsel," whose bills
eventually tallied more than $ 50,000. And O'Connor, when he took the witness
stand, had Geisler -- his co-defendant -- ask him questions. Later, O'Connor
asked himself questions and answered them.

But more crucial to the outcome was probably the testimony of two former
Interbank officials who acknowledged the phony scheme. Frank Ricci, who pleaded
guilty to fraud and money laundering and testified for the government, said he
made sales presentations for Interbank in Hong Kong and Manila, and was told by
O'Connor and Geisler not to inform the INS that $ 400,000 of the client's
investment was coming from "loans."

Ricci said that he later tried to find out whether the loans truly existed and
that he wasn't able to confirm them. A financial official in the Bahamas
testified that Interbank would wire him $ 400,000 one day and he would wire it
back the next, to make it appear as if the second transfer was being made on
behalf of the client.

A former Interbank vice president, Martin Turk, testified that he spoke with
Geisler about Interbank clients' rejection for visas and that he worried that
the immigration program might be ended. Turk said Geisler told him not to worry
because he had $ 5 million hidden in an offshore bank account and O'Connor also
had money stashed away.

Ellis deliberated for more than four months after hearing the evidence and wrote
a 46-page order, which was not released yesterday. He said: "Beyond a reasonable
doubt, Mr. O'Connor and Mr. Geisler are guilty of the offenses charged in the
indictment. All of them. . . . There is ample evidence of each and every
element."

David A. Hirsch, a Fairfax lawyer who obtained $ 360,000 judgments against
O'Connor and Geisler on behalf of a defrauded immigrant, said the defendants
"really crushed the American dream for a large number of people, so I think
justice was served today."

As many as a dozen defrauded immigrants have won judgments against O'Connor and
Geisler, and their lawyers wondered whether they would ever be able to get any
money back. Rob Robertson Jr., a Springfield lawyer representing a Pakistani
immigrant, said: "I think Mr. O'Connor and Mr. Geisler have hidden quite a bit
of their assets. And I think they've spent quite a bit of it, too."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              187 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 23, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Schools Adjusting to an International Roll Call;
County Attempts to Overcome Students' Language Barriers

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: PRINCE GEORGE'S EXTRA; Pg. T14

LENGTH: 806 words


The crowd waiting to register for school in Prince George's County on a recent
morning could have been lifted from an international airport terminal: Indian
toddlers giggled at a secret joke while a woman in an African print dress filled
out multicolored forms; an ebony-haired Salvadoran couple consulted with a
translator while a blond, blue-eyed man searched his pockets for his children's
passports.

The scene provided a vivid testimony to an immigration explosion that has made
Prince George's County one of the state's most popular destinations for
immigrants, and has caused the number of foreign-born or foreign
language-speaking students in Prince George's schools to shoot from 5,557 in
1989 to 13,137 in May. They attend classes throughout the county at 40 public
schools.

The new arrivals, who comprise about 10 percent of Prince George's County's
public school population, come from 153 countries and speak 134 languages,
injecting an exciting dose of diversity into the student body.

However they also represent a significant challenge to the school system because
they face many linguistic, cultural and psychological barriers.

"There are students with low or no literacy skills, some of whom have been in
refugee camps with no schooling, some with post-traumatic stress syndrome from
things they've seen in their country," said Supreet Anand, who coordinates state
grants in the county school system for counseling and mentoring international
students.

However, the biggest obstacle these children face is the inability of more than
6,700 of them to speak English well. To teach them, the school system employs
about 190 teachers in its English for Speakers of Others Languages (ESOL)
program, which is offered at 40 schools during regular class time.

Many non-English-speaking children have only recently arrived in the United
States. Of those, the greatest number in Prince George's come from El Salvador,
Mexico and Nigeria. But the majority of ESOL students, about 5,568 children,
were born in the United States to immigrant parents who speak only their native
language -- usually Spanish -- at home.

Often the parents themselves do not speak English. But even parents who are
fluent in English may prefer not to use it at home.

"We try to avoid English so our children will learn Punjabi," said Parminder
Dhillon, an immigrant from India. His 4-year-old son will start at Oaklands
Elementary School in Laurel this year. "Once he starts going to school he'll
learn English anyway," Dhillon said.

Indeed, Prince George's ESOL program boasts some impressive successes.

When Gloria Pedemonte, now 15, moved to College Park from Peru in December 1999
she did not speak any English.

"I felt very scared," she said. "I couldn't understand anything people said to
me, and I worried I wouldn't make friends and wouldn't get good grades."

A year and a half later, Pedemonte is in the ESOL program's most advanced level
and can describe those early months in near-perfect English.

But for every Gloria Pedemonte, many other limited-English students slip through
the cracks, scoring well below their English-speaking peers on standardized
tests or dropping out altogether, said Karen Woodson, ESOL supervisor for the
county schools.

"We're really looking for how we can improve the academic achievement of our
limited English students across the board," she said.

To that end, Woodson is launching a pilot program this year at Langley Park
McCormick Elementary School to train all teachers to include English instruction
as part of every subject they teach. That way, ESOL students will be learning
English during all their classes -- including science and math -- rather than
learning it only when they are pulled out of class for daily ESOL instruction.

In addition, under the pilot program, children in the most advanced ESOL level
will be placed in the same reading classes as the school's most advanced
English-speaking readers.

"We know that ESOL children learn best when they have a good native speaker as
their model," Woodson said.

The program will be expensive. Although Woodson, who has a doctorate in
linguistics, will train the school's teachers herself during a series of eight
three-hour after-hours sessions, they will still need to be paid to attend,
bringing the overall cost to about $ 30,000.

Nonetheless, Woodson noted, that price tag would be much lower in future years
because only new teachers would need to be trained.

If all goes well, Woodson hopes to introduce the program at other county schools
beginning in 2003. But no matter the program's result, she and her staff will
continue exploring other solutions.

Given the ever-increasing size of the county's immigrant population, she noted,
"we really need to close the gap between limited English and standard English
students."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              188 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     August 14, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

More Than Words; Immigrants Learn To Speak, Survive In Summer School

Emily Wax , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1423 words


On her first day of school in the United States, Fartuun Omar's lips trembled as
she entered the pulsating halls of Wakefield High School in Arlington. Wearing
her favorite maroon dress and head scarf from Somalia, she walked past boys
sporting enormous jeans and girls with cheeks twinkling with glittery makeup,
all of them talking in a jumble of English words she couldn't understand.

She clutched a slip of paper with her schedule, but couldn't find any of her
classes. Every morning for the next two weeks, she wound up in the library near
the front of the school, sweating and struggling to ask for directions.

"It felt like I was invisible," said Fartuun, 16, a shy girl who came here in
February as a refugee from her country's civil war. "I was always like, 'Where
am I? I can't understand.' "

Once she found her classes, life wasn't much easier. She had had little formal
schooling, so she wrote upside down when she copied from the board. She failed
almost every test.

Her teachers' solution: summer school. Now, just several months later, she is
the star student of her summer class, translating for her Somali friends--her
"crew"--and maneuvering through the halls like a graduating senior.

Fartuun is just one of thousands of recently arrived immigrants across the
Washington area who are taking classes over the summer to improve their language
skills and adjust to life inside an American public school.

The number of immigrants in summer school has increased sharply in recent years
as area school officials have realized how essential the classes are. In
Arlington, 440 immigrant high school students are enrolled in summer English
classes, compared with 350 last year. Fairfax's summer program for immigrants at
all grade levels has grown from 1,516 students in 1996 to 2,474 this year, as
county educators have started visiting intake centers to sign up children just
arriving in the country.

In Montgomery County schools, the number of immigrants in the summer classes has
risen from 587 to 810 over the last five years.

Years ago, an immigrant student who arrived in May might be told to wait until
September to start classes. But educators now feel waiting is harmful,
academically and emotionally.

"When they come here in the fall, they are just scared to death," said Paula
Watts, who teaches English to Fartuun and other students in Wakefield High's
summer program. "Going to summer school gives them just that little extra to
help them feel less overwhelmed."

This year, for the first time, Loudoun County schools ran a summer program to
teach English to immigrants, enrolling 81 youngsters. "We are finding they are
the students who are the most enthusiastic about attending summer classes," said
Betty Mar Little, instructional supervisor for English as a Second Language in
Loudoun. "They won't miss a day."

To help their students get acclimated to school and the Washington area,
Loudoun's summer-school teachers took the children on tours of school hallways
and student club offices and on field trips to the airport, to train stations
and to several D.C. monuments.

"This really helps them to become a part of their new culture," Little said.
"Starting school is hard for anyone. But for students who may have never been in
a school before and don't speak the language, it can be really terrifying."

Standing before her 7:30 English class on a recent morning, Fartuun scrambled to
sit in the front row. The class has 17 students who among them speak five
languages, including Quechua, a language spoken by native people in Bolivia,
Peru and other nearby countries.

Fartuun took out her purple folder and read aloud the English words on her work
sheets. Several of her classmates were jumping about and calling their teacher
"Miss," since many can't pronounce Watts's name.

"Miss! Miss!" called out Sunny Shejibi, 15, who arrived here in May from India,
speaking only Hindi. "I went to see the WWF and The Rock this weekend."

Fartuun looked up. She had no idea what Sunny was talking about. Some of the
others also stared at him with blank faces. Watts, clad in a pair of sturdy
sandals, a long skirt and a jean shirt, explained.

"That's World Wide Wrestling," she told the class, showing them what wrestling
looks like by mimicking a wrestling move. "It's sort of a sport, like soccer."

One of Watts's goals is to answer questions the students may have about popular
culture and the everyday English they hear on television. During a recent class,
the students were yelling "Whassup?" from the Budweiser TV ad.

Among other assignments, the students have made posters of their dream vacation.
Some drew pictures of the Statue of Liberty and of Miami. Fartuun made a collage
about the hajj, the Muslim pilgrimage to Mecca.

"I want them to know what is out there, even if they can't do it now," Watts
said. "Many of them work jobs or their parents work two or three jobs. They need
stuff to look forward to."

Wearing a fading beige jump suit, Jetamesye Seyou, 15, sat struggling to read
words in front of the class. His family came here in June from Ethiopia to
escape fighting.

"It's so scary," said Jetamesye, who had little schooling in Ethiopia. "I still
can't speak much. The class has helped. Before, I could say nothing at all in
English."

Fartuun came here under similar circumstances. Her education stopped when she
was in the fifth grade. She is one of her father's 16 children, who range in age
from 4 to 37.

During the civil war in Somalia, her family would run from city to city, trying
to escape the fighting, said her sister, 37-year-old Hali Omar.

"It was all the time that we were running away," said Omar, who came here in
1993 and worked double shifts cleaning offices so she could save money to bring
Fartuun and her siblings to the United States. "I tell Fartuun to remember that
we have a wonderful life here, now."

Fartuun remembers her harsher life in Somalia. But she also misses parts of it.
She lived in a house there and now must share a two-bedroom apartment with six
younger siblings and her mother. She misses all the clothes and dolls she lost
when her family fled the country.

Today she keeps only a few treasures of her past life in a small bedroom. She
has three head scarves she took with her and a Koran.

"I want to go back someday," she said. "After I go to college."

Fartuun's mother cleans houses in Arlington, and her father lives and works in
Ohio. She loves her summer classes and has set a rigorous schedule for herself,
which includes waking up at 5 a.m., with an hour of studying before class.
Without the classes, she is not sure how she would have spent her summer.

After class lets out at 10 a.m., she goes to the school's library, where she
tries to read English-language books about Somalia. Then she usually walks about
30 minutes to the Arlington Mill Community Center, where she practices writing
on the computers.

At night, she cares for her siblings and studies vocabulary words. Then it's
back to class the next morning. She always arrives early despite her long walk
to school.

On a recent day in class, she listened as her teacher read from a story called,
"Where is Taro?" It's the tale of an immigrant who moves to Queens, N.Y., from
Japan and can't speak English.

The teacher asked the students to describe someone who doesn't know how to speak
English. The students shouted out "ugly" and "bad."

Fartuun shook her head no. She offered another word: "worried."

Three months ago, she did not even know that word, Watts said.

Fartuun has gotten mostly A's on her papers and tests in the summer class. She
is able to speak conversational English at a slow pace. Like most
foreign-language students, she can understand more than she can express.

When she enters ninth grade this fall, she will take a slate of classes designed
for second-language learners. She will likely stay on that track throughout high
school. Fartuun hopes to graduate in five years, a goal her teacher said is
attainable if she continues to take summer classes.

While gathering books at the school library one afternoon after class, Fartuun
flipped through a book on education and proclaimed that she wants to be a
teacher when she gets older. She said she would definitely teach summer school,
so she could help people like herself to stop being worried.

With that she got up and was off into the summer heat for her long walk to the
computer lab at the community center.


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              189 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 15, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Man Gets 6 Years for Enslaving Immigrant; Gaithersburg Case Brings $100,000 Fine

Ruben Castaneda , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 814 words


A Gaithersburg man who kept a Brazilian woman as a live-in slave for nearly 20
years--and did nothing to stop his wife from beating her--was sentenced
yesterday in U.S. District Court in Greenbelt to 6 1/2 years in prison for
violating immigration laws.

Rene R. Bonetti, 51, was ordered to pay $ 110,000 in restitution to Hilda Rosa
Dos Santos, the illiterate Portuguese-speaking woman, who according to federal
prosecutors and court testimony, Bonetti and his wife kept enslaved in their
home.

U.S. District Judge Deborah K. Chasanow said it was the maximum amount
permissible. She also fined Bonetti $ 100,000, to be paid after restitution is
made. Margarida Bonetti, 46, who was indicted with her husband, is a fugitive in
her native Brazil.

Chasanow noted that Bonetti's sentence--which she increased from federal
guidelines because she found he committed perjury during his trial
testimony--"is far less time than Miss Dos Santos spent living under conditions
which violated American law."

Federal officials said Dos Santos is one of thousands of foreign domestic
workers who are brought into the United States by their employers--often from
their native country--and abused. The Bonetti case has received extensive
coverage in Brazil and has been watched closely by diplomats and other affluent
foreigners working in the Washington area.

Maryland U.S. Attorney Lynne A. Battaglia said she hoped that Bonetti's
conviction and prison sentence would deter anyone who is abusing foreign
workers.

"This kind of slavery in the year 2000 is intolerable," Battaglia said.

Dos Santos, who did not attend yesterday's hearing, is still in the United
States and is applying to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service for
humanitarian asylum, said Cathy Hollenberg Serrette, a lawyer who represents Dos
Santos in a civil case against Bonetti.

Bonetti declined to speak on his own behalf and did not react outwardly as
Chasanow announced the sentence.

A satellite engineer who according to testimony earned about $ 90,000 annually,
Bonetti is a native of Brazil and a naturalized U.S. citizen. He has been
incarcerated since his conviction in February, and after sentencing he was
handcuffed and taken away by a U.S. marshal.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven M. Dettelbach had asked Chasanow to sentence
Bonetti to the longest possible prison term, seven years and three months.
"There's no excuse for what he did," Dettelbach said.

Bonetti's attorney, Paul F. Kemp, asked the judge for leniency, saying that it
was Margarida Bonetti who inflicted the abuse on Dos Santos. Of his client, Kemp
told Chasanow: "He's ruined. . . . He's a PhD, and his life is wrecked."

Chasanow found that Bonetti obstructed justice by committing perjury when he
testified he did not know Dos Santos was in the country illegally and did not
know his wife beat Dos Santos.

A federal criminal jury convicted Bonetti of three immigration law felonies:
conspiring to harbor an undocumented alien, harboring an undocumented alien for
financial gain and endangering the life of an undocumented alien.

According to court testimony, the Bonettis brought Dos Santos to the United
States from Brazil in 1979. Rene Bonetti testified that he knew Dos Santos's
visa was expiring in the early 1980s and said he advised her to take steps to
become legalized and assumed she had, even though she is illiterate and speaks
no English.

Through interpreters, Dos Santos testified that Bonetti's wife, Margarida
Bonetti, once poured hot soup on her face and chest because she did not like the
way Dos Santos had prepared it.

On another occasion, Dos Santos testified, Margarida Bonetti did not like the
way she combed the family dog and yanked out some of her hair, leaving her head
bleeding.

Dos Santos testified that when she asked Rene Bonetti for help, he told her to
pray for Margarida.

According to court testimony, Dos Santos slept in a small windowless, basement
while the Bonettis and their son lived upstairs; Rene Bonetti padlocked their
refrigerator to prevent Dos Santos from getting anything to eat or drink from
it.

Dos Santos testified that she was never paid for the cleaning, cooking and
yardwork she did for the Bonettis. On several occasions when the Bonettis
traveled, Dos Santos testified, she wandered the well-off Gaithersburg
neighborhood, trying to beg for money for food.

The Bonettis did not get her medical treatment for a gaping wound in her leg
that became infected and for a large stomach tumor, Dos Santos testified. In
April 1998, Dos Santos finally left the Bonetti home when sympathetic neighbors
took her to a hospital to have her tumor removed. The tumor, which prosecutors
described as being the size of a soccer ball, was benign.

Hospital social workers learned of Dos Santos's plight, and the FBI and INS
began to investigate.


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              190 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     August 21, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

UNDER THE HOOD: A LOOK AT THE INNER WORKINGS OF GOVERNMENT; A Badge and a Gun

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 404 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has the most federal officers of any
agency. The Forest Service has the highest percentage of Native American
officers, and National Park Service officers are the most likely to be
assaulted.


Federal officers with authority to carry firearms and make arrests


Immigration and Naturalization Service: 16,552

Federal Bureau of Prisons: 12,587

Federal Bureau of Investigation: 11,285

Customs Service: 10,539

Secret Service: 3,587

Postal Inspection Service: 3,490

Internal Revenue Service: 3,361

Drug Enforcement Administration: 3,305

U.S. Marshals Service: 2,705

Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts: 2,490

National Park Service: 2,197

Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: 1,723

U.S. Capitol Police: 1,055

GSA-Federal Protective Service: 900

Fish and Wildlife Service: 831

Forest Service: 601

Bureau of Diplomatic Security: 415

Amtrak: 318

U.S. Mint: 282

Defense Protective Service: 275

Bureau of Indian Affairs: 263

Veterans Health Administration: 262

Department of Energy: 210

Tennessee Valley Authority: 206

Environmental Protection Agency: 198

Bureau of Land Management: 197

Bureau of Engraving and Printing: 193

National Marine Fisheries Service: 135

Food and Drug Administration: 123

Bureau of Export Administration: 107

Library of Congress: 100


Average annual number of assaults per 1,000 officers

(This chart was not available)


What officers were doing when they were assaulted in percent of assaults

(This chart was not available)


Agencies with the highest percentage of officers of a specific race or ethnic
group


Fish and Wildlife Service

White: 91.7%

Indian: 1.9%

Black: 1.4%

Asian: 0.6%

Hispanic: 4.3%


Forest Service

White: 82.5

Indian: 7.3

Black: 3.1

Asian: 1.0

Hispanic: 6.1


GSA-Federal Protective Service

White: 57.7

Indian: 0.2

Black: 30.4

Asian: 2.1

Hispanic: 9.5


Customs Service

White: 66.3

Indian: 0.7

Black: 7.2

Asian: 3.5

Hispanic: 22.3


Immigration and Naturalization Service

White: 59.2

Indian: 0.5

Black: 5.3

Asian: 2.3

Hispanic: 32.0


NOTE: The number and race or ethnic group of officers reflect 1998 Bureau of
Justice Statistics data. The number and circumstances of assaults reflect
averages from 1994-98 Bureau of Justice Statistics data, the most recent
available.


LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              191 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 22, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Ending Immigration As We Know It

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 190 words


The president-elect of Mexico wants the United States to surrender control over
its own borders and permit the immigration of millions of poor, ill-educated
people from his country ["Fox Proposes EU-Style Pact for N. America," front
page, Aug. 14]. While millions of people who immigrated to the United States
from Europe between the Civil War and World War I were also poor and
ill-educated, there was no welfare state then. Immigrants either worked hard,
went hungry or went home. At facilities such as Ellis Island, immigration
officials also examined and turned away hundreds of thousands of people who were
found to have communicable diseases that could be detrimental to public health
or who otherwise might become a public charge.

Permitting unchecked immigration by Mexicans would place an undue burden on law
enforcement, education and public health services in the United States. In order
for the United States to remain a sovereign nation it must never surrender
control over its borders. Free trade is fine. Unchecked immigration from the
Third World would be a disaster.

HOWARD J. FEZELL

Frederick



LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              192 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   August 23, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Faster, Better at INS

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A24; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 184 words


The Aug. 5 editorial "A Murky Mess on Citizenship" did not mention that the
Justice Department's inspector general reports that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) has overhauled the naturalization program to ensure
the integrity of the processes that failed in 1996.

Our greatest vulnerability in processing applications had been checking
applicants' criminal histories. According to the inspector general, "It has been
in this area of greatest weakness that INS has clearly made the greatest
improvements."

We improved fingerprint-check procedures, opening more than 120 new sites to
control fingerprinting and ensuring thorough review of criminal histories before
approving applications. A series of outside auditors has validated the success
of these reforms.

We continue to work to improve customer service by simplifying the
naturalization application, standardizing the testing process, upgrading
technology and reducing pending case loads.

DORIS MEISSNER

Commissioner

Immigration and Naturalization Service

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington



LOAD-DATE: September 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              193 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     August 27, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Living the Global Economy

Carrie Johnson

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. L01; TECH JOBS; AT WORK

LENGTH: 932 words


Bitten by the international bug? You're not alone.

More and more local techies are writing @Work with questions about how to find
jobs overseas. Some adventurers even hop on airplanes and leave the rest to
chance.

There are plenty of reasons for the rush to the border. In this summer of
dot-com discontent, many Americans hope to recapture the giddy feeling of old by
staking out foreign markets. Others just want a change of scenery. After all,
who wouldn't enjoy two years in London, Sydney or Paris?

But before you pack your laptop, experts say you should consider a few issues
that will determine whether your time abroad is spent eating foie gras or cheese
and crackers--not to mention whether your significant other can come along for
the ride.

Lawyers and immigration specialists say the easiest way for Americans to finagle
overseas jobs is to win a transfer from their current company. Then, the firm is
likely to pay for legal and tax advice, as well as language and cultural
training, to help smooth the transition. Plus, bureaucrats at the foreign
country's labor department won't lodge as many objections, said Brad Cary, chief
executive of McLean's CIBT Global Relocation Services.

"It's the job of immigration departments worldwide to protect their own
citizens," said Cary, whose company helps Americans secure work papers in other
countries.

For travel-hungry techies who plan to wing it--or who have not yet settled on a
country where they'd like to work--Cary advises doing some background research
to avoid nations whose citizens already have high levels of technological
proficiency, such as India, China and Taiwan. It can be more difficult to make a
case with immigration authorities that those countries need to bring in
outsiders with tech skills, Cary said.

The process of finding a job abroad also can raise legal questions, immigration
lawyer Liz Stern said. People who travel overseas on a tourist visa to scope out
job prospects probably will need to leave the country after they find a company
to sponsor them, so they can receive the proper work permit and reenter on a
legal basis.

And don't be surprised if a foreign nation balks at granting permission for your
spouse to work--a common deal breaker for many Americans in double-income
households, said Stern, a partner at the District's Shaw, Pittman, Potts &
Trowbridge.

"I've found it to be a real disincentive for some U.S. families," she said.

Certain countries, for cultural and legal reasons, also bar domestic partners,
common-law spouses and children from blended families without proof that both of
the children's biological parents approve of the move.

The culture of work can be radically different. For one thing, techies who make
frequent job changes in the United States to earn more money or learn new skills
could be in for a shock overseas, Cary said.

"Once they are sponsored, they will not be able to switch jobs easily in that
country," he said. "There's no job-hopping like there might be here. It can
reduce your leverage for career advancement."

That's just one reason folks need to be particularly savvy at the bargaining
table before they move abroad. Differences in the value of currency, tax
structure and stock options can be among the stickiest issues expatriates face,
said Patty Brickett, a tax adviser at Arthur Andersen in McLean.

"The biggest fallacy that Americans have when they move overseas is that they
will not be subject to U.S. tax," Brickett said. "You need to make some kind of
allowance for this in salary negotiations."

What's more, some workers are taxed on worldwide income both by the United
States and the country where they currently reside--and in many foreign
countries, it's easier to hit the top tax rate faster than in America.

Many companies offer expats something called "tax equalization," or a formula
that allows them to pay approximately the same amount they would have shelled
out to Uncle Sam if they remained in the States. But even this form of
assistance can be taxed, so companies often spread out the aid over three or
four years, making tax filings more complex but more fair.

Workers who get stock options as part of their compensation packages should ask
whether they're getting the chance to buy shares in the U.S. company or a
foreign subsidiary. They should be aware that options are taxed differently in
many countries, Brickett said, and in some cases are taxable as soon as they are
bestowed on employees.

Other Americans moving abroad for work ask for common perks such as free trips
home at regular intervals and moving and housing allowances. Recruiters say
candidates should request these items during the negotiation process, not after
they have accepted the job.

Questions about overseas relocation for technical positions will only become
more common in the next few years, said D.C. immigration lawyer Michael Maggio.

"The globalization of capital means there's a globalization of labor," he said.
"Employers look worldwide for their talent."

Send tips and experiences to Carrie Johnson at johnsonca@washpost.com.


On the Move

Some useful Web sites for those seeking jobs overseas:

* CareerMosaic (www. careermosaic.com) offers links to job sites in several
other countries, including Britain and Australia.

* Monster.com, one of the biggest online job sites, has an international section
where you can search for internationally based jobs and message boards.

* EscapeArtist (www. escapeartist.com) has a useful link for IT jobs around the
world.



LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              194 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 29, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Albright: Cuba Denying Exit Permits

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 238 words


Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright yesterday accused Cuba of denying exit
permits to Cubans with U.S. visas, thereby separating families and forcing
would-be immigrants to risk escapes by boat.

Albright said the United States lodged a formal protest with Cuba's diplomatic
office in Washington. "The government of Cuba is increasingly obstructing the
safe, legal and orderly migration of individuals from Cuba," she said.

The diplomatic note said 117 Cubans from 57 families had been denied exit
permits by the Cuban government in a recent 75-day period. The United States had
granted all of them visas.

Disclosure of the note follows the protracted dispute with Cuban Americans over
6-year-old Elian Gonzalez. The boy was spirited from Cuba by his mother, who
died at sea, and was taken home by his father after a lengthy legal battle.

Unlike Elian and his mother, the 117 Cubans cited in the U.S. complaint had
visas to enter the United States. The diplomatic note alleged that Cuba had not
abided by a 1994 agreement for the orderly migration of 20,000 Cubans plus
family members to the United States.

The Cuban diplomatic mission offered no immediate reaction to the accusation.
However, spokesman Roberto Garcia criticized U.S. policy as criminal, immoral
and discriminatory, saying the United States was responsible for deaths at sea
because it encouraged Cubans to try to reach U.S. shores.


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              195 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   August 30, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Senators Seek Removal Of Oregon INS Official

Michael A. Fletcher , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 703 words


Two senators yesterday called on Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner Doris M. Meissner to remove the head of her agency's Portland,
Ore., office, joining a chorus of critics outraged by the strip search and
jailing of a Chinese businesswoman.

Guo Liming, 36, was jailed earlier this month because INS officers thought that
her frayed passport was fraudulent. Suspecting that she was an illegal
immigrant, INS officials strip-searched, interrogated and then handcuffed Liming
for a two-hour drive to jail. She was released after spending two nights in jail
when forensics experts determined her passport was valid.

As Liming was being carted away, INS officers refused to say anything about her
whereabouts or why she was being held to her fiance and business partner who was
traveling with her. He got information only after hiring a lawyer.

The incident came after years of complaints about the conduct of INS officials
at Portland International Airport, who refuse foreign travelers entry into the
country at rates far higher than their counterparts at other West Coast
airports.

Portland, which handles only a handful of international flights including two
from Japan each day, has earned the nickname "De-Portland" because of what
airport officials and others call the INS's mistreatment of foreign
travelers--particularly Asians--there. The problem had gotten so pronounced,
airport officials said, that some Asian travel agents advise their clients
against entering the United States through Portland.

The complaints about the conduct of INS officials in Portland echo earlier
complaints about U.S. Customs Service inspectors, who were found to select a
disproportionate share of African Americans for strip-searches. Those findings
prompted changes in the way Customs searches are authorized, which led to a
sharp reduction in the overall number of searches.

"We have been trying to get the assistance and cooperation of INS on this in
excess of a couple of years," said Mike Thorne, executive director of the Port
of Portland, which operates the airport. "At one point, the rejection rate of
foreign travelers was nine times higher than other ports in the U.S. But
unfortunately, up until earlier this year, we had very little success getting
the attention of INS."

The latest incident, however, not only captured the attention of INS officials,
but it also reignited the anger of members of Congress and others who have long
been concerned that the INS's conduct was damaging the international image of
the Portland area, which is a hub for many multinational high-tech firms.

After the most recent incident, Oregon Sens. Ron Wyden (D) and Gordon Smith (R)
joined Sen. Slade Gorton (R-Wash.) in demanding the ouster of INS District
Director David Bebee, who they say has not been aggressive enough in combating
problems at the Portland airport.

"The public, the region, and the international business community have lost
confidence in his leadership," Wyden and Smith said in a letter to Meissner. In
an earlier letter calling for Bebee's removal, Gorton described the behavior of
Portland-area inspectors as "thuggish."

An INS spokesman in Washington said that Meissner had not reviewed the senators'
letter, adding that the entire incident is being investigated by the agency.

INS officials also have ordered that any strip-searches--which the agency says
are rare--must be authorized at the regional level.

More than a year ago, the senators joined with other congressional members from
the area in assembling a working group aimed at reforming INS practices in
Portland. The group won an agreement from the INS to detain rejected travelers
in hotels rather than jail. The guideline was not followed in the recent
incident.

In the past few months, INS has issued new guidelines to inspectors, met with
business people to brief them on INS requirements for entering the country and
laid plans to hold similar seminars in Japan.

"We felt like that was a signal that we were on the right track," said Virginia
Kice, an INS spokeswoman. But she acknowledged that the controversy surrounding
the recent strip-search "represents a real setback for us."


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              196 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 31, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Bridging Old and New Countries; Hispanic Immigrants Find a New Spiritual Home
and Family in Ellicott City Church

Mary Otto , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: HOWARD EXTRA; Pg. M14

LENGTH: 1367 words



They often pray for travelers, for people driving, flying, crossing borders.

"For the Ortiz family, who is on the road," implores Walter Rodriguez, the
Uruguayan pastor, on a Sunday afternoon of heavy rain and thunder.

Gathered here in the sanctuary of the First Church of the Nazarene, they fill
only the first few pews. But when members of Primera Iglesia Del Nazareno
Hispana pray, when they play the guitar and tambourine, sing and clap, cook and
care for one another, they seem to be larger than the sum of their parts.

It's their faith and a certain earthly bond among sojourners.

"Almost everybody's an immigrant," Rodriguez said of his flock. "An immigrant
feels homesick most of the time."

So the roughly 75 members have found their way to this church on the fringe of
Ellicott City, where they meet after the church's English-language service. They
hail from throughout the Hispanic world: from Peru and Colombia, from Guatemala
and El Salvador, from Paraguay and Honduras.

Still, to Maribel Segundo, a member from Mexico, "We look like a family."

They call one another hermano and hermana, brother and sister. A baby, wrapped
in a pink blanket, is fed and handled by an entire pew of young women and
finally goes to sleep.

They come from many walks of life. The weekly sermons, delivered by Walter and
Mabel Rodriguez, are messages of endurance of faith, of hard work and of
miracles, and they are meant for everyone.

"We are a very simple group," Walter Rodriguez said. "We like it that way. The
church needs to be a place for a doctor or a dishwasher. I don't care about a
lot of rhetoric. Most of the people come for personal contact--not because of
doctrine but because of the fellowship."

What the Rev. Carlton Mills, pastor of the church's well-established
English-speaking congregation, sees of the fledgling Spanish-speaking sister
congregation and its pastor fills him with awe.

"They take us back to the early days of the Anglo Church of the Nazarene," Mills
said. "Their faith is so pure, their experience so real. In every movement,
there is a cooling off in the second and third generation. Here we are going
back to the first generation, the fresh, red-hot faith in God."

In sermons, the Rodriguezes stress lessons about living as a Christian in a
complex world. "We believe as a church we are like a bridge between the old
country and the new country," Walter Rodriguez said. "We were here before. We
know the system, the American way of things. We try to deal with the culture
shock."

At the services, restaurant worker Adolfo Colindres drinks in the messages.

"My pastor doesn't teach about politics or war," he said. "It comes from the
Bible, how to lead a decent life."

The Church of the Nazarene is a turn-of-the century Evangelical denomination
with roots in the teachings of John Wesley, Methodism's founder. "It started as
a kind of rescue mission in Los Angeles," Rodriguez said. "There were three main
principles: preaching the Gospel, helping the needy and promoting education."

Rodriguez estimates that there are 13,000 Hispanics in Howard County, many
attracted in recent years by the booming economy and area labor shortages. He
and his family were brought here by Ellicott City's Anglo congregation about
five years ago to minister to them.

The denomination's goal of reaching the new Hispanic immigrants is shared by
area Baptist and Pentecostal churches, as well as local leaders of the Roman
Catholic Church.

Three decades ago, more than 90 percent of Hispanics in the United States
identified themselves as Catholic. But Hispanics have been leaving the Catholic
Church in large numbers recently here and in Latin America.

Last year, only 56 percent of U.S. Latinos said they were Catholic, according to
a survey by the California-based Barna Research Group. Another 21 percent said
they belonged to Protestant, non-mainline churches.

In the Archdiocese of Baltimore and elsewhere, the Catholic Church is conducting
outreach efforts, forming small lay communities to provide fellowship and to
offset the shortage of Spanish-speaking priests. In Howard County, about 90
worshipers regularly attend a Spanish-language Mass offered Saturday evening at
the Wilde Lake Interfaith Center by St. John the Evangelist parish.

Still, experts point to charismatic appeal of some non-Catholic religions, with
their emphasis on passionate preaching, Biblical teaching, lay leadership and
fellowship. They say some immigrants may find these missing from mainstream
Anglo Catholicism and cross over to other faiths.

That's what happened for Maribel Segundo.

"I was a Catholic before," she said. But in her own hour of need, when a fire
occurred in her apartment complex, it was the Church of the Nazarene, she says,
that reached out to her and her family.

Then she and her husband met Walter and Mabel Rodriguez.

"We love them," Segundo said. "They help you when you marry, your relationship
with your husband. They help you learn to mother. You don't just study the
Bible.

"When somebody gets their baby, everybody goes to the hospital. If somebody
don't have food, we bring everything."

Segundo performs in the congregation's drama troupe and helps at Sunday school.
Her husband, Hector, sings at services and assists Walter Rodriguez in his
weekly ministry to Immigration and Naturalization Service detainees at Howard
County Detention Center.

For some, choosing a new church is an essential part of embarking on a new life,
Rodriguez said.

"Most were raised in a Catholic tradition," he said. But he added, "it's very
common among immigrants [that] when you change cultures, you are open to
change."

The Rodriguezes discovered the Church of the Nazarene in the 1950s when the
denomination, which prides itself on its worldwide mission work, had just
established two churches in Montevideo. Both attended services with their
mothers, and that is how they met. Walter was 7, and Mabel, 5.

They went on to minister in South and Central America before coming to the
United States and accepting the pastorship in Howard County.

After a recent Sunday service, there's a baby shower for Carmen Crespin. People
have brought rice dishes and salads. Carmen's sister, Dina Castaneda, is at the
center of a kitchen alive with women making pupusas, delectable Salvadorean
turnovers filled with cheese and beans.

Castaneda has been a cook at Clyde's restaurant in Columbia for five years. She
found Primera Iglesia through Carmen. In El Salvador, their mother was a member
of the Church of the Nazarene.

The men are out back, grilling meat. Then everyone sits down to a feast.

At the shower, they pray for the expectant mother, to a God who they say already
knows her unborn child, boy or girl, and the color of its eyes. They pray that
she may deliver safely, a natural childbirth, if possible.

Then the men are asked to leave. Maribel Segundo transforms herself into a
comedic pregnant bag lady, a pillow in her shirt, curlers in her hair, a baby
doll lashed to her belt and a shopping bag full of mysterious little brown
parcels. All those attending must guess the contents of the parcels.

The table is heaped with gifts. Carmen exclaims over each of them.

At the end of the party, everyone fans out with great efficiency to polish up
the church. Rossy Thompson, the singer, sweeps the floor. Castaneda rearranges
flowers atop the piano. Angelica Colindres, the tambourine player, clears away
paper cups and napkins. Mabel Rodriguez puts a new liner in the trash can.

The next Sunday, Mabel is in the pulpit, preaching about the mysterious renewal
of faith. About not deserving God's goodness but receiving it anyway. About visa
problems and neighbors helping one another. About Naaman, the leper, returning
from his journey with two mule carts full of soil from Israel, a strange land
where he had found God and been healed.

The church is clean, with ceiling fans turning slowly, making a pleasant breeze.
The light is soft, and the wood is a warm color, like cherry. While her husband
prays, she sets out the silver communion service, and the members gather at the
rail.



LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              197 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   September 7, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Center to Help Immigrants Get Services

Jo Becker , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: MONTGOMERY EXTRA; Pg. M03

LENGTH: 667 words


Montgomery County is home to more than half of Maryland's foreign-born
residents, a statistic that has wide ranging implications for a county
government trying to provide services to an increasingly diverse group of
residents.

Although recent estimates show that one in five of the county's 850,000
residents was born in another country, immigrants largely have been left to
their own devices or must rely on nonprofit groups to navigate the government
bureaucracy for services such as job training, English classes and help with
naturalization.

That's about to change. After nearly two years of planning, county officials
said this week that they expect to open the Charles W. Gilchrist Center for
Cultural Diversity in Wheaton in January.

Named for a former county executive turned urban priest, the center is seen as a
place where immigrants in need of advice or government services can go to
one-stop shop. The center will house several nonprofit groups that work with
immigrants and serve as a meeting space where immigrants can hold sporting
events, dances, social clubs and cultural activities such as musical events and
plays.

"Up until now, there has been no one place for an immigrant to go for help in
navigating the system," said Ginny Gong, director of the Department of Community
Use of Public Facilities and an original supporter of the center. "We had
individual departments, but you had to know about them. In a county where so
many people come from different places, we've got to make it easier for people
to access the support they need."

County Executive Douglas M. Duncan (D) first announced plans for the center in
spring 1999. The County Council initially gave Duncan enough money to only plan
the project, saying that although the idea was a good one, the details needed to
be fleshed out.

This year, the council agreed to spend $ 309,420 to fund the program for six
months. The county is working to finalize a lease in Wheaton, according to
project manager Alexandra Teaff, but Duncan eventually hopes to find a permanent
center named for Gilchrist.

Gilchrist, who served as county executive from 1978 to 1986, died last year. He
appointed the first African American and Hispanic staff advisers in the
executive office, proposed legislation to create the county's minority business
purchasing program and established the Commission on Ethnic Affairs.

"The new center will reflect Mr. Gilchrist's immense capacity to see and act
beyond the boundaries of race, color and ethnicity," Duncan wrote in a letter to
council President Michael L. Subin (D-At Large). "We will welcome all
individuals and groups; persons long established in our county, as well as those
newly arrived; and those with resources and those in need."

Program supporters say that the money will be well spent. Montgomery County
agencies--from the police to the health department--cannot possibly employ
people who know all the languages spoken in the county, Gong said. (In
Montgomery County public schools, students come from 145 countries, and 122
languages are represented.)

Gong said she hopes that by drawing on the skills of people already established
in the community, the center will provide translators who can help newly arrived
immigrants deal with county agencies.

The county can't do all that on its own. Officials are looking for volunteers
with a variety of skills. Those who speak foreign languages or have experience
with immigration paperwork, paralegals and artists willing to help with cultural
activities or lessons are particularly needed. People interested in volunteering
should call 301-346-3474.

"Imagine moving from San Francisco to New York," Gong said. "It's a new place
where you don't know where to go for things. Add to that the language barrier.
Add to that the immigration barrier and the lack of a support system. Hopefully,
this will go toward filling in some of the gaps that exist for people who came
here to work for a better life."


LOAD-DATE: September 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              198 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   September 10, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Immigration Decision Supported

Amy Shipley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D03; 2000 OLYMPICS

LENGTH: 595 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Sept. 10 (Sunday)


In a letter sent Saturday and released today, Australian Prime Minister John
Howard told International Olympic Committee President Juan Antonio Samaranch
that Australian immigration officials "made the right decision" in refusing
entry Friday to two Olympic officials allegedly linked to organized crime.

In a succinct response to Samaranch's request for an explanation for the action,
Howard stated that the government was "adhering to all its commitments in
relation to the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games." IOC officials were upset about the
government's refusal to grant entry to International Amateur Boxing Association
official Gafur Rakhimov and Carl Ching Men-ky, a vice president for the
International Basketball Federation.

Rakhimov allegedly has ties to heroin and cocaine trafficking in Eastern Europe,
Ching Men-ky to involvement in the Asian triads.

At a news conference Saturday, IOC Director General Francois Carrard said the
IOC was not defending the two controversial figures but rather was standing up
for principle. Based on a contract signed in 1993 by the IOC, the host city and
the federal government, all athletes, officials and members of the media
received accreditation passes that are supposed to serve as visas for entry into
Australia.

Howard responded by writing that "decisions to refuse entry have been taken by
the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs, after consideration of a
number of factors, including . . . concerns relating to the safety and security
of the Australian community."


An 'Unfriendly'

In a heated game complete with nasty exchanges, a near-fight and plenty of raw
emotion, the U.S. men's Olympic basketball team defeated Australia, 89-64, in
Melbourne, Australia.

These exhibition games are known as "friendlies," but this one wasn't all that
civil. What's more, it stayed close a lot longer than many would have expected.

"You could feel the intensity in the air," Alonzo Mourning said.

The women's teams from both countries met before the men's game, with the U.S.
women overcoming a 10-point deficit to defeat Australia, 83-62. It was the final
Olympic tuneup for all four teams.

The tone of the men's contest was set seconds into the game when Australia's
Andrew Gaze took down U.S. star Vince Carter. A heated exchange
followed--although no punches were thrown--and the Australians kept refusing to
back down for much of the night.

The Americans led by just seven at halftime and had their lead cut to two a
couple minutes into the second half. But the U.S. team then turned to its
strengths--speed and depth.

"We needed to be tested, and we needed to know going into Sydney that there are
teams out there that can play basketball," Ray Allen said. "Tonight, we learned
that early."

Allen led the U.S. team with 14 points and Steve Smith had 13.

In the women's game, Lisa Leslie scored 19 points, Sheryl Swoopes had 15 and
Teresa Edwards made all five of her shots--three from three-point range--and
added 13 for the Americans, who will be the gold medal favorites in Sydney.


A. Johnson Pulls Up

U.S. hurdler Allen Johnson (Lake Braddock High) failed to finish a 110-meter
hurdle event at the Taiyo Giken track and field meet in Yokohama, Japan.

Johnson, who won the gold medal in that event in Atlanta, pulled up after
feeling a small spasm in his left hamstring.

"I was disappointed I wasn't able to finish, but I think the important thing
right now is that I am still pretty good," Johnson said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              199 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  September 21, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Cubans From Crash Taken to U.S. Hospital; Coast Guard Decides Medical Attention
Can't Wait for INS Interviews of Survivors

Sue Anne Pressley; John Lancaster, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 820 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 20


The U.S. Coast Guard took the eight remaining survivors of an apparent failed
freedom flight from Cuba to a U.S. hospital tonight, after a Navy physician who
examined them at sea recommended they be brought ashore for medical treatment.

The decision, which U.S. officials said was made without input from the State
Department or the Immigration and Naturalization Service, will almost certainly
allow the survivors to remain permanently in this country.

Officials said evacuation from the Panamanian cargo ship that rescued the
Cubans--two men, three women and three children--was a decision made only by the
Coast Guard, under its emergency search and rescue procedures. INS practice has
been to allow any Cubans who arrive on U.S. soil by any means to apply for
permanent residence, a status that is refused only in the case of criminals.

The original U.S. plan was to bring the survivors aboard a Coast Guard ship at
sea, where they could be interviewed by an INS officer who would determine their
eligibility to enter the United States. Normal procedure is to send migrants
interdicted at sea back to Cuba unless they can establish a well-founded claim
of individual persecution that would allow them to claim political asylum.

But while the Coast Guard was waiting for the weather in the stormy Caribbean to
calm, it was decided to drop the Navy doctor by winch from a helicopter to
examine the Cubans. He reported that one of the Cuban women had suffered a
likely broken collarbone, while another had a gash on her leg that required
stitches. The other adults were reported dehydrated, while the children were
said to be in good condition. He recommended that all be evacuated by air
without waiting for the INS interviews.

Their arrival in the United States is likely to further irritate U.S.-Cuba
relations at a particularly sensitive time. In the wake of the Elian Gonzalez
controversy, Cuba has conducted a nationwide campaign against what it calls U.S.
"encouragement" of illegal departures from the island. The two governments are
scheduled to hold the latest round of regular, twice-yearly immigration talks
Thursday in New York.

In interviews with doctors aboard the cargo ship, the crash survivors have said
that all are close friends or relatives who decided to take the plane in an
attempt to reach Florida. The crash, in which one man aboard was killed,
occurred as they were running out of fuel and had lost their bearings about 60
miles west of Cuba. At least one parent of each of the children is among the
survivors.

Although the Cuban government originally described the flight as a hijacking,
Cuba's senior diplomat in the United States said today that the plane was stolen
and, since those aboard had committed a crime, they should be returned under
existing immigration accords. The diplomat, Fernando Remirez, said the subject
would come up during Thursday's talks.

Earlier today, an FBI spokeswoman in Miami said that "at this point it doesn't
appear to be a hijacking," but "we can't be sure" of the circumstances of the
flight until all the survivors are interviewed. The ninth survivor, who suffered
severe injuries, was airlifted from the Panamanian ship to a Key West hospital
on Tuesday and was interviewed there today.

The story, with its dramatic overtones of escape and survival, called to mind
the Gonzalez case, and drew to Key West a former member of the legal team who
represented the boy's Miami relatives as they sought unsuccessfully to keep him
in America.

Lawyer Manny Diaz of Miami said he is representing Rodolpho Fuentes, 36, who
survived the crash with head injuries and remains hospitalized in good condition
in Key West. Of the others, Diaz said: "If they all want us to help, we'll put
together a team again. But at the end of the day, the government can do what it
wants."

In Los Palacios, Cuba, a co-worker of the plane's Cuban pilot told Reuters that
the plane's pilot, Lenin Iglesias Hernandez, his co-worker in a crop-dusting
operation, was trying to flee Cuba with family and friends to seek asylum in the
United States.

"The hijack thing was a lie," Juan Jose Galiano Cabrera told Reuters. "He went
because he wanted to."

In a statement this morning, Cuban authorities had said that Iglesias took on an
unscheduled group of passengers at a tiny airstrip in west Cuba, then announced
on the plane's radio that he had been hijacked.

U.S. Reps. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.), who
were heavily involved in the Gonzalez case, wrote to President Clinton today
asking that all nine Cubans be granted asylum on the grounds that "they will
face persecution in Cuba for . . . such a high-profile and risky attempt to
leave the island."

Lancaster reported from Washington. Staff writer Karen DeYoung in Washington and
special correspondent Catharine Skipp in Key West contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              200 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   September 22, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Coming to America, and To Heartache as Well

Don Podesta , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 596 words


There are two kinds of Latino immigrants in this country: those who came here
because they could afford to (doctors and lawyers and such) and those who came
because they couldn't afford not to.

Writer-director David Riker's emotionally charged little film, "La Ciudad (The
City)," is most unabashedly about the latter group, the one that comes to mind
when one thinks stereotypically about Latin American immigrants: undocumented
day laborers and garment workers.

It's a movie to cry for. It stars no one you've ever heard of because there is
only one professional actor in the cast, Jose Rabelo. Most of the other
performers are immigrants themselves. In screening potential cast members, Riker
elicited chilling tales of war and deprivation from them, lending an unusual
authenticity to this docudrama. Who better to tell these tales of loneliness,
homesickness, backbreaking labor and poverty than those who have lived it?

"La Ciudad" is one of those movies that become the darling of international film
festivals--last year's Sundance Film Festival and acclaimed screenings in
Toronto, Spain, Havana and Los Angeles--but that filmgoers in this country
rarely get a chance to see. PBS is pulling off both a public service and an
entertainment coup by airing it tonight at 10.

Almost all the dialogue is in Spanish, with English subtitles. As is always the
case with subtitles, some context and nuance are lost in the translation, but
the Spanish dialogue is Spartan enough that even those who speak no Spanish at
all will be able to follow the stories with ease.

The film, which runs just shy of an hour and a half, is a compilation of four
poignant vignettes about the lives of immigrants in New York. And what sorry
lives these are: men from all over Central and South America who spend their
mornings on a street corner in the Bronx in hopes of landing a job for the day;
a puppeteer living in his car with his daughter and trying to get her into a
public school; a garment worker toiling weeks for a paycheck that never
comes--one she needs desperately for her daughter's operation.

Filmed over five years starting in 1992, the vignettes--"Bricks," "Home,"
"Puppeteer" and "Seamstress"--are somewhat uneven. "Puppeteer," the third in
this tetralogy, is the weakest. Yet this was the original short film that Riker
made with the title "La Ciudad," and it was the rave reviews it received among
the Latino community in the South Bronx that moved him to expand his work into a
feature-length film.

The first of the pieces is perhaps the most moving. It features a Central
American day laborer reading letters from home, which are expressed in the
haunting, almost musical voice of his wife. In this case, the subtitles can't do
justice to the poetry of the wife's letters in Spanish.

The part titled "Home" is about a lonely young Mexican, newly arrived and lost
in New York, who stumbles across a quinceanera (Sweet 15 party). There he meets
a girl from his home village and is immediately and hopelessly smitten. There is
an O. Henry quality to this touching story, which is as much as should be
divulged about its ending.

The last of the stories, "Seamstress," pulls the themes of loneliness,
exploitation, poverty and ethnic solidarity into a whole, giving the film a
sense of cohesiveness. Without the last vignette, "La Ciudad" would feel more
like an anthology of short subjects than a feature film.

Riker's intent is to do battle against xenophobia. His weapon is compassion. As
brandished in "La Ciudad," it's a powerful one.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              201 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   September 24, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

U.S. Admits 45 Iraqi Christians; More Than 80 Other Asylum-Seekers Still Held in
Mexico

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 23


Forty-five Iraqi Christians have been bused from Mexico to the United States,
where they applied for political asylum after they and more than 80 others were
detained in a Tijuana hotel.

Thirty-five more were expected to arrive from Mexico later tonight for
interviews with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The INS reported this afternoon that it is processing 124 Iraqis who are seeking
asylum, including those who had tried to walk across the border. Sixteen had
been released, and 42 of the 124 are children.

"We can't describe our feelings right now, we are so happy," said Wally Sako, a
relative of one of the Iraqi Christians, known as Chaldeans.

Members of the group had gathered in Tijuana, just across the border from San
Diego--home to the second-largest community of Chaldeans in the United States
after Detroit. They said they feared religious persecution if they returned to
their homeland and that they hope to live in the United States instead.

Mexican authorities have agreed to release to the United States all 133
Chaldeans held in Mexico, though it wasn't immediately clear how soon those
remaining would be freed.

A 15-year-old American boy of Iraqi descent was among nine people arrested at
the hotel after they were suspected of violating immigration laws. He was
released from jail Friday night.

The situation will most likely be resolved in the next few days after intense
negotiations between authorities from both countries, Jose Angel Pescador,
Mexico's undersecretary for population and migration services, said Friday. "We
have no interest in returning them to their country of origin," he said after
meeting with the refugees.

Mexican officials had offered them the opportunity to apply for political asylum
there, but Duraed Gabriel, who has spent three months in the hotel, said he and
the other Iraqis do not intend to remain in Mexico.

"We are going to insist that we go the United States because we have relatives
there," he said through an interpreter.

One 25-year-old Iraqi interviewed at the Tijuana hotel today said he had been
waiting there for two months to get into the United States. He declined to give
his name out of fear for his family in Iraq. The man said he left his country
because his life was in danger.

He said he drove across the Iraqi border to Turkey and flew from Istanbul to
Mexico City. He added that the trip was arranged by a smuggler and cost him $
7,500.

"I will build my future there," he said of his plans to live in San Diego or
Detroit. "I am very, very [glad the] United States will accept us. We are all
very, very happy."


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              202 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   September 24, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Chicago Police in Shakedown Scandal; Officers Targeted Recent Polish Immigrants;
City Tries to Mend Ties With Community

William Claiborne , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 724 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


The Chicago Police Department is trying to regain the confidence of the city's
million-strong Polish community--the largest outside Poland--after a scandal in
which officers were caught on surveillance videotapes shaking down immigrants
with threats of deportation, officials said.

The purpose of the public education effort is to convince Polish immigrants that
the law prohibits police officers from discussing immigration status or even
mentioning deportation, police spokesman David Bayless said. He said the
campaign might be expanded to other immigrant communities on the assumption that
they are just as vulnerable to shakedowns.

Nine officers who work the overnight shift in the heavily Polish Milwaukee
Avenue area of northwest Chicago were stripped of their badges last month after
officials of the Internal Affairs Division and FBI agents videotaped them
stopping immigrant motorists and accosting people leaving Polish bars and
demanding cash with threats of deportation. Two more officers have been
implicated, and the investigation is continuing, officials said. None of the
officers has been charged yet.

Bayless said public service announcements will be run in Polish newspapers and
radio stations, and brochures will be distributed in churches and Polish clubs,
to advise immigrants of proper police procedures and to ask them to inform the
Office of Professional Standards whenever demands for cash are made. Police
Superintendent Terry Hillard, an African American, already has met with Polish
community leaders to reassure them about the department's intentions. Bayless
said that Polish-speaking officers are being sought to speak to churches and
Polish organizations.

"There's a lot of ignorance and misunderstanding about police responsibilities
and duties," said Les Kuczynski, general counsel of the Polish National
Alliance. "Because they [immigrants] don't speak the language, they are
vulnerable, and the police take advantage of them."

Kuczynski said the immigrants are accustomed to police in their home country
stopping them and demanding money. As a result, they become terrified when told
they could be jailed for minor infractions and then sent back to Poland under
1996 amendments to immigration law that allow for the speedy deportation of
criminals, he said.

"They don't know about due process because they didn't have it in Eastern
Europe," Kuczynski said.

Police officers here would wait outside Polish taverns for possibly intoxicated
victims to emerge, he said, or would stop cars with bumper stickers bearing the
distinctive red-and-white Polish flag. Sometimes an officer would ask for a
motorist's wallet, take out all the money and then hand it back with a warning
that a complaint could lead to immediate deportation, Kuczynski said.

He said self-employed contractors who work for cash and keep it in their trucks
are particularly vulnerable to such shakedowns because they are easily
identified by the ladders on their vehicles. He said the immigrants said that
they were often targeted by officers of Irish or German descent and that the
shakedowns had been going on for several years.

Police said most of the officers under investigation had 10 to 30 years'
experience and had worked together in the 16th Police District. The
investigation was disclosed after other officers discovered surveillance
equipment in their squad cars.

Disclosure of the shakedowns elicited strong reactions from Mayor Richard M.
Daley, who called the officers' actions "unacceptable." Daley said: "That is
what always happens. You pick on the less fortunate, the poor. You pick on the
elderly, new immigrants."

Ellen Wierzewski, deputy executive director of the Copernicus Foundation, a
Polish civic and cultural organization, said it was not surprising that no
shakedown victims had reported incidents to her group.

"They prefer to remain silent because they are afraid, particularly those who
remember the secret police and what they could do," Wierzewski said. "So, it is
possible there were many more cases than those reported.

"I hope [the police] can repair the trust and I hope their guidelines will be
understood by everybody," she said. She said she had talked to some officers of
the 16th District who appeared to be "ashamed of those few bad apples who did
this."


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              203 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   September 25, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

WORLD In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 810 words


EUROPE

Swiss Reject Anti-Immigration Proposal

ZURICH--Swiss voters decisively rejected a referendum proposal yesterday to
reduce the number of foreigners in their country to 18 percent of the
population.

Final results showed that 63.7 percent of voters opposed the referendum
proposal, the fifth anti-immigration plan to fail here since 1970.

Foreigners currently make up about 19.3 percent of Switzerland's population of
7.2 million people, a high proportion by European standards.

"I'm extremely happy with the clear result," said Justice Minister Ruth Metzler,
saying that a limit on foreigners "would not have been a good thing for our
country."

The lawmakers who launched the initiative five years ago, during a recession,
said the country suffered from cheap imported labor and a steady increase in
foreign residents. But unemployment is now 1.8 percent--its lowest in more than
eight years.

The government, business leaders and bankers said the cap on foreigners would
lock out experts in areas such as health and information technology, damage
tourism, undermine Switzerland's humanitarian tradition and tarnish its
international image.

(News Services)

Four Germans Survive 9 Days Adrift

MADRID--Four Germans, including a toddler, spent nine days adrift on a dinghy in
the Atlantic with only rainwater to drink before they were rescued and flown to
a Spanish hospital, news reports said.

The four--a couple, their 2-year-old daughter and the captain of their
yacht--set sail Sept. 13 from the northwestern Spanish port of A Coruna, bound
for the Netherlands. But a day later, as they headed for the Bay of Biscay, an
explosion and fire in the vessel's engine forced them to abandon ship. Their
yacht sank within minutes.

They spent the next nine days afloat with no food, surviving on rain collected
in a plastic bucket, Martina Hoffman said in a telephone interview from her room
at Xeral hospital, in the northwestern port city of Vigo.

"Now I feel well, but we were really afraid," Hoffman said. "Especially as the
days went by and nobody picked us up."

Hoffman, who comes from the small town of Schettorf in northern Germany, said 11
boats passed but none apparently spotted them, although they fired four flares.

(Associated Press)

ASIA

Philippine Troops Closing in on Rebels

JOLO, Philippines--More than 100 Muslim rebels have been killed in a Philippine
military assault on guerrillas holding hostages on a remote southern island, the
officer commanding the operation said today.

But 10 days after launching the attack, troops were still looking for the 17
hostages and there was no sign that the military action would end soon.

The Abu Sayyaf rebels holding Jeffrey Schilling were attempting to reach a beach
to escape Jolo Island, Deputy Governor Munib Estino said.

Schilling, 24, of Oakland, Calif., is being held by a rebel faction led by Abu
Sabaya. Separate factions are believed to be holding three Malaysians and 13
Filipinos.

About 2,000 troops backed by artillery and attack helicopters were closing in on
the 500 rebels in Sabaya's group, Estino said.

(News Services)

THE MIDDLE EAST

Barak Seeks New Deal With Palestinians

JERUSALEM--Rolling back expectations of a final deal by next month, Israeli
Prime Minister Ehud Barak said he is prepared for a partial agreement with the
Palestinians--a prospect Palestinian officials said is out of the question.

Barak told the Israeli cabinet he does not rule out the possibility that "a
comprehensive agreement will be achieved on most of the issues, while a time
limit will be set for agreement on a very small part of them," his office said
in a news release.

Palestinian parliament speaker Ahmed Qureia, also a senior peace negotiator,
rejected the idea of another interim agreement. "There has to be agreement on
every issue or there will be no agreement at all," he told reporters.

Until recently, Barak has said a full-fledged agreement would be the preferable
outcome of intensive negotiations, and has given "50-50" chances to the
possibility of achieving a deal by next month.

In recent days, his cabinet ministers have hinted they would accept a deal that
delayed decisions on such hot-button issues as Jerusalem. Barak's statement
confirmed that approach.

(Associated Press)

FOR THE RECORD

North Korea's defense minister arrived in Cheju, a South Korean resort island,
for the first talks between defense ministers of the two nations since the
Korean War. . . . Iraqi President Saddam Hussein has reopened a presidential
palace bombed by Western aircraft in December 1998, Baghdad media reported. . .
. Israel is seeking further German compensation for relatives of Israeli
athletes killed after being held hostage by Palestinian gunmen during the 1972
Munich Olympics, an Israeli official said.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              204 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   September 26, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

WORLD; In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 894 words


THE AMERICAS

Peru Accepts Spy Chief's Resignation

LIMA, Peru--Peru officially accepted the resignation of Vladimiro Montesinos,
the spy chief seeking asylum in Panama after detonating a political crisis that
has prompted early elections, an opposition party said yesterday.

A resolution signed by President Alberto Fujimori, Prime Minister Federico Salas
and Justice Minister Alberto Bustamante said the government had accepted
Montesinos's resignation from the National Intelligence Service. His role had
made him Peru's power behind the throne for a decade.

The opposition American Popular Revolutionary Alliance made the official
document public. A spokesman said the government had presented it at talks with
opposition leaders brokered by the Organization of American States. There was no
comment from Fujimori's office.

The resolution also praised Montesinos, who fled to Panama early Sunday morning
after diplomatic pressure on that nation to take him in, for his "significant"
role in quelling leftist guerrilla violence, fighting drug trafficking and
securing peace with neighboring Ecuador.

It said the resignation took effect as of Sept. 14, the day a videotape was
aired showing Montesinos apparently bribing an opposition legislator. Fujimori
responded by announcing early elections in which he will not run and the closing
of the notorious spy service.

(Reuters)

Cubans Protest U.S. Immigration Policy

HAVANA--Thousands of people answered the Communist government's call to gather
outside the U.S. mission and protest immigration policies it blames for last
week's dramatic departure of a group of Cubans aboard a stolen plane.

President Fidel Castro presided over the rally, which began with a rendition of
the Cuban national anthem by a military band.

A series of students read speeches condemning the "murderous" Cuban Adjustment
Act, which Havana says encourages its citizens to migrate illegally to the
United States, sometimes stealing boats or planes to do so.

The rally came less than a week after a Cuban pilot fled the country aboard a
single-engine crop-duster plane, taking with him nine relatives and friends. One
passenger died Sept. 19 when the plane went down in the Gulf of Mexico; the rest
were rescued by a Panamanian freighter.

Although the accident occurred closer to Cuba and Mexico than to the United
States, the nine survivors were transported by the U.S. Coast Guard to Florida,
where they have been allowed to stay.

(Associated Press)

EUROPE

Russian Rebuked for Pressuring Tycoon

MOSCOW--Russia's press minister, Mikhail Lesin, who has been the Kremlin's point
man in a campaign against media baron Vladimir Gusinsky, was reprimanded for
signing a document that critics say sought to pressure Gusinsky to sell his
companies.

Lesin was told Saturday by Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov that he "acted
improperly" in signing the document, the government announced. At issue is a
statement that offered Gusinsky immunity from prosecution if he would pledge
loyalty to the government. The statement was signed by Lesin and attached to a
deal in which Gusinsky agreed to sell his media empire, although Gusinsky later
renounced the agreement, saying he had signed under duress.

Critics have questioned how Lesin could offer Gusinsky immunity from prosecution
since he has no such powers. Lesin said he signed the document as a "private
citizen," but the prime minister told him that "ministers cannot act as private
citizens in some cases," the Interfax news agency reported.

Meanwhile, bailiffs continued to seek out and freeze the shares in Gusinsky's
companies, including his flagship NTV television channel, as a result of a
lawsuit brought by the natural gas monopoly Gazprom. Under pressure from the
Kremlin, Gazprom is seeking to collect on a $ 211 million debt owed by
Gusinsky's conglomerate, Media-Most, although Gazprom had earlier agreed to
accept stock in payment.

(David Hoffman)

ASIA

Rescue Crews Aid Flood Victims in India

CALCUTTA--Rescue crews used boats and military helicopters to help some of the
millions of people washed out of their homes by floods believed to have killed
more than 700 in India and Bangladesh.

They were trying to ferry victims to higher ground, but most remained marooned
atop buildings. Air force helicopters were dropping food and water purification
packets.

The vast majority of the deaths have been in India, but the toll in both
countries was expected to rise, and waterborne diseases were said to be breaking
out.

(Associated Press)

FOR THE RECORD

Indonesian police investigating a series of bombings in Jakarta arrested two
members of the armed forces after a shootout, officers said. Police Gen.
Bimantoro said the two had acted as individuals and denied suggestions that the
military as a whole was behind the deadly blasts, which included an explosion at
Jakarta's stock exchange on Sept. 13 that killed 15 people. . . . African
leaders brought their campaign to restore calm to Ivory Coast directly to the
country's junta leader after he snubbed their summit and blocked opposition
leaders from attending. Heads of state or foreign ministers of at least seven
African nations flew into Ivory Coast for the impromptu talks with Gen. Robert
Guei, who took power after the country's first coup nine months ago.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              205 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  September 28, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

THE WEEK THAT WAS; Loudoun, Fauquier Articles in the Daily Paper Sept. 21-27

SECTION: LOUDOUN EXTRA; Pg. V02

LENGTH: 388 words


Ad Campaign Links Immigration, Growth Woes


* An ad blitz blaming an influx of immigrants for traffic snarls and crowded
classrooms has been put together by a loose group of organizations calling
itself the Coalition for the Future of the American Worker. In a nationwide
attack on immigration, members of the coalition have purchased air time or
newspaper space in at least eight states--including ads in The Washington Post
and on local radio and TV--with the aim of convincing voters that immigrants are
burdening the United States. "For Loudoun to try to forestall or manage growth
without dealing with national immigration policy, it's fighting a losing battle.
It's like shoveling snow in a blizzard," said Daniel Stein, executive director
of the Washington-based Federation for American Immigration Reform. Stein said
the group spent "six figures" on the anti-sprawl ads aired here this month,
which focus on Loudoun. Local officials have condemned the campaign, as have
environmental activists and development interests usually at odds with one
another. They cited statistics indicating that far more people are moving to
Loudoun from other U.S. communities than from foreign countries.

-- Thursday


Piedmont Thrills as Riders Medal in Sydney


* Hunt country celebrated the gold medal of favorite son David O'Connor in the
individual three-day event competition at the Olympic Games in Sydney and the
bronze medal won by an all-Virginia U.S squad in the team three-day event.

-- Saturday


Astronomers Try to Hold Back the Light


* As the effects of sprawl gobble the night, amateur astronomers are finding it
harder to view the galaxy even in outlying suburbs. By turning their sights
earthward and making political calculations, they are trying to influence zoning
laws, hoping to bring darkness back to night and stop the march of the glow into
countryside skies.

-- Monday


SOL Program Gives Rural Schools a Boost

As the debate over the reliability and fairness of the state Standards of
Learning tests rages, one unintended result of the program has been its spark
for increased spending on education in some of Virginia's more rural areas.

-- Monday


For more information about these and other articles, click on The Post's Web
site at www.washingtonpost.com


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              206 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    October 10, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 511 words


Record Cold Hits Southern States


ATLANTA--Southerners pulled out their sweaters and coats earlier than usual this
year as a preview of winter cold swept through the region before autumn's colors
had even appeared.

Temperatures fell into the upper 20s in some northern sections of Alabama and
Georgia after parts of the region were as high as the mid-80s much of last week.
West Texas had an ice storm over the weekend.

"We haven't seen these kinds of temperatures this early since the early 1900s,"
said Kent McMullen, a National Weather Service meteorologist in Peachtree City,
Ga.

A high-pressure system from Canada brought record cold to Alabama, Georgia,
Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, Oklahoma,
Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and West Virginia. Records were
tied in New York, Arkansas, New Jersey and Virginia.

Temperatures were expected to return to normal by midweek.


Ruling on Criminal Immigrants


MIAMI--Immigrants who have been convicted of crimes and are being held
indefinitely while awaiting deportation have the right to petition a judge for
release, a federal appeals court ruled late last month.

About 18,000 criminal immigrants targeted for deportation by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service have been jailed for years since 1996, when Congress
eliminated a requirement that the INS release anyone who could not be deported
within six months.

One of them was Ivan Boz, a native of the Bahamas. After serving a four-month
sentence for car theft, he was detained by the INS in 1997 and has been held
ever since as a deportable illegal immigrant. Boz did not challenge his
deportation order, just the limbo he has been in for years. He asked to be
released, and the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals ruling--that the federal judge
who rejected Boz's appeal must now reconsider it--applies to all federal judges
in Florida, Georgia and Alabama.


* CAPE CANAVERAL--With gusts exceeding 50 mph at the pad, NASA bumped the launch
of space shuttle Discovery to today despite forecasts of more blustery weather.
It was the second delay in five days for NASA's 100th space shuttle flight, an
ambitious space station construction mission. Last week's postponement was
caused by a sluggish valve and suspect bolts.


* MIAMI--More than 30,000 military personnel from the United States and its NATO
allies will conduct joint training exercises off Virginia and North Carolina and
in the Caribbean starting this week and ending Oct. 28, a military spokesman
said. The maneuvers will take place in the region that includes the U.S. Navy
bombing range on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques, but military officials
would not say whether that range would be used.


* LOS ANGELES--A small Pomeranian dog killed a 6-week-old baby Saturday night
while the infant's caretaker briefly left the child unattended to warm a bottle
of milk, authorities said. The baby's name was withheld because her parents were
out of the country and had not been notified.



LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              207 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   October 25, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

President Pressures GOP On Immigrant Aid Measure

Ellen Nakashima , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 757 words


As Campaign 2000 and the 106th Congress head into the homestretch, President
Clinton is trying to pressure Republicans to back a measure that would aid
hundreds of thousands of mostly Latino immigrants.

Clinton is insisting the GOP include a provision in year-end legislation that
would help immigrants--predominantly Latino--who came to the United States
illegally but who would have, under a 1986 law, been eligible for amnesty.

It also would extend permanent residency to Central American, Haitian and
Liberian immigrants who fled rightist regimes and were granted temporary
protection but remain in legal limbo, and it would help certain other immigrants
whose legal status has lapsed to obtain green cards.

Democrats back the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act while Republicans support
an alternative bill, the Legal Immigration Family Equity Act, sponsored by Sen.
Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah).

The GOP bill focuses on family reunification and would allow amnesty claims by
those who arrived between 1982 and 1986 but would not grant a blanket amnesty.

The Latino immigrant issue is threatening to mar efforts by Texas Gov. George W.
Bush and the Republican Party to woo the Latino vote and dispel the lingering
image of the GOP as insensitive to nonwhite immigrants.

It's even splitting congressional Republicans, with House and Senate leaders
firmly opposed to the administration-backed bill, while other moderate
Republicans, such as Sen. John McCain of Arizona and Rep. Thomas M. Davis III of
Virginia, support it.

Bush has not taken a stand on the federal legislation, but a campaign spokesman
said he does not support blanket amnesty for illegal immigrants.

Sen. Phil Gramm, whose wife's grandfather came to the United States from Japan
to work the cane fields in Hawaii, blasted the legislation as "outrageous and
condescending" from the Senate floor this month.

"I am as strongly committed to immigration as you can be committed to
immigration," the Texas Republican said. "But I draw a bright line--it is as
bright as the morning sun--and it is on one issue: People should come to America
legally."

"This is a raw political act," he said. "This is putting politics ahead of
people. This is about trying to single out a group of people, as if every
Hispanic in Texas believes that it is okay to let someone violate the law."

Democrats and Latino advocacy groups, however, say that the legislation would
extend to Latino immigrants protections that were given to others in the 1980s.

"This is about fundamental fairness, undoing old wrongs, getting people out of
legal limbo, where they have languished for more than a decade, and making sure
families can reunite," said Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy of the
National Council of La Raza, the largest Latino rights group.

The bill would attempt to help about 300,000 people who have been in the United
States since before 1986 and who were discouraged from applying for amnesty
under the 1986 law because of Immigration and Naturalization Service rules that
a federal court later determined were overly strict.

It would also extend to Salvadorans, Hondurans, Guatemalans, Haitians and
Liberians the protections given in 1997 to Nicaraguans and Cubans seeking asylum
and who were granted permanent legal residency if they had been in the country
since before 1995. And it would help immigrants whose temporary visas have
lapsed obtain green cards without having to return to their native country for
several years.

"None of these provisions would add a single new person to the population of the
United States," Munoz said. "This is all about people who are here, paying
taxes, in the work force."

Nationally, Latinos make up 5 percent of voters, and their turnout is high--75
percent in the last presidential election. In 1996, Latinos were 33 percent of
voters in New Mexico, 17 percent in Texas, 12 percent in California, 11 percent
in Arizona and 9 percent in Florida.

Gramm mocked Democrats' assertion that this is an election issue. He noted that
he won "about half" the Latino vote in Texas when he ran in 1990 and did not
think he would be hurt by his stand when he runs again in 2002. "I . . . do not
believe that this is the great political ploy that Democrats believe it to be,"
he said.

Nonetheless, Clinton has vowed to veto the huge spending bill that finances the
State, Commerce and Justice departments if it emerges without the measure. And
House and Senate Democratic leaders said they can sustain a veto.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 2000

CORRECTION: An Oct. 25 article incorrectly said the grandfather of Sen. Phil
Gramm's wife Wendy came from Japan to work in Hawaii's cane fields. He emigrated
from Korea.

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              208 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   October 26, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Forgotten Issues; Courted as Voters, Immigrants Are No Longer Feared; Newcomers'
Impact Has Faded as a Concern

Hanna Rosin , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 1460 words


Pick one fact about America that will define "the shape of the future," to
borrow a favorite campaign slogan, and it might be this: During the past decade,
more immigrants came to the United States and settled in more states than at any
time in American history.

Yet, when the two main presidential candidates, Vice President Gore and Texas
Gov. George W. Bush, talk about the future, the impact of this demographic
upheaval rarely comes up.

Not in Iowa, where the Hispanic population has tripled in the past decade.
Barely even in California where, during the last election, the subject could
have swallowed up much of a candidate's question-and-answer time.

"It's disappeared as an issue," said Michael Fix, an immigration expert at the
Urban Institute. "There just isn't much to be gained from talking about it any
more."

During this campaign, immigration seems to have faded away with other "fear"
issues, such as crime and welfare. Prolonged prosperity has made voters less
anxious about the influx of immigrants and businesses more eager to court them.

Once the anonymous threat, immigrants--Latinos, Asians and Arabs--have become
coveted voting blocs. Candidates compete for them as never before, most visibly
for Latinos, using Spanish ads, snatches of learned espanol, even mariachi
bands.

"The line used to be: If your job isn't secure, think immigration. If your
highway system is creaking, think immigration," said Demetrios Papademetriou, an
immigration specialist at the Brookings Institute. "But it's harder to make
those connections now."

Immigration now ranks 12th in a list of voters' concerns, down from second or
third in some states four years ago, according to Gallup polls.

Yet, this relative indifference comes at a time when immigration has reached its
peak, with 10 million legal non-citizens now in the United States, along with an
estimated 6 million more undocumented immigrants. And this time, immigrants are
settling in states that haven't seen many new faces in almost a century--places
such as Idaho, Nebraska, Arkansas, Rhode Island and Vermont.

For the immigrants and their advocates, this new influx opens a host of urgent
questions: how to integrate newcomers into schools and neighborhoods; how to
restructure the Immigration and Naturalization Service; how to decide who
deserves citizenship priority and who deserves amnesty; what to do about welfare
for immigrants and English-only laws.

And while each campaign has a ready list of responses to these questions, they
never come up unless the specialists ask. In the rest of America, the questions
have lost their urgency.

"Journalists from the Spanish-language press always get frustrated and ask me,
'Why didn't Mr. Lehrer ask them a question about it in the debates?' " said
Dagoberto Vega, Gore's liaison to the Latino community, referring to the three
presidential debates. "But four years ago, we had an aggressive anti-immigration
movement to battle. Now, that doesn't exist anymore."

Now, Gore keeps it light: "Yo [te] quiero mucho" ("I love you very much"), he
says to Latino groups, attempting a few words of his textbook Spanish. His
latest Spanish language ads--"Con Gore Si Puedo" ("With Gore I Can")--don't
mention immigration, sticking instead to a checklist of middle-class issues:
health care, insurance, education. In recognition of the changed landscape, the
ads are running in a new set of cities that includes Chicago, Milwaukee, Detroit
and Tampa.

Bush takes the same approach, but for him it represents a radical break from his
party's recent past. "He's a different kind of Republican," said Sonia Colin,
Bush's liaison to the Latino community, who notes that he captured half the
Hispanic vote in his most recent election victory in Texas.

With Colin's help, Bush's campaign runs an almost full-service parallel
Spanish-language operation, with translated speeches, position papers and a
weekly news summary called "Que Hay De Nuevo Con Bush" ("What's New With Bush").
There's even a list of "Dichos," Bush's favorite inspirational sayings,
including: "Si se puede. Juntos si se puede," which Bush's campaign translates
as "Where there is a will, there is a way," and "Tenemos mucho en commun" ("We
have much in common").

"Vamos a ganar"--"We're going to win"--Bush tells Latino audiences, in his more
conversational but still far from fluent Spanish. When someone in the audience
asks him about Proposition 187, the 1994 ballot initiative in California that
was pushed by then-Gov. Pete Wilson (R) and became an anti-immigration rallying
point nationwide, Bush apologizes for his party's anti-immigrant past.

"Family values do not stop at the Rio Grande River," Bush said in an address to
a Hispanic group in June. "New Americans are not to be feared as strangers; they
are to be welcomed as neighbors."

Just four years ago, Republican presidential candidate Robert J. Dole promoted a
national version of Proposition 187, which denied social services and public
education to illegal immigrants. The 1996 GOP platform hit all the panic
buttons: condemning "non-citizens taking advantage of expensive welfare
programs," warning about the "threat of illegal immigration" and "the burden on
taxpayers."

This year, the caustic rhetoric is excised, replaced by a hazy feel-good
outreach that doesn't address many salient issues but drastically alters the
tone. The Republican platform worries about the "tragic exploitation of smuggled
immigrants, the untold suffering at the hand of law breakers." It repeatedly
calls the United States "a nation of immigrants."

Experts attribute the turnaround to the "Wilson effect." After the California
governor's term, Democrats swept statewide elections and Hispanic activists
started to mobilize voters. By the start of this campaign, a Republican focus
group had declared Hispanics the Soccer Moms of the 2000 election cycle.

"There's a new glow around immigrants. Anything Hispanic or Latino is suddenly
desirable," said Papademetriou.

Some experts predict that Hispanics will make up as much as 7 percent of the
vote in November. They probably won't make a difference in larger states such as
New York and California, which are already solidly Democratic. But they could
tilt the balance in crucial undecided states such as Florida, Illinois, New
Mexico and Arizona.

It's not only Republicans who have changed their message. The populist streak
among Democrats has always viewed immigrants with suspicion, mostly in deference
to unions. For years, the AFL-CIO saw them as unfair competitors who depressed
wages and stole union jobs.

But in the past few years, the union leadership has reversed its position out of
necessity. Union membership has been steadily dropping since the 1950s, and
immigrants are now potential recruits. The unions' most dramatic successes
lately have come from rallying immigrant workers, including janitors and hotel
workers, to strike for better wages.

"It's an evolution in thinking about immigration," said Teamsters leader James
P. Hoffa. "We have to recognize that people who come to this country are being
exploited and they have a right to join unions."

Despite these underlying shifts, immigration policies remain a footnote in the
day-to-day life of the campaign, part of a laundry list of issues perfunctorily
placed on World Wide Web pages, far below health care and Social Security.

Under the headline "Welcoming New Americans," Bush proposes dividing the INS
into two agencies--one for border enforcement, the other for social
services--and expanding the number of certain kinds of temporary visas.

Gore mentions a few more specifics; he, too, wants to reform the INS and make it
more "customer friendly." He supports limited amnesty or permanent residency for
certain Central Americans, as well as strengthening bilingual education and
opposing English-only laws, without qualification.

Still, neither major candidate has offered a vision of what the sheer number of
newcomers means for the nation. That has been left to Green Party nominee Ralph
Nader, who takes the old union approach of being wary of international
agreements such as NAFTA, and to Reform Party nominee Patrick J. Buchanan, who
has stuck to a message of immigrants moving in and taking over.

To grapple with the changes in a new way, a candidate would have to address
systemic reform, rethinking the balance between temporary and permanent
immigrants, building in a flexible mechanism so that the total number of
immigrants shifts with the changing economy.

"This would be the perfect opportunity to sort through this unfinished
business," said Fix of the Urban Institute. "But immigration policy never
happens that way."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              209 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   October 28, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Transgendered Couple Makes Deal in INS Case

Brooke A. Masters , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 516 words


A transgendered couple who ran into legal trouble when they applied for a
marriage-based visa have worked out a deal with federal officials that keeps
them out of jail and allows them to reapply to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Katherine and Pat Spray, of Sterling, each pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor
count of possessing a false identification document with intent to defraud the
United States. U.S. District Judge Raymond A. Jackson sentenced them to three
years' probation, and the INS agreed in a letter not to use the conviction to
prevent Katherine, who is an Irish citizen, from getting a green card.

Katherine, 29, was born male but lives as a woman. Pat, an American citizen, was
born female but lives as a man. After meeting on the Internet, they got married
in North Carolina in 1995 and moved to the Norfolk area. At that time, they
applied for a marriage-based visa and a temporary work permit for Katherine, now
32.

But the green-card application ran into trouble when the INS learned that Pat
had failed to disclose two previous marriages and that one of those marriages
had not been properly dissolved. In September, both Sprays were indicted on
charges of felony immigration fraud.

In the meantime, however, Pat Spray obtained a proper divorce, and the Sprays
remarried properly in Fairfax County. That step, prosecutors say, made the
government willing to consider a deal in which the Sprays admitted that their
North Carolina marriage license was invalid because Pat was still technically
married to someone else.

"It's all worked out. They straightened out what went on, so the government took
a less harsh stance," said Assistant U.S. Attorney Mike Smythers. "This
conviction is not going to impact Katherine's immigration status at all."

The Sprays contend that they were prosecuted only because they are transgendered
and that the government backed down because the couple took their case to the
media. The Sprays say they would like to have sex-reassignment surgery, but
neither has done so.

"We're still convinced that it was prejudice that got this whole thing started,"
Katherine Spray said. "They tried to destroy us for no other reason than that we
are transgendered."

Immigration lawyers not connected to the case said the prosecution was unusual.
Ordinarily, they said, when the INS discovers that a prior marriage has not been
dissolved, the applicants are given time to correct the problem and reapply.

INS District Director Warren Lewis ordered Katherine Spray's immediate expulsion
and the INS informed the Irish citizen's employer, UUNet, that the temporary
work permit had been revoked. UUNet then let Katherine Spray go, and the couple
had to rely on the kindness of friends to pay their legal bills, Katherine Spray
said.

Rex Wingerter, the couple's immigration attorney, said he plans to file a new
visa application and ask the INS to revoke the expulsion order.

"It looks like there is light at the end of the tunnel and the INS is doing the
right thing," he said. "But we'll see it when we see it."


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              210 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    October 30, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

START-UP: A Periodic Look at the Region's Newest Companies; Rolling Out the
Welcome Mat

Dana Hedgpeth , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E05

LENGTH: 513 words


More than 50 million tourists will visit the United States from overseas this
year, according to travel industry estimates. Add to them the international
students, diplomats and business executives who will pass through, plus the
700,000 people who will legally immigrate here--not to mention the uncounted
thousands of undocumented arrivals--and that's a lot of foreign nationals in
need of information.

Enter USAWelcome.com, designed to be a comprehensive, multilingual online guide
for international visitors to life and leisure in the United States.

The Web site is the brainchild of Gretchen Cook-Anderson, president and founder
of the Rockville-based company, which shares office space with its financial
backer, Sunrise World Communications Inc., a multinational Internet service
provider. Sunrise put up USAWelcome's initial $ 170,000 seed money, and got a 15
percent stake in the start-up.

Anderson, 31, launched the site last month after teaching Japanese at Howard
University for five years and working in the college's international contract
office.

Anderson said USAWelcome.com offers "one-stop shopping" for international
visitors or recent immigrants, a multilingual Web-based "concierge service." It
offers information on everything from tipping etiquette and sightseeing tips to
how to apply for a credit card or the proper decorum in the classroom.

By the second quarter of next year, Anderson is crossing her fingers in hopes
that she'll turn a profit from her six-employee firm. To make money from her
largely free Web site, she hopes to start offering premium information for a
fee, such as advice on immigration from lawyers. Later she plans to lease kiosks
with touch-screen terminals that can access the site's travel and leisure
information to visitors centers, hotels and major international airports.

IN PROFILE

Name: USAWelcome.com

Location: Rockville

Launch date: September

Big idea: A multilingual Web-based concierge service for international visitors
to the United States or recent immigrants. USAWelcome.com offers information on
everything from tipping etiquette and sightseeing tips to how to apply for a
credit card or the proper decorum in U.S. classrooms. The information is
available in five languages: English, Spanish, French, German and Japanese. More
languages are planned for the first quarter of 2001.

Revenue sources: Advertising on the USAWelcome.com Web site. Most tourist and
lifestyle information will be free to visitors, but legal advice from
immigration attorneys will "require a nominal fee."

Big plans: Hopes to earn additional revenue by leasing touch-screen kiosks to
tourist information centers, hotels and major international airports that would
allow travelers to access its information.

Employees: 6

Who's in charge: Gretchen Cook-Anderson, 31, president and chief executive

Founder's hobbies: Writing and reading. She just published a book, "Those Who
Trespass Against Us," a political suspense novel set in Washington.

Founder's motto: "Experience is the key to life."


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IG

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              211 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   November 1, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Little Candor and Loud Silences

Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A33

LENGTH: 980 words


One of the enduring questions about democracies is whether they can prudently
prepare for the future--that is, whether they can take steps to minimize
problems that reasonable people can anticipate. No one watching this
presidential campaign can feel optimistic about the prospect. Al Gore and George
W. Bush have blitzed the country with proposals on education, health care and
taxes. But both have failed to speak with candor or clarity on two problems that
will profoundly shape America's future: immigration and an aging population.

These matters intersect, possibly in disturbing ways. On the one hand, the
United States is in the midst of the largest wave of immigration since the early
1900s. In 1999 almost 10 percent of the U.S. population consisted of immigrants,
double the 1970 level (4.7 percent). Even this understates the social impact.
More than 90 percent of immigrants are 18 or over, and once here, many have
children--who are, of course, U.S. citizens. Together, immigrants and their
children represent about 20 percent of the population. Although many are skilled
and are adjusting quickly, others have problems. Among immigrants from Latin
America (mainly Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean), the poverty rate was
nearly 25 percent in 1998.

On the other hand, the graying of America continues. In 1999 there were slightly
more than three workers for every retiree. By 2030, there will be about two
workers per retiree, even assuming sizable immigration. The Congressional Budget
Office recently estimated future spending on the major federal retirement
programs: Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. In 1999 they cost about 7.5
percent of gross domestic product (national income). By 2030 CBO projects the
costs at more than 14 percent of GDP. Under less optimistic--but
plausible--assumptions about health spending, they could be higher.

Together, these population shifts may imperil economic fairness and social
peace. The costs of retirement programs are paid mainly by workers, through
payroll or income taxes. Tomorrow's workers--today's children and young
adults--will bear a heavy burden to subsidize the retirement of baby boomers.
Given immigration, many workers may have fairly low incomes. They may be poorer
than many of the retirees they are subsidizing. They will also be more heavily
Latino and Asian than the retirees, who will be mainly white and African
American. The possibilities for economic, social and ethnic tensions and
resentments are obvious.

Even without immigration, a strong case exists for gradually overhauling federal
retirement programs. Because Americans live longer and are healthier, it makes
sense to raise the retirement age further (under current law, it rises to 66 by
2009 and 67 by 2027). For wealthier retirees, it makes sense to trim Social
Security benefits and require that they pay more for Medicare coverage. These
steps would preserve the safety net for the poor elderly while moderating
workers' future taxes.

Even without aging, a strong case exists for overhauling immigration policies.
Americans are justifiably proud of their history as a melting pot. But the
melting is rarely painless or instantaneous. There are economic and cultural
conflicts, which have sometimes slipped into ugliness and violence. The less
skilled the immigrants, the worse their employment prospects, the bigger the
burden on schools and the greater the demand for social services. It is common
sense to favor better-educated immigrants. The present immigration laws (despite
some preferences for skilled workers) generally don't. Lowering the overall
level of immigration might also make it easier to absorb the immigrants already
here.

If the campaign were about the future, these questions would be the center of
attention. But of course, they're not.

True, Social Security and Medicare have been big issues--but in ways that may
worsen tomorrow's problems. Al Gore would simply increase benefits without
questioning whether the long-term costs are affordable or whether the burdens
are distributed fairly among generations. Gore's drug benefit could be hugely
expensive. The cost could easily reach one or 2 percent of GDP by 2030,
according to informal CBO estimates. Because the program isn't law, the cost
isn't included in official Medicare spending projections. As for Bush, he has
been supremely vague, promising personal investment accounts for Social Security
and an overhaul of Medicare. Perhaps he will raise long-taboo subjects. Bush's
critics plausibly claim that his proposals would force cutbacks in promised
benefits. If done carefully, that would be good. But it's impossible to know
exactly what Bush would do.

There has been little candor. Indeed, immigration has hardly been discussed. All
this makes perfect political sense. No one wants to scare retirees--present or
future--by threatening their benefits. Gore says Bush would reduce benefits;
Bush retorts that Gore is trying to win on fear. Immigration is the same story.
To suggest refashioning today's immigration policies might offend Latino, Asian
American or Arab American voters. Moreover, immigration doesn't seem a problem
in today's booming economy. Employers appear to crave almost any warm body.

So the inconvenient questions aren't asked or answered. Although this makes
political sense, it may not bode well for the country. There are times when
democratic societies need to accept small, unpleasant changes sooner to avoid
larger and more disruptive changes later. Ideally, political campaigns ought to
be about building a consensus for change. Realistically, they are about winning.
Voters are told mostly what they want to hear, not what they need to know. In
this campaign, the loudest silences concern a future that Americans refuse to
face. One day, the silences may return to haunt us.



LOAD-DATE: November 01, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              212 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   November 2, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Debate Over a 'Defining Culture' Roils Germany; In Statements of National Pride,
Some Hear Nazi Lexicon

Peter Finn , Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 962 words

DATELINE: BERLIN


Germany's never-ending struggle with its soul reached a new plateau this week
when a leading opposition figure dared to say: "Ich bin stolz, Deutscher zu
sein."

"I'm proud to be a German."

Unremarkable most anywhere else. But in history-haunted Germany, even the
simplest expression of patriotism elicits a cold shiver in some quarters.

Laurenz Meyer, general secretary of the conservative Christian Democratic Union,
made his declaration during a national debate on immigration and quickly found
himself the target of a fusillade of retorts. It's like that whenever Germany
goes off on one of its periodic confrontations with its deepest political
uncertainty: the past, and how to transcend it without forgetting it.

"How happy the Germans would be if they, like the Americans, still had some
'fundamental themes' in their history upon which to lay the foundations of a
more generous attitude toward foreigners," the Frankfurter Allgemeine newspaper
said in an editorial loathing German self-loathing. "The Germans no longer have
anything they can regard as sacrosanct; they are not self-confident and are not
allowed to be, either."

This new round began when Friedrich Merz, the CDU's parliamentary leader, said
his party might make immigration an issue in the 2002 elections. And he
suggested that German culture should be the Leitkultur, or "defining culture,"
for the country's 7 million immigrants, who in common and revealing German
parlance are referred to as "foreigners."

"We should expect people who want to live here for a long time to be able to
speak German and accept our constitution's norms and values," Merz said in a
newspaper interview. "It is unacceptable to me that parallel societies arise,
societies that belong in part to Germany's legal and constitutional structure,
but that otherwise continue to keep their own culture. We Germans . . . are an
open and tolerant people."

Amplifying Merz's comments, Meyer said that that might mean asserting women's
rights and sexual equality even if it undercuts the cultural prerogatives of
certain immigrant groups.

"France has a predominantly French culture, Italy the Italian. Why shouldn't we
have the German Leitkultur in our homeland?" Meyer said in a magazine interview
published Monday. And sharpening Merz's championing of German culture, Meyer
said he was proud to be a German--an assertion that seemed bald and provocative
because in expressions of national pride some hear whispers of National
Socialism.

"Leitkultur is a killer word," commentator Heribert Prantl said in the
Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper on Monday. "Leitkultur is a word for presumption,
for arrogance."

For decades, Germany has equated nationality with ethnicity and denied that it
was a land of immigration, insisting that its foreign-born residents were merely
guest workers, not settled immigrants. Only this year, for instance, did it
extend limited citizenship rights to people born in the country who were not of
"German" blood.

Ivan Nagel, a Hungarian-born longtime resident of the country, noted in a recent
speech, after he received an award for tolerance, that Germans have yet to
develop "generosity toward the other."

Merz and Meyer say they are only trying to say that the country needs to
formulate an immigration policy. But their remarks came against a backdrop of
rising xenophobic violence by neo-Nazis. The two politicians employed ambiguous
and charged language that unsettles some people here because it seems to echo
the Nazi lexicon.

German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said the two were "playing with fire."

Even among Christian Democrats there was criticism. "You cannot stir up emotions
against foreigners as an election issue," said Rita Sussmuth, a CDU member of
parliament and the head of a nonpartisan immigration commission.

The party's foreign policy spokesman, Karl Lamers, said, "No one may appeal to
base instincts. It is plain the immigration policy is a particularly difficult
issue in view of Germany's history."

Merz and Meyer deny any such provocation. Moreover, reversing the long-standing
position of the CDU, Merz said, "Realistically speaking, Germany has been a land
of immigration for a long time."

But after a summer and fall of sharp increases in racist violence by far-right
groups there is deep unease here about even broaching the subject of immigrants.
Just this weekend, a group of young racists attacked the home of a Turkish
family in Himbergen in northwest Germany, shouting "Sieg Heil."

This year, at least three people have been murdered by far-right thugs,
immigrants have been wounded by a bomb as they walked to German language class,
and synagogues and Jewish graveyards have been attacked and desecrated.

Germany has begun the process of seeking to ban the leading far-right political
party and is undertaking a multimillion-dollar educational effort to turn young
people away from far-right groups.

Some community leaders say Merz and Meyer, by stressing the "otherness" of
immigrants, have fed the nationalism of the far right.

"It's irresponsible to demand historical awareness and tolerance from young
people when leading politicians use such statements," said Paul Spiegel, head of
the Central Council of Jews in Germany in a recent speech.

The general secretary of the governing Social Democratic Party said immigration
should be a "taboo" subject in the next elections, but the Christian Democrats
appear to have forced it onto the agenda.

"We could manage to reach an agreement on the whole package of immigration,
asylum, refugees and so on, and also on the idea of a defining German culture,"
said Meyer. "After all, not everyone must agree with the concept for us to reach
an agreement."

LOAD-DATE: November 02, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              213 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    November 5, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

COMING AND GOING

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 715 words



HAIR TODAY

Dreadful News


Wear dreadlocks, or consider yourself a hippie? The British Virgin Islands may
be off-limits to you.

"Although I am a U.S. citizen and need no visa to go to the BVI," writes
Adams-Morgan resident Lisa Stewart, "I can be barred entry into the country for
the simple reason that I happen to have dreadlocks. This is not listed in any
guidebook--not even the U.S. State Department references it."

Stewart is right. According to a BVI law, on the books since 1980, Rastafarians
(who sport the dreadlock hairstyle of long, twisted braids) and hippies can be
refused entry by immigration officials. They fall into the same category as
people "suffering from contagious or infectious disease" or who are believed "to
have come to the territory for the purpose of prostitution." BVI residents are
exempt.

Anne Lennard, director of tourism for the BVI, insists that the law is rarely
enforced. "I think there is a misconception that because the rule exists, the
door is closed to everybody who wears dreadlocks," she says. "We have
Rastafarians and hippies who come in here virtually every day. A lot of it lies
in the discretion of the immigration officer."

But it does happen. A dreadlock-wearing friend of Stewart's recently flew into
Beef Island/Tortola Airport and was told by an immigration official that she
would be denied entry. She forcefully insisted that the country then pay for her
outbound flight--a tactic that persuaded immigration to let her enter.


ROOM KEYS

Grad Gridlock, Cont'd.


There's hope yet for parents of U-Va. graduates who are encountering sold-out
rooms--and price-gouging--at Charlottesville hotels during graduation weekend.
CoGo readers contacted us last week with lodging tips after we described
problems encountered by an Alexandria mom seeking rooms for the May event. Two
non-hotel options:


* U-Va. dorm rooms. The university charges $ 20 a night per person--available
only to families of graduating students. Families occupy suite-like dorm
accommodations with twin-bedded rooms, a living area and a communal bath.  Call
the U-Va. Accommodations Office at 804-924-6873; reservations are taken in early
spring, and the 1,200 spaces quickly sell out.


* Charlottesville B&Bs. Guesthouses Bed and Breakfast Reservation Service
(804-979-7264) matches attendees with beds--and still has five rooms left for
graduation weekend!  Rates--which, incidentally, are not hiked--range from $ 68
to $ 150 per room per couple. The group also rents houses, sans owners, for $
300 to $ 800 a night, two-night minimum.

The National Network of Bed and Breakfast Reservation Services
(www.go-lodging.com) is a nifty resource for parents facing similar struggles in
other college towns. Chapel Hill's Carolina Mornings (800-770-9055,
www.carolinamornings.com), which matches travelers to B&Bs ranging from $ 75 to
$ 140 a night, says it's not fully booked for University of North Carolina and
Duke University graduation periods . . . but it's getting close.


TRAVEL TICKER


Didn't make it to Sweden to check out its ice hotel? Good news: North America's
first Ice Hotel is scheduled to open Jan. 1 just outside Quebec City (weather
permitting). Rates for the rooms, which will be kept warm by deer pelts, start
at $ 109 (U.S.). It should be open for three months, until the ice begins to
thaw. . . The State Department has issued a travel warning for Indonesia
(particularly Aceh, Maluku, Papua and West Timor), citing a rise in
anti-American rhetoric. It also notes an increase in bombings in Jakarta and
says the Jakarta Stock Exchange is among the buildings being targeted. A public
announcement urging caution in Egypt also was issued.


Bargain of the week

Away for the Holidays


Most major airlines are offering holiday sale fares for travel on specific dates
in November and December. Each airline has slightly different rules, but
generally, you must purchase tickets 14 days in advance and travel Nov. 23-24,
29-30; Dec. 14-15, 18-19, 20, 24-25; or Jan. 3-5.


Help feed CoGo. Send travel news, road reports and juicy tattles to:

cogo@washpost.com. By fax: 202-334-1069. By mail: CoGo, Washington Post Travel
Section, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071.




LOAD-DATE: November 05, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              214 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    November 20, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

Meissner Ends Embattled Tenure as Head of INS; Immigration Wave Tested Her
Reshaping of Agency

Dan Eggen , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 862 words


For five long months, Doris M. Meissner was engulfed by the Elian Gonzalez case.

As commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Meissner was the
first to decide that the 6-year-old Cuban boy should return to his father after
his mother died in an attempt to reach Florida. Meissner and her boss, Attorney
General Janet Reno, were berated on talk shows, cursed by Cuban American
activists and, when armed INS agents seized Elian, pilloried in Congress.

Most would consider this an ordeal. But to Meissner, being thrust into the
middle of a political firestorm "was one of the most satisfying experiences
professionally that I've had.

"It was a team effort that worked extremely well," she said last week in her
office on the outskirts of downtown Washington. "I didn't come here to work
against 30 years of practice when it came to Cuba and Castro. But the case was
what it was, so we rolled up our sleeves and said, 'Let's do it right.' "

The Elian saga wasn't the only political gale to buffet Meissner, 59, who ended
her seven-year tenure as head of the INS Friday. Her term was plagued by
scandals and missteps as she tried to remake one of the government's most
troubled agencies. At the same time, the INS was coping with one of the largest
waves of immigration in U.S. history; 1 million or more immigrants arrived
annually during most of Meissner's term.

Meissner, who also held immigration posts in the Carter and Reagan
administrations, oversaw a doubling of the INS work force to 32,000 employees,
and a tripling of the agency's budget to $ 4.3 billion. She earned praise from
immigrant advocates, and even some foes, for bringing professionalism and
expertise to an agency that was known for neither.

Meissner cut down on backlogs in the INS's troubled asylum system, implemented a
crackdown along the Mexican border and worked to speed approvals for legal
immigrants seeking citizenship. Just last week, the INS announced that the wait
for naturalization had declined from more than two years to less than nine
months, while the application backlog had dropped to 800,000 from a high of
nearly 2 million two years ago.

"She inherited a badly structured, demoralized agency at a time when the
immigration debate was getting red hot," said Frank Sharry, executive director
of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy group. "She's performed admirably
and effectively in an impossible job."

Meissner, who will return to a post at the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, said the INS "is not only a significantly bigger agency, it's a
significantly better agency."

But Meissner frequently ran afoul of advocates on both sides of the immigration
debate and often raised the ire of critics in Congress. She fought
unsuccessfully against 1996 legislation that expanded the list of crimes
punishable by deportation and helped derail attempts to split the INS into
separate enforcement and service agencies.

Last year, Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House immigration
subcommittee, called for her resignation amid reports that as many as 1,500
nonviolent criminal immigrants were set to be released because of crowding in
detention centers. The INS scrapped the plan and Meissner declined to step down.

A naturalization drive that mistakenly allowed hundreds of criminals to become
citizens because of flawed background checks arguably caused Meissner's worst
moments. Smith and other GOP leaders alleged that the Citizenship USA campaign,
which processed nearly 1.3 million new citizens before the 1996 elections, also
was part of an effort by the White House to pad the rolls of Democratic voters.

A Justice Department report dismissed political motives on Meissner's part, but
lambasted the INS for a malfunctioning fingerprinting process and a computer
system so antiquated that officials couldn't determine exactly how many
applicants they had.

T.J. Bonner, president of the National Border Patrol Council, the union that
represents most of the INS's 9,100 border employees, said, "We would have to
give [her] a failing grade as commissioner." He said that many agents are
demoralized and that Meissner should not be credited with increasing the
agency's manpower and equipment.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, an anti-immigration group, said
last week that Meissner's resignation was "long overdue and welcome."

"Everywhere she closes a door," Dan Stein, the group's executive director, said
of Meissner's attempt to stem illegal immigration, "she opens a window."

Meissner soldiered on through the political crises even as she weathered a
personal one. In 1996, her husband, assistant commerce secretary Charles F.
Meissner, died in a plane crash in Croatia that also claimed the lives of
Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown and 31 others. Meissner has two grown
children.

The daughter of German immigrants who made their way through Ellis Island,
Meissner said her parents' experience helped shape her philosophy. "The fear of
not measuring up is universal in the immigrant experience," she said. "I think I
have understood that and tried to make it better."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              215 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  November 22, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Disabled Woman Becomes Citizen Under New Law

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 21


A severely disabled woman from India today became the first person granted U.S.
citizenship under a new law waiving the oath of allegiance in certain cases.

Vijai Rajan, who has cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy and Crohn's disease,
cannot speak and has the comprehension of a 2-year-old, was given a certificate
of naturalization in a ceremony at the Immigration and Naturalization Service
office.

The 25-year-old woman, who requires 24-hour care, has lived most of her life in
the United States.

Her father, Sunder Rajan, a naturalized citizen, spent years pressing for a
change in law so she could become a citizen despite being unable to take the
oath.

President Clinton this month signed the law, which will give citizenship to
about 1,000 immigrants a year whose disabilities prevent them from reciting the
oath of allegiance but who otherwise qualify for citizenship.

"We're very pleased to be able to welcome Ms. Rajan as a citizen," said Thomas
J. Schiltgen, director of the INS office.

Sunder Rajan became teary-eyed as he watched the ceremony.

"We were afraid she would be left stateless if anything happens to us," he said.
"Now she will be treated the same as the rest of the family."

Caught up in her family's excitement, Vijai Rajan giggled and smiled. She held a
small American flag pressed into one hand until her grip failed and it fell.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              216 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  November 29, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

A Young Man's Homecoming To a Brazil He Does Not Know

Stephen Buckley; Susan Levine , Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1617 words

DATELINE: CAMPINAS, Brazil


The woman gently touched Joao Herbert's forearm as he stepped off the crowded
sidewalk and into an appliance store.

"Aren't you the boy who just arrived here from America?" asked Maria Leonar
Vieira de Moraes, 60.

Herbert smiled and nodded yes.

"Welcome to your home," she said. Then she reached up and hugged him.

Hers was an oft-expressed sentiment during Herbert's first week here. But it
masked the brutal, if sometimes poignant, complexities of the 22-year-old's
arrival in a homeland that is as alien to him as landing on the moon.

Herbert had not been in Brazil since he was 8, when an Ohio couple adopted him
from a Sao Paulo orphanage. He was ordered to leave the United States in June
under a controversial 1996 law that requires deportation of any immigrant who
has not been naturalized and is convicted of what the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service terms an "aggravated felony."

Herbert was expelled after being convicted of selling less than eight ounces of
marijuana--his first and only drug charge.

Herbert does not speak Portuguese, the Brazilian language. He came alone,
knowing no one. He is a stranger to the culture. He retains snatches of his
childhood here, but otherwise his memory of the people, landscape and rhythms of
Brazilian life is a virtual blank.

Yet because of the circumstances of his return, of his highly publicized forced
exile from America, Brazilians know him. They see him as a guy who made a
mistake but deserved a second chance, a real-life victim of an unbending
American attitude toward drugs. For months before his deportation by the INS,
the story of this burly, bespectacled young man played on television and in
newspapers, and the Sao Paulo airport was aswarm with reporters when Herbert
landed late on Nov. 16.

After 20 months of INS detention in Ohio jails, Herbert's first week here
gyrated between rage and relief. He exulted in his freedom, savoring his first
home-cooked meal in Brazil and gazing at the graceful, sun-dappled mountains
along the highway that runs into this prosperous city 80 miles west of Sao
Paulo. He basked in the care of an American expatriate from Akron, Ohio, who has
adopted three Brazilian children. He enjoyed the company of a Brazilian family
whose son's own struggle with drugs gave them a special compassion for him.

Still it was a week full of difficult moments, when his lack of Portuguese
paralyzed him, when stares on the street sometimes made him want to disappear,
when the myriad decisions in his path overwhelmed him, when his bitterness
toward the U.S. government revealed itself in waves of angry words and tears.

Time after time his new friend, Mike Miller, the Akron man who moved to Brazil
as a missionary 12 years ago, tried to keep Herbert from despairing. "The past
is the past, and there's nothing we can do about that," the Baptist pastor told
the young man. "The only thing we can do something about is the future."

Herbert's journey back to Brazil began in 1997 with his arrest for selling 7 1/2
ounces of marijuana to a police informant. He was sentenced to two years'
probation and six months in drug rehabilitation. While in rehab, he learned that
because his parents had never had him naturalized after his adoption, the INS
could begin deportation proceedings against him. Terrified, he fled. He was
caught a year later when he came home to his mother and remained in detention
thereafter.

Immigrant rights activists were outraged by Herbert's case. A state parole board
unanimously recommended clemency, which Ohio Gov. Bob Taft (R) rejected.
Finally, Herbert decided to stop fighting and return to Brazil. His parents,
Nancy Saunders and Jim Herbert, struggling with anger and grief and guilt over
the consequences of their inaction years ago, supported the decision. Herbert's
limbo status could have kept him in jail as an immigrant detainee indefinitely.
He said he felt his life slipping away.

And so, days after a 20-minute goodbye visit with his parents--"20 minutes for
14 years," Herbert fumed last week--he flew back to Brazil on travel documents
provided by the embassy in Washington.

If he worried that Brazilians would reject him, those fears fell away
immediately upon his arrival. On the subway, passengers waved at him. On the
street, passersby wished him good luck. One 22-year-old woman walked a mile
through pelting rain to deliver a "welcome to Brazil" letter to the Arsenal of
Hope homeless shelter, where the embassy in Washington had arranged for him to
spend his first weekend. A couple sent him flowers. A Rio de Janeiro man offered
him a place to live.

People here were forgiving. "What he did was wrong, but I was a schoolteacher
for 30 years, and I saw so many of my students get into trouble with drugs. It's
an almost irresistible temptation," said Vieira de Moraes, the woman who hugged
Herbert in the street. "Now, he has another chance. It's up to him to make the
right choices."

Soon, however, the attention started to weary him. He was enraged when he awoke
one morning to learn that a newspaper had gone to the orphanage where he had
once lived, obtained a photograph of him as a young boy and published it. "It
was a picture of myself I'd never even seen," he said.

Last Wednesday afternoon, he walked up to a newsstand with Miller, who knew the
manager. After being introduced to Herbert, the manager said, "I've seen you on
TV, haven't I?"

Herbert left quietly. "I don't want to be the center of attention," he said. "I
just want to be out of the way."

As the days passed, he was surprised by how Brazil felt both strange and
familiar. He was taken by the new cars, by the stylish restaurants and the
American fast-food joints, by the well-stocked grocery stores. He kept seeing
well-known brands such as Hellmannn's, Johnson's and Ajax. He kept hearing
American music.

Those comforting moments, however, were juxtaposed against numerous awkward
episodes, the worst of which had to do with his not knowing Portuguese.

Last Tuesday, he walked into a restaurant, and strode up to the counter to
order.

"I'd like a mini-pizza," he said, trying to communicate in halting Spanish.

"We've got plain cheese, or ham and tomato," the waiter behind the counter said
in Portuguese.

"I'll take pepperoni," Herbert said, not having understood the waiter's
response.

The puzzled waiter returned with a ham-and-tomato pizza.

Herbert goes everywhere with his dictionary. The little Spanish he speaks is not
much help, as he has come to realize. When he hears new words in Portuguese, he
tries to repeat them, trying to commit them to memory.

"I feel like Portuguese is way down deep in my brain," he said, "and I've just
got to figure out how to get it out."

His frustration over the language has only compounded his overall anger. He is
angry at what he described as the callousness with which the INS treats
immigrant detainees. He is angry at the U.S. government for crafting the law
that ripped him away from his family.

He takes no comfort in legislation--in part a response to cases such as
his--that now grants automatic citizenship to virtually every foreign-born child
adopted by an American. The law, which will be implemented fully within months,
applies to adoptees under 18.

"I made a mistake, and I'm remorseful for what I did, but I don't think I was
treated fairly," he said. "If the Brazilians did to an American what America did
to me, Americans would be up in arms. . . .

"What am I supposed to do if my father--my father is a paraplegic--if something
happens to him?" he continued, nearly shouting. "What if my mother got sick? I
couldn't go back to see her without going to prison."

His parents fear they may never see their son again, because of the cost and
difficulty of traveling to Brazil.

"I barely had time to give them a hug before I left," Herbert said, tears
spilling down his cheeks. "It hurt, it hurt, it hurt."

People such as Mike Miller hope to help dull that pain. Miller, 42, an easygoing
missionary who leads a small church in Campinas, heard about Herbert when Miller
was in Akron last summer. He was familiar with the restless yearnings of a
teenager living in Middle America; he, too, had gotten into trouble over drugs
as a youth. Miller was also familiar with orphaned Brazilian children: He and
his wife, Deanna, adopted three of them.

The Millers served Herbert his first home-cooked meal in Brazil--barbecued beef,
potato salad, baked beans and iced tea. They showed him around Campinas. They
helped him set up an e-mail address. They shared Thanksgiving dinner with him.

The Millers arranged for Herbert to stay in the spacious home of a Brazilian
couple in the church, Lidia and Donizette Tarifa. They said they did not
hesitate to take him in because they have a 25-year-old son addicted to crack
cocaine who does not live with them.

"We understand the pain," Lidia Tarifa said. "We had to help."

Herbert is still roiled with uncertainty: Where will he find a job? Where will
he go after he leaves the Tarifas at the end of the year? Will he make friends?
How will he adjust to Brazilian ways?

Yet for a few minutes last week, those questions gave way to Thanksgiving, as he
stood up in church and recognized the efforts of the Millers and the Tarifas and
his mother and father and friends in America. As he spoke, Miller's arm looped
over his shoulder, Herbert wept.

A few minutes later, the pastor asked visitors to stand and introduce
themselves. The young man stood up.

"My name is Joao," he said. "I live in Campinas."

They were his first public words in Portuguese.

Levine reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              217 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   November 30, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

HOWARD IN BRIEF

SECTION: HOWARD EXTRA; Pg. M04

LENGTH: 636 words



Redistricting Panel Needs Democrats


The Howard County Democratic Central Committee is looking for registered
Democrats to serve on the Councilmanic Redistricting Commission. The Democratic
Committee will submit three nominations for the commission to the county
council.

Anyone interested in serving is asked to send a resume and letter detailing his
or her interest to Chairman Wendy Fiedler, P.O. Box 1363, Columbia, Md. 21044.
The materials, which should be received by Monday, may also be faxed to
410-313-9355. For more information, call 410-992-8952.


Immigrants' Agency Receives Grant


The Foreign-Born Information and Referral Network (FIRN), a nonprofit
organization dedicated to helping local immigrants and refugees, has won a $
290,000 grant from the Horizon Foundation.

The money will help FIRN update its obsolete data systems and office equipment
so it can better serve Howard's immigrant population, especially with access to
health care, FIRN's executive director Gary Hughes said during a ceremony
announcing the award on Monday.

Wanting a job, good health care, and a home of one's own is not just an American
dream but a human dream, Hughes said. The grant "will make that human dream more
real for all the folks in Howard County."

Immigrants currently comprise nearly ten percent of Howard County's population.

Many face obstacles in getting proper medical care, said Richard Krieg,
president and CEO of the Horizon Foundation, a Columbia-based philanthropy which
has an endowment of $ 74 million.

"This grant . . . will be used to retool FIRN to reach a greater number of
immigrants who are unaware of local health resources," said Krieg. "It will
lower language and cultural barriers to health and social services. It will also
expand the network of service providers intent on reaching this population."


Search Is On for New School Site


Howard school officials still are shopping for land for a new northeast
elementary school after deciding that property near a landfill wouldn't be a
good choice.

Officials hope to be back before the Howard Board of Education early in 2001
with another site for the county's 38th elementary school.

"The school has to be completed in August 2003," said Sydney Cousin, associate
superintendent for finance and operations. "It's doable."

Board of education members unanimously voted last Tuesday to reject a 40-acre
parcel at the intersection of New Cut Road and Hillsborough Road adjacent to the
long-closed New Cut Landfill. The site, jointly owned by the county and Howard
developer Bruce Taylor, drew opposition from parents worried about potential
environmental hazards.

A consultant's study found that a school could be constructed safely and
outfitted with vapor barriers and monitoring devices to address health and
safety concerns. But school officials felt they couldn't overcome the public
perception of danger.

Maurice Kalin, associate superintendent for planning and support services, said
the increasingly arduous task of finding good land for the school will not delay
its opening. "There will be no excuses and no exceptions," he said.


Workshop on Road Improvements


The county Department of Public Works will hold a drop-in workshop about
proposed improvements to the intersection of Brighton Dam and Ten Oaks roads, in
western Howard. The workshop will be held from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. Dec. 12 in the
Dorsey Building at 9250 Bendix Rd. in Columbia.

Public works officials also will be on hand from 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. to hear
residents' concerns about safety on Hanover Road in northeastern Howard.

Citizens also can look at roadway plans at the Bureau of Engineering, by
appointment during business hours. For more information, call Public Works at
410-313-2014.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              218 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    December 1, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Work Visas Swell Area's Tech Corps; H-1B Program Filling Shortages

Kenneth Bredemeier, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1769 words


To Jorge Castillo, a 33-year-old Mexican national who helps develop emergency
response plans for corporate clients at Science Applications International
Corp., it "may sound so silly," but to him it is true.

He came here, he said, to "pursue the American dream."

"A long time ago I had already decided the economy is much more dynamic,"
Castillo said. "There's a lot more opportunity here, more upward mobility."

He's trilingual (Spanish, English and Portuguese), educated (a master's degree
in foreign service from Georgetown University), and also symbolic of a growing
trend in the Washington area economy: He's an immigrant here on an H-1B work
visa.

About 425,000 foreign nationals, all required to have at least a bachelor's
degree, are scattered at companies and universities throughout the country,
where they are allowed to work for up to six years--and permanently, if they
also secure green cards as resident aliens. No one knows with certainty how many
of the H-1B visa holders have settled in the Washington area, but they have
helped swell the ranks of the high-tech companies that have transformed the
region in the past decade from one that was once totally dominated by the
federal government.

The area is quite possibly second only to Silicon Valley in California as a
magnet for the prized H-1B workers, according to academics and corporate
officials who have followed the local hirings.

Now, with the recent congressional passage of legislation that will increase the
maximum number of such visas granted each year from the old figure of 115,000 to
195,000 in the next three years, the overall number of such foreign nationals in
the United States is likely to grow to 710,000 by 2003, with many of the workers
moving to the Washington area.

Already there are visa holders here like Thomas Kramer, a 30-year-old Norwegian
who has a master's degree in economics from the Norwegian School of Economics
and an MBA from Harvard Business School. He is vice president for strategy at
Cvent.com, an online event-planning firm in Arlington.

"A number of smart dot-coms have embraced the H-1Bs and help you get one,"
Kramer said. "I'm part of senior management and getting a lot of fulfillment out
of what I do.

"I could do very well in Norway," he said, but "it was too tempting for me to
not take the professional opportunity [to work in the United States]. Business
is much harsher here. If you can make it here, you can make it anywhere."

Naveen Hanumansetty, a 26-year-old Indian emigre who is a software engineer for
EDS Corp. in Reston, said he, too, came to the United States for the business
challenge, as well as for the prospect of making more money than he could in
India.

He said that just a couple years ago he was making $ 400 a month in India; now,
while declining to divulge his salary here, he said he is earning enough to be
able to send $ 500 a month home to his parents after taking care of his living
expenses.

"It was not difficult" to decide to move to America, Hanumansetty said, "because
I was looking for this kind of opportunity so I could build my future. So I
thought staying away from my family for a couple years was not difficult."

The technology firms that have sprouted here and elsewhere have eagerly embraced
the H-1B visa program as a lifeline to fill some of the thousands of available
job openings they have that require highly skilled personnel.

"We believe it's very important to maintain the competitiveness of the U.S.
[technology] industry," said Harris Miller, president of the Information
Technology Association of America. "The H-1B program is not the overall solution
[to the shortage of technology workers], but it is a very helpful Band-Aid. We
need to train hundreds of thousands of U.S. workers to have the appropriate
skills" to make firms less dependent on foreign workers.

Reggie Aggarwal, the 31-year-old chief executive of Cvent, said that in addition
to Kramer, he has hired seven other immigrants with H-1B visas as part of the
firm's 100-member staff. Three are from India (the single biggest country of
origin, with 42 percent of the national total of H-1B visas last year) and one
each from Korea, China, Russia and Nigeria.

"We need H-1Bs because there is such a shortage" of highly skilled tech workers,
Aggarwal said. "They have a lot of bright talent. If they move here it shows
they're ambitious. They work long hours. The great thing about the new economy
is that it's such a meritocracy. No one cares where you're from."

Stephen Moore, an economist with the Cato Institute, the libertarian think tank,
said the H-1B program "is almost a no-brainer."

"This is something that is very beneficial to the United States. If anyone
should be complaining, it's the countries from which the immigrants come. It's a
way to get some of the best and brightest around the world to come here," Moore
said.

"The bottom line is that the human capital is greater than the amount of foreign
aid we send to all the countries in the world. It's a kind of reverse foreign
aid."

The arguments of Miller and others in the tech industry--along with their
contributions to various Republican and Democratic campaign
committees--certainly held sway in October on Capitol Hill as both the House, on
a voice vote, and Senate, on a 96 to 1 vote, overwhelmingly accepted the
contention that a sharp increase in the number of H-1B visas was needed to help
fill some of the 846,000 tech jobs the industry says are currently vacant in the
United States, 23,000 of them in Northern Virginia.

Of course, opening the door to more immigrant workers does not sit well with
some Americans, especially older tech workers who have generally found it hard
to find jobs at companies where operations are based on the use of the latest
software. It was a fact acknowledged by Rep. Thomas M. Davis III, a Northern
Virginia Republican who was one of the original sponsors of the legislation.

"This bill may not be popular with the public," Davis said as the bill was being
debated this spring, "but it's popular with the CEOs."

Another sponsor of the measure, Sen. Robert F. Bennett (R-Utah), said as the
measure cleared Congress: "Once it's clear [the visa measure] is going to get
through, everybody signs up so nobody can be in the position of being accused of
being against high tech. There were, in fact, a whole lot of folks against it,
but because they are tapping the high-tech community for campaign contributions,
they don't want to admit that in public."

The extent to which there is a shortage of tech workers, and therefore
justification for the H-1B program, is also a matter of substantial debate.
While the pages of newspapers are filled with want ads for tech workers, those
without the precise skills companies want often find the door closed to them.

One sharp critic of the H-1B program is Norman S. Matloff, a professor of
computer science at the University of California at Davis, who says the H-1B
program is unjustified.

"Their low hiring rates show they're not desperate. Most of them are trying to
save money. They don't want to hire the older workers who are perceived to cost
more," Matloff said.

"There's the perception older workers won't be able to put in the longer hours
that are required," he added.

B. Lindsay Lowell, a demographer at Georgetown University, said there are "spot
shortages in the information technology industry" and "it's not clear that it's
as big a deal as it's been made out to be."

Miller, of the technology trade group, said it is absurd to think that tech
companies intentionally shun workers looking for jobs, citing Department of
Labor statistics that show very low unemployment rates--around 2 percent--for
computer scientists, analysts and programmers.

Matloff and others have also decried what they perceive as "de facto indentured
servitude" in the rules of the H-1B program. Workers must be sponsored by a
company in order to get a visa and reapply through a new firm if they want to
switch jobs in order to stay in the United States. Moreover, if the workers want
to stay in the United States beyond the six-year limit of the program, they need
their firm to support their application for the coveted green cards that give
them permanent resident status.

Aggarwal, who heads the area's Indian CEO High Tech Council, readily
acknowledged that the H-1B visa holders "tend to be more beholden to a company."

"They tend to be more dependent on the culture of the company," he said. "If
they just moved here, they tend to bond with those they work with. There are
some companies that make the mistake of paying them less. They'll leave. You
treat them like the others, you're more likely to keep them."

The need for a green card also engenders company loyalty, Aggarwal said. "That's
a pretty big thing that makes them stay."

Anxiety over the two- to three-year pursuit of a green card is rampant among
H-1B visa holders, although the legislation signed recently by President Clinton
will allow an H-1B visa holder to stay in the United States beyond the normal
six-year limit if an application for a green card has not yet been decided.
Previously, those without green cards had to leave the country when their H-1Bs
expired.

H-1B visa holders like Hanumansetty at EDS know they should start their bids for
green cards sooner rather than later.

"I asked my manager to start the process," Hanumansetty said. "I've not made up
my mind whether I want to stay or go back. But for some reason if I want to
stay, you try to get it started."

Another EDS H-1B visa holder, Rajesh Kempasagara, 29, said he was "pretty much
happy back there" in his native India and still misses his family. He has two
years left on his visa, and he said he in no way feels handcuffed to EDS.
Rather, new work responsibilities have made him loyal to the company.

"I like what I do," he said. "I have managers who treat me well."

He, too, has applied for a greed card.

Castillo at SAIC said he thinks he is close to receiving his green card but
still must undergo an interview at a U.S. consulate office in Mexico on an
undetermined date.

"My reading is this is a formality," he said. "My hope is this is a formality.
But there is a high degree of anxiety on my part. There still is subjectiveness.
It's my own personal paranoia playing with me.

"I've met all the requirements," Castillo said. "I'm hoping it will be a
Christmas present." Where They End Up (This chart was not available) The New
Arrivals (This chart was not available)


LOAD-DATE: December 01, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post; Chart, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              219 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    December 3, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Why Aren't More Hispanics Going to College?

Linda Chavez

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 844 words


When it comes to a strong work ethic and devotion to family, Hispanics rank
second to none. They exhibit among the highest labor force participation rates
of any group and are more likely than other Americans to live in married,
two-parent households with children. But these solid values may not be enough to
guarantee Hispanics' success in the United States. Indeed, as surprising as it
may seem, these very virtues may be holding back young Latinos by encouraging
them to sacrifice higher education and personal advancement in order to help
their families.

Young, U.S.-born Hispanics are far more likely than either blacks or whites to
get jobs when they graduate from high school, rather than attend college. And a
majority of young Latino immigrants forgo school for work even without earning
high school diplomas, a particularly vexing problem since immigrants now
outnumber those born in the United States among the adult Hispanic population.

According to a recent study by the U.S. Census Bureau, some 80 percent of 25- to
44-year-old native-born Hispanics have graduated from high school. But while 44
percent of young, native-born Latinos have attended college, only 13 percent
have graduated. The numbers for Hispanic immigrants are much worse. Fewer than
half of foreign-born Hispanics between the ages of 25 and 44 have graduated from
high school; less than one-quarter have attended college; and only 9 percent
have earned a bachelor's degree or higher. By contrast, some 48 percent of young
blacks and nearly 60 percent of young whites have at least some college
education, with 17 percent of blacks and nearly one-third of young whites having
earned a four-year or advanced degree.

At a time when a college education has become an entry-level credential for most
middle-class jobs, Hispanics' lower education levels will mean substantially
lower lifetime earnings. The median yearly earnings for a full-time worker with
a high school degree were about $ 23,500 in 1998, compared with $ 43,700 for
college graduates. Yet despite the obvious advantages of continuing their
education, too many young Latinos opt instead to enter the work force with less
than ideal preparation.

So why aren't more Hispanics going to college? The easy answer--one advanced by
most Hispanic advocacy organizations--is that they can't afford it. But at a
time when financial aid is widely available and when similarly disadvantaged
minorities, such as blacks, are attending college in higher numbers, this
explanation doesn't suffice. Hispanics' decision not to continue their education
is more likely a voluntary and conscious one, which reflects a value system that
places a priority on family advancement, even at the expense of individual
achievement.

Hispanic families are more likely than either black or white families to depend
on pooled resources of several working family members, including adult children
living in the same household as their parents and younger siblings. California
researcher Gregory Rodriguez has done groundbreaking analyses of Latino income
that show, for example, that when you examine household rather than individual
income as a variable, Latinos appear to be doing well. Indeed, in several
studies of Latinos living in Southern California, Rodriguez has shown that about
half of the U.S.-born Latino families are middle-class, defined by household
income and home ownership.

But these findings also suggest that Hispanic families may be accomplishing
greater immediate economic success by jeopardizing future economic security.
Investment in education means sacrifices in other areas, especially for families
barely able to maintain their hold on a middle-class lifestyle. It also may mean
the loss of household income from young adult family members who could be
working but instead are furthering their own education, which can have serious
consequences for the overall economic status of family units that depend on
multiple earners.

Hispanics are hardly the first group to face this dilemma. Italian Americans,
for example, followed a similar path into the middle class. Indeed, it took
Italian Americans, as a group, until 1972, some 60 years after the peak of
Italian immigration, before they caught up with other Americans in median
education attainment. Nevertheless, it is important that Hispanic families
realize that the choices they make to get ahead today, which may seem justified
by the economic challenges they face, will make it more difficult for Hispanics
to achieve a solid foothold in the middle class.

For many Hispanic families, the cost of higher education may mean deferring the
dream of owning a home or incurring more debt to finance college tuition and
books. But these investments in education pay off over time--and without them,
Hispanics will not be able to advance beyond their current lower-middle-class
status.


The writer is president of the Center for Equal Opportunity and author of "Out
of the Barrio: Toward a New Politics of Hispanic Assimilation."



LOAD-DATE: December 03, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              220 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  December 13, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Reno Blocks Release of Palestinian Held 3 Years

Dan Eggen; David A. Vise , Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 974 words



Attorney General Janet Reno yesterday took the unusual step of blocking the
release of a former Florida university professor who has been jailed for more
than three years without criminal charges or a chance to see the evidence used
against him.

As Mazen A. Al-Najjar prepared to be reunited yesterday morning with his wife
and three children at the Manatee County Detention Center in Bradenton, Fla.,
Reno intervened in the final moments, extending Al-Najjar's incarceration until
at least Friday so she can "personally review" his release.

The Justice Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service allege
that Al-Najjar, 43, a Palestinian, has ties to the Syrian-based Palestinian
Islamic Jihad, which has claimed responsibility for terrorist attacks in Israel
and other parts of the Mideast.

He was teaching Arabic at the University of South Florida in Tampa when his visa
expired in 1997. He was ordered deported, then jailed without being charged
after INS attorneys presented secret evidence to an immigration judge which
allegedly showed that Al-Najjar had ties to the terrorist group.

Much of the government's case has remained hidden as "secret evidence" which,
under the 1996 Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, can be used by
the INS to detain people in deportation proceedings on the basis of information
that is never disclosed to detainees or their attorneys.

Proponents argue that the use of secret evidence is vital in some cases to fight
terrorists while keeping classified information properly protected.

But critics say the practice, which has been used more often since terrorist
bombings in New York and Oklahoma City, is fundamentally unfair and
unconstitutional, forcing suspects to languish in jail cells for years without
due process rights.

The National Coalition to Protect Political Freedom, a group opposed to the use
of secret evidence, says that more than 20 immigrants have been detained in such
cases over the last few years. INS officials said yesterday that only two men,
Al-Najjar and one other, remain in jail, with nine cases involving secret
evidence pending.

"This man has been held illegally and unconstitutionally for over 1,300 days
already, and even one day more is an outrage," said Rep. David E. Bonior
(D-Mich.), who has offered legislation to outlaw secret evidence cases and was
in Bradenton yesterday to greet Al-Najjar.

"We are bitterly disappointed in the timing of this decision," Bonior said. "The
guards had even taken his clothes up to him."

Reno's decision to block Al-Najjar's release comes less than a week after she
decided to allow the conditional release of another man, Anwar Haddam, an exiled
Algerian who had been jailed in Virginia for four years.

The Justice Department's Board of Immigration Appeals, which reviews decisions
of immigration judges, decided that the classified evidence against Haddam did
not support the accusation that he was a terrorist.

U.S. District Judge Joan Lenard ruled in Miami last May that Al-Najjar must be
told enough about the evidence against him to have a fair chance at responding.
Last week, Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh ordered Al-Najjar freed on $ 8,000
bond after he determined that the INS had not met that requirement in subsequent
court hearings.

But Reno, whose office oversees the INS and its immigration courts, has the
power to effectively overrule the judge and the immigration appeals board and
order Al-Najjar held. The appeals board had cleared the way for Al-Najjar's
release Monday by dropping a request for delay. Reno said in a written order
that she was halting the release at the request of the INS.

David D. Cole, a Georgetown University law professor who has led Al-Najjar's
defense team, said yesterday that the case underscores the inordinate amount of
power given to the attorney general and the INS in immigration cases. Cole said
Reno has intervened only once before at such a late stage in a secret evidence
case, and that attorneys general have reversed the immigration appeals board
just 20 times in 35 years, usually in cases involving broad questions of
immigration policy.

"This is a very extraordinary power that the attorney general has here," Cole
said. "The INS prosecutors, if they lose their case before all the immigration
judges, get to go to the chief prosecutor and ask her to overturn all the
judges. For the attorney general to step in and say, 'I'm going to overturn four
judges for this one person,' that would be unprecedented."

Kit Gage, national coordinator of the coalition opposed to secret evidence, also
said she was "baffled" that Reno would need to review a case that she has
studied in detail.

But INS spokeswoman Maria Cardona said Reno's decision is "absolutely within her
purview," adding that Justice Department and INS officials continue to view
Al-Najjar as a threat to national security.

In public proceedings, INS attorneys have pointed to Al-Najjar's links to two
groups they say helped launder money for Islamic Jihad. Federal agents say one
of those groups, the now-defunct World and Islam Studies Enterprise, based in
Tampa, employed Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, who assumed leadership of the terror
group in 1995.

Al-Najjar has denied any connection to terrorists, and his case has garnered
support from lawmakers and civil rights groups campaigning against the use of
secret evidence.

Even if Al-Najjar is freed, he and his wife, Fedaa, face deportation hearings.
The Palestinian couple say they have nowhere to go, and argue they should not be
deported in part because their three daughters are U.S. citizens.

"We're very disappointed," Sami Al-Arian, Al-Najjar's brother-in-law, told the
Reuters News Service after Reno intervened. "They've been fighting this every
step of the way."


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              221 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  December 13, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

FINDINGS

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 503 words


Mini-Stroke: Peril Ahead


Mini-strokes that involve brief lapses in blood flow to the brain may be a
bigger danger sign than previously thought.

Physicians have long known that mini-strokes, or transient ischemic attacks
(TIA), can be an early warning of a full-blown stroke. But new research suggests
the danger may be much more imminent than they believed.

S. Claiborne Johnston of the University of California at San Francisco and
colleagues studied 1,707 patients age 72 on average who were diagnosed with TIAs
at 16 emergency rooms in the San Francisco area, Sacramento and Santa Rosa,
Calif.

One hundred and eighty patients had strokes within three months of a TIA, a 10.5
percent rate that was in line with previous research. But half of the strokes
happened within just two days of the initial attack, the researchers reported in
today's Journal of the American Medical Association.


TB Linked to Immigrants


Immigrants account for more than 40 percent of all tuberculosis cases in the
United States, suggesting that government efforts to eliminate TB should focus
on foreigners, researchers reported.

The nation's overall tuberculosis rate last year dropped to an all-time low,
17,531 active cases.

Active cases among immigrants climbed 2.6 percent, from 7,402 in 1993 to 7,591
in 1998, researchers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
reported in today's Journal of the American Medical Association.

During that time, the proportion of U.S. cases involving immigrants increased
from about 30 to 41.6 percent. At that pace, it will exceed 50 percent by 2002,
the researchers said.

Most cases were found in people from Mexico, the Philippines, Vietnam, China,
India, Haiti and South Korea, countries where TB is prevalent.


Caffeine and Cancer


Caffeine and nicotine are not a particularly healthy combination but Spanish
scientists said yesterday that drinking coffee may help protect smokers from
developing bladder cancer.

Smoking is the leading risk factor for bladder cancer, which afflicts more than
100,000 people in the United States and Europe each year.

Drinking coffee is also thought to contribute to the disease, but new research
by scientists in Spain shows smokers who do not drink coffee have a higher
probability of developing bladder cancer.

Gonzalo Lopez-Abente of the Carlos III Health Institute in Madrid and his
colleagues analyzed data from 500 patients with bladder cancer and 1,000 other
patients in 12 Spanish hospitals during a 112-month period. Unlike other similar
studies, they separated coffee drinkers from nondrinkers.

Their results, published in the Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health,
revealed that smokers who drank coffee were three times as likely to develop
bladder cancer as nonsmoking coffee drinkers.

But smokers who didn't drink coffee were seven times as likely to get the
disease as nonsmokers.

The scientists are not sure how the protective effect of coffee would work on
smokers.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              222 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   December 14, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Hispanic Bloc Lobbies For Immigration Deal; Lawmakers Seek More-Inclusive Bill

Dan Morgan; Juliet Eilperin , Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 922 words


The 17 House Democrats who make up the Congressional Hispanic Caucus can hardly
be counted as one of the big blocs in the 435-member House of Representatives.

But as President Clinton and congressional leaders come down to the wire on
negotiations over the legal status of hundreds of thousands of Latino
immigrants, the caucus has been asserting its influence as the main
congressional mouthpiece for a rapidly growing and influential U.S. voting
group.

In a recent meeting with top White House officials on Capitol Hill, caucus
members held the administration's feet to the fire on its pledge to back
legislation enabling three separate groups of immigrants and refugees to become
permanent legal residents.

Although the president has stated he will veto a pending appropriations bill
unless it includes the provisions, some Hispanic lawmakers voiced fears that the
White House would compromise too much on the immigration issue as part of a
broader budget deal with Republicans to adjourn the lame-duck 106th Congress.

"Time is getting so late," said Rep. Jose E. Serrano (N.Y.), the top Democrat on
the Appropriations subcommittee that has been grappling with the immigration
provisions. "The negotiations are not as focused on all or nothing, the way they
were before the election."

Many Republicans acknowledge that their handling of the issue could affect the
GOP's standing in a community that is already skeptical of the party.
President-elect Bush has tried to cultivate closer ties with Hispanics, although
exit polls conducted by Voter News Service on Nov. 7 indicated Hispanic voters
favored Vice President Gore by 62 percent to 35 percent.

The legislation, called the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act, would set up
procedures for granting legal status to thousands of immigrants who came to the
United States illegally before 1982. It also would encompass 300,000 refugees
who fled wars and right-wing dictatorships in Haiti, El Salvador, Honduras,
Guatemala and Liberia, and an unknown number of people who came to the United
States to join close relatives.

Republicans have been pushing less-inclusive legislation drafted by Senate
Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah). Under a deal being worked
out yesterday, the attorney general would get authority to decide the cases of
immigrants who came to the United States before 1982 but missed out on amnesty
in 1986.

In addition, spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens and legal permanent
residents could be reunited with their families and work in the United States if
they had been awaiting visas for more than three years. The deal would also
temporarily apply to some other categories of relatives seeking residence
status, but not after March 2001. No provisions were being made for Liberian and
Central American refugees.

According to the National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil rights group, the
deal taking shape would help fewer than 400,000 people, half the number aided
under the president's plan. "People are furious at the Republican leadership,"
said council vice president Cecilia Munoz.

Republicans, including Latinos such as Texas Rep. Henry Bonilla, insist that the
Hispanic Caucus's efforts have little impact on congressional leaders.

"The Hispanic Caucus is now made up of a lot of people on the left. They try to
start a fire with it. They want to try to paint the Republican leadership as
anti-Hispanic," Bonilla said. "This is not a widespread Hispanic issue out in
the heartland."

Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.) warned this week that he would try to block any bill
that provides what he called a "rolling amnesty" that could legalize immigrants
who came here after 1982. Similarly, he said, he opposes any easing of a 1996
law that requires deportation of illegal immigrants convicted of felonies.

"My message to the White House is that we are not going to grant blanket
amnesty. The bill is not going to pass," he said.

A White House official denied that the administration was proposing any new
amnesties. The administration favors changes in the 1996 deportation law, but
only by easing injustices caused by its implementation, the official said.

Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.), who chairs his party's campaign arm and
represents a Northern Virginia district with a heavy immigrant population, said
he believes Republicans could reap some political benefits from supporting
amnesty.

"This is an opportunity to get some people we missed the first time, to show
we're not anti-immigrant," Davis said.

Alejandro Perez, executive director of the Hispanic Caucus, said the group
considers itself bipartisan even though the only two Republican members, both
Cuban Americans, withdrew several years ago. The Cuban issue is so divisive that
the caucus does not take a stand on it, he said.

Immigration is an issue around which the members, including four Puerto Ricans,
one Cuban American and 12 Mexican Americans, can unite more easily.

"We feel we've already given up a lot here," said Chief Deputy Minority Whip
Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), the highest-ranking Hispanic among House Democrats.
The caucus, he noted, recently agreed to support a GOP priority: an increase in
visas for high-tech workers, benefiting mainly immigrants from India and China
employed by New Economy companies.

If there is no deal now, Menendez said, "Republicans will have to respond to the
[Hispanic] community as to why they are willing to do immigration fixes for
business but not for families."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              223 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  December 20, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Asylum Seeker Is Impostor, INS Says; Woman's Plea Had Powerful Support

William Branigin; Douglas Farah , Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1991 words


As the young West African woman languished for two years in an immigration jail
in New York, all she had was her story. She said her name was Adelaide Abankwah
and that she needed asylum in the United States because, back home in Ghana, she
had been chosen "queen mother" of her tribe. If forced to return, she claimed,
her people would discover she was not a virgin, as tradition demanded, and would
subject her to painful genital mutilation.

The story shocked many who heard it. Feminists and human rights activists
rallied to her cause, drawing extensive media coverage and support from
celebrities and politicians. Among the famous and influential who sympathized
with her were Gloria Steinem, actresses Julia Roberts and Vanessa Redgrave,
members of Congress and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton. After judges twice
ruled against her, she was released from detention last year and won asylum from
a federal appeals court.

But an Immigration and Naturalization Service investigation has concluded that
the story is a fabrication and the woman an impostor, according to INS officials
and documents. The confidential INS inquiry--and separately, The Washington
Post--found that the woman claiming to be Adelaide Abankwah is actually a
31-year-old former Ghanaian hotel worker named Regina Norman Danson. In an
interview, Danson acknowledged her identity but stood by other parts of her
story.

Armed with documents collected in Ghana, INS investigators recommended more than
a year ago that Danson be prosecuted on a fraud charge. The case was referred to
the U.S. attorney's office in New York, but, according to U.S. officials
familiar with the case, the Justice Department has been reluctant to proceed for
fear of embarrassing politicians and top administration officials who weighed in
on Danson's behalf. The U.S. attorney's office declined to comment.

With a forged passport, an innocent demeanor and her startling tale, Danson
managed to exploit the weaknesses inherent in U.S. asylum policy. That policy is
designed to accommodate people fleeing political persecution abroad, often with
false documents or no papers at all. Over the years, it has allowed thousands of
genuine refugees to start new lives here, but it is vulnerable to abuse by
people whose stories are difficult, if not impossible, to verify.

While Danson has found a job and is awaiting a green card that would make her a
legal permanent resident, another young Ghanaian--whose passport Danson used and
identity she assumed--has been living a furtive life in Germantown, Md. The real
Adelaide Abankwah, a former college student whose passport was stolen in Ghana
four years ago, has been afraid to come forward until now, living in fear of
deportation because of her own immigration problems unrelated to Danson's. She
objects to Danson's use of her identity.

"I feel like I'm being buried alive," Abankwah, 27, said in an interview. "I
still want my name. . . . I refuse to let her [Danson] take that name."

When Danson arrived at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport on March
29, 1997, immigration inspectors saw at once that the passport identifying her
as Adelaide Abankwah had been altered and moved immediately to deport her. When
she expressed fear of returning to Ghana, she was sent to a detention facility
in Queens to await an asylum hearing.

Appearing before an immigration judge six months later, she told a tale of
persecution at the hands of unnamed tribal elders in her village, Biriwa, about
80 miles west of Ghana's capital, Accra. She testified that her mother had died
in July 1996, leaving her to inherit the position of "queen mother" of her
tribe. She said tradition required the new queen mother to remain a virgin until
she took office but that she had already had a sexual relationship.

When the truth was discovered, she said, she would be forced to undergo a
cutting of the clitoris and labia, sometimes called female circumcision. She
said she also would be punished if she refused to accept her selection as queen
mother.

Judge Donn Livingston rejected the asylum claim, noting that Ghana had outlawed
female genital mutilation in 1994 and that reportedly it was not practiced in
the woman's home region. Her fear of returning to Ghana, he concluded, was not
reasonable. The judge also remarked that "there appears to be some question as
to the applicant's identity."

In July 1998, the Board of Immigration Appeals upheld Livingston's decision. But
feminist groups and politicians had learned of the case and began denouncing her
detention. Sen. Charles E. Schumer and Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney, both New York
Democrats, visited the woman they knew as Adelaide Abankwah at the detention
center and wrote letters to Attorney General Janet Reno to support her asylum
request. The women's rights group Equality Now lobbied the INS, the Justice
Department and the White House in a "Free Adelaide" campaign.

Hillary Rodham Clinton "was very helpful in ensuring that INS was aware of the
case at the highest level," said Jessica Neuwirth, president of Equality Now. A
spokeswoman for Clinton said recently that "the first lady followed the case
very closely" at the time and passed information on it to the National Security
Council. Clinton then "welcomed the ultimate outcome [the asylum grant], but she
really did not believe it was appropriate to inject herself into the immigration
service's ongoing process," the spokeswoman said.

However, according to three INS officials who spoke on condition of anonymity,
higher-ups in the agency made it clear that Clinton sympathized with the asylum
seeker and that top administration officials wanted the woman released to end
criticism of the government over the matter.

The INS district office in New York was told that "the White House wants you to
release her, so they released her," one agency insider said. In failing to
defend the INS's handling of the case, the administration "has been willing to
allow people working in the field to look terrible to avoid political
embarrassment," he said.

In July 1999, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the
Board of Immigration Appeals, saying the board had been "too exacting both in
the quantity and quality of evidence that it required." The opinion did not
mention doubts about the woman's identity.

But those doubts continued to rankle the INS. Suspecting that the asylum seeker
was lying, the INS district office in New York launched a rare investigation
into her background. After three months of inquiries, a half-dozen agency
investigators assembled what one called "overwhelming evidence" of fraud. Agents
in Ghana interviewed the parents of the real Adelaide Abankwah, took statements
from tribal leaders and villagers and collected school, employment and other
records on both women. An INS report dated Aug. 20, 1999, which later was shown
to The Washington Post, stated the agents' conclusion: The woman in New York was
an "impostor" whose "real identity is now established to be Regina Norman
Danson."

Among documents the INS found was a 1996 marriage certificate, contradicting
Danson's claim--central to her case--that she has never been married. In one
affidavit, a cousin of Danson's says she was never "selected to be a queen
mother" and had no problems with authorities in Biriwa. Furthermore, Danson's
mother, Esi Esson, was not a tribal queen who had died, another INS report said.
Ghanaian police found her in June this year buying fish at Biriwa Beach, and she
picked out her daughter from a photo spread, it said.

In Biriwa, a warren of mostly mud-walled, tin-roofed shacks that straddles
Ghana's coastal highway, neither local residents nor record-keepers recall
anyone named Adelaide Abankwah. But some remember Regina Danson--a quiet worker
at a local hotel who had little education or prospects yet seemed eager to
escape Biriwa's poverty.

At the Biriwa Beach Hotel, run by a German family, Claudia Kleinebudde, the
manager, produced photos and employment records of Danson. "She was a cook and
was a good worker," Kleinebudde said.

Danson had never been called Adelaide Abankwah, was not the daughter of any
queen mother and never faced genital mutilation, Kleinebudde said. "Her whole
story is a complete lie," she said. "Her name is Regina, and she left because
she wanted to go to the United States."

At the Central House of Chiefs, a ramshackle building just east of Biriwa where
records of the region's chiefdoms are kept, dusty files also contradicted the
tale told in New York courts. Registrar Isaac Dadzie-Mensah said Danson was
never eligible to be a queen mother since "she is not from the royal family."

At his house in Biriwa, local chief Nana Kwa Bonko V said a woman who is still
alive, Nana Ama Osei II, served as queen mother from 1990 to 1993 and that the
position has remained vacant since. Before her, he said, there had been no queen
mother in Biriwa for 70 years.

Sitting in a receiving room stuffed with furniture, Bonko said that female
circumcision plays no role in his tribe's tradition and that there is no
punishment for rejecting nomination as a queen mother.

Thousands of miles from her village, Danson sat in a New York City coffee shop
recently and parried questions about her identity. She admitted that Regina
Norman Danson was her original name but denied having lied about her identity in
court.

Asked by Judge Livingston three years ago whether she had ever used any other
name, she testified that her mother had named her "Kukwa Norman." Kukwa is a
nickname.

She also asserted that the name Adelaide Abankwah was legitimately hers because
her great-grandfather had been named Abankwah and she was called "Adelaide" in
school.

Told this fall that her school, employment and other records identify her only
as Regina Norman Danson, she said that she began using "Adelaide Abankwah" after
leaving her hotel job in Biriwa and moving to Accra. She produced an affidavit
from a man she said was her uncle to support her other claims.

Speaking hesitant English in a soft, girlish voice, Danson disputed Bonko's
refutation of her story. Informed that police reportedly had found her mother
alive in Biriwa, her eyes widened and she fell silent. After a lengthy pause,
she reaffirmed her story. Her mother had "started complaining that something was
wrong" with the back of her neck in 1996 and died soon afterward, Danson said.
She declined to discuss the matter further.

Danson now works selling French beauty products in a store while studying for
her high school equivalency diploma. She said she eventually hopes to go to
college and become a lawyer.

In Washington, the real Adelaide Abankwah, the daughter of a well-to-do Accra
businessman, said she does not know how Danson wound up with her passport.
Abankwah said she came to the United States in 1994 and got a student visa the
following year.

When her passport was about to expire in 1996, she said, she sent it to her
father in Ghana to have it renewed, but her father told her it was stolen from
his car in Accra. Eventually, he sent her a new one, Abankwah said.

Abankwah later dropped out of college and lost her student status. In March
1998, she received a letter from the INS ordering her to leave the country.
After fleeing briefly to Canada, she returned illegally to the United States
last year but fretted that the INS would find her and felt helpless to expose
the misuse of her name, she said. Abankwah recently began cooperating with the
U.S. attorney's office in New York in hopes of legalizing her status.

"I have no life, I have no life," Abankwah said, sobbing. "Friends of mine have
graduated from college, and I'm still sitting at home and I can't do anything. .
. . I want to go back to school. I want to be able to work. I want to have a
life."



Farah reported from Biriwa, Ghana.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              224 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   December 21, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Headed Home With Bounty of A New Life; Immigrants Generous To Family, Friends

Manuel Roig-Franzia, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 839 words


The cargo hold of the big jet bound for Central America gapes outside the
terminal at Dulles International Airport as the massive packages and mounds of
luggage pile up in front of the ticket counter inside.

To airport baggage handlers, the boxes and bags bound for Central America can be
measured in tons. To many of the passengers who struggle under their burden, the
baggage is something of a different measure.

Going home for the holidays is a particularly poignant trip for many among the
tens of thousands of people who left their Third World countries in hope of
finding opportunity in the Washington region.

To Hector Hernandez--who brought cardboard boxes bulging with presents to
Dulles--the gifts he is carrying home are a tangible reminder that it was all
worth it: the long, risky trip from his native Honduras to the United States
without immigration papers; the nervous wait for the amnesty documents that gave
him legal status; the low-paying dishwashing job he held until being promoted to
cook at a Rockville restaurant.

He can serve up evidence of that success when he and his brother, Javier
Hernandez, arrive for Christmas in La Ceiba, a beach city on the Caribbean coast
of Honduras. The proof is in the boxes that they can now afford to fill with
everything from dolls and frilly dresses for Hector's two young daughters, who
live with his ex-wife in Honduras, to a fancy air compressor for other
relatives.

"These are all given with heartfelt feelings and will be received with heartfelt
feelings," Javier Hernandez, 27, says in Spanish. "We Hispanics are always
motivated first by our families--that is the most important thing."

Like tens of thousands of Central American immigrants in airports across the
country, the brothers are participating in an annual rite. Laden with gifts,
they return each year to family and friends. The gifts represent more than the
consumer side of Christmas to the brothers. The jammed suitcases are the
manifestation of a homespun sense of civic and family responsibility that
prompts them to share with the people they left behind. The cargo is also a sign
that they are making a go of it in a country where many of their friends aspire
to live.

The Hernandez brothers say they are overwhelmed with pride as they watch a
porter push a metal cart overflowing with their suitcases and topped with a
long, wide box holding a brand new Huffy 10-speed bike for their 10-year-old
brother, Eli.

Hector Hernandez twice repeats the Spanish word for pride--orgullo, pronounced
or-GOO-yo. It is the kind of melodic word that a speaker can stretch out
gracefully, and Hernandez lingers on the final syllable with satisfaction.

All around the brothers, similar carts are flowing toward the check-in counter
at TACA Airlines, a Salvadoran carrier that shuttles passengers to El Salvador,
Guatemala, Panama, Honduras and Nicaragua.

Throughout the week, passengers have been packing and unpacking boxes while
waiting in line at the TACA counter. A few have arrived with huge boxes and
suitcases bound in electrical tape only to discover that their luggage is too
large to carry on the plane. Hurriedly, they try to split the contents into
smaller pieces of luggage or duffel bags. Otherwise, they'll have to pay a cargo
fee to ship the television sets and stereos that they can buy in the United
States for one-third the price they would pay in Central America.

"I was trying to be economical, but now it's not worth it," says Carmen
Matamoros, 34.

Matamoros, a Delaware Technical and Community College student, decides to take $
100 in cash for her relatives, rather than pay the same amount to ship her
suitcase in the plane's cargo hold.

A few feet away, brothers Henry Lopez and Raul Mendoza have the same problem.
For 17 years, they have been pooling money each Christmas with a third brother,
Manuel Lopez, to send their mother to San Salvador.

The brothers decide it's worth it to pay the cargo fee for their big blue
suitcase so that their mother, Esther Lopez, can continue her long-standing
tradition of walking through the streets of her old neighborhood and passing out
gifts to any friends she encounters. Hershey's chocolate bars are a favorite,
Esther Lopez says, not to mention the American-style clothing that she sets
aside for her nieces and nephews.

"It gives me such great joy," says Lopez, 60, who worked for years as a
housekeeper and now cares for her grandchildren in Alexandria.

None of Lopez's sons are making the trip this year, but like so many of the
people in line at the TACA counter, they will send money--small, rolled-up wads
of $ 20 bills--to their relatives. Henry Lopez, 31, has returned to El Salvador
only once in the 17 years since he immigrated to Virginia with his mother. But
the memory is vivid.

"You feel like a king over there; they know you have money in your pocket," says
Lopez, who works in construction. "We have a different life here, but I never
forget the family that we left behind."


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              225 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   December 26, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Talking Past the Torture; At Falls Church Clinic, Immigrants From All Over Bear
Marks of Cruelty and Confront the Damage

William Branigin , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2030 words


As Osman Mohamed sat down for his weekly therapy session in a third-floor office
in Falls Church, the sound of a jackhammer outside stopped him cold. To his
therapist, it was merely background noise on busy Route 7, but to Mohamed, a
Somali refugee, it brought back memories of an attack on his home by gunmen who
beat and terrorized him.

For Mohammad Ali, who was tortured in an Afghan prison, the sound of footsteps
outside his apartment or a knock at the door can trigger a panic attack. For
Khassan Baiev, a doctor from Chechnya, the whirring of a helicopter conjures up
terrifying flashbacks of the air raids that ravaged his town and leveled his
hospital.

The three men are among thousands of torture and trauma survivors who have
flooded the Washington region in recent years. Doctors have diagnosed
post-traumatic stress disorder in all three, and they are part of a growing
clientele at the nonprofit Center for Multicultural Human Services, a private
mental health facility in Falls Church.

There, a project called the Program for Survivors of Torture and Severe Trauma,
funded by U.N. and federal grants, offers therapy and other services to refugees
and asylum-seekers, some of whom have endured treatment so horrific they can
barely speak of it.

"The Washington area is teeming with people who have suffered from torture or
severe war trauma," said Judy Okawa, the clinical psychologist who heads the
program. "It's downright frightening how many there are that need our services."

At least half a million torture survivors now reside in the United States, the
Minneapolis-based Center for Victims of Torture estimates. The Washington area
has one of the biggest concentrations--10,000 to 40,000, according to the Falls
Church center.

Since the late 1970s, they have arrived in waves from around the world: first
Southeast Asia, then Central America and the Balkans, now mostly from Africa. As
they create new lives in a new land, most torture victims suffer in silence.
Thousands of other refugees may struggle and prosper here, but torture survivors
often remain prisoners of their wounded psyches.

The Falls Church program, launched two years ago with a $ 30,000 annual
contribution from the United Nations, has served about 200 such refugees from 35
countries. Just since Oct. 1, the center has received 44 referrals; it now has a
waiting list.

This fall, the program was awarded an annual grant of $ 500,000 from the State
Department, part of $ 7.2 million in federal funding for 16 torture treatment
centers nationwide. But the money cannot be spent on administration, so the
Falls Church center needs to raise about $ 50,000 each year to support the
grant.

It also needs more trained mental health workers, Okawa said, plus volunteers to
help clients with transportation and language barriers.


Rising Tide of Torture


The rising caseload reflects what human rights advocates say is a dramatic
increase in torture worldwide. Amnesty International reported in June that the
number of countries using torture increased 23 percent from 1989 to 1999. A
subsequent report said torture occurs in more than 150 countries and is
"widespread" in nearly half. Many victims are women and--increasingly--children.

According to Amnesty, beatings--with fists, sticks, gun butts, whips, iron pipes
and bats--constitute the most common torture method. Others are rape, electric
shocks, suspension of the body, suffocation and mock execution. Victims have
been submerged in water, burned with cigarettes, dragged behind cars and
deprived of sleep.

"The stories are so gruesome. We always think we've heard the worst story, then
something even worse comes along," Okawa said.

"Part of what makes torture still exist in the world is that people don't want
to hear about it," said Ronda A. Bresnick, program coordinator at the center.
The result is what therapists call "a conspiracy of silence."

Several clients from Sudan, Okawa said, have described secret torture centers
known as "houses of ghosts" because many who enter do not come out alive. In
them, dissidents have been beaten while suspended from ceiling fans, she said,
or forced to lie on searing tin roofs and stare into the sun. Common household
tools such as pliers are used to inflict excruciating pain, she said.

Some of the worst accounts involve children: The center now has four child
clients from Africa, one of whom was raped before she was a year old, Okawa
said.

Nearly 80 percent of the women in therapy and half the men have been raped or
sexually tortured, she said. Severe depression is a common reaction; about eight
in 10 people seen at the center are suicidal, Okawa said.


Therapy and Its Toll


Besides listening to clients and talking to them about their fears, the
therapists employ techniques such as art therapy and sand trays to draw out
their feelings. The sand trays are used as settings for small figurines--of
people, animals, buildings and other objects--that clients select and arrange as
they wish. The therapists then encourage the trauma victims to explain their
creations.

Art and sand tray therapy are considered especially effective in treating
children but also can help adults express thoughts and emotions they've
repressed.

Some survivors' accounts are so disturbing that the therapists suffer "secondary
traumatization" themselves, Okawa said. "We have nightmares. We may have
intrusive memories. . . . We may feel the same sense of isolation that the
survivor does, because no one else really understands."

Waking up one Saturday morning, Okawa recalled, she was shocked to see in the
shadows on her ceiling the image of a man strung up by his wrists. "I considered
that a warning sign," she said.

Therapists also have reported that they cry more easily and are more affected by
violence on television. They are encouraged to take time off, but the growing
caseload makes that hard to do, Okawa said.

The ultimate aim of the therapy is to help clients process the experiences that
traumatized them so they can "move on with their lives," Bresnick said.


No Escaping Trouble


Besides their psychic wounds, some refugees are afflicted by the anxiety of
living in legal limbo. One of them is Mohamed, 35, who belonged to a minority
clan in Somalia. In 1991, his home was invaded by gunmen who accused the clan of
treason. They tied Mohamed up with an electrical cord, he said, beat and
tortured him with bayonets, and terrorized his wife and children.

"I felt helpless. They told me, 'If we ever see you here again, you will die.' "

He fled the Somali capital with his family, but his parents, an older brother
and his brother's three children were killed. After eight years in Kenya--first
in a refugee camp and then in Nairobi--he paid a smuggler to get him to the
United States. He sneaked across the border from Mexico in 1999 and applied for
asylum. But his case has dragged on, and he worries about his wife and children,
still illegal immigrants in Kenya.

"They're in hiding, and I'm starving here," said Mohamed, who lives in
Gaithersburg with a Somali family that lets him stay in their basement for now.
"I'm supposed to be a good father and help them, but I can't."

Although he has a university education and speaks four languages, Mohamed lacks
a work permit and fears that getting a job without one would jeopardize his
asylum case, said his therapist, Afshin Nili, who began seeing him in July. He
takes medication for depression but regularly experiences flashbacks, Nili said.
He also frets that he is wearing out his welcome with the Somali family, headed
by a friend of his dead brother. He eats sparingly and sometimes stays at a
nearby mosque.

"He's constantly in a state of anxiety about what happened to him, about his
immigration status, his family and what they are going through right now," Nili
said.

Another of the center's clients, Ali, still breaks down when speaking of his
1986 arrest and torture by Afghan secret police. He was caught working on behalf
of Islamic rebels in Kabul and thrown into a dank cell, where, he said, he was
tortured for 40 days.

After two years in jail, he escaped to Pakistan, and he came to the United
States in 1990, settling in Alexandria. His wife and two daughters joined him
later, but it was not a happy reunion. Ali had learned that his wife
inadvertently was responsible for his arrest in Kabul, and they soon divorced.

Angry, embittered and traumatized, Ali could no longer hold a job. Twice, he
attempted suicide, he said. Two years ago, a friend got him into therapy.

"I don't like people right now," he said in a recent interview. "I get nervous
very fast, and I cannot control myself."

Quick to anger, he has been fired from a number of jobs for arguing with
customers, he said. Even hearing people curse can trigger memories of his
torturers, he said, so he keeps to himself in the Alexandria apartment he shares
with two other Afghans.

His Iranian-born therapist, Rouyan V. Jones, said Ali suffers from depression,
panic attacks, obsessive thoughts and hallucinations. Yet, in their discussions,
conducted in Farsi, "his conversation is filled with beautiful symbolic poems,"
she said. Now 53, Ali studies Persian poetry and does artwork as part of his
therapy.


Witness to Slaughter


Unlike most of those in treatment at the Falls Church site, Baiev, the doctor
from Chechnya, has gained wide renown. The 37-year-old performed heroically
during fighting between Russian troops and Chechen rebels, treating civilians
and combatants from both sides and earning accolades from human rights groups.

The former judo champion was nearly executed three times, once after being held
in a pit for a week in a Chechen mountain stronghold and more recently by
Russian mercenaries who used him as a human shield while on patrol.

But his worst memories stem from January, when more than 300 people were blown
up in a minefield while fleeing the siege of Grozny. Baiev, the only doctor left
in his hospital, spent two days without sleep doing amputations and other
surgery. Standing amid pools of blood and piles of body parts, he said he
operated until he collapsed, then would be taken outside to have snow rubbed on
his face to revive him.

"It was like a nightmare," he said. "While I was operating on one, I dreaded to
think how many other people would die."

Russian forces branded Baiev a "bandit doctor" for saving the life of a Chechen
rebel leader, and his hospital was destroyed. A U.S. human rights group helped
him escape, but his wife and five children were left behind. Now living with
friends in suburban Maryland, he fears for his family's safety. Last month, his
nephew was killed by gunmen in Chechnya.

Baiev confronts his grief and stress in his weekly therapy.

Seated at a small table during a recent session, he gingerly placed figures in a
sand tray. At one end he put a house; nearby, a mother and some children, two
birds and a dolphin. The dolphin "strikes me as a very kind animal," he said.
The birds to him were doves of peace.

"That was how it was in our country. We used to have big, happy families," he
said.

Okawa, sitting opposite, asked if those times might come again.

"I'm afraid not," Baiev responded. When the first round of fighting in Chechnya
ended four years ago, people rebuilt their houses and talked about raising
families, he said. But now, after the second war, "I don't believe people have
these hopes. There's not a single house that didn't lose somebody in the family.
. . . There's no hope for them . . . no support for them."

But the scene in the sand tray before him was a hopeful one, Okawa pointed out.
"As long as you can create this, you still have those feelings," she told him.

The realization seemed to touch something deep inside the doctor. He took off
his glasses, covered his face with his hands and wept silently for several
minutes.

"This came out of you naturally," Okawa said softly.

Later, she reflected on Baiev's trauma: "He saved hundreds and hundreds of
lives--but he remembers the lives he couldn't save."


LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              226 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   December 26, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Abused Asylum Seekers

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 204 words


The Dec. 20 front-page story about a young West African woman who languished for
two years in an immigration jail ["Asylum Seeker Is Impostor, INS Says"] implied
that loopholes in the U.S. asylum system make it easy for fraudulent claims to
get through.

Those of us who try to help deserving refugees make their way through this
system see a different picture. People who have stood up for freedom and
democracy in the face of persecution in their home countries have lost years in
immigration detention when they were forced to flee here for protection.

The Lawyers Committee for Human Rights recently documented numerous cases in
which asylum seekers have been abused, threatened, jailed and even forcibly
returned. Yes, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, after going to
extraordinary lengths, was able to disprove the claims of a woman who spent two
years in jail hoping to gain protection in the United States. But every day
people who need and deserve our protection are being denied due process and are
mistreated by agents of our own government. Of these, which is the more
shocking?

ELISA MASSIMINO

Director, Washington Office

Lawyers Committee for Human Rights

Washington



LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER;

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              227 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   December 7, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Along Deadly Immigrant Route, a Sheriff Tries to Help

Megan K. Stack , Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A55

LENGTH: 1612 words

DATELINE: SARITA, Tex.


The sheriff knows them all. Not by name but by their tattered clothes, their
thirst, the way their eyes roll back when the heat sets in.

He has watched them shred shirts off their chests. He has seen the skin slither
off the feet of a woman who walked all the way from Mexico in sneakers that
didn't fit.

He has seen them dying and dead and buried. He has even seen a few blink back to
life after their hearts stopped beating.

"It makes you pray when you don't know how," says Rafael Cuellar Jr., squinting
into the desert sun.

Cuellar was born on this dirt. He has been sheriff for eight years, a lawman
more than 30. His rolling belly laugh startles quail from the brush. He's
half-deaf, walks with a cane and battles diabetes and depression.

The 61-year-old sheriff retires at the end of the year. He leaves behind a
scarred desk, a legacy of homespun humanitarian work and an immigrant cemetery
blessed with the coo of doves.

"Maybe now we'll get to spend a little time with him," says Cuellar's son,
Rafael III. "My dad gets up when it's dark and works until it's still dark."

Under Cuellar's watch, the Mexican and American governments have declared his
territory one of the three deadliest immigrant passages along the border. In the
past four years, 62 migrants have died in Kenedy County. And those were just the
bodies someone found.

But Cuellar wasn't about to let death rule his county--not without a fight. He
came back fierce, used his weekends, his imagination, his pocket money to battle
the desert tragedies.

And he'll keep fighting. Truth is, retirement or not, he doesn't know how to
quit trying.

Everyone in South Texas knows, if you're out in Kenedy County, you had best have
a full tank of gas and an empty bladder.

The county is bigger than Rhode Island--1,700 square miles--but home to just 460
souls.

In Sarita, the county seat, a single stoplight blinks bleakly over the highway.
There's a courthouse, a Catholic church and Cuellar's office. Nothing to buy but
a postage stamp or a can of Coke, old-timers cackle.

"It's a nice little town--everybody's related, all cousins," Cuellar says. "You
go out and barbecue at night, get into a fight and then go to church together
the next day."

Yet Kenedy County is remarkable not for what it is but for where it is. One
hundred miles north of Mexico, 270 miles south of Houston. One lone federal
highway, U.S. 77, quivers in the heat. In the middle, 100 miles north of the
border, the Border Patrol roadblock awaits northbound travelers. The guards sit
behind their sunglasses and stretch out their hands for paperwork.

Most immigrants don't take the chance.

It's easier, they believe, to get dropped off south of the checkpoint, to skirt
the Border Patrol by hiking 20 and 30 miles through the desert.

Footprint upon footprint, they trudge through wild olive, purple sage and
mesquite, past the cattle, over the scattered white sand dunes that fool the eye
and gulp the foot up to the ankle.

If they make it back to the road, a smuggler's car awaits. They can motor on,
hair streaming, and let the desert slip off behind them. They can step into the
anonymous sprawl of Houston.

There will be a chance--if they make it.

"They're sick, weak, hungry, thirsty," Cuellar says. A Santa Fe freight screams
by, the only motion in a stifling afternoon. "They don't know where they are."

Cuellar scans the sky for buzzards. It's noon, and the cows are nosing around
for shade. On the dashboard of his pickup, keys to every gate in the county
jangle on an old ring.

The sheriff stocks pills and liniments and ice packs. He stashes countless sacks
of chewing tobacco and foil packs of Swisher Sweet cigars. Wedges of melon, if
the immigrants are hungry. Blankets, if they're cold. Rubber gloves and a
camera, if it's too late.

"I never forget the body or the spot we find it," Cuellar says, shaking his
head.

This particular dappled grove of live oak is a stone's throw from the highway.
The earth vibrates when the big rigs pass, hauling oranges and blue jeans and
camera parts from Mexico to Houston.

A 21-year-old woman died of dehydration here, her face turned toward the whistle
and shush of passing cars.

"She was right there."

Cuellar limps from the driver's seat and squats. He studies the dirt.

"She almost made it."

Back over this way, a 12-year-old boy died. Stumbled down that desert dune,
curled beneath a clump of wild grape vines, tried to escape the sun. Crazed.
Lost.

All around the sheriff, all the time, the United States is struggling to shut
its back door--but Cuellar doesn't waste much thought on politics.

"I'm so deep into this I don't even know right or wrong anymore," he says. "All
I can see is to save lives."

A drunken driver here, a petty drug bust there. Kenedy County never had much
crime.

"There wasn't any pressure to actually do any work," recalls James Scarborough,
a former deputy who lost the sheriff's seat to Cuellar by five votes. Hard
feelings melt fast in the Texas sun--the two men remain close friends.

But Cuellar doesn't rest. Pulls himself from bed on black mornings, makes his
first rounds as the sun spills over the brown earth.

He drives two hours to visit Brownsville migrant shelters. He begs them not to
risk it. It takes hours to die of dehydration, he warns them. In the end, you
will think you've caught on fire. You will rip your clothes from your body,
knowing death has caught you at last. He speaks of the bones he finds, of the
backhoe that digs the graves.

"The main job Junior has is to stop those poor people from killing themselves,"
Jack Turquotte says. "That's how he perceives his job--and he's right."

The county's 70-year-old treasurer has known the sheriff for decades, ever since
"Junior" took Turquotte's Roman Catholic catechism class. Back then, Cuellar
couldn't speak English. It's not uncommon for South Texas-born citizens of
Mexican heritage to learn Spanish first.

His grandfather drifted north from a little town just north of the border when
he was 16. He ended up at Kenedy Ranch, where he worked as a ranch hand until he
was 80. Cuellar's dad was a foreman at the ranch for half a century. The young
Cuellar trotted on horseback beside his old man on the long drives inland from
the Gulf of Mexico. They nudged the herds across the harsh land, slowly, so the
cattle wouldn't lose weight.

"He was accustomed to doing it the rough way," Cuellar recalls with a laugh.
"The horse way. But he didn't want us to have a rough life like that."

Cuellar's son, Rafael III, will soon be a Border Patrol agent. Cowboys, lawman,
federal agent: Their family line sketches the slow drag of time on Kenedy
County.

The decades have aged these lands. Even the illegal immigrants were different
20, 30, 40 years ago, longtime resident Scarborough believes--harder and somehow
smarter.

"They were campesinos; they were tough people coming up to work. They knew their
way and they'd prepare for the trip," he says. "These illegals now, they come up
desperate from the cities, and they don't know what they're getting into and. .
. ."

He thinks for a minute.

"And they die."

One day, Cuellar looked at a corpse and knew he couldn't dig another unmarked
grave. He asked no one's permission. Just summoned a funeral director and bought
a grave marker for a dead pilgrim.

Since that day 11 years ago, the county has paid at least $ 100,000 for
immigrant autopsies and burials--and nobody complains.

"Around here, just about everybody's had hard knocks, or at least seen somebody
who works for 'em go through a tough time," Scarborough says. "People here
understand how it is."

Besides, as Kenedy residents boast, the county has a lot of money and nothing to
buy. Crisp corporate checks flow into the coffers regular as spring. Most of the
taxes--98 percent--come from oil companies with mineral rights to the deep pools
of black gold.

"We don't have taxpayers," Turquotte says, laughing. "Not the way you mean it."

This nation never wanted them here. Didn't want their coffee-colored eyes or
their hardened hands. If the migrants had been caught alive, they would have
been kicked out.

But they died cruel deaths in their ill-fated journeys north--and so these
immigrants can stay. They have earned a scrap of U.S. soil. As if life were a
venom, as though death sucked them harmless.

Their names are etched in pounded tin, sunk in mounds of earth cracked by
drought. Jefry Guardado, 14. Espiridion Rosales, 58.

Female unknown. Unknown male. Unknown skeletal remains.

It was Cuellar who did this. When there's no way to identify the bones, when the
family can't be found or doesn't want the body or can't afford to come, the
sheriff calls a priest. He stands silently at the funerals, hammy hands slack at
his sides.

Cuellar's father is buried here, beneath perfumed lilies, shouting distance from
the immigrant graves.

Cuellar likes the graveyard, goes there to think. Some afternoons, doves light
on the cemetery's wire fence. They sing while the sun seeps away.

Cuellar is fascinated by the doves' call. He often thinks he should record the
song.

Maybe once he's retired, he'll have time.

"I'm tired. I'm tired in my bones," he says. "It takes something away from you,
feeling sorry for all these people, all the time. . . ."

He trails off. Looks at the graves, the sky, the endless fields and the dirt
road stretching back to town.

Out in the desert, the ragged procession is trudging north, pressing on, weak
and weary. Cuellar knows they're there. He knows some will live, some will die.

He has seen them before.

LOAD-DATE: December 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              228 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 16, 2001 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Not Having the Right Employees in the Right Places Undermines Some Agencies,
Report Finds

BYLINE: Stephen Barr

SECTION: METRO; FEDERAL DIARY STEPHEN BARR; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 720 words


About 80 Foreign Service officers, assisted by about 2,500 foreign employees,
perform U.S. consular duties overseas. It's a relatively small group to handle
the demand for visas and other services from an ever-growing number of tourists
-- and to spot terrorists and foreigners ineligible for entry into this country.

The National Aeronautics and Space Administration also operates with a thin
bench. The 1990s downsizing that swept through most agencies cut too deeply at
NASA. Agency managers report that staffing shortfalls and lack of training
undermine their program goals.

At the Administration for Children and Families, which oversees welfare reform,
child-support enforcement and other programs, the staff does more with less.
Last year, budget restrictions set by Congress allowed the agency to make only
15 outside hires, and no one applied for numerous jobs that could be advertised
only internally. The agency has cut about 700 positions since 1993 and now
operates with fewer than 1,500 workers.

These snapshots come from a report, scheduled for release today, prepared by the
Federal Performance Project. The report, the third in a series, was financed by
the Pew Charitable Trusts and prepared by the George Washington University
Department of Public Administration and Government Executive magazine.

The performance project examined seven agencies for what project editor Anne
Laurent called "the capacity of each agency to manage for results -- the degree
to which each sets realistic goals, communicates them, organizes to achieve them
and measures performance against them."

While the project looked at a range of issues, its findings suggest that
persistent personnel problems are weakening performance and frustrating
management objectives at some agencies.

As part of its work, the project surveyed federal managers and asked them to
grade human resources management at their agencies.

The Administration for Children and Families, the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
NASA, the National Weather Service and the U.S. Postal Service received a C from
their managers.

The lowest mark went to the State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs, which
received a D. Managers at the U.S. Forest Service gave their personnel office
the best grade, a B.

But some managers offered bleak assessments when asked whether their agency "has
the right number of people with the right skills where and when needed."

Of the 100 managers surveyed at the Postal Service, more than half expressed
strong doubts about having the right people in the right places (27 percent
said, "not at all"). Of the 100 managers surveyed at NASA, 22 percent replied,
"not at all" to the question, and 40 percent more volunteered similar feelings.

The surveys leave little doubt that the agencies -- and the political leadership
at the Office of Management and Budget and the Office of Personnel Management --
face substantial challenges on the personnel front, especially since President
Bush has called for "flattening the federal hierarchy," reducing management
ranks and shifting jobs to agency front lines.

According to the project's report, the Postal Service and NASA have aging
workforces and face the prospect of a talent drain. About 70 percent of postal
executives will be eligible for retirement during the next five years.
Twenty-five percent of NASA's experienced employees will reach retirement age in
2005.

Interviews conducted for the project's report show that some agencies have
started taking steps to cope with their workforce problems. NASA, for example,
intends to use buyouts to send employees out the door and move the vacant jobs
to where they are most needed. NASA also plans to use a special pay authority to
attract scientists to key jobs, where top salaries will range from $ 160,000 to
$ 200,000, according to the project's interviews.

Despite the problems faced by the agencies, project officials pointed out that
they found examples of good management in agencies that were at odds with
popular perceptions. "The multiple demands and expectations that confront many
public-sector organizations make them much more difficult to manage than their
private-sector counterparts," said Philip Joyce, GWU's principal investigator
for the project.

Stephen Barr's e-mail address is barrs@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 2001



CORRECTION: The April 16 Federal Diary, citing data from the Federal Performance
Project, incorrectly reported the number of Foreign Service officers performing
U.S. consular duties overseas. There are more than 900 consular officers
assigned abroad, according to the Bureau of Consular Affairs.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              229 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 10, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Small-Town Resorts Go Abroad for Workers;
Seasonal Employees Come to Sample American Life and Earn Higher Wages

BYLINE: Connie Farrow, Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 673 words

DATELINE: BRANSON, Mo.


Even with dips in the economy and a long string of layoffs, resorts and
restaurants across the country are desperate for workers to fill seasonal jobs
that offer relatively low wages.

Many are recruiting foreign workers, hoping to draw them to sparsely populated
towns such as Branson that swell during tourist season.

"Branson has about 22,000 hotel, motel rooms and the city has a population of
about 4,600 people," said Steve Marshall, manager of Chateau on the Lake in the
southwestern Missouri resort town. "If you do the math, the entire population of
Branson couldn't make up all the beds that need to be made up."

According to the U.S. Labor Department, workers from Austria, Australia, Canada,
the Czech Republic, England, Indonesia, Jamaica, Mexico, Russia and elsewhere
are employed to fill the temporary needs of small resort towns each year.

And while the nation's unemployment rate jumped to a 2 1/2-year high of 4.5
percent last month, not enough U.S. citizens are willing to wash dishes, clean
bathrooms and perform similar jobs, said John Young, who runs HELP, an
employment company in Goffston, N.H.

Many foreign workers are hired for jobs that otherwise would go unfilled and for
wages that often exceed the national minimum of $ 5.15 per hour by a couple of
dollars. They're allowed to stay only for a year to ensure they don't cost
Americans longer-term jobs or drive down wages.

The Labor Department also caps the number of foreign workers hired as relief
during peak and seasonal periods at 66,000 people a year.

The prospect of making $ 7.65 an hour and being able to visit the United States
was enough to entice Olive James to leave Montego Bay, Jamaica, to help clean
Chateau on the Lake's 301 guest rooms.

She and 23 other Jamaicans were hired through Young's company in May.

"I like the atmosphere," said James, 41, as she removed towels from a guest's
room. "My dream is to know America."

To hire international workers, businesses must work through the Labor
Department's Alien Labor Certification Program. Employers must show they have
exhausted efforts to recruit qualified U.S. workers and offer the prevailing
wage for an occupation in an area.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service screens potential workers for disease
and criminal records. The workers are assigned to work at specific businesses
and perform specific jobs.

At Al's Oasis in Oacoma, S.D., general manager Steve Mueller plans to have 13
international workers washing dishes, cleaning bathrooms and doing other jobs at
the restaurant, gift shop and grocery store by mid-June. Wages would average $
6.75 per hour.

Mueller looked abroad because too many positions were going unfilled at the
complex, which is popular with hunters, anglers and others on their way to the
Missouri River.

At the Sun Valley ski resort in the Idaho Rockies, about 600 workers are hired
each year from more than a dozen countries, personnel director Kim Hayes said.

"We don't recruit international workers," Hayes said. "Most find us through the
Internet and word of mouth. We've been very lucky in that regard."

At Sun Valley, foreign workers, who are paid about $ 6.50 per hour, wear brass
name plates that include their country of origin to provide guests with a flavor
of the area's international atmosphere.

"Some of them come here from Indonesia, where their families are very poor,"
Hayes said. "They can make enough money to live on for a couple of years. Others
just want to experience the culture and experience something new."

But the biggest benefit is for the businesses, which often find the employees to
be reliable and hardworking, said David Scibilia, a manager for Norseman Resorts
in the seaside community of Ogunquit, Maine.

Scibilia began recruiting Jamaican women three years ago to clean rooms at the
chain's Ogunquit River Plantation and Norseman Motor Inn. He also hired 10 men
this year to cook, help with groundskeeping and haul supplies.

"We just couldn't get all the work done without their help," Scibilia said.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              230 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 11, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Hospitals Go Abroad To Fill Slots For Nurses;
Wide Pay Gap Exists Between U.S., Foreign Workers in D.C. Area

BYLINE: Bill Brubaker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2109 words


An acute shortage of health-care workers is driving Washington area hospitals
overseas to recruit hundreds of nurses critical to patient care, in one case
guaranteeing a private recruiter more than $ 1 million in fees to deliver 235
foreign nurses, according to hospital executives.

Since last summer no fewer than six Washington area hospitals have held 10 job
fairs in Britain and the Philippines, securing commitments from more than 700
nurses. The forays have been undertaken by the Washington Hospital Center,
Children's, Georgetown University, George Washington University, Washington
Adventist and Shady Grove Adventist hospitals.

The shortage is especially severe at the Washington Hospital Center, which is
paying temporary-staffing agencies up to $ 70 an hour to hire freelance nurses,
including some from out of the Washington area, to fill more than a third of its
1,236 nursing positions. That provides a powerful incentive to recruit full-time
nurses who are paid, on average, less than $ 25 an hour -- and to recruit in
places such as Manila, where nurses are paid less than $ 1 an hour.

For five days this spring Hospital Center recruiters held a job fair in London's
posh Le Meridien Grosvenor House Hotel, signing up 90 nurses, most of them
immigrants from developing nations. The program was run by a recruiter who
charges up to $ 5,000 for each new hire she delivers.

A review by The Washington Post found that the Hospital Center offered these
nurses and others from overseas salaries that are substantially less than those
paid their U.S. counterparts. In determining pay, hospital executives said they
credited overseas nurses for only half their years of experience.

Foreign nurses require more training, said Joanne Gucciardo, who oversees the
hospital's nurse recruiting. "And you have to really support your nurses over
here, more so," she added. "If you've worked in the United States in hospital
settings you have to be rewarded for that."

Local nurses' union officials said the half-credit practice violates their
contract with the hospital; hospital officials say it doesn't.

Michael Grodin, a professor at Boston University's school of public health, said
foreign nurses' pay should not be based "on some generic notion that because you
come from one country or another country you have more or less qualification."

Adventist's two Washington area hospitals may not pay their foreign recruits the
same as U.S. nurses either. The foreign-trained nurses would be judged on a case
by case basis, an Adventist official said.

Washington Hospital Center executives said they are doing plenty to retain their
current nurses -- offering them, for example, bonuses of $ 2,000 if they remain
on staff for one year, $ 2,000 for two years and $ 3,000 for three.

But they need more nurses. Sandra B. Marshall, the Hospital Center's top nursing
executive, said the hospital goes overseas because "given the shortage we're all
facing it gives us a larger pool of nurses with very similar and good
experience" as compared with "our American-based staff."

But judging the quality of foreign nurses' experience often is difficult,
Marshall said. Explaining why the hospital is giving half-credit for their
experience, she said: "If you tell me you've worked at Sloan-Kettering [in New
York], I know what Sloan-Kettering is, okay? If you tell me you've worked at a
Turkish hospital, I have no idea."

Rita Munley Gallagher, of the American Nurses Association, said: "That's really
scary, isn't it? I mean, if they are not able to determine what goes on at these
hospitals overseas, then why are they hiring these people?"

There have been nursing shortages at American hospitals before, but never this
severe, hospital executives say. This shortage is mostly from declining
enrollment in nursing schools as women, still the mainstay of the profession,
take advantage of new and perhaps less stressful career options. Over the past
five years, the number of nursing school graduates has dropped by 20 percent.

"The field seems to be so unattractive" to many young women, Gallagher said.
"For women, it used to be: You could be a nurse or you could be a teacher. Now
there are lots of other fields that are enticing these women."

There were 2.7 million registered nurses licensed in the U.S. last year, a 5
percent increase since 1996, according to the American Nurses Association. But
today's demand for nurses is greater as baby boomers age and require more
medical care. A survey of 715 of the 5,000 U.S. hospitals found 126,000 job
openings for nurses, the American Hospital Association reported last week.

With many nurses retiring -- the average age is about 45 -- hospital executives
say they have no choice but to look overseas.

Britain's nursing regulatory body, known as the UKCC, recently reported that
over the past year more than 29,000 foreign-trained nurses applied for licenses
to practice in Britain -- a 71 percent increase over the previous year.

Some of these nurses work in developing countries where there also are nursing
shortages. This spring, Britain's Royal College of Nursing, a trade group,
passed a resolution deploring the "systematic depletion" of other countries'
nursing workforces to address Britain's shortages.

For U.S. and British hospitals, the hunt for nurses often begins in the
Philippines, which graduates more nurses than its hospitals can employ. Filipino
nurses are widely coveted in the United States because they are trained in
English at nursing schools that use the same curriculum as U.S. universities.

Though Manila hospitals have plenty of new graduates to choose from, thousands
of their most experienced nurses have taken jobs in London, Washington, Los
Angeles and other western cities.

"There is a severe shortage of well-trained nurses here," said Jose F.G.
Ledesma, president and chief executive of St. Luke's Medical Center, a large
hospital in Manila.

Ledesma predicted he would lose 400 of his 600 nurses this year.

"I feel discouraged because we're losing a lot of very good nurses," he said.
"On the other hand, I feel glad for the nurses themselves because it's a major
opportunity for them to improve their economic situation. It's a buyer's market,
so to speak. The nurses have a lot of places to pick from."

The Washington Hospital Center's London job fair, in late April, was just the
start of a long journey for the 90 nurses who signed up. Some are expected to
drop out and none are expected to be on the job in Washington for at least a
year because of the time it takes to negotiate immigration requirements and pass
competency exams.

Though some U.S. hospitals have recruited overseas for decades, they rarely
attempted mass signings. But the growing shortage became an opportunity for
people like British-born Patricia H. Decker, a self-described "middleman" who
started bringing foreign nurses to American hospitals a decade ago and
coordinated the Washington Hospital Center's London recruiting drive.

Decker, who is not a nurse, worked at Georgetown University Hospital in the
1980s. She then worked for health care staffing agencies, where she began
recruiting foreign nurses, usually one at a time.

She made her first trip for the Hospital Center last July, signing up 145 nurses
at a job fair in Manila's five-star Mandarin Oriental Hotel.

To prepare for the London fair at the Grosvenor House Hotel, she placed an ad in
a British nursing magazine. "U.S.A." the ad was headlined. "Registered Nurses.
All Specialties."

"Immediate job offer!" the ad promised.

Decker first screened more than 100 nurses. Six hospital staffers then arrived
for the formal interviews. Over five days, in the hotel's oak-paneled Barnato
Suite, 90 nurses signed up.

In exchange for a three year commitment, the Hospital Center promised to sponsor
the London recruits for permanent residency in this country, and give them $
5,000 each to cover relocation expenses.

Over the past year, the Hospital Center has guaranteed Decker, who filed for
personal bankruptcy in 1999, more than $ 1 million to deliver 235 foreign
nurses. She was promised $ 5,000 for each Filipino nurse and a flat $ 300,000 to
deliver a group of nurses from Britain, Gucciardo said.

"It's phenomenally expensive," said Jane Vantatenhove, a member of the
hospital's international recruitment committee. But in the end, she said, the
foreign recruitment drive would result in a "better quality nurse" who could
remain at the hospital for many years.

The Washington Hospital Center's recruitment of foreign nurses is complicated by
a nursing strike at the center last fall, and by its policy of giving the new
recruits half the experience credit of American nurses.

The policy means that a 10-year critical care nurse from a large teaching
hospital in central London would earn a base salary of about $ 45,000, while a
nurse with the same experience and specialty from a small hospital in central
Virginia would make about $ 55,000, according to data provided by Gucciardo.

Local union officials said they weren't aware of the unequal pay policy, until
contacted by a reporter for The Post. "The Washington Hospital Center can't
arbitrarily do that . . . not in a unionized shop,"

said Yakini Martin, a negotiator for the District of Columbia Nurses
Association.

Hospital Center executives said their agreement with the association allows
"exceptions" to the negotiated hiring guidelines.

Foreign nurses face greater challenges than U.S-trained nurses "as far as
acclimation, adjustment and orientation," said Kimberley Brown, the hospital's
employment director. "And the way that they deliver care [in their home
countries] could be different."

As the foreign nurse's sponsor, a hospital must meet U.S. Labor Department
requirements to pay the "prevailing wage" for that job in that geographic area.
A Labor official said for unionized hospitals, the prevailing wage typically is
the one in the labor contract.

Other local hospitals also have hired Decker. With her help, Georgetown hospital
signed up 80 nurses in Manila last fall, according to spokeswoman Marianne
Worley. Worley said Georgetown also guaranteed Decker a per-nurse fee, but
declined to disclose it.

Georgetown, like the Hospital Center, is owned by MedStar Health Inc. But
Georgetown's foreign recruits would be paid the same salary as U.S.-trained
nurses with the same number years of experience, Worley said.

Decker led Rockville-based Adventist HealthCare Inc.'s two D.C. area hospitals
on trips to London and the Philippines. About 280 nurses have been signed this
year, said Ed Hodge, vice president of Adventist. Hodge said these nurses would
not necessarily receive the same pay as U.S. nurses with the same number years
of experience.

"Depending on where a person goes to school and that level of experience, the
experience may not be weighted exactly the same," he said.

George Washington University Hospital signed about 45 nurses on recent trips to
Britain and the Philippines, organized without a middleman by the hospital's
parent company. Karen Frazier, the hospital's director of human resources, said
the recruits would be paid the same as U.S. nurses.

Children's Hospital hired a Falls Church staffing agency, Professional
Healthcare Resources Inc., to organize three job fairs in the Philippines this
spring. The agency's owner, Eileen De Cesare, said the hospital signed 73
nurses, who are to work as lower-paid nurse technicians until they pass their
nurse licensing exams in Washington. Once licensed, they would be paid the same
as U.S. nurses, she said.

"I've been looking to work in the U.S. for three years," said Leilani Rayala,
27, a mental health nurse who is also an instructor at the Medical Center of
Manila. "I chose Children's because I'll have a chance to improve my skills and
my career."

Rayala said she has six years' experience in psychiatric nursing, working at
times with sexually abused children, and is paid the equivalent of about $ 1 an
hour. At Children's, she said in a telephone interview from Manila, "I'll earn
about $ 17 an hour [at first], about $ 23 when I pass my boards. I feel lucky to
have qualified for this job."

Like its competitors, the Washington Hospital Center isn't sure how many of its
recruits would report to work. But the hospital is considering other overseas
trips.

"Every hospital in the area, if not country, has been to the Philippines," said
Marshall, the hospital's top nursing executive. "So I can probably imagine that
source is rapidly drying up. So we are looking at other areas. We are looking
for low-hanging fruit."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              231 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 3, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Locked Out of the American Dream

BYLINE: Louis Caldera

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 756 words


The Bush administration is exploring ways of putting permanent resident status
within the reach of millions of undocumented immigrants living in the United
States, perhaps as part of an agricultural guest worker program. These efforts
raise a separate but related issue -- the plight of undocumented adolescent
students in our country -- that should be addressed as part of any such
initiative.

These students, many of them talented, hard-working and patriotic youngsters who
have overcome great odds to graduate from U.S. high schools, are finding the
doors of opportunity closed to them because of decisions made by their parents
years earlier, decisions over which they had no control. Their situation: no
jobs -- civilian or military -- no driver's licenses, no in-state tuition and no
federal financial aid. It is a cruel blow to the young men and women whose
success is a testament to their belief in the goodness of America as a land of
opportunity.

I came in contact with one such individual last year while I was serving as
secretary of the Army. He was a gifted high school senior from California named
Jorge who dreamed of attending West Point and becoming a career Army officer.

Jorge had attained a 4.0 grade point average and was a talented quarterback to
boot; West Point wanted to recruit this scholar-athlete. Jorge's father is
himself a permanent resident, but Jorge was born during a period when his father
had returned to Mexico. He was brought to the United States without
documentation when he was 2 years old.

My efforts to help Jorge become a permanent resident and a citizen so that he
could be appointed to West Point were to no avail. There is simply no easy way
under current law for such students to become permanent residents, much less
citizens. If they try at all, their cases might languish for years while they
wait in hope that a sympathetic federal judge will take mercy on them and have
them placed in a non-deportable status. With no easy way to normalize their
status, they grow older and bitter, as their dream of higher education and
making a significant contribution to American society fades.

Any bill that regularizes the status of undocumented workers in our country
should provide a fair, simple and quick way for any undocumented graduate of an
American high school to become a permanent resident the day he or she graduates.
This change of status should be conditioned on his or her having been accepted
for admission to an institution of higher education or having enlisted in the
U.S. armed forces. If, three years later, these young people are still making
progress in school or serving honorably in the military, they should be able to
become citizens immediately. Those admitted to West Point and the other service
academies or any ROTC program must be eligible to become citizens on the
earliest day that their programs require it as a condition of enrollment or
commissioning.

In 1999, in the middle of the Army's worst recruiting year in recent history, a
group of recruiters at a recruiting station in North Hollywood, Calif.,
volunteered to me their best idea for filling the ranks: "Why can't we take
these students who aren't citizens but want to serve and help them become
citizens?" they asked.

Without appreciation or regard for the virulence of immigration politics, they
said simply that many of the best candidates they saw coming through the door
were sons and daughters of Asian and Hispanic immigrants. These young people had
a desire to serve "their country" in uniform and give something back to the
nation that had been so good to their families. "It's sad," I was told, "They
leave disappointed and confused when they discover that they're not eligible to
enlist, and we lose a motivated recruit."

Next these students will discover that, through no fault of their own, they're
not eligible for much else either.

Undocumented students raised in America who demonstrate the drive to succeed in
school and become responsible adults through higher education or military
service are exactly the kind of ambitious, assimilated immigrants whose presence
renews the American spirit. We should harness the energy and talent of such
adolescents by making it possible for them to earn the opportunity to become
permanent residents through their own determination and hard work, not turn our
backs on them.

The writer was secretary of the Army from 1998 to 2001. He is now vice
chancellor for university advancement of the California State University system.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              232 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 13, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Health Conditions at Quarry Probed

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: LYONS, Colo. Aug. 12


Health officials said they are investigating living conditions at a sandstone
quarry where Mexican immigrant workers have been on strike for three weeks.

Some at Perdue Sandstone Quarry say they have spent the past four months without
pay, living in broken-down school buses and drinking and bathing in water from a
hose.

"The conditions are terrible. It's slavery, practically," said Mario Hernandez,
spokesman for the Mexican Consulate in Denver, after visiting the camp.

Quarry owner Randy Perdue said he is trying to pay the 29 workers still on the
site but business is slow.

"These people live the way they want to live. I figure if they want to work,
they'll work. If they don't, they won't," Perdue told the Daily Camera of
Boulder.

Chuck Stout, Boulder County Health Department director, is considering shutting
the quarry, about 20 miles north of Boulder. He said the immigrants' health is
in danger.

On Monday, he will review the results of water-quality tests to determine
whether human feces have leached into the quarry's and neighbors' water supply.
The workers have used a gulch near their living quarters as a bathroom, rather
than one of the portable toilets on the job site. Perdue said the toilets are
cleaned every Tuesday.

Several workers have fallen ill in the past few weeks, Stout said.

The workers cook on portable stoves and share campers, trailers and a broken
bus. Inside many quarters, plywood floors caked with mud support bare box
springs and mattresses.

The Department of Labor said it is considering an investigation.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              233 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 13, 2001 Monday
                                 Final Edition

For N.C. Tobacco Farmers, Guest Workers a Success;
Growers Group Recruits, Transports Mexicans

BYLINE: Robert E. Pierre, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1558 words

DATELINE: TOWNSVILLE, N.C.


On the Lazy Acres Farm, a mile shy of the Virginia border, much has changed in
tobacco growing over the generations since Kenneth Clark's ancestors began the
family tradition. Seedlings are now grown in a greenhouse. Pesticides keep the
plants free of pests. Leaves are dried artificially.

What hasn't changed is the way the crop is harvested: one leaf at a time, by
hand. It's a task that requires bodies, strong bodies able to endure long days
of walking, stooping and sweating. These days, Clark depends on five Mexican
workers here on special agricultural visas to do the work. Their worth to him is
immeasurable.

"This is hard work, bending over for four or five hours at the time. It's dirty
and it's hot, and people just don't want to do it anymore," said Clark, 50, as
the men -- soaked from the heat -- stacked fresh tobacco leaves into heated
sheds to dry. "These are the only guys I can find willing to do that kind of
labor."

The workers on Clark's farm are guests in this country, brought from Mexico to
work for a single employer for several months before returning home. And if the
United States and Mexico dramatically increase a guest worker program as part of
more liberal immigration policies, it might resemble the way things work in
North Carolina.

North Carolina imports about one-quarter of the more than 40,000 Mexican workers
that enter the United States annually on the temporary visas. They come to this
agriculturally diverse state to pick tobacco and cucumbers, chop Christmas trees
and dig sweet potatoes. But compared with the estimated 330,000 seasonal farm
workers -- mostly illegal -- who descend on North Carolina every year, their
numbers are small.

Like farmers elsewhere, local farmers complain that the numbers nationally are
minuscule because the program is too costly and slow to be useful.

What sets this state apart is that farmers go through an intermediary -- the
North Carolina Growers Association -- to hire and recruit the workers, complete
required government forms, draw up worker contracts and deliver the workers to
their farms. If a worker chooses to leave early, the association provides
another.

The farmers are insulated from everything but the rights activists who visit
their workers nightly, looking for signs of abuse. Most abuse goes unreported,
they said, because workers fear being sent back to Mexico.

Even growers here who are high on the program worry that additional costs --
farmers currently must provide housing for each worker -- could doom it.

President Bush is considering widespread immigration reform that could include
expanding the number of temporary workers brought into the country legally and
allowing undocumented workers already in the United States an opportunity to
earn permanent legal residency over a period of time. Bush has ruled out the
type of blanket amnesty that legalized 2.7 million undocumented people in 1986.

Congress is also interested in the issue, with competing measures in the House
and Senate. One is supported by growers seeking increased flexibility to hire
workers with minimal intrusion from the Department of Labor; the other,
supported by organized labor, would give farm workers the right to organize and
join a union and would expand protections for migrant and seasonal workers. Both
would allow undocumented workers to apply for permanent residency.

Though the harvest keeps him busy, Clark is keeping tabs on the debate. He is
not for blanket amnesty; it wouldn't be popular with the neighbors. And he would
rather the pay rate -- set by the Labor Department at $ 7.06 for North Carolina
-- were a little closer to the federal minimum wage of $ 5.15. But mainly he
doesn't want national leaders to jeopardize his ability to hire Mexican workers.

"I hope they don't screw us up," Clark said, lighting a cigarette. "The current
program in North Carolina works for me."

Clark is among 1,050 growers in the state who pay $ 200 a year and $ 500 for
each worker they receive to belong to the North Carolina Growers Association.
What's most appealing to many farmers is that the workers have contracts
requiring them to stay with the farmers as long as they are needed. That cuts
down on turnover, though some workers return home early or simply vanish into
neighboring communities.

The annual dues pay for the applications to the Department of Labor to obtain
the visas and for recruiting efforts in Mexico.

"I'm not going to Mexico to recruit," Clark said. "I wouldn't know how or what
to do."

Once approved, the workers arrive in Vass, an hour south of Raleigh, by
air-conditioned tour buses every week during the harvest season, which runs from
April to November. The workers, primarily men, are given brief training on
health issues, food safety concerns, crop conditions and environmental safety.
After signing their contracts, they are bused out to their work sites.

Stan Eury, the executive director of the growers association, said his group
provides a service that benefits everyone. The farmers get good workers, he
said, and the workers get a safe trip across the border, state-approved housing
and a high pay rate.

"There's no doubt that this is a better way," Eury said.

Bruce Goldstein of the Farmworker Justice Fund disagrees, saying that the
program stifles workers' mobility and is incompatible with democratic
traditions.

Workers "are tied to the employers who got them the visa," Goldstein said. "When
their job ends, they must go home. They are too fearful of being deported or not
being called back to demand better wages or complain about working conditions."

North Carolina tops the list of users of the program, mainly because of the
association. But use of the program is virtually nonexistent in states such as
California, where fruit and vegetable growers employ 500,000 to 700,000 workers,
about half undocumented, and only about 500 through the government program.
Growers say the wages are too high, the paperwork too voluminous and the process
too slow.

"A huge percentage of our workers are illegal," said Bob L. Vice, a Northern
California avocado grower, who also heads the National Council of Agricultural
Employers. "We know that most of the paperwork employees provide is fraudulent.
But the grower gets put in the unfortunate position of being a policeman."

To make the program more attractive, Vice said, Congress needs to relax the
requirement that each grower provide housing and reduce the required 45-day
notice to the Labor Deparment to get workers. Unlike East Coast crops, like
tobacco and sugar cane, fruits and vegetables have unpredictable harvest
seasons.

"The program needs to be more flexible," Vice said.

But more flexibility is the last thing the program needs, said Mary Lee Hall,
who heads the Legal Services of North Carolina Farm Worker Unit. Her office
represents workers who are mistreated, visiting them at night in the labor
"camps."

On these back-country roads, where crickets offer up background music nightly
and mosquitoes feast on shirtless men seeking refuge from the heat, the Mexican
farm workers who are visible daily in the fields recede into the darkness.

In barracks-style housing, they cook meals, wash their clothes by hand and
prepare for the coming day, which often begins before 6 a.m. and stretches well
into the evening. The work is hard, the hours long, the time away from family
lonely. But Santiago Aguilar, a migrant from Durango, Mexico, say it's a
necessity.

"There's no money in Mexico, so I come to work here in the U.S.," said Aguilar,
30, through a translator one recent evening outside his house near Albertson,
N.C.

Aguilar gets a visit regularly from the members of the Farm Labor Organizing
Committee. Tonight, he and seven other workers are outside talking.

They have few complaints about their employer. Still, they agree to sign up for
free union memberships and photo identification cards. One worker, who asked not
to be identified, said most people understand that complaining is frowned upon.

"They want to keep us dumb and ignorant," said the man, who has been coming to
North Carolina for a dozen years. "If somebody from Mexico comes over and starts
defending himself, he is blacklisted and won't be brought back."

A night later, there were similar complaints at a labor camp near Wilson.
Several men said the farm's owner -- who employs 36 workers -- refused to allow
them to drink water, even though the humidity was high and temperatures were in
the 90s. They said he screamed and cursed at them, while non-Mexican workers
laughed.

With the help of an attorney from Legal Services, a government program for the
poor, they filed a complaint with the state labor department. "We just want them
to treat us a little better," one man said through an interpreter.

In both cases, many workers were skeptical about getting involved, wary of being
labeled troublemakers. In fact, the association advised them on arrival not to
talk to lawyers from Legal Services.

Vice, who represents growers nationally, said he supported worker protections
and weeding out growers who treat workers poorly.

"There's always going to be a few bad apples," Vice said. "But there has to be a
process to ensure that these workers have the same protections as American
workers and the ability to earn some kind of amnesty."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              234 of 242 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 15, 2001 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Howard Pastor, Two Others Guilty of Smuggling Foreign Workers

BYLINE: Maureen O'Hagan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 942 words


When Irina Nesternko came to Maryland from Estonia in the mid-1990s, she felt
she was selected by God to be a missionary.

But instead of missionary work, Nesternko and a dozen other Estonian teenagers
were outfitted in uniforms and put to work cleaning offices and apartments and
moving furniture in the Howard County area.

And instead of the Lord, they were working for Joyce E. Perdue -- aka Pastor
Joyce -- a 57-year-old mother of two who now faces a federal prison sentence.

Perdue, along with two other leaders of the Woodbine-based Word of Faith World
Outreach Church, was convicted Friday of alien smuggling and visa fraud for
bringing the teenagers into the country under false pretenses.

In a ruling issued after a bench trial in Baltimore, U.S. District Judge Marvin
J. Garbis said church officials had made the Estonians into "what amounted to
indentured servants."

The conviction of Perdue, Robert C. Hendricks, 40, the church's assistant
pastor, and Elizabeth Brown, 42, its music director, marks the latest twist in a
two-year legal odyssey that included an appeal by the defendants for permission
to argue that their actions were protected by their religious intentions.
Although that appeal succeeded, the argument didn't persuade Garbis.

"It was never meant to be a sweatshop for these kids," Richard D. Bennett,
Hendrick's attorney, said yesterday. "Things got out of control, but they didn't
get out of control intentionally."

Bennett added, "They believe in living in a communal Christian existence, taken
from biblical times, in which everyone lives together, shares at the end of the
week . . . working for the bounty of the church."

Each of the three faces up to five years in prison, according to Assistant U.S.
Attorney Greg Welsh, who prosecuted the case.

Perdue's roots in Howard County date at least to the late 1970s, when she
founded the church. More than a decade later, Perdue, Hendricks and Brown went
to Estonia as Christian missionaries. There, they worked mainly with the
country's Russian-speaking population, which at the time was subject to
persecution.

Their religious devotion attracted numerous teenagers who were eager to attend
Bible school and do door-to-door missionary work there, according to court
papers.

When the three decided to return to the United States, "they were looking for
ways to bring the kids back with them," Welsh said, referring to court
testimony.

Thus, a plan was put together. Perdue, whom prosecutors describe as the group's
leader, selected 13 youths, ages 13 to 18, to join them in the United States,
according to court documents. The teenagers were coached to tell immigration
authorities that they were religious missionaries or students -- designations
that prohibited them from working.

And for two years, that plan was successful.

Perdue, Hendricks, Brown, three other adults who were not charged with crimes
and the 13 teenagers lived quietly near the cornfields and swanky new homes in
Woodbine, in the far western corner of Howard County. Without much notice from
neighbors, they lived communally, taking meals together and sleeping in bunk
beds in a 4,000-square-foot house on a slope at the end of a cul-de-sac and
valued at nearly a half-million dollars.

What they failed to do was abide by the terms of their visas, according to the
judge's decision.

Rather than Bible study, Garbis ruled, the three church leaders had "a
substantial labor-for-hire enterprise going."

Perdue and other church officials used the students for contract cleaning of
Barnes & Noble bookstores in Ellicott City and Annapolis and of apartments after
they were vacated by tenants, and for installing office furniture.

Each night, the teenagers received their assignments for the next morning. They
left the house about 6 a.m. and worked as late as 9 p.m., according to court
testimony. Court records show they attended school less than nine hours a week.

Nesternko later told authorities what she learned from this experience: "being
able to work, even after sleeping short hours, being exhausted and still
working."

Her rewards? Perdue gave the students $ 15 to $ 100 a week, depending on the
assignment, according to court papers.

"All of the income generated was controlled and utilized by Pastor Joyce to
maintain her lifestyle and pay for her residence," Garbis wrote.

During that period, Perdue was also running an adoption agency, targeting
mothers in Estonia and other former Eastern Bloc countries who might be
interested in giving up their infants, according to court documents.

The idea was to persuade immigration authorities to allow the foreign women to
travel to the United States with their children and to deceive authorities into
thinking that mother and child would return, prosecutors said in court
documents.

Perdue and the others have a different view of the arrangements, according to
court documents: The defendants provided food, shelter and medical care to the
youths; the adoption agency was aimed at placing unwanted children in Christian
homes.

So the teenagers' jobs, each of the defense attorneys argued, weren't really
about work. Instead, the young people were simply raising money to keep the
church going, the attorneys said in court documents.

Seven of the 13 Estonian students testified at trial, and their feelings about
Perdue were mixed. When asked whether she would rather go back to Estonia or
continue living with Perdue, Nesternko didn't hesitate. "Joyce Perdue," she
said.

Most of the teenagers have since been sent back home, but several who cooperated
with the prosecution have been allowed to stay in this country.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              235 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   September 22, 2000, Friday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

High-Tech Labor Wars

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A24; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 1026 words



Thomas Engibous, CEO of Texas Instruments, and Edward Rust, CEO of State Farm
Insurance, strain mightily to convince us (and Congress) of their need to employ
greater numbers of foreign high-tech guest workers [op-ed, Sept. 7].

They denigrate our educational system and chastise it for not providing enough
people to satisfy their demands as employers.

According to data provided by the Department of Education and the Computing
Research Association, this education system is graduating approximately 300,000
people annually with bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in math, computer
science and engineering.

In addition, it is producing tens of thousands each year who are achieving
associate degrees or certification in various information technology fields. And
the supply is growing.

These numbers are more than enough to fill high-tech job opportunities that the
Department of Labor estimates will average 204,000 per year for the next eight
years.

So what exactly is bothering these executives?

In a candid moment, Roger Coker, director of staffing for Mr. Engihous's
company, may have provided the answer. He told U.S. News and World Report (Aug.
30, 1999) that the employment of H-1B visa workers is part of Texas
Instruments's strategy to keep down wages of engineers and other high-tech
workers. Perhaps the issue, then, is not really one of a shortage of qualified
workers but rather a shortage of professional and technical people who are
willing to work long hours for relatively modest pay and benefits.

DOUG WHITE

Orlando


Thomas J. Engibous, who heads Texas Instruments, wants to increase the number of
H-1B visas allotted for temporary foreign workers. He claims that a shortage of
electrical engineers is hurting the country and implies that his company needs
them.

When I graduated from Southern Methodist University in Dallas with a doctorate
in electrical engineering a few years back, I sent Texas Instruments resume
after resume over a period of many months to various people within the company.
Although I lived less than a quarter of a mile from its doorstep, I could not
even get an interview.

What most people outside the industry don't know about TI is that an
extraordinarily high percentage of its engineers are H-1B visa holders, and that
it is by design.

The H-1B worker cannot leave a job without finding a new sponsor or being
deported. This device helps to reduce the traditionally high employee turnover
TI has encountered in recent years.

Also, Mr. Engibous never revealed what percentage of job applicants with
electrical engineering degrees his company hires, which is typically 2 percent
or less industrywide.

The lobbying efforts of the high-tech industry for more worker visas are nothing
short of a flagrant attempt to unfairly manipulate the labor market, and it is
time for everyone else to recognize that fact.

MARK A. MENDLOVITZ

Los Angeles


Norman Matloff's Sept. 12 op-ed piece showed only the salary aspect of the H1-B
issues.

Another factor is that many H1-B hardware and software engineering hires from
Silicon Valley are sent to Korea, Taiwan or Singapore on prolonged assignments
to assist with manufacturing, product engineering and support issues. Their
stays can last for several weeks and sometimes months.

Silicon Valley companies prefer H1-Bs because they are more willing to accept
such assignments. Moreover, they are willing to be housed in company-rented
apartments in Taiwan and Korea instead of hotels, which results in substantial
savings to the employer.

Often these workers are sent to their countries of assignment on visitor visas,
which basically is a fraud.

MAHBOOBUL ALEM

Freemont, Calif.


I was flattered to see my name in a publication as distinguished as The Post,
but I have never written an article or opinion about the H-1B program nor have I
advocated that employers pay foreign workers less than U.S. workers, as implied
in Norman Matloff's column.

To the contrary, all U.S. employers must pay aliens the prevailing wage as
calculated by the U.S. Department of Labor. Recent decisions have drawn these
wage distinctions strictly in favor of U.S. workers, and no deviations are
permitted.

The statement that American employers are inundated with applicants and resumes
for high-tech jobs is untrue, and the characterization of H-1B workers as
"indentured servants" from India, "underpaid" and "trapped" with their U.S.
employers, is fanciful hyperbole.

JOEL STEWART

Fort Lauderdale


As president of the Immigrants Support Network (ISN), which has more than 17,000
H-1B visa holders in the United States, I wish to respond to the Sept. 12 op-ed
column by Norman Matloff.

The use of the word "militant" to describe our organization was outrageous. ISN
is a registered 501(c)4 nonprofit organization that supports all those legally
trying to immigrate to the United States through employment channels.

ISN has never supported or endorsed militancy. Moreover, it is not composed
solely of H-1B visa holders from India but has members from around the world,
including many U.S. citizens. Further, ISN never used the phrase "de facto
indentured servants" to characterize workplace conditions of H-1B employees.

ISN supports legislation pending in Congress that would address serious problems
with the process by which H-1B employees can apply for permanent residence in
the United States. It believes that it is essential that reforms of the green
card process for H-1B employees be enacted into law this year, especially if the
H-1B visa quota is raised.

If the H-1B visa quota is raised without addressing the problems H-1B workers
face when they apply for permanent residence, the result will be devastating for
the current and future H-1B work force.

A recent study has shown that fewer than 25 percent of current H-1B workers will
ever obtain permanent residence.

If the current proposals in Congress are enacted without H-1B green card reform,
less than 15 percent of future H-1Bs will obtain permanent residence.

SHAILESH GALA


Budd Lake, N.J.



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 23, 2000

CORRECTION: A letter published yesterday about Texas Instruments was mistakenly
attributed to Doug White. The author was Jack Golodner, president of the
department for professional employees of the AFL-CIO.

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              236 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  September 28, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

High-Tech Ticket to America

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A30

LENGTH: 478 words


I read with interest the article about the plight of H-1B visa holders whose
work permits are about to expire ["A Worn-Out Welcome Mat," front page, Sept.
16]. After six years' work in the high-tech industry, they are about to be
displaced. They should not be surprised.

After several years' hard work and assuming annual raises of 12 percent (not
unheard of in the industry), salaries would have almost doubled by the start of
the seventh year. So why should a company renew an existing visa if it can use
the visa slot to import a replacement at a considerably lower cost?

In addition to being cheaper, the new workers would be trained on the latest
technology (at no cost to the company) and would just be starting out fresh on
their six-year terms.

The H-1B visa program has become a two-edged sword, with the former
beneficiaries now joining the victims.

KERMIT PAULOS

Arlington


*


Let me see if I understand this correctly. Sanjay Sathya came to America on an
H-1B visa. This visa, according to reporter Hanna Rosin, "was designed so
trained professionals could work for a limited time in the United States."

Mr. Sathya's H-1B visa had an expiration date of Sept. 22, 2000. And (glad I was
sitting down for this one) he is shocked that he has to leave the United States.

I know that personal responsibility, which includes fulfilling personal and
professional obligations, is an outdated notion these days, but as far as I can
tell, the United States has fulfilled--generously--its part of the bargain. Now
it's time for Mr. Sathya to fulfill his.

SARAH K. BALL

Takoma Park


*


When Congress enacted the 65,000 cap on the H-1B temporary visa program as part
of the Immigration Act of 1990, it also dramatically increased the number of
green cards for skilled immigrants, because U.S. employers need both a limited
number of temporary visas and a larger number of highly skilled permanent
immigrants. A companion proposal would have deregulated the employment-based
immigration process and ensured that all available visas were used. But that
part of the deal died for lack of employer support, which perpetuated a failed
regulatory system.

Thus, for 10 years, 50,000 to 78,000 green cards a year have gone begging, even
as employers insist that they need more temporary visas for workers who want to
stay permanently. It is not a lack of immigration visas that forces needed
workers to leave.

So the problem has gotten worse, but the solution remains the same: a
market-based approach to skilled immigration based on green cards instead of
guest worker visas.

BRUCE A. MORRISON

Washington

The writer chaired the House immigration subcommittee in 1989-91 and was a
member of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform from 1993 to 1997; he is
currently vice chairman of a government relations firm.



LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              237 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   October 4, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Congress Backs More Tech Visas; Bill Driven by Need For Skilled Workers

Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1078 words


Congress yesterday overwhelmingly approved legislation to increase the number of
visas for highly skilled foreign workers, in a dramatic demonstration of the
high-technology industry's clout on Capitol Hill.

Hours after the Senate voted 96 to 1 for the bill, the House passed it on a
voice vote, and Democrats said President Clinton is expected to sign it.

The Senate vote, with Sen. Ernest F. Hollings (D-S.C.) dissenting, provided a
rare display of bipartisanship in a Congress where the two parties have
deadlocked over some of the most important items on their election-year agendas.

"Whether it's Silicon Valley . . . or my own state of Michigan, the need for
these workers is extraordinarily strong," said Sen. Spencer Abraham (R), a
principal sponsor of the bill.

The measure would allow the Immigration and Naturalization Service to issue
195,000 "H-1B visas" in each of the next three years for skilled workers from
abroad, mainly to satisfy the voracious appetite of the burgeoning high-tech
industry. The visas can be extended for up to six years.

The bill would also make it easier for holders of the visas to escape
deportation at the end of six years if their applications for residency were
held up by bureaucratic delay or because of country-by-country visa limits. And
visa holders employed by colleges, research facilities and nonprofit
organizations would be exempt from the caps.

Under a program that was begun in the 1950s and expanded in the early 1990s as
the demand for high-tech jobs outstripped the supply in the American work force,
the number of H-1B visas was limited to 115,000 during the last fiscal year.
Demand was so high that the quota was filled by March. Without passage of new
legislation, the cap would drop to 107,500 this fiscal year and 65,000 next
year.

Abraham said studies indicate that as many as 1 million information technology
positions are unfilled, with up to 200,000 new jobs likely to be created in each
of the next 10 years. The immediate need, he said, is to fill key positions
promptly "so that we don't lose opportunities to foreign competitors or so that
we don't force American businesses to move offshore to where skilled workers
might live."

With the industry's reputation as the engine of the country's booming economy
and with its record as a generous campaign contributor to its friends, the bill
had strong support on both sides of the aisle.

Despite organized labor's traditional coolness to the use of foreign workers to
fill American jobs, there was little disagreement over the need for more
high-tech visas. But the bill has been held up for months by disputes over
proposed amendments, including initiatives by Democrats to grant amnesty to
illegal aliens who have been in the United States since 1986 and to ease
restrictions for many immigrants, especially those from Central America and
Haiti.

Senate passage of the H-1B measure was hailed by high-tech companies.

"If we want the United States to maintain its technological advantage, employers
must be allowed to hire the professionals they need," said Paula Collins,
director of government relations for Texas Instruments Inc.

In addition to increasing visas, the legislation would authorize more spending
on education and training to equip Americans to fill high-tech jobs. The new
money would come from higher visa application fees, which would be imposed under
separate legislation introduced yesterday by House Republicans. The long-term
solution to the worker shortage is ensuring "a sufficient work force of trained
Americans to fill these jobs," Abraham told the Senate.

Staff writer Juliet Eilperin contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: October 04, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              238 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   October 4, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

High-Tech Hires

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A32

LENGTH: 293 words


Two Sept. 22 letters about H-1B visas mischaracterized why Texas Instruments
(TI) supports using the H-1B program to meet its hiring needs. The facts:

(1) TI uses the H-1B program primarily to fill positions for electrical
engineers. The current unemployment rate for electrical engineers is 1.6
percent, almost full employment. The job market for professionals with these
skills is tight.

(2) At the same time, the number of graduates of U.S. universities with degrees
in this discipline has dropped from more than 25,000 in 1987 to just more than
13,000 in 1997.

(3) In 1997, U.S. universities awarded 6,400 master's degrees and 1,500
doctorates in electrical engineering. Nearly half were awarded to foreign
nationals.

(4) TI competes globally to attract and retain H-IB visa holders to fill open
positions. All electrical engineers are offered highly competitive salaries,
signing bonuses, stock options and other benefits.

(5) TI currently has more than 1,700 openings, nearly half for engineers and
other specialized managerial positions.

(6) All employers who hire H-1B visa holders are required by law to pay the
prevailing wage, as determined by the Department of Labor. Failure to do so
carries significant punishment, including possible debarment from the program.

(7) H-1B visa holders represent just 3 percent of TI's U.S.-based work force.

H-1B visas are a small but important element of TI's work force. They do not
displace any U.S. jobs and often create and sustain additional ones. TI supports
pending legislation in this area because it is good policy and critical to the
long-term technological leadership of the country.

ROGER G. COKER

Director

U.S. Staffing Sourcing

Texas Instruments

Dallas



LOAD-DATE: October 04, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              239 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   October 18, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 472 words


House Backs Payment Boost

For Disabled Veterans


The House approved a cost-of-living increase for veterans' disability
compensation yesterday and moved to make it easier for veterans to file benefit
claims.

The new cost-of-living adjustment, or COLA, would take effect Dec. 1. It would
be the same as the Social Security COLA, which is determined each year by the
increase in the government's consumer price index. Last year, the COLA was 2.4
percent.

More than 2.6 million veterans receive compensation for diseases contracted or
injuries sustained in the line of duty during active service. The amount of
compensation varies according to the degree of disability.

A second bill would require the veterans affairs secretary to make reasonable
efforts to help a veteran obtain the records he needs to file a claim for
benefits.

A third bill, dealing with a broad range of health and education issues, would
raise the salaries of the 35,000 nurses working in VA hospitals and of VA
dentists. It would also allow VA hospitals to hire physician assistants. It
would raise from $ 552 to $ 650 a month the educational benefits available under
the Montgomery GI Bill for those who have served three years.


New Law Offers More Visas

For Skilled Foreign Workers


President Clinton signed into law legislation increasing the number of visas
available for skilled foreign workers, handing a victory to high-tech companies
desperate for computer-savvy employees.

Overwhelmingly approved by Congress earlier this month, the new law will
increase the number of H-1B temporary visas available for high-tech workers from
India and other countries to 195,000 per year for the next three years and will
double the fee charged employers using the program. Without the increase, the
number of visas available annually would have fallen to 65,000.


Congress Approves Deal

On Indian Land Claim


Congress has approved giving a New Mexico Indian tribe $ 23 million and about
4,600 acres to settle lawsuits over land that the tribe claimed under a grant
from the king of Spain more than 300 years ago.

The Santo Domingo Pueblo had argued that it was the rightful owner of 52,000
acres of federal, state and private land near its reservation between
Albuquerque and Santa Fe in northern New Mexico. The area includes shrines and
other religious sites considered sacred by the 4,600-member tribe.

The deal, which does not require private landowners to sell or give their
property to the tribe, also gives the tribe the option of using $ 3.7 million of
the settlement money to buy 7,355 acres of U.S. Forest Service land in the
disputed area. That plot and the 4,577 acres of Bureau of Land Management land
that the tribe is getting will be used mainly for religious purposes, a tribal
spokesman said.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              240 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    October 24, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

7 Missing as Flash Floods Rip Through Ariz. Towns

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 306 words


Authorities in western Arizona were searching for seven people yesterday after
flash floods ripped through two small farming communities about 100 miles west
of Phoenix on Sunday.

Among the missing were two people who were seen being swept away by a torrent
that coursed wildly through a normally dry desert wash without warning, said La
Paz County Sheriff's Deputy Karen Harris.

An additional five people--migrant workers who labor in nearby melon, cotton and
vegetable fields--were unaccounted for by their employers, Harris said.

Because of continuing high water, the search for the missing people was being
conducted by helicopter, officials said.

Residents of the small towns of Wenden and Salome, just north of Interstate 10,
said the flood waters came with no warning before dawn Sunday, trapping some in
their homes and sending others to rooftops and into trees, Harris said.

About 200 people were rescued--by boat, skip loaders and at least 11 by military
helicopters, she said.

There were no confirmed fatalities, and Harris said officials held out hope that
the missing people were safe but hesitant to come forward because they were
undocumented migrant workers.

The flooding was triggered by more than an inch of rain that fell suddenly
Sunday morning in foothills northeast of the two towns.

Water swept over vehicles, dislodged mobile homes from their foundations, tore
through small houses and turned travel trailers topsy-turvy.

About 600 residents were evacuated from the two towns. Many found shelter with
family or friends, but about 200 accepted Red Cross shelter in Parker, about 40
miles away.

Grief counselors were dispatched to the shelter, said Red Cross spokeswoman
Andrea Munzer. "A lot of people said they barely escaped with their lives," she
said. "It's overwhelming."



LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              241 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   October 25, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Panel Declines to Address Visa Issue; Foreign Workers Said To Lower Tech Pay

Carrie Johnson , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E03

LENGTH: 649 words


Foreign nationals working in the United States keep wages of Americans in the
technology industry from rising as quickly as they otherwise might, according to
a research panel that examined the nation's high-tech workforce.

A new report issued by the National Research Council, which advises the federal
government on scientific issues, comes days after President Clinton signed into
law a bill that increased the number of H-1B visas, allowing more than 195,000
skilled technology workers, mostly from India and China, to enter the United
States this year.

"We feel [the population of foreign workers] is so large that we are totally
dependent on it, and it depresses wages," said Alan Merten, chairman of the
workforce committee and president of George Mason University. "How much, we
don't really know."

The visa legislation passed Congress resoundingly, after high-tech companies
warned that it was increasingly difficult for them to find qualified workers.
But opponents argue that the visas bind foreign employees to companies that pay
them low salaries in exchange for the prospect of permanent U.S. residency.

Critics say the program also discourages companies from recruiting and training
U.S. workers from minority groups and the ranks of women and older workers.

The committee of 15 scholars, labor economists, and representatives from firms
such as Microsoft Corp. and Intel Corp. concluded that foreign workers "can make
positive contributions" to the American technology sector and that they have
helped prevent an economic slowdown. The committee, which was formed at the
behest of Congress, declined to specify how many high-tech visas are needed,
shying away from what it said is a "fundamentally political" decision.

The committee estimated that U.S. companies employ more than 5 million
workers--3.5 percent of the nation's total workforce--in high-tech positions
such as computer programmers and technical writers. About 255,000 of them are in
the country under a visa program for skilled overseas workers, the study said.

The committee's report followed a year of investigation and public hearings held
at technology hubs around the nation. The group looked broadly at the state of
the technology workforce.

The committee, for instance, examined whether age discrimination persists at
technology companies but decided there was too little information available to
draw conclusions. Workers over age 40 are more likely to lose their jobs than
younger employees, the panel reported, but they tend to find new positions
within two or three weeks of their younger counterparts. Unlike younger male
technical workers, however, men over 40 often are paid less in their new jobs.

Some critics complained that the panel was weighted in industry's favor, and
they took issue with a recommendation calling for more research into
discriminatory practices among technical firms. "That's a stalling tactic," said
Norman Matloff, a professor at the University of California at Davis. "I just
don't think there's any question that they're spinning this the industry way."

That view is vigorously rejected by committee member Peter Saflund.

"There was a lot of healthy debate about what the data meant," said Saflund,
associate director of the NorthWest Center for Emerging Technologies, a
Washington state group that promotes technical education. "There was also
healthy debate about the lack of data."

Helen Wood, an official at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
and a member of the committee, said the panel "strove to focus on fact, what is
real, what can we verify."

At the same time, Wood said, technology firms and government agencies should
think more creatively about recruiting women, minorities and older people.

"When the market is tight, you need not make it tighter by overlooking
resources," she said.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              242 of 242 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    December 29, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

New Congress Could Tackle Important Internet Issues; Privacy, Taxation,
Copyright Reform Expected to Be Hot Topics

Christopher Stern , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1292 words


The new economy kept Congress busy this year. It held more than two dozen
Web-related hearings and passed bills increasing the number of foreign high-tech
workers allowed to immigrate to the United States and giving electronic
contracts the same legal footing as those written in pen and ink.

But when the new Congress begins work as early as next month, lobbyists will be
stalking the halls on a variety of Internet-related matters, including three key
issues: online privacy, Internet taxation and copyright reform.

Dot-com stock values are plummeting and new-economy layoffs have become part of
the daily news cycle, but there is little doubt that the Internet is having a
fundamental impact on the way the nation lives and does business. Consumers are
expected to spend $ 10 billion this year buying products online. And Napster's
44 million users continue to download millions of songs without paying a dime in
royalties.

The new Congress may have an evenly divided Senate and a slim Republican
majority in the House, but Internet related legislation tends to be bipartisan
and not likely to be directly affected by political bickering. Lawmakers from
both sides of the aisle are eager to do their part for the new economy and the
deep-pocketed companies that are creating it.

"What politician wants to be against the Internet?" asked Jonathan Potter,
executive director of the Digital Media Association.

Congress has hardly been sitting on its hands during the past year when it comes
to new-economy legislation, but almost as soon as it resolves one issue, another
pops up demanding attention.

President Clinton has also been active in the last weeks of his presidency. He
has authorized a new federal rule that bars companies from transferring medical
records of patients to third parties without the consent of the individual.
Clinton's action was hailed as a victory by privacy advocates who are concerned
that companies will buy, sell and trade personal medical information.

Congress is still expected to debate a new law that would limit the ability of
companies to buy, sell or trade sensitive financial data, such as credit-card
numbers and credit information.

Gene Kimmelman, co-director of the Washington office of Consumers Union, called
financial privacy a "blockbuster issue" for the new Congress.

Business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce will lobby against the
effort, insisting that companies are policing themselves. But Rick Lane,
director of e-commerce and Internet technology in the chamber's congressional
affairs office, acknowledges that both Democratic and Republican lawmakers know
their constituents are concerned about online privacy. "We are realistic enough
to understand that these issues poll through the roof," Lane said.

Another issue the new Congress is sure to take up is the moratorium on Internet
taxation. A three-year federal ban on states enacting taxes specific to Internet
transactions expires in October, and legislators must decide whether to extend
the ban or make it permanent. The law is intended to ensure that products bought
over the Internet are not taxed at different rates than if they are bought in
the bricks-and-mortar world.

Lawmakers are expected to adopt the recommendation of a congressionally convened
panel, which concluded in April that the moratorium should be extended for five
years.

Extending the ban is a no-brainer, said Erick Gustafson of Citizens for a Sound
Economy, a conservative free-market advocacy group. Gustafson points out that
since Internet-related taxes have not yet been built into local budgets, it is
painless to extend the moratorium. "It is not going to shut down schools. It is
not going to eliminate firetrucks," Gustafson said.

A trickier issue for Congress to resolve is a pending proposal to help states
collect taxes for products that are bought on the Internet and shipped across
state lines. Most Internet transactions are not taxed. But few people realize
that they are supposed to pay local "use" taxes if they don't pay taxes in the
state where the item originated. States are concerned about losing out on
billions of dollars in taxes as more commerce moves off Main Street and onto the
Internet.

Now there is growing momentum for states to streamline local tax policies, to
make it easier for Internet companies to calculate local taxes owed on each
purchase. Some states are trying to link approval of the tax moratorium to a new
law that would require Internet companies to collect local taxes when they send
items across state lines.

Consumers not only haven't had to worry about paying taxes on Internet
purchases, but in the case of music, many haven't been paying anything at all.

Tens of millions of Web surfers have discovered that it is easier to download a
song free from Napster's Web site than it is to buy it in a store. Despite their
popularity, Napster and other Web sites are struggling for survival in the face
of lawsuits from the major record companies, which claim the sites aid and abet
the theft of copyrighted material. MP3.com, another online music site, has
already agreed to pay $ 170 million to settle lawsuits filed by the same major
record companies.

But Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) has described
file-swapping sites such as Napster as positive because they allow recording
artists to connect directly with their audiences without interference of record
labels. "I view the stakeholders as the people on the two ends of the wires,"
Hatch said during an October hearing that included testimony from Napster
founder Shawn Fanning.

Hatch, a songwriter and performer who has recorded his own music, expects to
hold more hearings on copyright issues next year. Napster and MP3.com are
girding for battle and have hired high-powered lobbyists. Napster hired Hatch's
former chief of staff, Manus Cooney, and MP3.com hired Billy Pitts, a longtime
Hill aide who was most recently in Walt Disney Co.'s Washington office. They're
squared off against the Recording Industry Association of America, a trade
organization that represents the major record labels. In addition, many of the
labels have their own lobbyists.

Pitts said Congress faces a difficult task--protecting the rights of copyright
holders while ensuring that copyright does not get in the way of exciting new
technologies. But there must be changes, said Pitts. Despite current laws,
consumers are demanding easy access to music and other copyrighted material on
the Internet. "The current mechanisms are not working," he said.


Capitol Hill's Internet Agenda

Databases: Copyright protection of databases is an issue that divides
new-economy companies such as Yahoo and eBay. The online auction site wants its
databases legally protected so other Web sites may not hold their own online
auctions with material originally posted to eBay. Joining eBay are organizations
such as the National Association of Realtors, which wants to ensure that rival
real estate agents cannot poach home listings.

Broadband: This legislation is likely to be influenced by the Federal Trade
Commission's decision to require America Online and Time Warner, as a condition
of their merger, to open their cable lines to rival Internet service providers.
Lawmakers are expected to seek to create a uniform federal policy on open
access. The proposal could end up requiring all cable companies to open their
networks to rival ISPs.

Internet gambling: Congress is likely to again take up the debate of Internet
gambling next year. The most recent version of the bill banned most Internet
wagers but created exemptions for gambling on dog racing, horse racing and jai
alai.



LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IG

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post
