
                               1 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 24, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Officials Raid Wal-Mart Stores;
250 Suspected Illegal Workers Arrested at 61 Locations Nationally

BYLINE: Dina ElBoghdady and Greg Schneider, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 914 words


Federal immigration officials raided Wal-Mart stores across the country
yesterday, arresting 250 cleaning-crew workers they suspect of being illegal
aliens.

The raids, at 61 stores in 21 states, were part of an investigation into whether
the world's largest retailer or its subcontractors knowingly hired illegal
immigrants, the officials said.

The stores included eight in Virginia -- in Sterling, Culpeper, Richmond,
Winchester, Harrisonburg, Lynchburg, Lexington and Madison Heights -- and two in
Maryland, in Catonsville and Mount Airy. Officials would not say how many
workers were arrested at those locations.

The workers were employed by one or many of the more than 100 contractors that
perform cleaning services in more than 700 of the retailer's nearly 3,000 U.S.
stores, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman said.

Immigration agents also searched the office of one manager at the Bentonville,
Ark., headquarters of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and carried away boxes of paperwork,
officials said.

If the discount chain is found to have known about the workers' illegal status,
it could be fined up to $10,000 per worker, said Garrison Courtney, a spokesman
for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, the largest investigative
arm of the Department of Homeland Security.

"We're just trying to ensure that employers remain compliant with the law, that
they're not undercutting or paying the illegals two bucks a day, to make sure
they're not exploiting alien workers," Courtney said.

Suzanne Haney, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said the company has "seen no evidence
from [the government] that anyone from Wal-Mart was involved in any scheme
involving illegal workers. . . . We are currently trying to understand the scope
and details of the investigation. . . . We were surprised by the raids."

Wal-Mart has initiated its own internal investigation into the matter and plans
to cooperate fully with investigators, Haney added.

The workers rounded up yesterday were from a variety of places, including
Eastern Europe and central Mexico, Courtney said. It will be up to an
immigration judge to determine whether they face criminal charges and whether
they will be deported, he said.

It could take months or years for them to have hearings to determine whether
they can stay in the country, and some may be in the process of applying for
legal status, said Jo Anne C. Adlerstein, an immigration lawyer at Proskauer
Rose LLP.

As news of the arrests spread, some immigration groups and labor officials
blasted the government's actions. Instead of punishing the workers, they said,
the government should be penalizing large corporations, which tend to hire
subcontractors for low-skill services, such as custodial work, to distance
themselves from responsibility for worker conditions and liability for
widespread illegal hiring practices.

"It's one of the ways in which employers have insulated themselves at a time
when entire industries, particularly janitorial services, are dependent on
immigrant workers -- a large number of whom are undocumented," said Frank
Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum.

Sharry said the tactic was an attempt to grab headlines. "You have Homeland
Security agents targeting custodians rather than terrorists," he said.

The investigation was triggered by a probe launched by Pennsylvania Attorney
General Mike Fisher in 1998. Kevin Harley, a spokesman for Fisher's office, was
tight-lipped about the focus of the initial probe, saying it "started as a
money-laundering investigation in central Pennsylvania."

"As our investigation proceeded, we asked the U.S. attorney's office to join us
in the investigation," Harley said. "At that point it became a joint
investigation and as many investigations do, it went in different directions,
which eventually led us to where we are today."

Courtney said the agency routinely conducts such operations, but that only those
snaring a large number of people get public notice. Within the last year, he
said, ICE rooted out about 250 illegal workers at T.J. Maxx discount stores and
rounded up more than 40 landscapers at the U.S. Air Force Academy.

But the government's strategy of enforcing immigration laws in corporate America
was dealt a blow earlier this year when a federal jury acquitted Tyson Foods
Inc. and three of its managers of conspiring to bring illegal immigrants from
Mexico and Central America to work in the company's food processing plants.

Congress in 1986 made businesses responsible for checking and filling out
paperwork on the legal status of employees.

Since then, raids of the kind at the Wal-Mart stores have become less frequent,
Adlerstein said. "I don't think these government raids accomplish anything," she
said. "I have no recollection of seeing anything as expensive as a coordinated
raid in 21 states" like the one at Wal-Mart. "It's a waste of manpower."

Congress has been moving toward immigration reform in recent years, with both
the House and Senate now considering legislation to help undocumented
agricultural workers move toward citizenship. The idea is that documenting such
workers would help government and businesses alike do a better job of managing
them and making sure their rights are protected.

"If anything good comes out of [the Wal-Mart raids], maybe it will get this
company to the point where it will start taking responsibility for its
employees," said Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of the Service
Employees International Union.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                               2 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 21, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

'Undocumented Worker' Means 'Illegal Alien'

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 108 words


The Post uses the phrases "undocumented immigrants" or "undocumented workers" to
describe illegal aliens.

These terms are not legally accurate and seem to be used to soften the nature of
what is really occurring.

Our federal immigration laws do not refer to those who came into this country
illegally as "undocumented immigrants" or "undocumented workers." It calls them
"aliens" who are "present in violation of law." A more appropriate term for
such people  is  "illegal alien." Clearly, one who has violated our immigration
laws to remain in the United States has engaged in illegal behavior.

LAMAR SMITH

U.S. Representative (R-Tex.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                               3 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 7, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Plan Would Give Immigrants Legal Status;
Temporary Standing Based on Employment

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 955 words


President Bush will propose today  an overhaul of immigration laws that would
grant temporary legal status to millions of undocumented workers in the United
States and their families as long as the  workers can prove they are employed, a
senior administration official said last night.

In a White House speech, the president will ask Congress to create a new
temporary worker program -- open to undocumented workers now in the United
States and to foreigners who want to come -- that would give them legal status
for three years, renewable for a yet-to-be-determined number of times, the
official said.

Bush's supporters in the business community have made liberalization of
immigration laws a top priority because of a shortage of workers willing to take
low-wage jobs. And both political parties see Latino voters, who generally
support more liberal immigration policies, as crucial to the November elections.
But some congressional conservatives object to looser immigration policies, and
a Republican leadership aide predicted that opposition will be swift and loud.

The administration estimates that 8 million undocumented people,  more than half
of them from Mexico, are in the country. All would qualify as long as an
employer will vouch for them, the official said. Administration sources
described the program broadly, and lawmakers will determine its details and
fate.

"So long as the undocumented person represents that they are working here and we
can confirm that, then it could be as many as 8 million people" affected, the
official said on a conference call for reporters. The official gave an example
of "somebody who is working at the Holiday Inn" illegally. If the employer says,
"We're a match, she's been working here as of such-and-such date," then "that
person is now legal, let's say, for the three years of this program," the
official said.

The temporary workers would receive Social Security cards and would be eligible
for driver's licenses in most states, officials said.

The official said the program is designed to "match willing foreign workers with
willing U.S. employers when no American can be found to fill those jobs."  But
if an immigrant is already working in the United States, that requirement will
be considered fulfilled, the official said.

The administration also intends to expand the number of people who can obtain a
green card, or  lawful permanent residency, which begins the path to U.S.
citizenship. Bush aides said they have not decided how much they want to expand
the program, which now issues about 1 million  cards a year.

Aspects of the administration's immigration proposal have emerged in recent
days, but last night's briefing outlined a plan that is broader than many
lawmakers and immigration advocates had expected. The plan is similar in many
respects to legislation introduced by three Arizona Republicans, Sen. John
McCain and Reps. Jim Kolbe and Jeff Flake.

The proposal, Bush's first in his reelection year, would constitute the biggest
change to the nation's immigration system in two decades. Bush is unveiling the
program five days before meeting in Mexico with President Vicente Fox, who has
advocated such changes.

Bush had said during his 2000 campaign that he would make the restructuring of
immigration laws a top priority. But those plans were shelved  after the attacks
of Sept. 11, 2001, when the White House began focusing on tightening border
controls, and Bush has been virtually silent on immigration for two years.

The official briefing reporters said that under Bush's plan, which he is calling
"Fair and Secure Immigration Reform," eligible temporary workers "will be able
to travel freely back, to and from their home country," and will "enjoy minimum
wage, due process protection" and all the other employment rights of U.S.
workers. "It will protect the rights of illegal workers who now live in the
shadows and are fearful of coming out of the shadows for fear of deportation,"
the official said. Dependents would be included if the worker could demonstrate
that he or she can support them.

The program includes "incentives for return to the home country,"  most notably
agreements that would allow workers to collect retirement money that would
include Social Security checks and benefits paid by their home government,
apportioned according to how many quarters they had worked in each country.
Social Security money is already sent abroad. But under the current system, the
pensioners' home countries can penalize them for years spent in the United
States.

Bush also is proposing  tax-preferred "savings accounts that could be used for
the benefit of the participant for either retirement or for a nest egg to buy
land or capitalize a business," the official said.

The official said the administration plans "more strenuous enforcement" of
immigration laws on employers and workers. Bush will propose five principles,
including "We must protect the homeland by controlling our borders."

Another is to "promote compassion" by making undocumented workers "part of the
legitimate part of our economy."

Officials said the program does not include any route that will make it easier
for the temporary workers to become full citizens.

Bush has said that he opposes "blanket amnesty." The official said that is not
an accurate description of  his plan since "there is no linkage between
participation in this program and a green card, and it is temporary in nature --
one must go home upon conclusion of the program."

Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy
group for immigrants, said the program could "result in a large group of
second-class citizens who are unable to get on a path to citizenship."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                               4 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration, at Last

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 615 words


AT LAST THE SUBJECT of illegal immigration is back at the center of public
debate. For that alone, the president, who yesterday announced a proposal to
reform this country's "broken" immigration laws, deserves applause. American
politicians' insistence on ignoring the presence of the 8 million to 14 million
illegal immigrants in this country is one of the great scandals of our time.

The refusal to touch this subject has led to exploitation of the workers
concerned; to a crisis on the southern border, where people regularly die trying
to cross the Arizona desert; to downward pressure on wages, as employers pay
illegal immigrants less than the law requires; and to an unacceptable homeland
security risk from the enormous market in illegal documents that inevitably
accompanies the presence of illegal workers.

The principles behind the president's remarks are ones we support.  He spoke of
bringing illegal workers out of the shadows, so that they can enjoy the
protection of labor and minimum wage laws, pay taxes and return home easily.  He
also talked of making sure illegal immigrants are not bumped ahead of legal
immigrants in the long wait for citizenship and of ensuring that they do not
take jobs away from Americans. Central to his proposal is the notion of a
temporary guest worker program that would allow people to come here, work for a
few years, bring their dependents if they can support them, and go home.
Currently, temporary worker programs are limited, and very difficult to use.

But if the principles are clear, the details of how the program would work
remain worrisomely vague. Although the president has said that temporary visas
would be renewable, he has left open the question of how often they could be
renewed. Although he has said that temporary workers would be expected to go
home, he has been unclear about what would happen if they didn't. Although he
has said that temporary workers would be eligible, eventually, to apply for
green cards and hence permanent resident status, he hasn't  addressed the myriad
other legal changes that would be needed to make that possible, nor indicated
how high he would raise limits on annual distribution of green cards. These
questions matter, because the United States must avoid the creation of a
"temporary" class of workers that is in fact permanent.

Finally, he has said nothing about the bureaucracy required.  The immigration
service can hardly deal with its current workload. It is unprepared to deal with
another 8 million to 14 million cases. Moreover, the White House wants the
process of hiring foreign workers to be quick and easy, yet at the same time to
ensure that employers somehow prove they could not find an American worker for
the job. At the moment, these two goals are incompatible. Some of the proposed
solutions -- foreigners would find jobs through a Labor Department Web site that
had made the jobs available to Americans first -- sound implausible.

The White House says these are details that must be left up to Congress. Yet it
is  doubtful that Congress, which recently shelved a much narrower version of
this same set of ideas, one limited to agricultural workers, will be able to sit
down and come up with practical answers to these politically touchy questions in
an election year. Cynical observers wonder whether the White House, knowing that
Congress won't touch it, has made this announcement simply to tell the Hispanic
and business communities, "We tried." The start of a debate about these
difficult issues is in itself valuable, as we said. But we hope the president
will provide the details to make his proposal meaningful -- and the political
will to make it a reality.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                               5 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 13, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico's Fox Backs Bush Proposal on Immigration;
Most Workers to Return Home, U.S. Leader Asserts at Summit

BYLINE: Mike Allen and Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1331 words

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico Jan. 12


President Bush asserted Monday that most "temporary workers" would eventually
have to leave the United States under a proposed immigration law that could
legalize millions of undocumented workers. The plan received an important
endorsement from President Vicente Fox of Mexico at a hemispheric summit here.

The two-day Summit of the Americas opened with Fox strongly backing, for the
first time, the plan announced by Bush last week that would make temporary
legalization available to an estimated 8 million undocumented immigrants if they
are employed in the United States. Fox also praised the capture of former Iraqi
president Saddam Hussein as a "very important accomplishment," and Bush invited
Fox to his Texas ranch as part of an effort by the two leaders to revive a
partnership that broke off with the war on terrorism and Fox's refusal to back
the war in Iraq.

Bush was more frank than before about the intent of his immigration plan, saying
he "expects that most temporary workers will eventually return permanently to
their home countries" after their work period expires. Bush has left the
proposed lifespan of such work visas up to Congress, but said they should
initially last three years, plus at least one renewal.

He also dismissed criticism that the plan was an election-year ploy and said a
temporary-worker system would benefit the United States economically because of
the immigrants who "fill jobs that others won't take, on the one hand, and also
to make a living to put -- to get money and to send money back to their
families."

Despite a warm welcome from Fox in Mexico's wealthiest and most modern city,
Bush was on the defensive against a more assertive generation of Latin American
leaders who have challenged his efforts to dictate initiatives on security,
corruption and trade. Critics in Latin America have said that free trade and
open market policies supported by the U.S. government -- the so-called
Washington consensus -- had failed to lift Latin America out of poverty, while
creating deep distrust and disillusionment with Washington and Bush.

Chilean President Ricardo Lagos said in an interview that his country's economic
success in the past 10 years was "because of social policies, not because of the
Washington consensus."

Lagos said open markets create opportunities, but "to have growth alone is not
going to solve real problems" of poverty. Yet he praised Bush for "being able to
listen to the new governments that are emerging" in Latin America.

"It's not easy to get acquainted with some quote-unquote leftist governments,"
he said. Still, Lagos said he also perceived anti-Bush sentiment while meeting
with leaders of Caribbean nations Monday morning "who thanked me" for his strong
stand against Bush on the Iraq war.

Lagos and Bush held a private session on Monday afternoon. Speaking briefly to
photographers afterward, Bush said he was "honored to be here with el presidente
de Chile."

The most vociferous critic was Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, who warned U.S.
officials several times over the weekend not to "stick their noses" in his
nation's affairs. He called national security adviser Condoleezza Rice, who is
among Bush's closest confidants, "illiterate."

Many other officials from Central America and South America were more diplomatic
yet still critical of the United States. "Bush is not talking to Latin America,
he is talking to Latinos in America," said one South American diplomat, who said
Bush was putting on a "show" designed to appeal to Hispanic voters during his
reelection race.

But Bush's aides focused on Fox's support and the friendship between the
presidents, after expressing disappointment last week at Fox's tepid initial
reaction to Bush's immigration proposal. Welcoming the former Texas governor to
this city about 100 miles south of the Rio Grande, Fox said at a joint news
conference that he hoped for "a happy ending through the political process that
should be followed within the United States, so that it can be approved in the
Congress of the United States."

The embrace is politically crucial to both leaders, because Fox can claim that
his patience with Bush has paid dividends, while Bush has gained a high-profile
lobbyist for a plan that is a low priority for the Republican leadership on
Capitol Hill. Bush announced the plan at the start of his reelection year as
part of an administration-wide effort to cultivate Hispanic voters.

"Yes, there's politics involved," Bush said in response to a question from a
Mexican reporter. "There will be politics probably involved in whether or not it
passes Congress. But the reason I proposed the initiative is because it is the
right thing for America to do."

The mistrust ran both ways between the leaders, who were meeting for the 10th
time and for the fourth time in Mexico, after Fox used Mexico's seat on the U.N.
Security Council to oppose the invasion of Iraq. Bush said Fox "is a good enough
friend for him to be able to express his opinion to me without the loss of
friendship. And he didn't agree with the decision I made."

"The decision I made was the right one for America, and history will prove it's
the right one for the world," Bush said with a defiant tone. "And we will stay
the course until the job is done."

In what both sides hoped would be a signal that they had put the Iraq
disagreement behind them, Bush announced that Fox would visit his Texas ranch on
March 5-6.

Bush's public embrace of Fox was seen by analysts here as a political boost for
Fox at a time when his presidency is largely stalled.

During Fox's opening statement at the news conference, he spoke cautiously about
the immigration plan, saying it should be "discussed, analyzed" and made his
endorsement explicit only while answering the first question. The day before,
Fox had told NBC News that he considered Bush's plan "part of the enchilada" and
that he would "work for more of it -- more enchilada."

At the news conference, Fox called the plan "a very important step forward for
many Mexican workers in the United States," in part because he said they "can
see that their labor rights and their human rights are completely respected
there."

In the evening, Bush announced in opening remarks at the 34-nation summit that
he had signed a proclamation denying entry to public officials guilty of
corruption, and urged other nations to take similar action.

"We must also chart a clear course toward a vibrant free market that will help
lift people out of poverty and create a healthy middle class," Bush said. "We
have great opportunities to work together to improve the quality of life for all
the people of this hemisphere."

The unusually polarized summit includes the leaders of every country in the
hemisphere except Cuba, and Bush urged the members of the Organization of
American States to press for democracy there. "Dictatorship has no place in the
Americas," he said.

Bush met for about half an hour with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of
Brazil, a vocal critic of some U.S. policies. The Brazilian government has taken
a leading role in opposing U.S. agricultural subsidies. The countries also face
a controversy over a Brazilian judge's decision to order the fingerprinting and
photographing of U.S. citizens entering the country in retaliation for Brazil's
inclusion in similar anti-terrorism measures at U.S. airports.

Bush, who flew into Monterrey from his ranch, is to meet Tuesday with the
leaders of Argentina, Bolivia and Canada, before returning to Washington.

Rodolfo H. Gil, Argentina's ambassador to the Organization of American States,
said Bush had a "very favorable record" in Latin America and had recently shown
an "undeniable attitude of cooperation and solidarity" with Argentina in its
dealings with the International Monetary Fund. But Gil said he also saw
"profound, profound frustration" with the Bush administration throughout Latin
America.

Staff writer Marcela Sanchez contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                               6 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 22, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

No Driver's Licenses for Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Editorial; A28

LENGTH: 206 words


According to the Oct. 13 Metro article "Licensing Foreign Drivers Studied,"
Maryland Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. has signed legislation establishing a task
force to study whether to allow illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses.

The task force should keep in mind that Title 8, Section 1324, of the U.S. Code
states in part, "Any person who . . . encourages or induces an alien to come to,
enter or reside in the United States, knowing or in reckless disregard of the
fact that such coming to, entry or residence is or will be in violation of law .
. . shall be punish[ed]" according to provisions set out in the code.

Issuing a driver's license to an illegal immigrant would conflict with this
federal law because a  driver's license enables  the bearer to open bank
accounts, cash checks, rent cars and hotel rooms and fly on airplanes. Such
action probably would be viewed by a judge as encouraging an undocumented
immigrant to reside in the United States.

Perhaps more important, polls such as the one mentioned in the article show that
most citizens do not want undocumented immigrants to have driver's licenses. To
ignore these polls and pass conflicting legislation  flouts  the will of the
people.

RUDY WEITZ

Alexandria

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                               7 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 22, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Calif. Immigrant Initiative Revived;
Ballot Proposal Would Bar State Services to Undocumented

BYLINE: Robert Jablon, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Backers of a contentious 1994 initiative denying some social services to illegal
immigrants have resurrected their effort and are gathering signatures to qualify
a new measure for the November ballot.

The "Save Our State Initiative" would bar undocumented immigrants from obtaining
driver's licenses and most public services, including non-emergency health care.

Police, teachers and other public employees would have to notify federal
authorities in writing of immigration violations or face potential misdemeanor
criminal charges.

"We don't think it's right to give welfare to illegal aliens," campaign
organizer Ron Prince said Saturday. "If you don't do something about illegal
immigration, you will never cure your deficit."

The campaign has collected hundreds of signatures and several thousand dollars
since it began less than two weeks ago, Prince said. Backers need 500,900 valid
signatures by April to put the measure on the November ballot.

The measure is similar to 1994's Proposition 187, which was approved by 60
percent of voters but never took effect because of court challenges.

This time supporters have designed the measure so it can survive legal
challenges, Prince said. One difference is that the new proposal would allow
illegal immigrants to attend public school.

The Proposition 187 campaign angered many Hispanic groups, who accused its
supporters of racism.

Nativo V. Lopez, president of the Mexican American Political Association and
national director of the immigrant rights group Hermandad Mexicana
Latinoamericana, called the new effort "symptomatic of the worst of what we saw
of the 1990s anti-immigrant movement."

Prince said Proposition 187 supporters were encouraged by the Oct. 7 recall of
Gov. Gray Davis (D), fueled in part by anger over a bill he signed that would
have permitted some illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) repealed the law after taking office. He voted
for Proposition 187 but has not taken a position on the proposed new initiative.

The state Republican Party also endorsed Proposition 187, but no major GOP
organization has endorsed the new campaign.

Backers say the new initiative is necessary because providing services to
undocumented immigrants is costing California millions of dollars. A summary of
the measure prepared by the attorney general's office says it could cost the
government tens of millions of dollars to verify citizenship but could save more
than $100 million a year through reduced costs of providing public services.

Prince disputes some studies that indicate illegal immigrants pay more in taxes
than they use in government services. "If that were true, California would be
awash in extra cash instead of having the worst deficit in the nation and in our
history," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                               8 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 2, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

New Limits On Licensing Of Immigrants;
Drivers Illegally in U.S. Target of Md. Proposal

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 706 words


Maryland legislators will soon consider a proposal to strengthen the state's
already stringent rules against granting driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants.

The bill, to be introduced at the start of the General Assembly's session this
month by Del. Herbert H. McMillan (R-Anne Arundel), comes a year after state
lawmakers briefly considered -- but decided against -- extending Maryland
licenses to illegal immigrants. Instead, the General Assembly passed an amended
version that established a task force to investigate the desirability,
feasibility and security implications of the idea.

In practice, it is nearly impossible for illegal immigrants to get a Maryland
license because the state's Motor Vehicle Administration requires foreign-born
applicants to prove their identity with a range of documents that only someone
who is in the country legally would have -- such as a passport with a valid
immigration stamp.

However, no state law specifically bars illegal immigrants from getting a
license. And in September the state attorney general issued an opinion stating
that the MVA cannot require applicants to prove they are in the country legally
as a separate condition of getting a license. The MVA still can require
applicants to prove their identity with immigration documents when other
satisfactory identification is unavailable, the opinion said.

MVA officials argue that the attorney general's opinion supports their current
policy.

But immigrant advocates contend that the opinion validates their view that the
MVA's practice is illegal, and several, including Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez
(D-Montgomery), have spoken of challenging it in court.

McMillan said his bill was needed to head off that possibility.

"I don't want for those who are in favor of giving illegal aliens licenses to
obtain something through the courts that they couldn't obtain in the
legislature," he said.

Kimberly Propeack, advocacy director at the immigrant-rights group Casa de
Maryland, charged that the timing of McMillan's proposal is inappropriate.

"The governor [and legislature] have just appointed the task force to study this
very issue, so [McMillan's] bill is absolutely premature and dismissive of those
efforts," she said.

The task force, which held its first meeting in November, is composed of
legislators, immigration law experts and representatives of immigrant-rights
groups, businesses and state and federal agencies. It is to present its
recommendations in December.

McMillan countered that the legislation creating the task force was passed
before the attorney general's opinion, "and that totally changed the landscape."

Ensuring that Maryland driver's licenses remain off-limits to illegal immigrants
is necessary, McMillan said, to prevent terrorists from easily obtaining what
has in practice become a national identification card. A driver's license allows
someone to open bank accounts, cash checks, rent cars and hotel rooms and fly on
airplanes.

Immigrant advocates maintain that most illegal immigrants are hardworking,
otherwise law-abiding residents willing to take low-wage jobs that American
workers shun. Allowing them to get licenses would ease the hardship they face
while making the roads safer for citizens by increasing the number of motorists
who are insured and have passed a driving test.

But McMillan disagreed with that prediction. "Why would you assume that illegal
immigrants are going to get insurance just because they have a driver's
license?" he asked. "They're here illegally, so breaking the law is clearly not
a concern to them."

McMillan said his measure has about 24 co-sponsors, including Democrats Del.
Emmett C. Burns Jr. (Baltimore County) and Del. Rosetta C. Parker (Prince
George's).

The debate in Maryland mirrors discussions across the nation in recent years,
with several states choosing to open driver's licenses to illegal immigrants
even as others, including Virginia, have moved to close that possibility.

Roughly half the states do not have laws explicitly requiring driver's license
applicants to prove that they are in the country legally.

Like Maryland, however, many have application policies that make it all but
impossible for such immigrants to obtain a driver's license.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                               9 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 7, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Gov. Bush Backs Licenses for Immigrants

BYLINE: Brendan Farrington, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A32

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE April 6


Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R) has endorsed a bill to allow illegal immigrants to get
driver's licenses, saying they are in the state anyway and officials should
accept that fact.

The bill he is backing has enough safeguards that it would ensure terrorists
would not get licenses, Bush said.

"We shouldn't allow them to come into the country to begin with, but once
they're here, what do you do? Do you basically say that they're lepers to
society? That they don't exist?" he asked. "A policy that ignores them is a
policy of denial."

The issue comes up just four months after California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger,
a fellow Republican, fulfilled a campaign promise by repealing a law that would
have allowed an estimated 2 million illegal immigrant drivers there to begin
applying for licenses. Opponents of the law said it would have posed a threat to
national security because there were not  sufficient background checks. Some
also argued that providing licenses to undocumented immigrants rewarded illegal
behavior.

Bush, the president's brother, said he "would prefer to have our borders be
secure, that we deport people when they are found to be here illegally." But he
added: "That's not a responsibility of the state. We are prohibited from being a
part of that."

Last week, Illinois lawmakers rejected letting illegal immigrants obtain
driver's licenses. Arizona legislators are moving to toughen the state's
requirement that driver's license applicants provide proof of authorized
presence in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              10 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 17, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Unlicensed

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 350 words


FIVE MONTHS AGO a Virginia law designed to restrict access to driver's licenses
for illegal immigrants went into effect. Since then scams have multiplied. Last
week, state officials announced they had invalidated more than 1,000 licenses
that had been purchased illegally from two motor vehicle clerks in Tysons
Corner. Not long ago, Spotsylvania County authorities also discovered a driver's
license forgery ring. Other illegal immigrants have fallen victim to scams
involving international driver's  licenses or have purchased fake green cards
and visas.

These are stories that should give Virginia lawmakers pause. After all, when new
regulations were passed, they were meant to close loopholes that had allowed
some of the Sept. 11 hijackers to obtain illegal driver's licenses in Virginia.
Instead, the law may be creating a much larger secondary black market in
identity documents. Given the large number of immigrants living in Virginia,
given how integrated they are into the state's economy and  given how much de
facto encouragement they have received from Virginia employers to stay, this is
hardly surprising: Like prohibition, this is a law that not only will be
flouted; it also could create whole new spheres of criminal activity in the
process.

True, Virginia is under no obligation to provide a driver's license, which is in
effect a legal identity document, to illegal residents of the state: This is not
an issue of legal or humanitarian "rights." But lawmakers ought to listen
carefully to the law enforcement officers across the country who have lobbied
state governments to make driver's licenses available to illegal immigrants.
Those with licenses can get insurance, can be identified if arrested and will
not be tempted to resort to forgery.

No one would deny that the presence of illegal immigrants does represent a
failure at the federal level. But state officials should not have to pay for
that failure in higher levels of lawlessness and crime. Virginia authorities
should treat the current rules as an experiment and leave open the possibility
of further changes.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              11 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 24, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

No Driver's Licenses for Calif. Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Kimberly Edds, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES Sept. 23


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) late Wednesday vetoed a bill that would have
given as many as 2 million illegal immigrants California driver's licenses,
saying the measure failed to provide sufficient security provisions at a time of
heightened terrorism fears.

"This bill does not adequately address the security concerns that my Department
of Homeland Security and I have, and I cannot support it," Schwarzenegger said
in a brief veto message.

Ten states allow illegal immigrants to apply for licenses, and the issue has
long been important to Latino lawmakers here. They accused Schwarzenegger of
backing out of a deal to work together to  reach a mutually acceptable bill.

"He chose to veto the best driver's license bill proposal in the nation -- one
that strengthens national security and public safety while holding immigrants to
the highest level of responsibility in the nation," said state Sen. Gil Cedillo
(D-Los Angeles), who  sponsored the bill and  three previous versions.
Supporters   say that illegal immigrants contribute to the state's economy and
that the bill would have improved road safety by forcing them to take driving
tests and get insurance.

But opponents argued the measure would reward people who are in the country
illegally and could make it easier for terrorists to assimilate.  Polls show a
majority of California voters are against allowing undocumented immigrants
licenses.

"Illegal immigrants are in direct violation of our federal immigration laws.
These laws require them to be deported, not accommodated,"  Republican state
Sen. Tom McClintock said.

In an effort to emphasize the added safety measures, the bill had been renamed
the Immigrant and Security Act. Illegal immigrants would have  to pay for
extensive background checks and be fingerprinted. The cost would have been $141,
compared with  $24 for a standard license.

The legislature approved a similar proposal last year which then-Gov. Gray Davis
(D) signed into law. Davis had long opposed the measure but changed his stance
amid his tough, and eventually unsuccessful, effort to stave off being recalled.

Schwarzenegger opposed the measure. After his election last year, legislators
repealed the law.

Some lawmakers said they voted for the repeal only after being told
Schwarzenegger was committed to a new proposal with increased security measures.
But negotiations on the proposal stalled when Schwarzenegger insisted there  be
an identifying mark on the license to distinguish the holder as a noncitizen --
a requirement rejected by Latino lawmakers as discriminatory.

Schwarzenegger pledged to veto the measure when legislators approved it Aug. 27
without the mark provision.

More than 20 states, including  Virginia,  prohibit  illegal immigrants from
getting  licenses.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              12 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 12, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Open-and-Shut Society

BYLINE: Anne Applebaum

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 850 words


Last week, in the middle of the day, traffic ground to a halt on Interstate 10,
the highway that runs south from Phoenix. Rival gangs of "coyotes," the
criminals who smuggle illegal immigrants over the Mexican border, had started
shooting at one another through the open windows of their trucks. The trucks
were packed with people. Five died, three were wounded and 27 others were
detained.

On that same day -- a few miles up that same interstate -- the Mexican
president, Vicente Fox, was visiting businessmen and politicians in Phoenix,
talking a little trade and a lot of immigration reform. When asked, he insisted
that the United States and Mexico "are talking about migration," which is no
doubt true. Ideas are "developing," he explained, which is no doubt true as
well. Secretary of State Colin Powell himself recently told a Spanish-language
television program  that immigration reform remained high on  President Bush's
agenda -- adding, "I don't want to over-promise." Indeed. It is always a good
idea to lower expectations when immigration reform is being discussed.

Of course, this non-conversation about immigration reform has a lot in common
with other non-conversations  -- about Social Security reform, say, or health
care reform -- that happen in Washington all the time. What makes it different
is the deeper level of absurdity into which immigration policy has lately sunk.
Consider this: Violent gangs of smugglers regularly cross the Mexican border
into this country, where they conduct shootouts in broad daylight. At the same
time, a whole new, post-Sept. 11 visa bureaucracy now regularly prevents
distinguished scientists and pianists from visiting this country at all. In
other words, you can get in if you're a gun-toting thug, but not if you're a
visiting professor of neurology.

And consider this, too: American agriculture is now utterly dependent on the
labor of millions of illegal immigrants. As a result, business lobbies have
recently persuaded both right-wing Republicans and left-wing Democrats to back
bills that would make it easier for companies to get temporary visas for their
migrant workers, without whom they could not function. Yet this logical method
of legalizing a huge swath of the underground economy -- which would be
extremely useful from a "homeland security" point of view too -- is considered
so politically explosive that few in Congress believe it can even be discussed
so close to an election. Millions of illegal immigrants are here, in other words
-- and 11/2 million more enter every year -- helping to keep food prices,
restaurant bills and leaf-raking costs low, yet it's considered "controversial"
even to admit that they exist.

But immigration is also different from the myriad other national dilemmas
because it hits dangerously close to some of our most cherished myths. As a
nation, we continue to celebrate our immigrant origins. Children learn to recite
"give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses" in school. Advertisers sell
products using photographs of happy, multicolored customers. Presidents appoint
Cabinets that "look like America," meaning, in part, that they contain people
from recent immigrant backgrounds.

At the same time -- contrary to popular belief -- we have extremely stringent
immigration laws. Not only are our borders theoretically closed, we set up other
barriers of bureaucracy and inconvenience for many foreigners who want to enter
legally, even for short visits. Soon we will require many visitors -- including
many coming from countries where we are supposed to be promoting democracy -- to
be fingerprinted and photographed before entering the United States, procedures
that will no doubt keep many of those proto-democrats away.

Finally, having passed these strict laws that offend so many people, we then
fail to supply our immigration services with the resources necessary to enforce
them. Illegal immigrants operate with almost complete freedom, and no one
arrests them or deports them. The immigration bureaucracy is notoriously
inefficient and capricious. The border remains porous, although it is more
dangerous than it used to be. Knowing that it is possible, in theory, to get
across -- and knowing there will be jobs once they arrive -- large numbers of
people venture into the Arizona desert every year, often with the help of
smugglers. Many die trying.

Or maybe it all makes sense: Perhaps in the end we really do have the
immigration policy we deserve. We don't want the disruption and dislocation that
an uncontrolled influx of foreign citizens would bring, not to mention the
terrorist threats, so we create strict laws. We do want the benefits of cheap
immigrant labor, as well as the satisfaction of thinking ourselves an open
society, so we don't enforce those laws. All of our contradictory desires are
simultaneously satisfied and everyone is happy. Meanwhile, a shadow, illegal
America, a world of fake documents, cash payments and smuggler gangs, grows
larger every year -- even showing itself occasionally on the interstate at
midday.

applebaumanne@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              13 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 22, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Flash of Honesty

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 548 words


AGLIMMER of a change in Bush administration immigration policy appeared, not at
a press conference or in a major speech but in an off-the-cuff remark during a
town hall meeting in Miami earlier this month. Asked there about proposed
immigration legislation, Tom Ridge, secretary for homeland security, replied
that he thought Americans needed to "come to grips with the presence of 8 to 12
million illegals, afford them some kind of legal status." Mr. Ridge was not, it
seems, any more specific than that -- and "some kind of legal status" can mean
many things.

Nevertheless, his comments unleashed a mini-storm of abuse, as well as a rather
unclear White House clarification. Last week President Bush declared himself
firmly against "blanket amnesty" but called for an immigration policy that
"helps match any willing employer to any willing employee," whatever that means.
Although rumor has it that the president intends to propose legislation that
would expand the use of temporary visas, which would help bring undocumented
workers out of the illegal economy, senior administration officials will not
confirm or deny it.

The ambiguity is bipartisan: Howard Dean, when asked about his immigration
policies by the Arizona Republic last week, at first said that he was critical
of guest-worker legislation but then declared himself in favor of many of the
principles embodied in the bills he said he disliked.

All of these ambiguous statements come in a context: a growing feeling among
businesses, politicians and, most important, those who care about homeland
security that the current de facto tolerance of mass numbers of illegal
immigrants is no longer acceptable. It's long been clear that living in a legal
shadowland exposes such people to exploitation. Now, at a moment when the
nation's terrorism alert level once again has been raised to orange, attention
is being paid to the security implications of an enormous, undocumented
population that creates a market for fake documents and Social Security numbers
and supports an enormous people-smuggling industry as well.

Some progress has been made: Beginning in January, the United States will begin
to issue higher-tech visas. The Department of Homeland Security also claims it
has stepped up its cooperation with states to ensure they keep closer control
over the issuance of driver's licenses. Nevertheless, advocacy groups last week
published a study showing that the administration had failed to complete a dozen
other planned border security improvements.

And no one yet seems prepared to deal with the root cause of the problem. Mr.
Bush's plans for immigration reform were derailed by the attacks of Sept. 11,
2001, but the past two years have provided even more evidence that the current
system is not working and that change is needed. A number of immigration bills
proposing various forms of temporary visas and registration of illegal
immigrants are  under discussion in Congress -- although the one with the most
bipartisan support has been derailed by a Republican Senate subcommittee. The
ambiguity helps no one: Democratic candidates should clarify their views, the
president and his party should stop their infighting and Congress should get to
work on legislation that can be passed as soon as possible.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              14 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 18, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Cross-Country Ride to Champion Rights for Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 603 words


Almost 900 workers traveling in buses from across the country will converge on
Washington on Oct. 1, inspired by the Freedom Rides of the 1960s civil rights
movement but focused on advocating for immigrants' rights, organizers announced
yesterday.

The event, billed as the Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride, includes 18 buses that
will depart from 10 cities beginning Saturday. The participants will meet in
Washington on the evening of Oct. 1 for a series of rallies, a march through
downtown and a visit to Congress before leaving Oct. 3 for New Jersey. The ride
will culminate at a mass rally Oct. 4 in Flushing Meadows Park in Queens, N.Y.

Along the various cross-country routes, buses will stop in 103 cities to
participate in gatherings and meet with political and religious leaders. A stop
in Tucson will include a ceremony to commemorate illegal immigrants who died in
the desert as they tried to enter the United States to find work.

Organizers said the focus of the event is to gain support from Congress and the
public for legislation giving legal status to millions of illegal immigrants who
work, pay taxes and contribute to the economic growth of the country.

"We don't believe we are a burden to this country," said Rafael Ernesto
Gonzalez, an office cleaner in downtown Washington who immigrated here four
years ago from El Salvador and is a member of the Service Employees
International Union Local 82.

Gonzalez, among hundreds of thousands of Salvadorans, is living and working in
the United States legally under the immigration designation of Temporary
Protected Status, which expires in March 2005. But he cannot visit his country
legally nor have his family reunited with him.

"It's four years that I've seen my family," he said. "We have feelings, and we
get melancholy. We should not be seen as a threat to this country, but as
contributors. Our immigration status should be changed."

The national coordinator of the ride compared the fight for immigrants' rights
to the struggle for equal rights by the civil rights movement.

"All people are equal . . . and no one should live in the shadows of this
society," said Maria Elena Durazo, the national coordinator of the ride and vice
president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union
Local 11 in Los Angeles.

The Rev. James E. Orange, an original Freedom Rider and a former associate of
the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., said that in the 1960s, he would have never
predicted the need for another mass rights movement after "having our heads
beaten in and our buses burned." But he said the movement "is alive and well and
we applaud those who are working with us."

Durazo said organizers were concerned about harassment from hate groups along
the bus routes. She said ride participants have been trained to respond
nonviolently, in the tradition of King, in case of confrontations.

The buses will arrive in Southwest Washington in the late afternoon Oct. 1, and
participants will stay in a hotel for two nights. A welcoming event, including
city and federal elected officials and religious and union leaders, will be held
that night at Bible Way Temple in Northwest.

On Oct. 2, participants will meet on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol, then
spend the day lobbying Congress. That night there will be a reception at AFL-CIO
headquarters, featuring Cardinal Theodore E. McCarrick, archbishop of
Washington, and AFL-CIO President John J. Sweeney. Afterward, participants will
rally at Farragut Square in support of parking attendants. A short march also
will be held on the streets bordering the square, organizers said.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              15 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 11, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Ridge Revives Debate on Immigrant Status

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 532 words


Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge told a Miami audience this week that the
U.S. government should consider offering some form of legal status to as many as
12 million illegal immigrants, raising the issue of immigration reform, which
was halted by the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

"The bottom line is, as a country we have to come to grips with the presence of
8 [million] to 12 million illegals, afford them some kind of legal status some
way, but also as a country decide what our immigration policy is and then
enforce it," Ridge said Tuesday at a town hall meeting in response to a question
from the audience, according to press reports.

"I'm not saying make them citizens, because they violated the law to get here,"
he added. "But . . . you determine how you can legalize their presence."

Ridge's comments appear to be the strongest endorsement of immigration reform
from a Bush administration official since the terror strikes more than two years
ago, which prompted the government to tighten border controls and abandon talks
with Mexico that were aimed at easing immigration restrictions.

Homeland Security officials said yesterday that Ridge's remarks were not
intended as a proposal or a change in government policy but were meant only to
point out an obvious challenge facing the government. Ridge has made similar
remarks in at least two other recent appearances, officials said.

"The secretary was merely acknowledging a very practical problem that exists,"
said Homeland Security spokesman Brian Roehrkasse. "There are several million
people here illegally, and at some point in time it would be good to have an
accounting of these people so we can identify those that might be a threat to
us."

In the weeks leading up to the Sept. 11 attacks, Bush had begun talks with
Mexican President Vicente Fox to create a method of legalizing the presence of
more than 3 million undocumented Mexicans living in the United States. The
negotiations were part of a broad White House strategy to woo Hispanic voters
and help business leaders.

"There are many in our country who are undocumented and we want to make sure
that their labor is legal," Bush said at the time.

But the Sept. 11 attacks, carried out by 19 foreign nationals who entered the
United States legally on visas, abruptly brought an end to those negotiations
and prompted a series of measures aimed at tightening border controls.

White House officials have said since that they are open to a temporary-worker
program that would allow some workers to obtain legal status, but they have not
actively championed any legislative proposals. Several legalization and
guest-worker measures also have been proposed on Capitol Hill.

Judy Golub, a spokeswoman for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said
that providing a mechanism to legalize some undocumented immigrants would allow
the government to focus its attention on those who pose a real threat to
national security.

"If this is a sign that the administration is turning back to immigration
reform, it is very welcome," Golub said. "I'd much rather the government go
after people who are out to harm us and not people just here to fill our labor
needs."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              16 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 10, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

For Illegal Immigrants, More Questions Than Answers;
Agencies Inundated With Calls About Bush Plan

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 813 words


The calls started pouring in to Dawn Lurie, a lawyer, almost as soon as
President Bush wrapped up his speech this week about a new proposal to benefit
illegal immigrants. Workers and employers alike were desperate to know: How
could they sign up?

"There is no program. I explain to everyone we could wait a year or more to get
legislation," said Lurie, part of the immigration law firm of Greenberg Traurig
in McLean. Nonetheless, she said, one client insisted on applying for the
benefit.

"I spent 15 minutes on that phone saying, no, there was nothing I could do right
now," Lurie said.

Several lawyers and immigrant-assistance groups in the Washington area said they
are being bombarded with calls and e-mails from workers eager to participate in
Bush's proposed program. But the immigration specialists say they have nearly as
many questions about the plan as their clients do.

Federal lawmakers "have to write legislation based upon this rather amorphous
plan," said Michael Maggio, an immigration lawyer in the District. "Nothing's
really totally clear on this."

The proposal Bush announced Wednesday would allow many of the estimated 8
million illegal immigrants in the United States to apply for "temporary worker"
visas, which would be good for three years and could be renewed. The president
said the plan would help foreigners who had been living "in the shadows of
American life" and also would benefit employers needing workers.

But Bush left many details of the plan to Congress. Analysts noted that the
president's ideas could be changed significantly in the legislative process, and
the proposal could even fail to pass.

No one knows exactly how many illegal immigrants live in the Washington area,
but demographer Jeffrey S. Passel of the Urban Institute estimated tens of
thousands, and possibly as many as 200,000. Bush's announcement raced through
immigrant communities and was featured by ethnic media, prompting the flood of
calls from foreigners lacking work authorization.

"People think there's a new law," Maggio said. "In most people's countries . . .
that's the way the law is made. The president says it, and that's it."

One of the main questions being raised by immigrants is whether the program
would allow them to stay indefinitely in the United States. Bush insisted that
his program would encourage the workers to go home eventually. But he also said
the immigrants could apply for a green card, the first step toward citizenship,
if they had a relative or employer willing to sponsor them under the current
system. He urged Congress to expand the pool of green cards available each year.

Several analysts, however, said a waiting list of a decade or more exists for
some immigrants applying for green cards, which grant permanent residency. They
said they doubted that the current system could accommodate a flood of new
applicants.

May Shallal Kheder, an immigration lawyer in Falls Church, said she was getting
"tons of calls" from local Latino and Arab workers asking about the proposal.

"People believe it's an amnesty when it's really not. It's a very temporary
solution to a very permanent problem," she said.

She said she was still unsure about some of the basic elements of the plan,
including whether employers would have to show that their workers were not
displacing Americans. Bush administration officials have said that businesses
would not have to prove this about their current employees.

Saul Solorzano, executive director of Carecen, an immigrant-assistance agency in
Columbia Heights, said he received so many calls about the Bush proposal that he
was planning a community assembly to provide information. But he acknowledged
that he lacked many answers about how the program would work.

For example, he wondered how the program would affect many Central American
immigrants in the area who have temporary work documents from other programs.

"There are so many people who are already in the pipeline" hoping to get
permanent residence, he said. "What will be the benefit for them to join this
program?"

Some immigrant advocates also were trying to determine how the plan might apply
to workers with multiple employers, such as day laborers.

And what about current laws that ban many undocumented people from reentering
the country for years?

Many employers had questions, too. Lurie said they wondered whether they would
be penalized if they sought visas for undocumented workers who had been on their
payrolls.

"If the employer comes out [and admits having such workers], will there be
protection?" she asked. As described by government officials, the plan would not
punish employers.

However, administration officials acknowledged at a background briefing for
reporters this week that many aspects of the plan had to be ironed out.

"There are a lot of moving parts with respect to the detail of the worker
program," one said.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              17 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 17, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

High Court to Consider Detention Case;
Justices to Decide if U.S. Can Indefinitely Imprison Criminal Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Charles Lane, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 704 words


The Supreme Court announced yesterday that it will decide whether the federal
government may indefinitely imprison hundreds of Cubans and other illegal
immigrants who have finished their sentences for crimes in the United States but
whose home countries cannot or will not take them back.

In a brief order, the court said it would hear an appeal by Daniel Benitez, a
convicted felon who came to the United States from Cuba during the 1980 Mariel
Boatlift but was never given legal immigrant status. Benitez has been ordered
out, but the Cuban government has refused to take him. He  has been in U.S.
custody for the  past three years, with no end in sight.

In 2001, the Supreme Court interpreted a 1996 immigration law as denying the
government authority to hold any legal immigrant felon for more than six months,
if deportation proved impossible. It was silent on the issue of illegal
immigrants.

Judith Rabinovitz, senior staff counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union
Immigrant Rights Project, which supports Benitez, said the 2001 ruling should
apply and that "he's being subjected to continued imprisonment without
authority."

The Atlanta-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit ruled against
Benitez, deepening a split on the issue among federal appeals courts. Thus, the
Bush administration also sought a Supreme Court ruling to settle the question.

In his brief, Solicitor General Theodore B. Olson urged the court not to apply
the 2001 decision to Benitez, lest it create "an obvious gap in border security
that could be exploited by hostile governments or organizations that seek to
place persons in the United States for their own purposes."

Though Olson was alluding to the  war on terrorism, the origins of Benitez's
case do lie in an episode that Fidel Castro used to export some of Cuba's
problems to the United States. The vast majority of the 125,000 Cubans who fled
the island in 1980 did so in search of a better life. But once he saw that the
exodus was unstoppable, Castro emptied Cuba's jails and mental institutions into
the flow.

Under a 1984 agreement with the United States, Cuba agreed to take back 2,746
criminals and mentally ill people, of whom 1,646 have been returned so far.

A total of 2,269 illegal entrants to the  country are  in immigration custody --
more than half of whom have been held for more than six months, according to the
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The long-term detainees include  920 Mariel Cubans who were not subject to the
1984 agreement and who, like Benitez, were never granted legal residency but
committed crimes in the United States.

A 1996 law gives the government the right to detain deportable  immigrants
beyond the usual 90-day "removal period" whenever the government determines
they would endanger the community.

But the ambiguities in that law produced the 2001 case, in which the court
interpreted the statute to forbid indefinite detention unless the government
could show a "significant likelihood of removal in the reasonably foreseeable
future."

The court added, though, that its decision would not cover terrorism-related
offenses and that an illegal immigrant "would present a very different case."

Traditionally, U.S. law has treated  illegal immigrants who have never legally
been admitted to the country as if they were still standing at the border,
seeking admission.

But Benitez's supporters say Mariel Cubans were granted "parolee" status when
they arrived, which permitted them to live in the United States even if it is
not technically the same as full legal residency.

"There will be a question whether that fiction is enough to say they can be
locked up for the rest of their lives," Rabinovitz said.

Benitez was convicted of grand theft in Florida in 1983. As  a result,  he was
denied an application for legal residence.

In April 1993, he  pleaded guilty to armed robbery, armed burglary and weapons
violations, accepting a sentence of 20 years. Released from state prison in
2001, he was transferred to immigration authorities.

The case is Benitez v. Wallis, 03-7434. The court ordered expedited
consideration of the case, so oral arguments will take place in April and a
decision is likely by July.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              18 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 19, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Too Predictable

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 546 words


LIKE MANY WHO listened to the president's new proposal on immigration reform
this month, we had a lot of questions. Since then, more have arisen. Although
the principles the president enunciated are good, and the idea of temporary
worker visas is the right direction, the president's proposal is fuzzy in the
extreme, with important details left "to be determined" or "up to Congress." How
would such visas be monitored, particularly if they are, as the White House
claims, not to be tied to particular jobs? What will the Mexican government be
asked to contribute in the way of border patrol and security clearance systems?
Will increased penalties be applied to those who continue to break the rules?

The Democratic presidential candidates might have been expected to ask more
concrete questions about the president's proposal. Instead, they have decided
not to take it seriously. Former Vermont governor Howard Dean called the
president's plan a "cynical gesture in an election year," stating that the plan
will "help big corporations who currently employ undocumented workers." Sen.
Joseph Lieberman said he preferred an "earned right of legalization for
undocumented immigrants." Sen. John Kerry said the policy "rewards business over
immigrants by providing them with a permanent pool of disenfranchised temporary
workers." Mr. Kerry, Rep. Richard Gephardt and Sen. John Edwards all support
"earned legalization" as well. None have gone into much detail about what that
means. To many people, it just sounds like another amnesty: Let anyone who's
here and working have a green card.

While we share some of the candidates' skepticism about Mr. Bush's proposal,
their unanimity helps explain why the president felt it was politically possible
to make it. It can't lose him the anti-immigration Republicans, since they have
nowhere else to go. But the Democratic response is also disappointing because it
has given the president sole possession of the middle ground in a debate that is
easily polarized. On one side are those in both parties who prefer drastic
reduction of immigration on economic, law-and-order or even racist grounds. On
the other side are those in both parties who take an open-border,
green-cards-for-all position, again on economic, law-and-order or even
pro-Mexican grounds.

Between the two groups, there is considerable space. The president's attempt to
occupy that space -- to find a compromise that would at least give the nation
the semblance of an honest immigration policy -- is clearly the right way to
think about this issue, and it's the right place for his opponents to be heading
as well.

Given the divisive nature of the subject, it is also the only way that is
politically feasible. Public opinion polls consistently put most Americans in
the anti-immigration camp. On balance, most Americans opposed the president's
proposal, though it sounds less generous to immigrants than the "earned
legalization" all of the Democrats claim to favor. What is missing is a
Democratic candidate who has thought through the logistics of temporary visa
proposals and the real politics of immigration. It's a lot to ask in an election
year, perhaps. But good questions could do immigrants a favor, by pushing the
president to provide some answers.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              19 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 26, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

When a More Open Border Is Better

BYLINE: Stuart Anderson

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 808 words


Mention the  bracero program to a civil rights advocate or academic, and  you're
likely to hear words such as "exploitation," "unfortunate" and "let's not have
another bracero program." What you won't hear is that the bracero program
confirmed the central premise of President Bush's immigration proposal: that
permitting greater access to legal visas can indeed reduce illegal entry into
the United States.

Operating from 1942 to 1964, the bracero program allowed Mexican farmworkers to
be employed as seasonal contract labor. Although the U.S. government permitted
the admission of Mexican farmworkers  before 1954, limited enforcement and other
factors provided little deterrent to illegal entry.

A controversial crackdown on illegal immigration began in 1954. But  Joseph
Swing, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, preceded the
crackdown by working with growers to replace an illegal and therefore
unpredictable source of labor with a legal, regulated one. Although it was
popularly believed that employers preferred hiring people who were here
illegally, Swing got a favorable reaction  from growers and from Congress for
pushing the substitution of legal for illegal workers.

Senior immigration law enforcement personnel understood that market forces were
the best way to control the southwestern border. A February 1958 Border Patrol
document from the El Centro (Calif.) district, referring to the bracero program,
states: "Should Public Law 78 be repealed or a restriction placed on the number
of braceros allowed to enter the United States, we can look forward to a large
increase in the number of illegal alien entrants into the United States."

Increased bracero admissions produced dramatic results. After the 1954
enforcement actions were combined with an increase in the use of the bracero
program, illegal entry, as measured by INS apprehensions at the border, fell an
astonishing 95 percent between 1953 and 1959.

But complaints from unions that bracero workers created too much competition
helped bring an end to the program in 1964.  What happened to illegal
immigration after that? It skyrocketed; from 1964 to 1976, while the number of
Border Patrol  agents remained essentially constant, INS apprehensions of people
entering illegally increased more than 1,000 percent. It was the start of the
illegal immigration tide that we see up to the present day.

The bracero program had its flaws, including evidence that there were employers
who treated workers poorly and that a large number of bracero workers never
received withheld wages. In designing new temporary visa categories, we should
learn from the past. While many people, as before, will choose to work in the
United States on new temporary visas and go home, others, particularly those who
have been here for years, will seek a path to permanent residence. The extent to
which Congress follows through on the president's call to increase legal
immigration numbers, which would enable more workers to stay, assimilate and
become part of America, will be watched by both employees and employers.

Whatever its faults, the bracero program annually attracted up to 445,000 people
who chose to come here and work under its rules. Relatively few chose to enter
the United States illegally to work in agriculture. While it is argued that
bracero admissions harmed domestic agricultural workers, it's unlikely that the
situation of domestic workers improved once they competed primarily against
people who were entering illegally.

Why did the end of the bracero program result in greatly increased illegal
immigration? Policymakers should heed the findings in a House  report: "Reason
clearly indicates that if a Mexican who wants to come to the United States for
this employment can enter this country legally, with all the protection and
benefits that a well-considered and well-administered employment program give
him he will do so, rather than come in illegally." The report goes on to note:
"If, because the program is not available or is not realistically geared to the
requirements of employers or workers, the Mexican seeking employment finds it's
impossible or difficult to come in legally, many of them will find their own way
across the long border between the United States and Mexico and get employment
where they can, under whatever wages and working conditions they are able to
obtain." The report was written in 1954.

The only proven way to control the border is to open up paths to legal entry,
allowing the market to succeed where law enforcement alone has failed.

The writer was executive associate commissioner for policy and planning at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service from August 2001 to January 2003. He is
now executive director of the National Foundation for American Policy, a public
policy research organization.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              20 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 26, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Duncan Stance on Immigration Criticized

BYLINE: Matthew Mosk, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T02 , Montgomery Notebook

LENGTH: 803 words


Finally, there is a Duncan Doctrine.

At least that's the opinion of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
national advocacy group that seeks to close the gates on immigrants so that
levels are "consistent with the national interest."

In a press release issued this week, Dan Stein, the federation's executive
director, accused Montgomery County Executive Douglas M. Duncan of "espousing a
policy regarding illegal immigrants that is both legally questionable and
intellectually dishonest."

"The Duncan Doctrine is that enforcing immigration laws is strictly a federal
matter, but helping illegal aliens get away with violating immigration laws is a
county matter," Stein said. "It is a doctrine that amounts to 'Heads: Illegal
aliens win. Tails: The law-abiding residents of Montgomery County lose.' "

The broadside was triggered by Duncan's decision to headline a rally in
Annapolis last week to speak out against six bills before the Maryland General
Assembly that he says target immigrants.

One of the measures attempts to outlaw acceptance of consular identification
cards, which Duncan has said will help immigrants avoid exploitation by
predatory lenders, check cashing outlets and unscrupulous landlords.

"These folks got it wrong," said Duncan spokesman David Weaver. "The Duncan
Doctrine is simply a reflection of 'The New Colossus,' the poem which is
engraved at the base of the Statue of Liberty."

Members of Montgomery County's Charter Review Commission decided last week that
they don't want to tinker with the structure of the County Council this year,
despite aggressive lobbying from civic groups that sought major changes.

The commission, which is responsible for submitting proposals for charter
amendments to the County Council for placement on the November ballot, took
final votes on a series of questions at a meeting last week.

The most contentious debate surrounded a plan backed by the Montgomery County
Civic Federation to chop up the county into nine single-member council
districts. Under the current charter, five members represent specific geographic
sections of the county, and four others run countywide.

The theory behind splitting the council into nine distinct districts is that it
affords more members of minority groups a chance to run for office. The theory
was behind a similar but also unsuccessful effort by Lt. Gov. Michael S. Steele
to break the Maryland House of Delegates into single-member districts (although
his aim was to give Republicans more seats in the State House).

After careful consideration, commission member and former state delegate Cheryl
C. Kagan said, the members didn't buy the idea that single-member districts
would benefit county residents. They voted 11 to 2 against it.

"Most of us just did not believe that it would lead to more minority members,"
Kagan said. "We felt the system wasn't broken."

A similar sentiment drove the defeat of a proposal to expand the council from
nine to 11 members.

Charter Commission Chairman Kenneth K. Muir said that decision came down to
money and space: There wasn't enough of either to accommodate two new council
members. The commission estimated it would cost an additional $350,000 a year
for each new member.

Montgomery's council is larger than the legislative bodies in many counties of
similar size, including Bergen County, N.J., Palm Beach County, Fla., and
Hennepin County, Minn.

"We came out on that saying, 'No. Let's keep the council the way it is,' " Muir
said.

So what did the commission do?

It suggested two minor changes to the charter -- one pertaining to the length of
time the county executive has to execute a veto and the other clarifying that a
position on the council is a full-time job.

That, Muir said, won't exactly be news to council members, who told the
commission that they put in roughly 60 hours a week.

A police officer shot in the line of duty last summer was given  the highest
honor  possible by the Montgomery County Police Department yesterday.

Kyle Olinger, 38, received the Medal of Valor Award at an  awards ceremony at
the University of Maryland Shady Grove. He was shot in the neck during a traffic
stop shortly after midnight Aug. 13 at Spring Street and Second Avenue in Silver
Spring and  paralyzed from the chest down.

The award, given for "heroism and distinction in extremely hazardous
circumstances," is handed out to only one or two police officers each year.
Winners must "exhibit unusual bravery in the performance of duty while facing
the threat of death of serious injury," according to a brief description on the
police department's Web site.

The suspects were indicted in September on attempted first-degree murder and
other charges in Olinger's shooting. The trial is set to begin in March.

Staff writer David Snyder contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              21 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 19, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Hearing on Immigration Leads to Scuffle in Md.

BYLINE: Tim Craig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 581 words


A contentious General Assembly hearing on illegal immigration led to a scuffle
and shouting match yesterday between two Republican lawmakers and advocates for
immigrant rights.

Baltimore County Dels. Patrick L. McDonough and Richard K. Impallaria said they
left the hearing to confront four advocates who they said had referred to them
as "racists" during testimony on a bill to study the financial impact of illegal
immigration.

Advocates from Casa de Maryland said Impallaria turned on one of their lobbyists
in the hallway, questioning her immigration status.

"He called me an illegal and said, 'You are probably one of those who broke the
law,' " said Natali Fani, 23, a Latina lobbyist for the Takoma Park-based
advocacy group. "He was pointing his finger right in my face, and he was
yelling. It was really ugly."

Jamie Kendrick, a union leader working with the group, said he intervened, only
to have McDonough push him in the hallway of the Lowe House Office Building.

"He physically shoved me aside," said Kendrick, executive director of the
Service Employees International Union Maryland-DC state council. "It was kind of
surreal. I have been doing this for eight to 12 years and have never seen a
delegate come out of a hearing loaded for bear like that, and certainly never
saw a delegate physically accost a member of the public like that."

McDonough acknowledged that he shoved Kendrick, but he said it was in
self-defense after the union leader charged at him.

"I see a blur coming at me, and that is all I saw," McDonough said. "When he
came upon me, I pushed him off me."

Kendrick said he was stepping in to protect Fani from Impallaria's questioning.

"They were getting verbally aggressive, getting in her face," Kendrick said

Kendrick said McDonough also asked to see Fani's "papers." Impallaria denied
that anyone asked to see Fani's papers but said he asked whether she was an
illegal immigrant. "I wanted to see how this legislation would affect her," he
said.

The confrontation was broken up by police officers who guard the State House.
They escorted the delegates to their offices. The Maryland State Police and the
Department of General Services are investigating the incident. Both Kendrick and
Fani said they plan to file complaints with the  ethics committee.

House Speaker Michael E. Busch (D-Anne Arundel) said the committee would
investigate.  "It is unfortunate these kinds of incidents have to take place,"
Busch said.

This month, the House Judiciary Committee killed proposals that would have
prevented illegal immigrants from getting driver's licenses and  required police
to detain those without proper documentation.

Hispanic advocates said the fight yesterday highlights tension that surrounds
efforts to pass laws restricting immigration.

"It was the most shameful example of the political process I have ever seen,"
said Kimberley A. Propeack, an attorney with the Maryland Latino Coalition for
Justice, who said the delegates also verbally threatened her during the
confrontation.

Impallaria and McDonough, both  from eastern Baltimore County, said the incident
could have been prevented if the chairman of the House Economics Matters
Committee, Del. Dereck E. Davis (D-Prince George's), had stopped the advocates
from name-calling.

"There were no rules, and the rules spilled over into the hallway," McDonough
said.

The immigrant rights advocates said their testimony was aimed at the
legislation, not the legislators who proposed it.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              22 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 24, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Seeks New Role Against Illegals;
Police to Enforce Immigration Law

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1256 words


The federal government will soon grant a group of Virginia State Police officers
the power to enforce immigration law, making the state the third in the country
to adopt the practice since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, local officials said.

The tentative agreement between the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the
Virginia State Police, permissible under a 1996 law, is part of a movement
across the country to grant local law enforcement officials more authority to
detain illegal immigrants.

Proponents say the expanded powers will give police more tools to combat
terrorism, gang violence and other crimes. But immigrant advocates counter that
the practice could lead to ethnic profiling. And some police officials,
including D.C. Police Chief Charles H. Ramsey, are openly opposed to the idea
and say it could discourage immigrants from reporting crimes.

The debate illustrates the complexity of improving security in a country that is
home to an estimated 8 million or more illegal immigrants. Three of the 19
hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks were part of that underground population, but
so are millions of workers and families in communities across America. Homeland
Security, which enforces immigration laws, acknowledges that it does not have
enough agents to track down all those undocumented immigrants.

Virginia officials decided to seek extra immigration powers for some state
police officers after participating in local and federal task forces on
terrorism and gang violence.

"We had this recurring discussion about our inability at some times to deal with
illegal immigrants when we were involved in other types of investigations," said
Col. Steven Flaherty, superintendent of Virginia's state police. While the
police had worked with federal immigration authorities over the years, he said,
"their resources are limited as well. So you don't always have them available to
you."

Until recently, local and state police could not make arrests on civil
immigration violations, although they could detain immigrants for criminal
offenses and sometimes helped federal immigration authorities with
transportation or security.

But a provision of a 1996 law allows federal authorities to "deputize" local or
state police to enforce immigration law. Flaherty said he and other officials
discovered that two other states -- Florida and Alabama -- had sent dozens of
state police officers to be trained in immigration enforcement under the federal
program since the Sept. 11 attacks. Virginia then contacted Homeland Security to
do the same.

Michael J. Garcia, who oversees immigration enforcement for Homeland Security,
said federal authorities were not urging state police to receive the training
but were happy to provide it if asked. So far, he said, the program has worked
well.

"If you look at our resources, we are limited. It's been, I think, helpful to
have additional people out there who are skilled in it and who can do the
enforcement" of immigration law, he said. "Obviously, we watch to see that's
being done appropriately."

Under the agreement being negotiated, about 50 Virginia state police officers
would be able to enforce federal immigration law in addition to their other
responsibilities, Flaherty said. The officers would be stationed throughout the
state, with one attached to each of the 24 drug task forces in Virginia, he
said. They would be under the supervision of federal authorities when carrying
out immigration enforcement.

Flaherty said the officers, who may begin training as early as next month, would
use their immigration authority only in special cases. "We're not going to plan
any sweeps of illegal immigrants and whatnot. We just want this tool to use in
other cases," he said.

In addition to participating in the Homeland Security program, Virginia recently
passed a law that would permit state and local police to arrest immigrants who
were back in the country after having been convicted of felonies and deported.

The sponsor of the House measure, Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax), said that
fighting terrorism was "the original motivation" for introducing the legislation
but that it might ultimately be more useful in combating gang violence.

Both the new law and the Homeland Security program for state police will likely
result in only a small number of arrests. But immigrant advocates are concerned
that the measures could lead to officers mistakenly detaining people who are
here legally.

"Quite frankly, immigration law is pretty complicated," said Judy Golub of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, noting that there are myriad visas and
permits allowing people to stay in the country.

She pointed to a case that occurred in 1997 when immigration agents and local
police arrested more than 400 people in Chandler, Ariz., in an operation
targeting illegal immigrants. Some of those detained turned out to be legal
residents. The Arizona attorney general's office later concluded that the sweep
violated residents' civil rights, and the city settled two lawsuits for more
than $500,000.

Jorge Figueredo, executive director of the Hispanic Committee of Virginia, a
community-service organization based in Falls Church, said he was especially
worried about the state law  that allows police to arrest immigrant felons who
have reentered the country after deportation.

"The most important question is, how are they going to do it?" he asked. "How
are they going to know" who fits those qualifications?

Albo agreed that the law would be difficult to enforce, noting that police
cannot directly access the relevant immigration  information because it is
spread among various federal databases. But he said he hoped that police
officers could eventually call up such data on the computers in their patrol
cars, allowing them to enforce immigration law in the course of their work.

The Virginia law follows a legal tradition in which states could authorize their
police to enforce criminal -- rather than civil -- immigration violations, said
Bo Cooper, former general counsel of the immigration service who now works at
Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker. Such violations include reentering the
country  after being deported.

The movement to expand police authority to combat illegal immigration goes
beyond a handful of states.

In Congress, Rep. Charles Whitlow Norwood Jr. (R-Ga.) has introduced the Clear
Act, which would give state and local law enforcement authorities the power to
routinely enforce federal immigration laws. The bill has 120 co-sponsors; a
similar measure has been introduced in the Senate.

Police and local officials nationwide have been sharply divided over the idea.

Ramsey called a news conference in July to affirm that District police would
continue their longtime policy of not asking people about their immigration
status unless they were suspected of crimes.

And Montgomery County Executive Douglas M. Duncan (D) wrote to Sen. Barbara A.
Mikulski (D-Md.) last fall to urge her to oppose the Clear Act.

"A troubling consequence of this legislation is that it could cause members of
certain groups not to report crimes or to come forward with information about
crimes for fear of being deported," he wrote.

Some authorities have also said that their police departments do not have the
resources to take on immigration responsibilities.

"Nobody expects federal immigration officers to make drunken-driving stops, so
they shouldn't expect local police to make federal immigration stops," said
Duncan's spokesman, David Weaver.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              23 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 1, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Advocates for Migrants Take to the Road;
Riders' Goal Is Better Treatment Of Illegal Workers

BYLINE: Robert E. Pierre, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 994 words

DATELINE: COBDEN, Ill. Sept. 30


The apple and peach orchards here have long served as a beacon for migrants such
as  Hector Urive, who came from Mexico in 1977 to pick fruit alongside his
father. He decided to stay for the opportunities the United States offers.

Still, the work is backbreaking and the pay is low, and he said he must endure
insults and taunts from bosses and neighbors.

Urive can  complain only so much because he is here illegally. That's why he was
so excited about the arrival this evening of a busload of "freedom riders" on a
cross-country mission to call attention to the plight of immigrants.

Eighteen buses, including the one that stopped here, began their journeys in Los
Angeles, Chicago, Minneapolis and other cities. They will deposit their 900
riders in Washington on Wednesday  to ask lawmakers to give legal status to
immigrants who are here, offer more visas to reunite families and enact measures
to protect civil rights for undocumented workers. A rally is planned in New York
on Saturday, and organizers anticipate thousands.

"There is discrimination in the schools, and the bosses don't treat us well
because they know we don't have the right papers," said Urive, 44, who lives
here with his wife and five children, who range in age from 5 to 22. "America
needs us in the orchards. We want the government to hear our voice and give us
legal status to work."

The Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride has visited 100 U.S. towns and cities over
two weeks to press for changes in what they contend is a broken immigration
system.

Terrorist attacks two years ago pushed the topic -- once a top priority for
President Bush -- to the back burner. But organizers hope to regain national
interest by invoking the spirit of the original Freedom Riders, who traveled the
South in 1961 to challenge segregation on interstate buses and in bus terminals.
While the war in Iraq and the ongoing efforts against terrorism are dominating
the national agenda, organizers say the nation's undocumented workers cannot be
ignored.

"The time is always right to challenge injustice in part because the United
States continues to be a magnet for people all around the world," said David
Koff, a national spokesman for the campaign.

The bus ride has not provoked the violence the original Freedom Riders faced
four decades ago. Two buses, however, were detained for four hours  near El Paso
last week by the U.S. Border Patrol after many of the 85 passengers refused to
show proof of citizenship or immigration status.

Opponents of easing immigration restrictions have urged law enforcement
officials to board every bus and deport those who are in the country illegally.
At a Chicago rally  Saturday that drew 2,000 people, a handful of protesters
yelled at police and held up signs with messages including, "They're not
immigrants, they're illegal aliens" and "No more free rides. No more welfare. No
more stolen jobs."

Dave Gorak, executive director of the Midwest Coalition to Reduce Immigration,
thinks the push to give illegal immigrants driver's licenses and benefits
reserved for citizens is wrong. "This is a real slap in the face to black
Americans in this country," he said. "The Freedom Riders of 40 years ago were
American citizens who had been denied their constitutional rights. This is aimed
at legalizing illegal aliens. They have no rights except due process."

Roger Beck disagrees. He thinks that people should flow across international
borders as freely as goods and services. An agricultural economist who spent 20
years in this part of southern Illinois before moving this summer to El Paso,
Beck said the  laws place too harsh a burden on employers and underestimate
immigrants' economic contributions. People with Hispanic surnames make up about
2 percent of the population here, he said, but account for $200 million in
annual spending.

"There would be no fruit and vegetable production in southern Illinois were it
not for the people working in the fields," Beck said. "But they are not just
picking fruit. The truth is that they are doing many different kinds of jobs
like carpentry and lawn care."

A growing number of states have begun allowing undocumented workers to obtain
driver's licenses. Most recently, California Gov. Gray Davis (D), reversing his
position as he faces a recall election, signed legislation this month that will
allow as many as a million immigrants in his state the right to seek a driver's
license.

Earlier this year, the Illinois legislature approved a measure that allows
undocumented students who graduated from  state high schools to pay in-state
tuition at state colleges and universities. Urive's 18-year-old daughter will
benefit from the  law.

"She wants to be a lawyer," said Urive, who has given up his work in the fields
for a factory job in  Missouri. "The children don't know nothing about Mexico."

It was partly that reasoning that led state Rep. Mike Bost (R), who represents
this area, to abandon his opposition to the tuition bill. He said many of the
children without papers  know only the life they have lived in the United
States.

"I do not encourage someone to become an illegal alien," he said. "But we have a
choice to make. We can either have them pay in-state tuition and receive an
education to allow them to be taxpayers, or put them in a situation where they
could possibly become a drain."

Not everyone is optimistic that things will change. Antonio Ruiz Rodriguez, 62,
who came to this small town to pick grapes, isn't hopeful that the lives of
immigrants will improve: "It doesn't matter what people say; the bosses won't
listen, anyway."

But a hard rain could not dampen the optimism tonight at the Jesus Es El Senior
Methodist Church as local immigrants listened to speeches, ate tamales and
mingled with the bus-riding activists.  "This meeting is important," said pastor
Adrian Garcia. "The workers really need to see that they are not alone and
somebody is fighting for their rights."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              24 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 5, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Wal-Mart Confirms Probe of Hiring

BYLINE: Greg Schneider and Dina ElBoghdady, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 397 words


Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said yesterday that it has received a "target letter" from
a federal grand jury in Pennsylvania confirming that the world's biggest
retailer is under investigation for its role in hiring illegal immigrants on
contractor cleaning crews.

On Oct. 23, government immigration officials arrested 250 alleged illegal
immigrants at 61 Wal-Mart stores in 21 states. Almost all the workers were
employed by contractors to provide overnight cleaning services. Ten were
Wal-Mart employees recently hired away from contractors.

Federal officials said at the time that wiretapped conversations suggested that
Wal-Mart executives knew the contractors were using undocumented workers, but
the target letter is the first official confirmation that Wal-Mart could face
criminal charges and possible fines of up to $10,000 per illegal worker.

"We weren't surprised because it's very much in keeping with what federal
officials have been saying since the raids," Wal-Mart spokeswoman Sharon Weber
said. The notification "gives us an opportunity to provide the U.S. attorney's
office with information that we feel supports our position."

As part of the Oct. 23 sweep, agents seized documents from the office of a
manager at Wal-Mart's headquarters in Bentonville, Ark. Weber said the manager
is still on the job and that no individual employees received target letters.

The U.S. attorney's office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania in
Harrisburg, which is overseeing the investigation, declined to comment.

Wal-Mart received the letter Friday but did not announce it immediately because
"we wanted to make sure we understood everything we had been given before we
publicly spoke about it," Weber said. "It was a precaution "

Wal-Mart expects the grand jury to begin its hearing in mid-December, she said.

That the grand jury sent a target letter suggests the government is "very firmly
convinced that they have some level of proof that Wal-Mart had knowledge or
should have had knowledge . . . of the undocumented nature of the workers in the
cleaning crew," said Elizabeth Stern, a partner with the law firm Shaw Pittman
LLP in Washington who advises companies on immigration issues.

Wal-Mart's possible involvement is surprising, Stern said, because companies
have no responsibility for verifying the background of contractor employees and
ordinarily would avoid such a topic.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              25 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 8, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

'Guest Worker' Visas No Solution

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 157 words


Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) proposes another half measure to deal with illegal
immigrants ["Guests Who Pose No Threat," op-ed, Nov. 17].

His bill is silent on how to deal with the existing illegal immigrants who don't
"step out of the shadows" and future illegal immigrants who choose not to apply
for guest-worker visas.

The proposed application certification process restricts the Department of Labor
to reviewing applications "only for completeness and obvious inaccuracies,"
relying solely on employers -- who can be contractors such as those who provided
the workers arrested in the recent Wal-Mart raids -- for validation. Paltry
fines are proposed for employers who intentionally misrepresent applications;
employers would not be barred from the program until caught in a third offense.
No new government resources or process for enforcement are proposed.

In short, Mr. Cornyn offered no solution to the  problem.

JOHN SULLIVAN

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              26 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 4, 2004 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Bush to Seek Immigrant Benefit Protection;
Plan to Include System Enabling Undocumented Workers to Gain Legal Status

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 881 words

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex. Jan. 3


President Bush will propose protections for the Social Security taxes paid by
the workers who would come into the country under massive changes to immigration
laws he plans to announce on Wednesday, Republican officials said Saturday.

Bush's plan would make it possible for such workers from Mexico and perhaps
other countries  to collect retirement benefits without being penalized by their
home countries for the years they spent working in the United States, the
officials said.

Officials began releasing details of Bush's plan shortly before Christmas and
provided new details over the weekend. The officials said Bush's plan will
contain a new system to help workers who want to enter from Mexico or other
countries if they have jobs waiting for them. It also includes a mechanism for
some undocumented residents to continue working in the United States and get on
a path to legal status.

Undocumented workers now pay billions of dollars annually into Social Security
but do not collect benefits because they give their employers fraudulent Social
Security numbers.

Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant
advocacy group, said he fears the Social Security plan could be used as an
incentive for workers to go home instead of settling in the United States, which
could create what he called "a permanent class of temporary workers with no
political power."

"The knock that will be put on Republicans is that they want immigrants as
workers but not as voters," Sharry said.

Bush is scheduled to announce the package five days before he meets in Mexico
with President Vicente Fox, who has been prodding the White House since Bush was
inaugurated to change an immigration system that has resulted in at least 8
million undocumented  immigrants -- about half of whom are Mexican -- living in
the United States.

In Mexico, analysts and officials reacted with cautious optimism to early
descriptions of the plan, saying that they viewed the proposal as a sign of
markedly improving relations between Bush and Fox.

Bush worked to develop warm relations with Mexico when he was Texas governor,
and his first international trip as president was to Mexico. But the
administration began trying to harden the borders after the terrorist attacks of
Sept. 11, 2001, and Bush distanced himself from Fox after Mexico failed to use
its seat on the United Nations Security Council to support the U.S.-led attack
on Iraq.

Fox has said that he and Bush will restart immigration talks privately at the
Summit of the Americas, a meeting of the hemisphere's leaders to be held in
Monterrey, in the Mexican border state of Baja California. Bush will make his
fourth presidential trip to Mexico for the summit on Jan. 12 and 13.

Fox said last month that the two countries are working on agreements to allow
Mexicans "to go and come each year as many times as they want, without problems,
and so that they can work with documents in the United States."

Bush's plans, many of which are similar to ideas endorsed by the Democratic
presidential candidates in their platforms and debates, would be the most broad
changes to immigration law since a bill signed by President Ronald Reagan in
1986.

The immigration plan is Bush's first policy announcement of his reelection year,
and aides said it was calibrated by Bush's senior adviser, Karl Rove. An
official on Bush's political team said the proposal will help bolster support
for the president with Hispanic voters, who are regarded by both parties as a
constituency that is largely up for grabs, and in the states of Florida and New
Mexico, both of which Bush barely won in 2000. Bush travels to Florida on
Thursday.

The proposals will be a test for Bush because some House Republicans are
skeptical and even hostile to the idea of liberalizing immigration controls. The
Bush official said that in trying to persuade conservative lawmakers to back the
package, the administration will contend that it reflects Republican values by
rewarding work. The administration will also argue that the plan would enhance
national security by making it more likely that immigrants with tips about
terrorism would cooperate with authorities, because they would not  fear
deportation.

Officials said Bush's proposals draw heavily on a bill introduced by Sen. John
McCain, his rival in the 2000 primaries, and Reps. Jim Kolbe and Jeff Flake, all
Arizona Republicans. That bill would create a Web-based Labor Department
database of jobs that would be open first to U.S. workers and then to
foreigners, who could be admitted with a "temporary worker" visa available for a
maximum of six years.

The Arizonans' bill proposes a new type of visa for workers who are now in the
United States illegally. They could come forward and receive this visa for three
years. After that, the formerly undocumented worker could apply for a temporary
visa like those held by workers  under the electronic job registry.

Immigration reform is a top priority of Bush's backers in the business
community. Daniel T. Griswold, an immigration expert at the
free-enterprise-oriented Cato Institute, called Bush's proposal "compassionate
conservatism at its best -- a market-driven approach allowing supply and demand
to get together in the labor market."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2004



CORRECTION: A Jan. 4 article on President Bush's upcoming immigration proposal
misstated the result of the 2000 election in New Mexico.



Bush lost. The article also misstated the location of Monterrey, Mexico. It is
in the state of Nuevo Leon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              27 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Bush Proposes Legal Status for Immigrant Labor;
Workers Could Stay Six Years or More

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1431 words


President Bush, saying the nation has failed millions of illegal immigrants who
live in fear of deportation, yesterday proposed an ambitious plan that would
allow undocumented workers to legally hold jobs in the United States for the
first time.

Taking on an issue he shelved after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001,
Bush proposed a  program that would make  the 8 million undocumented immigrants
in the United States eligible for temporary legal status for at least six years,
as long as they are employed.  But it would not automatically put them on a path
to obtaining citizenship or even permanent resident status.

"We must make our immigration laws more rational, and more humane," Bush told
200 Latino supporters attending his first White House announcement of the
election year. "I believe we can do so without jeopardizing the livelihoods of
American citizens."

What Bush calls his "temporary worker" program was eagerly embraced by business
groups but condemned as stingy and impractical by advocates for immigrants. The
administration hopes the plan will appeal to Hispanic voters and expand the
Republicans' base, and  strategists in both parties described it as politically
shrewd. But many said it has  little chance of passing Congress in the form Bush
described.

A presidential adviser said the immigration plan appeared to be the opening
chapter of an agenda being designed by Bush aides who are planning for a general
election race against former Vermont  governor Howard Dean, who has sprinted to
the front among Democratic contenders.  Dean said in a statement that Bush's
plan "would create a permanent underclass of service workers with second-class
status." Other elements are likely to include proposals to limit lawsuits and
add private accounts as part of the Social Security system.

Labor advocates warned that the president's proposal to have workers sponsored
by employers to obtain legal status would prevent them from complaining about
job conditions, out of fear that the employer would revoke the relationship and
have them deported. Others  cautioned that employers could use the threat of
recruiting low-wage, legal immigrants to threaten existing U.S. employees and
prevent them from seeking better working conditions.

Bush is scheduled to meet Monday in Mexico with President Vicente Fox, who has
been prodding the White House to make changes in border policy. Bush called his
Mexican counterpart yesterday morning, and Fox saidthe two spoke for about 15
minutes.

"He sent warm greetings to all Mexicans, particularly to those Mexicans who are
there, in the United States," Fox told reporters at the opening of a primary
school in Mexico City. "It's a very interesting program. We are going to wait
for details."

In addition to conferring temporary legal status on undocumented workers now in
the country, Bush's program would allow an unlimited number of new immigrants to
enter as long as they obtain  jobs through a database that would be run by the
government and would offer the openings first to U.S. citizens.

Under Bush's plan, foreign workers would be legal for three years and then could
renew their status at least once. The White House plans to negotiate the number
of renewals with Capitol Hill, but Bush said "it will have an end." The plan
would include financial incentives for temporary workers to return to their home
countries.

The temporary workers -- administration officials anticipate most would be
Mexican -- would be given biometrically encoded cards. They  would allow the
workers  to come and go legally to their home countries, a trip now difficult
and occasionally dangerous for illegal workers who must sneak back into the
United States.

Workers entering the country would not be charged a fee for the temporary
status. Illegal immigrants now in the United States would pay an unspecified fee
but would not be prosecuted or expelled.

Some members of Congress said that would have the effect of rewarding people who
had broken the law by using phony documents to obtain jobs. House Majority
Leader Tom DeLay (R-Tex.) said he believes Congress can come up with "a strong
and compassionate policy" on immigration but said he has "heartfelt reservations
about allowing illegal immigrants into a U.S. guest-worker program that seems to
reward illegal behavior."

House Republican officials described the guest-worker issue as a low priority
for GOP lawmakers, many of whom have expressed concern that a new program would
take jobs from  constituents.

Opponents derided Bush's proposal as an "amnesty," a politically charged term
that causes conservatives to recoil. Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), a member of
the House subcommittee that would consider the bill, said it "amounts to the
forgiveness of a criminal act, no different under the law than printing
hundred-dollar bills in your garage."

Bush said in his remarks that he opposes "amnesty, placing undocumented workers
on the automatic path to citizenship." The White House said the plan is not an
amnesty because it is temporary and does not lead to a green card, or lawful
permanent residency.

Bush said in the future, enforcement would be stepped up against companies that
hire illegal workers.

"Our homeland will be more secure when we can better account for those who enter
our country, instead of the current situation in which millions of people are
unknown to the law," he said. "Law enforcement will face fewer problems with
undocumented workers and will be better able to focus on the true threats to our
nation from criminals and terrorists."

Business groups, made up of some of Bush's biggest financial backers, welcomed
the plan as a way to create a stable workforce and alleviate labor shortages for
low-wage and dangerous jobs that Americans disdain in agriculture and the hotel,
health, restaurant and construction industries.

"We have a problem with projected job growth and a diminishing workforce, and
the economy can't expand unless we have workers to fill available jobs," said
Randy Johnson, vice president for labor and employee benefits at the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce.

Advocates for immigrants complained that Bush's proposal does not provide an
automatic route for temporary workers to become citizens and said it was
designed instead as a path to deportation after the expiration of a worker's
temporary legal status.

"We're going to be creating, under this type of legislation, a large number of
basically indentured servants," said Susan F. Martin, an immigration expert at
Georgetown University who was executive director of the U.S. Commission on
Immigration Reform, a government panel that examined the issue in the 1990s. She
called Bush's plan "as troubling an immigration proposal as I've seen in the
past 25 years."

Martin said the program was unlikely to persuade immigrants to go home when
their guest-worker visas expired, especially those who have spent years in the
United States.

Even some immigration officials privately expressed concerns about how the new
system would be administered, noting there is a backlog of 5.5 million people
who have applied for immigration benefits.

Bush's plan is similar to legislation introduced by Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.),
who said in a telephone interview that the president should use his State of the
Union address  this month to set a deadline for Congress to act before the
August recess. "I worry about it just being an issue that is talked about, when
we need to act," he said.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) said in Mexico that he is confident
an immigration plan will make it through Congress "because it is a security
issue."

But a House leadership aide said that at least 50 Republicans would be unlikely
to vote for such a measure, and most Democrats would probably reject it to avoid
giving Bush a victory during his reelection campaign.

Bush told the East Room audience that many  undocumented workers had "entrusted
their lives to the brutal rings of heartless human smugglers" only to be cut off
from their families as they lived in "the shadows of American life -- fearful,
often abused and exploited."

"As a nation that values immigration, and depends on immigration, we should have
immigration laws that work and make us proud, yet today we do not," Bush said.
"The system is not working. Our nation needs an immigration system that serves
the American economy, and reflects the American dream."

Correspondent Kevin Sullivan in Mexico City and staff writers Mary Beth Sheridan
and Greg Schneider in Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2004



CORRECTION: A Jan. 8 article incorrectly reported that President Bush's
immigration plan would allow  undocumented workers to legally hold jobs in the
United States for the first time. The government has previously offered work
authorization to groups of illegal immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              28 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Undocumented, Now Front Row;
Business Boosts Bush Proposal as Labor, Economists See Downside

BYLINE: Greg Schneider and Kirstin Downey, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 1278 words


Business groups yesterday praised President Bush's call for temporary legal
status for undocumented workers, saying it would help provide a stable workforce
in low-wage industries that don't attract American laborers.

Labor and immigrant advocates were more skeptical, complaining that the
president's proposal favors business by forcing workers to tie their fates to
employer "sponsors" who could ship them back home for complaining about job
conditions.

In addition, some economists warned that legalizing undocumented aliens could
harm native-born U.S. workers by holding down wages and opening up competition
for jobs that are currently out of reach for most illegal immigrants.

But the president's proposal was short on details, and many experts agreed that
his attention to the troublesome issue could lead to a national debate with
positive results for all sides.

"This type of rule should enable these workers to be protected by labor laws and
should block access to that illegal low road that I think tempts some low-wage
employers to use [undocumented aliens]. That sounds like a plus to me," said
Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute.

President Bush yesterday proposed granting temporary legal status to
undocumented immigrants already working in the United States, provided an
employer vouches for the worker. The legal status would be for up to six years,
after which the worker would be deported if he or she has not qualified for a
green card.

Employers also could bring in new workers from foreign countries if they
demonstrated that no Americans were willing to take the jobs.

Legal status would give the workers rights to fair wages and benefits, something
illegal immigrants have no way of demanding without fear of deportation. An
estimated 8 million to 12 million undocumented aliens now work in this country,
many in low-end jobs with poor conditions and no health benefits. While that's a
small percentage of the nation's overall workforce of some 130 million people,
experts say the aliens are concentrated in certain jobs and in regions of the
country where they are less likely to be detected, such as near international
borders.

For example, more than 70 percent of agricultural field workers are thought to
be undocumented immigrants, said Craig Regelbrugge, senior director of
government relations with the American Nursery & Landscape Association and
national co-chairman of the Agriculture Coalition for Immigration Reform.

The president's proposal "allows us to get to a place where we can have
something, frankly, we've never had, which is a stable, legal workforce. The
pure survival of many agriculture sectors hinges on this," Regelbrugge said.

Hotel work, low-end retail, janitorial services, restaurants and construction
are other areas where undocumented immigrants traditionally find jobs.
Especially when the economy is in good shape, experts said, native-born
Americans often don't want that type of employment.

Awarding legal status to aliens would also allow them to roam into new regions
and job sectors without fear of being deported, said Jim Smith, a senior
economist at Rand Corp. and an immigration expert. "We would be better off if we
allow people to choose the sector where they would be most efficient," Smith
said, though he added that some U.S. workers could find themselves facing
competition from immigrants for the first time.

Some employers knowingly hire illegals to exploit them for low labor costs, but
even above-board companies can be duped by job applicants who present carefully
crafted fraudulent identity documents, which is another reason businesses
welcomed the president's proposal.

"To provide some method of giving these folks legal status and making
contractors able to go to bed at night and sleep because their workers' status
is valid would be a positive development," said Stephen E. Sandherr, head of the
Associated General Contractors of America. It also would allow above-board
contractors to compete on an even footing with unscrupulous rivals, he said.

In October, federal agents raided 60 Wal-Mart stores and found more than 200
illegal immigrants, including workers from Mexico, Mongolia and Eastern Europe,
working as janitors for private cleaning crews. Wal-Mart said it didn't know the
workers were illegal or that its contractors were failing to pay overtime or
Social Security taxes.

Officials at Wal-Mart, the nation's largest private employer, said yesterday
they are cooperating with the federal investigation and have begun replacing
contractor cleaning crews with in-house employees. They are doing background
checks on these new workers to make sure they are legal immigrants, according to
company spokeswoman Mona Williams.

For employers similarly fearful of running afoul of U.S. immigration law, the
president's proposal offers the opportunity to clear the immigration status of
workers who have become valued employees. The proposal is strongly supported and
endorsed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other business groups.

"For the first time, there is a glimmer of hope for these workers and for the
employers who rely on them," said employment attorney Mitch Wexler of Newport
Beach, Calif., who said his seven-office immigration firm fields about 300 calls
a month from employers wrestling with immigration-status questions.

Labor activists and some economists, however, said Bush's proposal could have
negative consequences for the U.S. economy.

"I think it's a terrible mistake," said economist George J. Borjas of Harvard
University. "It doesn't solve any problems and it's doing nothing to prevent the
problem from recurring again in the future. There still will be illegal
immigration, and we'll need to revisit the issue in the future."

Borjas said the proposal, which he called an amnesty for illegal workers, would
only serve to attract more immigrants, who will believe they can flout the law
in hopes that they, too, will get amnesty. He said his studies show the
immigrant influx of the 1980s and 1990s caused wages to drop 9 percent for
native-born workers who were high school dropouts and 5 percent for college
graduates.

John J. Sweeney, president of the AFL-CIO, also criticized Bush's proposal,
saying it served primarily the interests of "large corporations," which would
benefit from creation of a new kind of "second-tier" worker.

"It creates a permanent underclass of workers who are unable to fully
participate in democracy," Sweeney said in a statement. "The plan deepens the
potential for abuse and exploitation of these workers, while undermining wages
and labor protections for all workers."

Employment attorney Howard Rosen has filed several lawsuits around the country
on behalf of native-born workers who he alleges earned less money because their
employers hired illegal immigrants to boost profits. The Chicago-based attorney
said the widespread practice has become a way for employers to cut their costs.

The president's immigration proposal could in effect legalize that practice,
allowing employers to put a new twist on the trend of exporting jobs overseas in
search of low wages: A company could keep its facilities here but simply import
a cheaper -- and legal -- set of workers, said Dean Baker, an economist at the
Center for Economic and Policy Research.

Nonetheless, Baker said there could be benefits to all sides in such immigration
reform, provided Congress can find some way to agree on the details.
"Normalizing status for workers who are already here is largely win-win," he
said. "The losers are the few really exploitative businesses that are really
taking advantage of their workers."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              29 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Immigration Plan Greeted With Joy, Skepticism

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 1106 words


The music blaring at Taqueria Tres Reyes II yesterday was jaunty Tejano, but the
talk was pure Washington: the new plan by President Bush to grant temporary
legal status to millions of illegal immigrants in the United States.

Felipe, a 19-year-old Mexican who sneaked across the border nearly four years
ago, was imagining how his life would be transformed. "I could get my driver's
license," he said, between bites of a beef taco at the restaurant in Prince
George's County. "I could get a credit card. I could get a better job. I could
go around free from fear. Just imagine!"

Illegal immigrants in the Washington area and across the country were buoyed by
news of the "guest worker" proposal. But some analysts said that although the
plan offers a short-term prize -- legal working papers -- it has long-term
flaws.

The Bush proposal would allow illegal immigrants who hold jobs to apply for
three-year guest worker visas, which could be extended for another three years.
That would draw some workers out of the shadows and qualify them for many
benefits.

But when their visas expired, many of the immigrants would be required to go
home. Several analysts said that immigrants who had lived in this country for
years would be unlikely to simply leave and that some might avoid the program
altogether.

"Why should they show up, pay the fees that will be required of them, go through
all the process . . . so, what, they can be thrown out of the country in six
years?" asked Demetrios Papademetriou, co-director of the Migration Policy
Institute, a Washington think tank.

If the program did attract broad participation, he said, it could create a time
bomb: millions of guest workers whose visas would expire in a few years. If the
government deported 500 such people a day, it would "take 50 years and tens of
billions of dollars to get rid of them," he said. "It makes absolutely no
sense."

The Bush proposal could undergo broad changes when it is considered by Congress,
which has been trying to toughen the immigration system since the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks, not loosen it. And if a program is approved, it could
be a few years before it is up and running, analysts said.

But at the Tres Reyes in Riverdale, where the walls are painted with Aztec
temples and Christmas decorations adorn a large cactus, Mexican workers were
planning a new future. Felipe and other undocumented immigrants, who would not
give their full names because of their illegal status, were too focused on the
advantages of working papers to worry that the program would not lead to
permanent residency.

Isabel, a 19-year-old from the Mexican state of Chiapas who arrived three months
ago, said she was most excited by the prospect of living without fear of
deportation. "Now I'm scared all the time. I'm always looking around to see if
there are police nearby."

Felipe, her boyfriend, nodded and described how he takes back roads that police
do not patrol lest he be caught driving without a license and deported.

What was at stake, though, was more than convenience, he said.  An apt student
of English, Felipe rose quickly at a local fast-food franchise, where he makes
$8 an hour as a cashier. When a manager's job paying $3 more an hour opened up
several months ago, his bosses urged him to apply. Then he found out that
managers are required to have a driver's license so they can attend regional
meetings.

"I was so disappointed," Felipe said.

Those who work with immigrants in the Washington area said many undoubtedly
would share the delight of the Mexicans gathered at the Tres Reyes. They praised
Bush's plan for proposing to let workers make trips back to their homelands.

"They will rush to apply," said Silvia Alber, an immigration lawyer at the
Spanish Catholic Center in the District's Mount Pleasant neighborhood. "Who
doesn't want work authorization? They can have a Social Security number. They
can get a driver's license."

And the lack of a mechanism to provide long-term residency? Some activists said
authorities had approved amnesties in the past and might again.

"In three years, many things can change," said Jairo Sandoval, president of the
United Colombian American Association. "It opens the field for new efforts and
lobbying to better the situation."

But many analysts, activists and politicians said they were disturbed by some of
the details made available yesterday. Some said they doubted the plan would
succeed in curbing illegal immigration. Although White House officials said
enforcement would be stepped up against companies that hire unregistered
workers, Susan F. Martin, an immigration expert at Georgetown University, said
she did not think that would be effective.

"Increased enforcement of a bad system isn't going to work," said Martin, who
was executive director of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, a panel
appointed by the president and congressional leadership in the early 1990s. She
said employers would need a way to verify the legal status of job applicants and
ensure they were not using fake documents.

Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.) said the plan seems to reward illegal immigrants
and their employers. "It cheapens the citizenship of immigrants who have made
extraordinary sacrifices to come here legally," he said in a statement.

The Bush plan emphasizes that guest workers should not receive any advantage
over would-be immigrants who had followed the law. But  the administration said
temporary workers are welcome to apply for permanent residency, the first step
toward citizenship, if they have an employer or relative to sponsor them under
the current system. And it called for an increase in the number of people
allowed to immigrate legally.

But few guest workers will be able to take advantage of such a possibility,
analysts said. Only about 10,000 immigration visas are available each year for
unskilled workers sponsored by U.S. businesses.

Just a few miles northeast of the Tres Reyes, the McDonald's in Langley Park was
packed yesterday with Latino immigrants. But many were Salvadorans who were
granted temporary visas after a hurricane devastated their country in 2001, and
their reaction to Bush's plan was less enthusiastic.

A foreman at a construction company, Manuel de Jesus Arana, 36, has had six
temporary visas since arriving in the United States at age 13. "If I had
permanent residency, I'd do so many things: I'd start my own subcontracting
company. I'd buy a house so I could have something to pass on to my children,"
he said. "But you can't do that when you know that at any moment you could
suddenly become illegal again and get deported."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              30 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 9, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

CORRECTIONS

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 169 words


A Jan. 8 article incorrectly reported that President Bush's immigration plan
would allow  undocumented workers to legally hold jobs in the United States for
the first time. The government has previously offered work authorization to
groups of illegal immigrants.

A Jan. 8 article inaccurately described the religious affiliation of Democratic
presidential candidate Howard Dean. Dean is a member of the First Congregational
United Church of Christ in Burlington, Vt., which is affiliated with the United
Church of Christ.

A list of the high and low points of Joe Gibbs's career as coach of the
Washington Redskins in the Jan. 8 Sports section misstated the result of the
1985 game in which quarterback Joe Theismann broke his leg. The Redskins
defeated the New York Giants 23-21 in that game.

A Jan. 8 Style article incorrectly stated that former USA Today reporter Jack
Kelley was the newspaper's first Pulitzer Prize finalist. The paper had a 1988
finalist, Barbara Ries, for the feature photography prize.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              31 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 11, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Proposes Program For Und ...

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1162 words


President Bush proposed an ambitious plan that would allow undocumented workers
to legally hold jobs in the United States.

The program would bestow temporary legal status for at least six years on the 8
million undocumented immigrants in the United States, as long as they keep their
jobs. But it would not automatically put them on a path to obtaining citizenship
or even permanent resident status.

What Bush calls his "temporary worker" program was embraced by business groups
but condemned as stingy and impractical by advocates for immigrants. The
administration hopes the plan will appeal to Hispanic voters and expand the
Republican political base, and strategists in both parties described it as
politically shrewd. But many said it has little chance of passing Congress in
the form Bush described.

Bush's program would also allow an unlimited number of new immigrants to enter
as long as they obtain jobs through a database that would be run by the
government and would offer the openings first to U.S. citizens.

--  Mike Allen

Silicone gel breast implants will not be allowed back on the market for general
use because they have not been proved safe over the long term, the federal
government said.

The rejection, which went against the recommendation of a Food and Drug
Administration expert advisory panel, continues a controversial ban on the
implants first imposed by the agency more than a decade ago.

FDA officials said that they have not concluded that the silicone implants are
dangerous, but rather that there is not enough information to tell women that
they are safe to have in their bodies for many years.

The officials said they were particularly concerned by the still-limited
information on why some implants rupture and what then happens to the silicone
gel.

The FDA decision was made public by Inamed Corp. of Santa Barbara, Calif., which
sells the popular implants in Europe and elsewhere and had applied to market
them in the United States. The FDA  also published new guidelines for
establishing the safety of the silicone gel implants, significantly toughening
the requirements issued a year ago.

--  Marc Kaufman

The United States began fingerprinting and photographing foreigners arriving at
U.S. airports and ports to track down wanted criminals and suspected terrorists
and identify visitors who overstay visas.

The U.S. Visit program, which debuted at 115 airports and 14 seaports Monday,
aims to keep records on more than 24 million foreigners who enter the United
States each year largely from Central and South America, Africa, and Asia. It
does not apply to 28 nations, including Japan, Australia and many countries in
Europe. Under some circumstances, though, citizens from exempt countries are
subject to the new rules.

The program has attracted a range of critics. Airports worry that it will
exacerbate immigration lines. Civil libertarians raise privacy concerns that the
government will use the data for purposes beyond tracking visas and criminals. A
Brazilian judge said the system discriminates against certain foreigners and has
ordered officials in his country to begin photographing and fingerprinting
American visitors.

--  Sara Kehaulani Goo and Amy Joyce

The leaders of India and Pakistan agreed to begin formal talks aimed at ending
more than a half-century of bloodshed and hostility, including their struggle
over the divided Himalayan province of Kashmir.

India's prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and Pakistan's president, Gen.
Pervez Musharraf, agreed during a phone conversation Tuesday that
representatives of their governments will begin talks next month, officials
said.

The agreement on the talks fueled hopes for a possible end to a conflict that
has haunted the world with the prospect of a war between the nuclear-armed
neighbors. Since their simultaneous founding in 1947, India and Pakistan have
fought three wars -- two of them over Kashmir -- and nearly fought a fourth war
after a December 2001 terrorist attack on the grounds of India's Parliament that
India said was attributable to Pakistan.

--  John Lancaster

As the Marine Corps prepares to take over occupying much of western Iraq from
the U.S. Army, it is planning a fresh approach that emphasizes restraint in the
use of force, cultural sensitivity and a public message that the new troops are
not from the Army, according to an internal Marine document and interviews with
top officers.

Marines will be taught a few words of Arabic, counseled on religious etiquette
and ordered never to wear sunglasses when talking to Iraqis.

Platoons of Marines will live among the people in many Sunni towns and villages
to facilitate training of the Iraqi police and civil defense forces, according
to the document. To emphasize to Iraqis that the Marines arriving in Fallujah
and other centers of resistance are a new crowd, the Marines are considering
wearing green camouflage uniforms for their initial 45 days instead of the
desert style worn by the Army.

Army officers and other military professionals who have seen the document viewed
it as an implicit criticism of the Army's tactics and results in the Sunni
heartland west of Baghdad.  But others viewed it as a constructive attempt to
learn from the hardships and mistakes of the Army in western Iraq.

--  Thomas E. Ricks

U.S. authorities, seeking to attract support and information from Iraqis who
once backed Saddam Hussein, have decided to release about 500 prisoners who have
not committed acts of violence, on the condition that local leaders vouch for
them in writing.

About 100 of the prisoners were released Thursday with as many as 400 more to be
let out in the coming weeks.

Officials with the occupation authority, speaking on condition of anonymity,
said  the prisoner-release program is an attempt to capitalize on the momentum
of cooperation and information provided by pro-Hussein Iraqis and others since
the former president's capture Dec. 13.

--  Pamela Constable

Members of a constitutional assembly in Afghanistan agreed   on a new  charter
for the volatile  nation, clearing the way for its first democratic elections in
25 years.

After three weeks of raw emotional debate and intense private negotiations, the
502 delegates accepted a political system with a strong president and a weaker
parliament. That is  similar to the version sought by President Hamid Karzai and
backed by the Bush administration, despite vehement objections from ethnic
minority leaders and Islamic fundamentalists at the historic meeting.

"There is no winner or loser. . . . This is the success of the whole Afghan
nation," Karzai told members of the assembly, or loya jirga, shortly after they
stood en masse to endorse the new constitution in Kabul, the capital.

The adoption of the charter comes two years after U.S. and Afghan forces routed
the extremist Islamic Taliban movement. The government  hopes to hold
presidential elections this summer.

--  Pamela Constable

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              32 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 22, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

2 Senators Counter Bush on Immigrants

BYLINE: Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 439 words


Two prominent senators proposed yesterday  a bipartisan alternative to President
Bush's immigration initiative, including the prospect of permanent legal status
for undocumented workers who fulfill residency, employment and other
requirements.

The proposal by Democratic leader Thomas A. Daschle (S.D.) and Republican Sen.
Chuck Hagel (Neb.) differs in  key respects from Bush's plan, but they  pledged
to work with the White House to ensure  passage of a new immigration law.

"We can tighten and bring common sense to a patchwork of immigration law that
make no sense," Hagel said at a news conference as he and Daschle unveiled their
bill.

The  senators conceded that final action is  unlikely this year but predicted
eventual passage of a proposal similar to  what they submitted yesterday, in
part because of its bipartisan sponsorship. "A bill like ours . . . will
eventually pass," Daschle said.

The proposal outlined by Bush  this month -- and touted in his State of the
Union speech  Tuesday night -- would allow immigrant  workers and those already
illegally employed in this country to obtain temporary visas for as many as  six
years, so long as Americans are not available to fill the jobs. There would be
no automatic path to permanent residence. After their visas expire, they would
have to return home.

The Daschle-Hagel proposal would allow illegal immigrants and their families to
become "invested stakeholders" in the United States -- putting them on track for
permanent residence and eventual citizenship -- if they meet a half-dozen
requirements.

They would have to have lived in this country for five years and worked here for
four years, including one year after enactment of the bill. They would have to
pass national security and criminal background checks, pay  federal taxes,
demonstrate a knowledge of  English  and American civics, and pay a $1,000 fine.

The Daschle-Hagel measure would admit new temporary workers from abroad but
limit their number to 350,000. Bush would also admit new workers but did not
propose a limit.

The senators also proposed increased spending on border security and efforts to
reduce visa-processing backlogs that contribute to family separations. They said
their bill would  enhance national security by documenting immigrants living in
the United States  and tracking  workers who enter the country.

Daschle and Hagel said  their proposal  does not provide "amnesty" to illegal
immigrants -- a charge some critics have made of  Bush's proposal.  Becoming a
permanent resident  will "not come without a great deal of effort" on the part
of the workers,  Daschle said.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              33 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 5, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Phony License Faux Pas

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 219 words


So your editorial page objects to a new Virginia law designed to prevent illegal
immigrants  from securing driver's licenses, because that law will create "whole
new spheres of criminal activity" [editorial, May 17]. The editorial contends
that "since" the law was passed, black-market identity document scams "have
multiplied."

The editorial's primary evidence of an increase in such scams is a recent
announcement by Virginia officials that they have "invalidated more than 1,000
licenses that had been purchased illegally from two motor vehicle clerks in
Tysons Corner."

But your   objection to the license law suffers from a factual error.

As your Metro section explained in a news article on May 12, the two DMV clerks
"were convicted in federal court last year of selling licenses to drivers who
could not provide proper paperwork." The scam, which involved the falsification
of documents to make it appear as though applicants had provided valid
out-of-state licenses, took place from 1998 until the clerks' arrest in July
2003. The new license law did not take effect until Jan. 1.

Your editors may not approve of Virginia's policy banning the issuance of
drivers licenses to illegal immigrants, but the commonwealth's new law has
nothing to do with the Tysons Corner scam.

-- Phillip C. Hughey

Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              34 of 230 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                      September 16, 2004 Thursday 10:30 AM

Bush Administration Leaves States Hanging on Immigration

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez, Special to washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 826 words

HIGHLIGHT: You can usually tell what a politician feels deeply about because he
or she is willing to risk political capital on it. For President Bush it is
immigration reform, and in January he proposed a plan to fix a system he
observed "is not working."


WASHINGTON -- You can usually tell what a politician feels deeply about because
he or she is willing to risk political capital on it. For President Bush it is
immigration reform, and in January he proposed a plan to fix a system he
observed "is not working."

The idea was to create a temporary worker program that would enable the federal
government to begin to address the paradox of immigration today: undocumented
illegal immigrants -- undeniable contributors to society but ineligible
recipients of its full promise -- living in a shadowy domain that poses a
potential security threat.

The proposal offered a rational approach to balance economic and security
concerns. But as the electoral year went on, Bush's advisers concluded he had no
political capital to spare. The proposal had been criticized from the left as
being too harsh and from the right as too generous and the potential gains in
Latino votes just did not seem to outweigh the potential losses from Bush's
Republican base. For the second time in four years, immigration reform went on
the back burner.

State and local officials who bear the brunt of Washington's inaction and do not
have the luxury to sit out immigration's challenges are filling the vacuum. But
people in Washington who are obsessed with security or inspired by
anti-immigrant sentiment threaten their efforts. The result is an even more
fragmented and dysfunctional system in urgent need of real leadership at the
federal level.

State and local officials are stuck "trying to manage the impact of migration,"
as California Assemblyman Marco Firebaugh put it. Most illegal immigrants work
more than 40 hours a week and pay taxes, yet receive no benefits. That means
that when they or someone in their family gets sick, it is up to local
authorities to provide them with health care, too often the most expensive
health care of the emergency room.

Local officials also patch together solutions in education, policing and
documentation. With no federal form of identification, nearly 1,200 police
departments and 340 city governments have turned to matriculas consulares.
Issued first by Mexico and now by some other Latin American countries to their
nationals living here, the matriculas have become legitimate forms of ID as
agencies and governments have realized that in order to know who lives in their
community, a foreign document is better than none.

Interestingly, President Vicente Fox last week had his second meeting with a
group of nearly 40 legislators, mayors and city council members from 15 states.
They are Fox's latest allies for bringing some semblance of order and dignity to
the lives of immigrants. Fox and Bush sought just that in 2001, but 9/11 left
Fox hanging from the paintbrush, as the Spanish expression goes, when the Bush
administration took away the ladder.

This reaching out to local and state officials can only be beneficial,said Doris
Meissner, immigration commissioner during the Clinton Administration. "Changes
overall in U.S. policy and ultimately in Mexican policy have to be tempered or
informed by what?s happening," she said, "and that?s where things are
happening."

The hard work at state and local levels is being undermined by single-minded
interests at the federal level. What's more, those federal initiatives lack the
kind of balance that comes when the top leader of the land seeks an overall
compromise.

In a couple weeks, for instance, the Bush administration is expected to issue
federal rules that would require medical workers to ask patients about their
immigration status. The purported intent is to better understand who receives
health care and how much it costs. While the result may not exactly mean asking
"docs to become cops," as Angela Kelley of the National Immigration Forum
predicts, it could dissuade immigrants from seeking professional care early.

Similarly, legislators in Washington, through proposals like the one known as
the CLEAR Act, would enlist police officers as immigration agents. Police
departments around the country reject the idea out of concern that immigrants
would think twice about reporting crimes.

Perhaps nothing is more painfully illustrative of today's disconnect between
Washington and the rest of the nation on immigration than higher education.
According to the National Immigration Law Center, eight states, including the
four with the largest concentrations of immigrants, allow exemplary yet
undocumented high school grads to pay in-state tuition to go to college.

The day they graduate, however, the grads will enter the job market as illegal
immigrants. Only the federal government can change that, but a bipartisan
proposal intended to allow these graduates to enter the work force legally has
been awaiting a vote for more than 26 months. So the so-called DREAM Act remains
just that.

Marcela Sanchez's e-mail address is desdewash@washpost.com.

(c) 2004, The Washington Post Writers Group

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2004 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 16, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Legal Immigrant Children Qualify For Food Stamps;
Government Seeks to Notify Families Via Ethnic Media

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. Extra; T03

LENGTH: 575 words


U.S. authorities are trying to alert families in the Washington area about a new
program that will provide food stamps to poor children who are legal immigrants.

The measure took effect on Oct. 1, but many parents and immigrant assistance
groups are  unaware of the details. So announcements went out in both national
and local ethnic media, such as the Spanish-language newspaper El Tiempo Latino,
to encourage qualifying families to sign up.

"The change in law the president has signed makes legal immigrant children
immediately eligible, regardless of when they arrived in the country," said
Roberto Salazar, national administrator for the U.S. Agriculture Department's
Food and Nutrition Service. "We want to get the word out about that, to make
sure children benefit."

The new program restores some benefits eliminated in a sweeping 1996 welfare
reform law. It is expected to help about 60,000 immigrant children nationwide.
Salazar said it's not clear how many of those are in the Washington area.

Greg Chen, head of the D.C. Office of Asian and Pacific Islander Affairs, said
Vietnamese and Chinese refugee families in the District could be among those who
benefit from the measure.

"This is definitely something we'll promote," he said.

Although many Latinos are eligible, food stamps will not be available to poor
immigrant children who have Temporary Protected Status, a category that allows
them to stay here legally but does not give them permanent residency.

To receive food stamps, children's families must earn less than specified
maximum incomes. For example, a family of four could earn up to $1,961 per month
and still qualify, said Salazar. Young people who are not in this country
legally are not eligible for food stamps.

"This law came out at the most appropriate time. So many of our families are
spending 60 to 70 percent of their incomes on rent to be able to stay in the
District," said Maria Gomez, director of Mary's Center for Maternal and Child
Care in Adams Morgan. "People are buying cheaper and cheaper food."

Even so, some immigrant advocates said they would have to work hard to get many
poor Latino families to sign up for the food stamps.

"My experience has been, in general, the Hispanic community is not accustomed to
participate in these kinds of programs," said the Rev. Donato Lippert, executive
director of the Spanish Catholic Center in Mount Pleasant. "It's not something
they're used to from their country. . . . There's also a feeling of, 'My
responsibility is to provide for my children.' "

Hispanic immigrants aren't the only ones who are hesitant about applying.
Salazar said that, overall, only about 61 percent of those eligible for the food
stamp program take part. Some lack information; others don't want to accept
benefits they consider to be welfare, he said.

Although part of the 2002 farm bill, the provision to restore food stamps to
poor immigrant children kicked in only recently. Another part of the bill, which
took effect last April, restored eligibility for adult legal immigrants who have
been in the country at least five years.

The federal food stamp program serves 22 million people,  more than half of them
children.

Families seeking to benefit from the new program should  call their local food
stamp office. The number is 202-724-5506.  The U.S. Agriculture Department also
has established a toll-free line (1-800-221-5689) to provide information in
Spanish and English.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              36 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 13, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Groups Decry Immigration Rule

BYLINE: Michael Powell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK Nov. 12


A coalition of legal advocacy groups said Wednesday that a federal program
requiring males from 25 predominantly Muslim nations to register with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has resulted in the arrest and
deportation of thousands of laborers, students and parents for what are
characterized as minor, often technical violations.

The group studied 219 men, of whom about 110 faced deportation, and found that
not one has been charged with having a connection to al Qaeda or other terrorist
organizations. About 80 percent of the deportees had overstayed their visas or
had pending applications for green cards and other papers. About half left
behind wives and children in this country.

Visitors from these 25 countries are required to re-register again this year, a
process that begins Thursday. "This program has resulted in the expulsion of
working-class Muslim immigrant communities," said Saurav Sarkar, an organizer
with Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund here. "This program has set
a very dangerous precedent for what happens when government decides that Muslims
are suspect."

Officials with the Department of Immigration and Customs Enforcement respond
that such charges are overstated. Beginning in  late autumn  2002, the federal
government required men from 25 nations considered security threats to register
with immigration. These nations included Pakistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Saudi
Arabia and most other Arab nations.

All together, more than 83,000 men registered by  spring  2003, and the
government detained and began deportation hearings against 13,743 of them.

"It had nothing to do with Christians or Jews or Muslims or any religion," said
Garrison Courtney,  a spokesman for the immigration department. "It had to do
with nations that have people who want to do us harm. There are a lot of
terrorist organizations in those parts of the world."

He said that none of those deported had known ties to terrorist organizations.
He added, however, that men from these 25 countries are not being
disproportionately targeted. "Seventy-nine percent of the total deportees each
year are sent back to Mexico,"  Courtney said.

That said, a post-registration chill is evident in the Arab quarter of downtown
Brooklyn and Queens, and in the clusters known collectively as Little Pakistan.
Thousands have left these communities, some voluntarily and some not, since the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.  Many fled  to
Canada last winter. Canadian immigration officials yesterday reported that 2,967
Pakistanis have applied for asylum there this year, a vast increase over past
years.

This has created dislocation in many corners. Nishat Islam, 21, bade goodbye to
her husband, Mohammad Junaid, this May for what he assumed would be day-long
registration. It turned out that Junaid had an outstanding deportation order
from 1997. (He came to this country as a  teenager.) He was shackled and
detained in the Sussex County prison. Three weeks ago the federal government
took him to the airport and put him on an airplane to Karachi, Pakistan.

"We figure we work hard, we follow American rules, everything turn out well,"
Islam said Wednesday from her home in a working-class Queens neighborhood, where
she lives with her two daughters and her father, who also faces deportation. "He
called me the other day from Karachi and cry and cry and cry like a baby. We
have no future."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              37 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 26, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 404 words


DETROIT -- A federal immigration judge has given the government permission to
deport a former Nazi concentration camp guard who was a fugitive for several
years until he was found hiding under a basement staircase.

Immigration Judge Larry Dean granted the government's request to deport Johann
Leprich, 78, in a ruling issued on Friday.

The retired machinist will be deported to his native Romania, or Germany or
Hungary, said Greg Gagne, a spokesman for the Executive Office of Immigration
Review. Leprich's attorney says he is appealing the decision.

GRAND FORKS, N.D. -- Hundreds of volunteers lined up to join the search for a
University of North Dakota student who has been missing since Saturday. Police
believe she may have been abducted.

Dru Sjodin, a 22-year-old senior in graphic arts from Pequot Lakes, Minn., was
last seen Saturday afternoon, as she was leaving a mall where she worked.

Her mother, Linda Walker, said her daughter was talking to her boyfriend on her
cell phone about 5 p.m. Saturday when her boyfriend heard her say, "Oh, my God."
Walker said the phone then went dead.

Police said Sjodin's  Oldsmobile  was found in a  mall parking lot.

*  DALLAS -- Former Dallas narcotics officer Mark De La Paz was found not guilty
of charges that he lied about a scheme in which drug informants planted fake
drugs on people, sending dozens of innocent immigrants to jail. De La Paz was
the arresting officer in several cases that were dismissed after tests revealed
that the purported drugs were gypsum powder or other legal substances.

*  NEW YORK -- A network of John F. Kennedy International Airport baggage
handlers is accused of smuggling  tens of millions of dollars' worth of drugs
into the United States. Federal officials charged 25 people, most of whom are
current or former employees at the airport, with conspiring to import controlled
substances. The defendants allegedly helped import hundreds of kilograms of
cocaine and hundreds of pounds of marijuana in a scheme that one top
investigator called "a potential threat to homeland security."

*  CLEVELAND -- The city's mounted police unit, the second oldest in the nation,
will end its near-century-long run because of a $61 million budget deficit. The
unit's 13 horses, often seen with their riders patrolling crowds, will be given
away to horse farms, while the seven officers who ride them will be reassigned.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              38 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 24, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Reform on Bush Agenda

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1195 words


President Bush plans to kick off his reelection year by proposing a program that
would make it easier for immigrants to work legally in the United States, in
what would constitute the most significant changes to immigration law in 18
years, Republican officials said yesterday.

Lobbyists working with the White House said Bush is developing a plan that would
allow immigrants to cross the border legally if jobs are waiting for them. The
sources said the administration also wants to provide a way for some
undocumented workers in the United States to move toward legal status.

Bush will try to make the plan more palatable to conservatives by including
stricter entry controls, including increased use of technology at the border and
steps toward better enforcement of current visa restrictions and reporting
requirements, sources said.

Bush said at his year-end news conference last week that he was preparing to
send Congress recommendations for an "immigration policy that helps match any
willing employer with any willing employee." He said he is "firmly against
blanket amnesty," or a mass legalization.  An estimated 8 million undocumented
people live in the United States. At least half of them are Mexican, authorities
said.

White House aides would not provide details of the proposal, but the Republican
officials said it draws on, among other sources, a bill introduced by Sen. John
McCain (R-Ariz.). It would create a Web-based job registry, to be run by the
Labor Department. Employers would post job opportunities that would be available
first to U.S. workers and then to prospective immigrants, who would be allowed
to come under a new visa for temporary workers.

The other half of the program would be what Homeland Security Secretary Tom
Ridge referred to earlier this month as "some kind of legal status" for
undocumented workers in this country. The sources said White House officials
were more skeptical about this idea than about the temporary-worker program, but
they concluded that they needed a response to the large population of
undocumented workers for the plan to be credible and for Bush to get credit from
Hispanic voters.

The blueprint is the most ambitious of its kind since a bill signed by President
Ronald Reagan in 1986 that offered legal status to millions of illegal
immigrants who had moved to the United States before 1982 and imposed sanctions
on employers who knowingly hired illegal immigrants.

The White House plan is being designed by Bush's senior adviser, Karl Rove, in
consultation with the domestic policy staff. Sources said the White House's
biggest concern is that the new mechanism not penalize people who had followed
the law and reward those who had not. McCain's plan, which was introduced in the
House by Reps. Jim Kolbe (R-Ariz.) and Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), tries to mitigate
that problem by creating a new type of visa for previously undocumented workers
who would be allowed to live in the United States legally for three years. Then
the workers could apply for the temporary worker visa, which would be the path
to a green card, or legal permanent residency. That would amount to a three-year
advantage for those who entered legally.

The Republican officials said that rather than proposing specific legislation,
Bush may issue broad principles that would become part of what campaign
officials call the "compassion agenda."

Administration officials said Bush will present his proposal, which is still
being refined, in the second week of January, shortly before traveling to
Monterrey, Mexico, for a two-day summit of leaders from throughout the Americas.

The proposal is crucial to Bush's relationship with Mexican President Vicente
Fox, which was warm in Bush's first year in office but soured after he postponed
any relaxation of immigration laws and Fox opposed the U.S.-led invasion of
Iraq. The two leaders began repairing the relationship during a meeting in
October at an international economic summit in Thailand.

Bush, who said during his campaign that "family values don't stop at the Rio
Grande," had been heading toward seeking an overhaul of immigration laws during
his first year in office.  On Sept. 6, 2001, Fox said during a White House visit
that he wanted broad changes in U.S. immigration law within a year, and Bush
said he hoped to "accommodate my friend."

But the plans were scuttled after the terrorist attacks five days later turned
the government's attention toward restricting access to the country rather than
easing it. Bush said in October 2002 that some noncitizens had "taken advantage"
of America's "generous" immigration rules.

Some conservative lawmakers remain adamantly opposed to any changes that could
be portrayed as encouraging immigration, and some members of the Republican
congressional leadership are leery of the idea, making its outlook on Capitol
Hill uncertain. But presidential advisers said they believe that Hispanic
voters, one of the targets for Bush's reelection campaign, will give him credit
for pushing for the changes even if nothing is enacted before the election.

Kolbe said in a telephone interview that "there's a mood for the first time
since 9/11 that we have to take a look at this problem rather than just
hardening the borders." He added, "The president's involvement will be
critical."

A House GOP leadership aide, who insisted on anonymity, said the leaders are
willing to work with Bush but think it will be a hard sell for rank-and-file
members who are concerned that the plan could take jobs away from constituents.
"The economic piece of it is now much more of a problem than your traditional
xenophobia-type objections," the aide said.

Cecilia Muñoz, vice president for policy at the National Council of La Raza, a
civil rights organization, said the danger is that Bush will propose something
"that's going to sound vast and historic but that he knows can't get enacted
next year."

"If what the White House proposes is credible, there's likely to be a warm
response," Muñoz said. "As long as we get results, we're not going to be picky
about the motive."

The proposal planned by the White House has much in common with plans that have
been offered by some of the Democratic presidential candidates, most of which
provide for a route to legalization for undocumented workers who have been in
the country for five or six years, have a work history and can pass a background
check.

Rep. Richard A. Gephardt (Mo.) calls his the Earned Legalization and Family
Reunification program. Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman (Conn.) has called immigration
reform "another broken promise" by Bush. Former Vermont governor Howard Dean
told the Arizona Republic's editorial board that he favors earned legalization
for undocumented workers who have been in the country for some time and have
committed no crimes, but he sounded a note of skepticism about a guest-worker
program like that proposed by McCain.

The Democrats have frequently highlighted their immigration plans in debates. A
leading Bush adviser said that, given the crucial swing vote Hispanics could
provide next November, "the White House feels it's got to get its irons in the
fire now."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              39 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 25, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Immigration Plan Hailed;
Some Mexicans Fear Proposal Is Tactic for '04 Campaign

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A20

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Dec. 24


Mexicans reacted with cautious optimism Wednesday to reports that President Bush
planned to propose  immigration reforms more than two years after the United
States shelved the issue -- Mexico's top priority -- to focus on combating
terrorism.

Analysts said they worried that Bush's plan, which officials said Bush would
present before he traveled to Mexico in mid-January for a hemispheric summit and
private talks with President Vicente Fox, could be little more than a campaign
tactic in the election year.

But whatever the motivation, many also said they hoped Bush's interest in Mexico
and immigration reform were genuine and that relations that had soured over
Mexican opposition to the war  in Iraq were  on the rebound.

"This could be a very risky Christmas present for President Fox," said Rafael
Fernandez de Castro, one of Mexico's leading international relations
specialists. "This is very welcome news. But I am worried that we could end up
getting more security on the border without more legal channels for workers to
go to the United States."

Republican Party officials said Tuesday that Bush planned to propose a program
that would make it easier for immigrants to work legally in the United States,
while at the same time stepping up security and enforcement along the 2,000-mile
U.S.-Mexico border.

They said the plan would include a new program of temporary work visas, as well
as an effort to grant legal status to some of the  immigrants already in the
United States. Most government and private studies estimate that at least 8
million  immigrants live in the country illegally, more than half of whom are
Mexican.

"To do immigration reform, he is going to need Congress and it's going to be a
tough battle in an election year," Fernandez de Castro said, noting that since
the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, U.S. politicians have been more interested
in closing borders than opening them. "But in 2000, the Republicans lost a lot
of votes by keeping their mouths shut on migration. They won't make that mistake
again."

Political analyst Gabriel Guerra called Bush's plan "very impressive if it's
really half of what they say it is.

"We have to wait and see what all the qualifications are, and how they respond
to all the reactions to this trial balloon," Guerra said. "I don't see this as
something feasible to get through Congress before the election."

Immigration reform was the talk of Mexico three years ago, when Bush and Fox
took office within a month of each other, and Bush's first foreign trip was  to
Fox's ranch in February 2001. Both men portrayed themselves as common-sense
ranchers who wanted to improve the deadly situation along their shared border.
An estimated 300,000 to 400,000 Mexicans every year cross illegally into the
United States looking for work. Thousands  have died trying, often by drowning
or from exposure in the deserts and mountains in their path.

For months after that initial meeting, officials in both governments worked
toward a scheme that would have created mechanisms to make immigration, in
Bush's words, more "safe, orderly and legal." Mexicans were excited that an
issue that affects millions of families seemed to be getting personal attention
from a U.S. president.

But by the time Fox made a state visit to Washington in early September 2001, it
was clear that opposition in  Congress meant there would be no immediate
breakthroughs. A week later, terrorists attacked New York and the Pentagon, and
immigration and Mexico dropped off Bush's list of priorities.

Then Fox's vocal opposition to using military force in Iraq, and his refusal to
vote with the United States at the U.N. Security Council, sent relations into a
deep freeze. Fox and Bush seemed to begin repairing the damage when they met in
Thailand at a meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in
October.

Guerra said he saw the reported immigration plan as "a domestic political
initiative. It's not being done to try to salvage the relationship with Fox and
become good buddies again."

"Of course this is all political; he's trying to appeal to the Hispanic vote,
two-thirds of which is Democratic," said Rossana Fuentes, managing editor of the
Spanish-language edition of Foreign Affairs magazine.

Fuentes said the Mexican government should take a pragmatic, realistic approach
to Bush's proposals. She said Mexican officials should insist that the United
States also contribute development money to Mexico to help alleviate the poverty
and joblessness that leads to mass illegal immigration.

"Then we will have a safer continent," she said. "It's in both countries'
interest to develop Mexico."

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              40 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 28, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Immigration Restrictions Give Gay Couples Few Options

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 1265 words


The reindeer candlesticks are on the mantel, the bar is stocked with vodka, and
decorations -- both Santa and Grandfather Frost -- festoon the snug Alexandria
townhouse where Eric Nelson and his Russian partner are celebrating their 11th
Christmas holiday together.

Their love transcends cultures. It might not survive U.S. law.

That's because Nelson's partner, Andrei, is a man living here on a work visa. If
Andrei were a woman, Nelson could marry him and sponsor him for permanent U.S.
residency. With that route closed, Andrei might have no way to stay in the
country when his visa expires in two years.

Often overlooked in the debate over gay marriage, thousands of same-sex couples
face similar problems. The immigration system is geared largely toward uniting
spouses and families but does not grant the same recognition to same-sex unions.
So, many gay binational couples resort to drastic measures: commuting between
countries, living here illegally or leaving the United States.

"Without the federal marriage benefit, who knows what will happen to our
relationship or where I'll have to live?" asks Nelson, 47, a telecommunications
consultant. He is thinking of leaving the area, where he has lived since age 7,
and moving to France, which has broader immigration privileges for same-sex
couples.

Gay marriage has emerged as an explosive political topic since a divided
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court announced last month that same-sex pairs
have a right to wed under that state's constitution and thus enjoy the state
benefits available to married couples.

But such rulings do not confer such federal privileges as the ability to sponsor
a spouse for immigration. Under the Defense of Marriage Act, signed in 1996 by
President Bill Clinton, marriage is defined for the purposes of federal law as a
union between a man and a woman.

Gay couples are urging Congress to approve a bill -- the Permanent Partners
Immigration Act -- that would grant them the same immigration benefits as
married couples. It has gained 119 co-sponsors, including Del. Eleanor Holmes
Norton (D-D.C.), Rep. James P. Moran Jr. (D-Va.) and Rep. Albert R. Wynn
(D-Md.).

But it faces stiff opposition from traditional-values advocates and those who
say the current level of immigration is too high.

"Why would we want to turn America into a magnet for homosexuals?" asked Robert
Knight, director of the Culture and Family Institute, a conservative group.
"These incremental steps eventually result in governmental indifference to
families. And that is suicidal in terms of civilization."

David Ray of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a nonprofit group,
said that the bill could result in immigrants forming sham unions to become
residents.

"Our immigration system is so bloated with fraud and corruption that adding
another easily exploitable benefit is really unconscionable," he said.

The immigration system has a history of antipathy toward gay men and lesbians.
Until 1990, they were considered "deviates," technically inadmissible to the
United States. Theirs was the love that dared not speak its name -- not to an
immigration officer, anyway.

But increased foreign travel, trade and immigration have led to a growing number
of binational couples, heterosexual and homosexual. Last year, one in four legal
immigrants -- nearly 300,000 people -- was a foreign bride or groom.

Nelson met his partner on a business trip to St. Petersburg in 1993. Andrei was
working at the U.S. consulate in the city, assisting American executives. He
declined to give his last name for fear of repercussions from immigration
authorities.

Nelson was instantly attracted to the sophisticated, charming young man who
became his guide in the snowy city. "Frankly, we couldn't stay apart," he said.

So began a quest to be together -- or at least in the same time zone. Andrei
studied at Dartmouth College and worked in New York. He moved in with Nelson in
1998, getting an MBA and then finding a telecommunications job that provided an
H1B professional visa for up to six years.

Today, they are like many suburban couples, with bills and a garden and a
history chronicled on the kitchen fridge. Here is a photo of their French
vacation, there a snapshot of them drinking wine by their fireplace. But every
time Andrei leaves the country on a business trip, Nelson worries that he might
be denied reentry by an immigration officer suspecting that he plans to stay
beyond his visa limit.

Nelson said he has photos, receipts and other evidence to prove that their union
is authentic. The Permanent Partners Immigration Act would require couples to
show that they are financially interdependent and in a committed relationship.

"We're not asking for any more than any straight couple gets if they fall in
love. There are safeguards in place to help prevent sham marriages," Nelson
said. For example, many foreign spouses receive conditional visas for the first
two years of marriage. They then can obtain permanent residency.

Activists say that several hundred gay couples in the Washington area are
confronting difficult choices because one partner can't sponsor the other for
immigration. Adam Francoeur, program director of the New York-based Lesbian and
Gay Immigration Rights Task Force, estimates that an initial surge of up to
20,000 people would seek residency visas if the law were changed and that the
number of applicants then would drop to about 1,000 a year.

But many activists say they are doubtful the law will change soon. In fact,
since the Massachusetts ruling, some legislators are seeking to further restrict
legal rights for same-sex unions.

So hundreds of gay Americans are making the only move they believe will preserve
their relationship: going abroad.

One of them is David Bress. A retired D.C. public school teacher, he is a
third-generation Washingtonian whose father was U.S. attorney for the District
from 1965 to 1969. Bress met his partner, Gary, 11 years ago while on vacation
in Toronto. Gary declined to provide his last name for fear of problems with
U.S. immigration officials.

For years, their relationship followed a pattern: Gary, a self-employed Canadian
home remodeler, made extended visits to Bress's Woodley Park home, always
leaving before his six-month tourist visa expired, Bress said. But in June 2000,
a U.S. Border Patrol agent stopped the couple and accused Gary of being an
illegal immigrant, Bress said. The Canadian was barred from this country for
five years.

Bress was shocked.

"The only recourse we had was for me to leave the U.S., where I was born and
raised," he said.

At the time, though, leaving seemed impossible. Bress's widowed mother was
elderly, and his sister was terminally ill. So he began an exhaustive, expensive
routine of commuting to Canada. Now, after the deaths of those family members,
Bress is moving to his partner's homeland. Canada is one of 15 countries, most
in Western Europe, that recognize same-sex relationships for immigration
purposes.

"I was lucky I could retire early and do this," Bress, 52, said in a telephone
interview from Canada. "I'm more concerned about the people who can't do that."

Nelson is lucky, too. He is eligible for French citizenship through his mother,
a native of that country. France allows gay people to sponsor their partners as
immigrants, so Nelson and his partner could finally have long-term stability.
The idea of moving, however, pains him.

"I love my life here. I wish I could stay. My family is here, my friends are
here," Nelson said. But, he said, "time is running out."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              41 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 9, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Good Beginning

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 578 words


FOR THE PAST several years, Sens. Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) and Chuck Hagel
(R-Neb.) have been working on an immigration reform bill that would, they hoped,
attract bipartisan support. Their staffs held meetings with representatives of
business groups, immigration advocacy organizations and trade unions, meetings
that often featured those representatives shouting at one another. An early
attempt at a bill was derailed by the events of Sept. 11, 2001. Now revised
legislation has been introduced only days after President Bush announced his own
interest in launching a campaign to reform the nation's immigration laws. The
timing is fortuitous: At the very least, the president's response to the
Hagel-Daschle bill will reveal how serious his own proposals for immigration
reform were really intended to be.

While the bill may not be perfect, it does fill in some of the blanks in the
president's proposal. Perhaps most important, it recognizes that many of the
people who have been living here for many years while working illegally   are
unlikely to find the prospect of a temporary, three-year visa attractive. It
proposes, instead, that they pay a fine, demonstrate that they are employed, pay
any back taxes and then be put in the queue, along with other legitimate
applicants, to obtain green cards. In addition, the annual cap on the number of
green cards issued will be raised to help clear the enormous backlogs. The idea
is that this procedure be available to people already in the country at the time
the bill is passed, not that it be available indefinitely.

At the same time, the bill creates new categories of temporary work visas, as
the president's program would, intended to provide a way for employers to hire a
limited number of unskilled workers from abroad who are not currently eligible
for any kind of work visa. Once in this country, temporary workers would be able
to switch jobs, reapply for visas and eventually apply for residency  under
certain conditions. If they violated the terms of their visas or entered the
country illegally, they would not be eligible.

To succeed, the bill would have to be accompanied by a major boost in
enforcement -- not something anybody has ever been willing to undertake -- as
well as new funding for the already overburdened agency now known as the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is hardly capable of dealing with
current levels of bureaucracy and is not in a position to administer a whole new
set of visas. The proposed fines that would be paid, both by illegals applying
for residency and foreign workers applying for visas, would not suffice. True
immigration reform would also require the cooperation of the Mexican government,
which isn't something that Congress can legislate, and would have to be part of
a larger package.

Nevertheless, this bill does represent an attempt to make concrete some of the
ideas that the president spoke about in his speech on immigration earlier this
year. Like a handful of other immigration bills introduced in recent months, it
stands a decent chance of attracting bipartisan support. Still, Senate staffers
agree that none of these bills has  much chance of passage without presidential
support. If the White House is serious about immigration reform, administration
officials will publicly welcome this bill, introduce one of their own -- based
on similar principles -- and start pushing congressional leaders to take this
issue seriously.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              42 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 13, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

April Fool's Day

BYLINE: Al Kamen

SECTION: A Section; A25 , IN THE LOOP Al Kamen

LENGTH: 820 words


At the end of 2003, former Russian banker Alex Konanykhin was spending a little
time in jail as a guest of Uncle Sam, having been nabbed by U.S. immigration
officials as he tried to go from Buffalo to apply for political asylum in
Canada. (That's right, going across the Peace Bridge in his BMW, leaving the
country. )

Konanykhin, one of the first Russian millionaires after the fall of the commies,
left in 1992 and was granted asylum here in 1999. He's built a very successful
Web advertising business in New York City.

But in November, an immigration appeals panel, apparently deciding that Vladimir
Putin's justice system was just hunky-dory, reversed the asylum ruling.
Department of Homeland Security folks moved with stunning alacrity to send him
back to Russia, where he's accused of stealing from his bank. He says not so.

Then a federal judge in New York blocked the deportation, and the immigration
appeals panel reversed its earlier ruling and sent the matter back to the first
immigration judge.

So imagine Konanykhin's surprise when he got a breathless fax from the National
Republican Congressional Committee saying he had  been chosen "New York
Businessman of the Year."

"As such, you will be honored and presented with your award," NRCC chairman
Thomas M. Reynolds (R-N.Y.) said, at a "special ceremony" April 1. "President
Bush and Governor [Arnold] Schwarzenegger are our special invited guests for the
NRCC Spring Gala," the Reynolds invite said.

"We will use that letter as evidence Konanykhin qualifies for permanent resident
status as a businessman of extraordinary ability," his lawyer, Michael Maggio,
said yesterday. "Many thanks to the Republican leadership. I'm so grateful, a
donation does seem appropriate."

"What's in a name?" Shakespeare asked in "Romeo and Juliet." Not much, according
to the bard. But he surely would have agreed with Voice of America folks that a
new logo means everything.

The new logo is "VOA's" visual identity [and it] conveys a powerful message
about who we are," VOA Director David S. Jackson told his troops in a recent
e-mail. "This visual representation of our identity is among VOA's most valuable
assets. As with any asset," he warned, "it can be either enhanced or devalued."

So Jackson announced a "VOA Logo Usage Guide" that can be downloaded so no one
will devalue the logo. The guide "is intended to ensure that the logo is
protected, enhanced, and used in a consistent manner. The correct use of these
elements is essential to supporting our leadership position in an increasingly
competitive marketplace."

This "new look applies not only to print, TV and the Internet but also to
signage, fax cover sheets, CD-Rom packing, brochures, questionnaires, business
cards, and any other product displaying the logo." Old supplies will be used up,
he notes.

So out with the old red, white and blue logo and in with the new blue, gray,
green and white logo. And remember, the usage guide says, "do not change the
typeface, do not alter letter spacing, do not change colors, do not add
'elements' [designs] to the logo" and please, whatever you do, "do not apply a
pattern behind or in front of a positive version logo."

VOA's radio listeners will be furious if you do that.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell's nasty dust-up Wednesday with Rep. Sherrod
Brown (D-Ohio), after Powell scolded a congressional aide at a House
International Relations Committee hearing, generated unwelcome news.

But yesterday, Powell, at the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, took a lighter
tone.

"It's always a joy to be with the members of the committee," Powell said, "and
your very professional, very experienced, very well-behaved staff." It got a
laugh.

Catching up . . . The Justice Department did not violate federal public records
laws when it chose to redact large portions of a consultant's study outlining
internal diversity problems, the department's inspector general said yesterday.

In response to a request from two Democratic congressmen, Inspector General
Glenn A. Fine reviewed the department's handling of a 186-page diversity report
by KPMG Consulting, which was held from public release for a year and so heavily
redacted that, for example, none of the recommendations was made public.

But Fine found that the report went through the normal review process before it
was released, and that the Justice Department was within its legal rights to
redact items that were part of the "deliberative process."

After unredacted versions of the report became widely available because of a
technological glitch, the department eventually posted a full version on its Web
site. Many of the censored items were critical of the department, including the
fact that minorities were more likely to cite racial tensions as a problem.

See, there's the favorable deliberative process and the unfavorable deliberative
process. And the government can decide which to reveal.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              43 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 26, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Georgetown Professor Named Dean of University's Law School

BYLINE: Amy Argetsinger, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B08

LENGTH: 371 words


Georgetown University named an immigration law scholar from its faculty
yesterday to serve as dean of the Law Center.

T. Alexander Aleinikoff, a former official with the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, will assume the job July 1, succeeding Judith C. Areen,
who oversaw 15 years of expansion at a law school that is now the nation's
largest.

"He is exactly the right person to lead this school during its next period of
flourishing," Areen said in a phone interview, citing Aleinikoff's background in
immigration and constitutional law and foreign policy. "This is a school that
will only be more global going forward."

Aleinikoff joined the Georgetown faculty in 1997 -- teaching courses in
immigration and refugee law, citizenship law and constitutional law -- after
three years as a Clinton appointee at the INS, first as general counsel and
later as executive associate commissioner for programs. He had served on the
faculty of the University of Michigan law school for 15 years and is a graduate
of Swarthmore College and Yale University law school.

Areen will depart six years after weathering a battle with Georgetown's former
president, the Rev. Leo O'Donovan, who sought to replace the law school dean
without public explanation. Scores of students, faculty and alumni protested the
decision, and Areen was signed to another five-year contract. She will rejoin
the faculty after she steps down from the deanship.

Yesterday, Areen praised the university's 11-month search for a dean, saying
that it was the first done with input from an alumni committee. She said she was
gratified by President John J. DeGioia's choice of an inside candidate. "It's
the president's way of acknowledging that the school is doing well," she said.

In recent years, the law center has been ranked among the nation's top 20 in
national surveys. With 450 full-time students and 125 night students, it has the
largest enrollment in the country, and with 100 full-time faculty members, it
has the largest staff. Last year, Georgetown Law received 12,000 applications
for admission.

Aleinikoff described the school as having "a lot of momentum."

"I would like to help continue to move the law school in that direction," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              44 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 13, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Doctor Accused of Sexually Assaulting Patient

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 460 words


An Alexandria doctor who specializes in providing physical examinations for
immigrants needing them for permanent residency has been charged with sexually
molesting a patient during such an exam, police said yesterday.

Fausto D. Fernandez, 64, faces one count of misdemeanor sexual battery based on
the allegations of a 38-year-old Alexandria man. The man visited Fernandez's
King Street office Nov. 1 and several weeks later told authorities that the
doctor molested him during the examination, police said.

Fernandez turned himself in to police Tuesday afternoon and was released from
the Alexandria city jail that night on a $2,500 cash bond. He did not respond to
messages left yesterday at his office.

Alexandria police issued a call for any additional victims to contact
authorities and posted Fernandez's picture on the city's Web site. Police and
immigration advocates said immigrants often are reluctant to come forward in
such circumstances, for reasons that can range from cultural differences to fear
of dealing with law enforcement.

"In a case like this we want to reach out to see if there are any other patients
who may also have been victimized," Alexandria police spokeswoman Amy Bertsch
said. "We understand that some people may be reluctant to come forward. We are
not focusing on anyone's immigration status."

The case highlights what federal officials and immigration lawyers say is a
growing area of medical practice. Nearly all aliens seeking permanent resident
status, or green cards, are required to undergo a physical, which, according to
guidelines, must include "complete disrobing."

The exams, which federal officials said have their origin in the days when
immigrants were checked for communicable diseases at New York's Ellis Island,
also include tests for tuberculosis, HIV and syphilis, vaccinations for
conditions such as mumps and measles and a mental status examination.

Performing these exams are doctors, such as Fernandez, who are on a
government-designated list of "civil surgeons." To be on the list, doctors must
submit copies of their medical license; a résumé that shows four years of
professional experience not including residency and proof of citizenship, said
Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security.

Lawyers who deal regularly with immigrants were critical of those doctors
yesterday, saying they generally perform exams that are not thorough and involve
little real diagnosis.

But Strassberger and other federal officials defended the doctors. There are
more than 50 physicians and clinics on the government-approved list for the
District and Northern Virginia.

Fernandez is scheduled to appear in court next week. He faces up to one year in
jail and a $2,500 fine if convicted.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              45 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 13, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Alexandria Doctor Accused of Sex Assault

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 562 words


An Alexandria doctor who specializes in providing physical examinations for
immigrants needing them for permanent residency has been charged with sexually
molesting a patient during such an exam, police said yesterday.

Fausto D. Fernandez, 64, faces one count of misdemeanor sexual battery based on
the allegations of a 38-year-old Alexandria man. The man visited Fernandez's
King Street office Nov. 1 and several weeks later told authorities that the
doctor molested him during the examination, police said.

Fernandez turned himself in to police Tuesday afternoon and was released from
the Alexandria city jail that night on a $2,500 cash bond. He did not respond to
messages left yesterday at his office.

Alexandria police issued a call for any additional victims to contact
authorities and posted Fernandez's picture on the city's Web site. Police and
immigration advocates said immigrants often are reluctant to come forward in
such circumstances, for reasons that can range from cultural differences to fear
of dealing with law enforcement.

"In a case like this we want to reach out to see if there are any other patients
who may also have been victimized," Alexandria police spokeswoman Amy Bertsch
said. "We understand that some people may be reluctant to come forward. We are
not focusing on anyone's immigration status."

The case highlights what federal officials and immigration lawyers say is a
growing area of medical practice. Nearly all immigrants   seeking permanent
resident status, or green cards, are required to undergo a physical, which,
according to guidelines, must include "complete disrobing."

The exams, which federal officials said have their origin in the days when
immigrants were checked for communicable diseases at New York's Ellis Island,
also include tests for tuberculosis, HIV and syphilis, vaccinations for
conditions such as mumps and measles and a mental status examination.

Performing these exams are doctors, such as Fernandez, who are on a
government-designated list of "civil surgeons." To be on the list, doctors must
submit copies of their medical license; a résumé that shows four years of
professional experience not including residency and proof of citizenship, said
Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security.

Doctors also must charge a "reasonable fee" for the exams.

Lawyers who deal regularly with immigrants were critical of those doctors
yesterday, saying they generally perform exams that are not thorough and involve
little real diagnosis. "It's an assembly line," said one lawyer, who like others
interviewed, spoke on condition of anonymity. "There's not a lot of medicine
involved."

But Strassberger and other federal officials defended the doctors. There are
more than 50 physicians and clinics on the government-approved list for the
District and Northern Virginia. Immigrants can locate them on the Web site of
the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, a division of Homeland Security,
or by calling a toll-free government customer service center.

"I would not accept anyone saying these are not valid physicals," Strassberger
said. "They are just as valid as any physical someone would get to meet other
requirements for employment or to participate in sports."

Fernandez is scheduled to appear in court next week. He faces up to one year in
jail and a $2,500 fine if convicted.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              46 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 22, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Agents Faulted In Deportation Case;
Bid to Intimidate Witnesses Alleged

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 704 words


Defense attorneys have accused federal agents of trying to intimidate witnesses
in the case of a Woodbridge man alleged to have terrorist ties, prompting an
immigration judge to conduct an unusual hearing into the allegation.

Majed Hajbeh, 41, was recently found guilty of obtaining an immigrant visa in
1992 based on incorrect information. He has appealed to the judge to let him
remain in the country, saying that he made mistakes in filling out the
application and that he, his wife and seven children would face extreme hardship
if forced to leave.

Immigration attorneys say the case shows how U.S. authorities are using
immigration charges to deport Muslims suspected of terrorism links. Hajbeh was
convicted in absentia in a series of bombings in 1998 in his native Jordan. He
denies involvement in those attacks, which caused property damage but no
casualties.

Immigration Judge Wayne Iskra  held a special hearing Thursday after a witness,
Priscilla Nabulsi, said she had been visited by an Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agent after her testimony on behalf of Hajbeh in November.

"The real reason for the visit was to intimidate witnesses in this case,"
Hajbeh's attorney, Kimberly Kinser, said at the court hearing in Arlington. She
produced two other witnesses for Hajbeh who said that they, too, had been
contacted by federal agents after testifying.

Prosecutors for Immigrations and Customs Enforcement denied the  accusation.

The agent, T. Anthony Langeland, testified that he had questioned Nabulsi
because he was investigating another possible  violation -- that Hajbeh might
have lied on his application for citizenship a few years ago. He said Nabulsi
was cooperative and friendly during his visit to her trailer home in
Murfreesboro, Tenn.

But the judge indicated that he was concerned.

"Why did you find it necessary to go interview a witness while the trial was
going on?"  Iskra asked. Langeland said in his testimony that he was unaware
that Nabulsi had just testified in the case.

Iskra said it was beyond the jurisdiction of the immigration court to rule on
whether the agents had acted improperly. But, he said, their actions could
reflect on the government's handling of the case. He is expected to issue a
ruling on the appeal in a few weeks.

Nabulsi said she became nervous during the Dec. 1 visit when Langeland displayed
an envelope with subpoenas and said she could have been summoned to appear
before a grand jury if she had not answered his questions. Nabulsi testified
that she decided to stop cooperating with Hajbeh's defense, but later changed
her mind.

Two other witnesses, Fares Masri and Mohammad Azzawe, both friends of Hajbeh's
from Northern Virginia, said they had received visits from the an FBI agent
after testifying in his defense. Masri said the agent, Andrew Wade, had told him
that he "wanted to know about other members of the community." Masri said he
told the agent to contact his lawyer.

Azzawe also said he referred Wade to his attorney. Azzawe said the agent wanted
"to pay me money to work with him." He said he declined and continued to appear
in the Hajbeh case.

An affidavit by Wade was submitted in court but was under seal, according to a
spokeswoman for the FBI's Washington field office, Debbie Weierman, who declined
to comment further.

Thursday's hearing got off to a dramatic start when the judge told security
guards to allow Hajbeh's supporters to enter the tiny courtroom. The guards
refused, citing security reasons. They had allowed two journalists to enter,
however.

"I'm the judge, and nobody has informed me for the reason for this security,"
Iskra said. "I'm the judge!"

He suspended the hearing, to confer with the attorneys and await a resolution of
the matter by the Department of Homeland Security, which controls access to the
building. About 45 minutes later, Iskra resumed the session, saying, "This
courtroom is now open."

Ernestine Fobbs, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which is
part of Homeland Security, said security had been tightened because "it's a
sensitive case, and we anticipated a large crowd of people."

She said the guards were apparently misinformed about letting people into the
hearing.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              47 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 5, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Slain Children's Parents Might Be Able to Stay in U.S.

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 591 words


U.S. immigration authorities said they are considering allowing three illegal
immigrants whose children were recently slain in Baltimore to return to the
United States after taking the children's bodies back to Mexico for burial.

The parents' immigration status, which came to light after they returned from
work May 27 and found their three children slashed to death in their apartment,
has added a  further twist to a brutal crime.

According to Baltimore  officials, Ricardo Espinoza and his wife, Noemi "Mimi"
Quezada, the parents of two of the victims, and Quezada's niece Maria Andrea
Espejo, mother of the third victim, want to bury the children in their home town
of Tenenexpan in Mexico and then resume living in the United States. The Mexican
government has offered to pay for transportation of the bodies and the parents.

But because all three parents have been in the United States illegally for more
than a year, if they were to leave, U.S. law bars them from reentering the
country for 10 years. Even if the parents were to forgo the trip to Mexico, they
could still face deportation.

Officials of the Department of Homeland Security as well as the Mexican
consulate in Washington and the city of Baltimore said they have been discussing
avenues of enabling the parents to stay on humanitarian grounds.

"We want to make this process as painless as possible for the family," said Tony
White, communications director of the Mayor's Office of Neighborhoods. "This
family has already endured so much pain that you want them to be able to take
care of their family business and bring some closure through the funeral."

It is also possible that police investigators, prosecutors and defense attorneys
will want access to the parents as the case unfolds. Two relatives of Ricardo
Espinoza -- brother Policarpio Espinoza, 22, and  nephew Adan Espinoza Canela,
17 -- have been charged with three counts of first-degree murder in the killings
and are being held without bail. The victims were Ricardo Espinoza, 9; his
sister Lucero Quezada, 8; and their cousin Alexis Espejo, 10.

Ernestine Fobbs, spokeswoman for the arm of Homeland Security charged with
carrying out deportations, said one possibility under consideration would be to
"parole" the parents back into the United States for a designated period, such
as the duration of an investigation or future trials.

It is a procedure used to allow in foreigners who do not qualify for traditional
visas and does not constitute formal admission into the country. It remains
unclear whether such a parole would give the parents -- who are currently
employed in a relative's taco-sales business -- the right to work in the United
States.

"The whole complexity of this will be looked into before [the parents] came back
to the United States," Fobbs said.

In a related development, Espinoza Canela's attorney, James Rhodes, complained
yesterday that police investigators took his client out of jail and interviewed
him last Monday without an attorney present. Espinoza Canela had already been
assigned an attorney from the public defender's office at that point.

"The fact that they did this tells me they have no intention of abiding by the
rules," Rhodes said.

Rhodes added that he did not yet know what, if anything, his client said during
the interview.

Matt Jablow, a Baltimore police spokesman, said he could not comment on the
issue because a judge has ordered police and attorneys in the case not to
comment publicly on it. That order came at the request of Policarpio Espinoza's
attorney.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              48 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 550 words


The nation's immigration service announced yesterday that it is renewing efforts
to reduce the backlog of applications for citizenship, green cards and other
benefits.

Eduardo Aguirre Jr., director of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, told Congress that his agency expects to reach its goal of processing
almost all applications in six months or less by the end of 2006.

To do that, he expects that the FBI, customs and other law enforcement agencies
will speed up the background checks that often hold up many immigration
applications.

"We do depend on them, but we are already getting a faster turn-around time from
the FBI," Aguirre said before he testified before the House Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration.

William R. Yates, the immigration agency's associate director for operations,
said FBI checks that took months in the 1990s now take only a couple of days.

Since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, law enforcement officers have spent
more time checking watch lists and other databases to research the records of
people seeking citizenship or permanent residency. That extra scrutiny has added
to delays.

The Senate Judiciary Committee, on a party-line vote , recommended seating a
Michigan judge who was nominated 21/2 years ago to a federal appeals court.

The 10 to 9 vote won by the GOP majority sends the nomination of Michigan Court
of Appeals Judge Henry Saad to the full Senate, where it faces an uncertain
future.

Democrats could threaten to filibuster the nomination, as they have done to
stall or block votes on six of President Bush's more contentious judicial
nominations.

Saad was nominated to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit, which hears
cases from federal district courts in Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky and Tennessee.

A Texas prosecutor says he is looking into a state senator's contention that
Rep. Martin Frost (D-Tex.) illegally funneled corporate donations to state
legislative candidates in 2000. Travis County District Attorney Ronnie Earle, a
Democrat, is also looking into similar allegations against a political action
committee created by House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-Tex.).

Frost said yesterday that his PAC's 2000 contributions were entirely legal and
that his accuser -- state Sen. Robert F. Deuell (R) -- is trying to deflect
attention from the DeLay-related probe. He said Deuell cited a disclosure report
covering three months and concluded that Frost's PAC had not received enough
noncorporate money to cover the checks sent to Democratic legislative
candidates. (Texas law bars campaigns from using corporate donations for most
purposes.)

Frost said the complaint ignored the PAC's earlier accumulation of noncorporate
money, which was sufficient to cover the checks sent to candidates.

People who buy prescription medicine on the Internet risk taking damaged drugs
or even getting counterfeits, according to a government report.

Drugs from Web sites in other countries -- except Canada -- are especially
likely to be mishandled and to exclude warning information, a General Accounting
Office report said.

Buying cheaper drugs online, especially from Canada, has become a growing trend
as drug costs rise and more Americans lose health insurance benefits.

--  From News Services

and Staff Reports

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              49 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 30, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Visa Reform: For More Controls . . .

BYLINE: Jon Kyl

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 764 words


Could the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks have been prevented? That's a question that
should weigh heavily on the heart of anyone who might have been in a position to
stop them. As an eight-year member of the Senate intelligence committee, I
recently told the Sept. 11 commission that the answer is probably yes. And the
attacks could happen again.

Fifteen of the 19 men who flew hijacked airliners into the World Trade Center,
the Pentagon and the Pennsylvania countryside that day in 2001 were natives of
Saudi Arabia. All had entered the United States legally, using visas that should
never have been granted and that were in blatant violation of the spirit and the
letter of U.S. immigration law.

The Immigration and Nationality Act makes clear that applicants for nonimmigrant
visas are to be considered ineligible until they demonstrate otherwise. In other
words, the burden of proof is on the applicants to show that they do not intend
to overstay or otherwise violate the terms of their visa. All applicants are
required to provide specific information, such as their identity, travel plans,
financial resources and destination. This system was created for a good reason:
to discourage illegal immigration by preventing the entry of those with no
intention of leaving the United States.

But for Saudi nationals, we looked the other way. Because Saudi Arabia is a rich
country -- and, perhaps more important, because it is considered a U.S. ally --
before Sept. 11, 2001, the assistant secretary of state for consular affairs at
the time, Mary Ryan, had relaxed the visa application rules, even to the point
of implementing "Visa Express," an unprecedented program that literally
delegated visa processing to travel agents  to speed it up. The basic legal
requirement that applicants provide accurate and persuasive information was
ignored.

The problems with the terrorists' applications weren't trivial, such as
punctuation or spelling. Omitted information included home addresses, means of
financial support and travel plans while within the United States. Only three
forms listed a "Name and Address of Present Employer or School," and only one of
the 15 applicants listed an actual destination address in the United States. The
rest of the hijackers put down vague locations such as "California," "New York"
and "Hotel." One simply wrote "No." Only two were given oral interviews, which
are common for applicants from poorer or less stable countries or those whose
written applications require clarification. In fact, the Sept. 11 commission
found that two other suicide volunteers were turned down because al Qaeda feared
they would have trouble, as natives of Yemen, getting visas of their own.

It's not as if Saudis should have been above suspicion. Saudi Arabia is known to
harbor violent Muslim radicals; it is the home of Wahhabism, a particularly
virulent and anti-American strain of Islam. The State Department should have
been giving Saudi visa applications an extra level of scrutiny, not expediting
them.

Unfortunately, the State Department does not seem to have learned much from the
experience. It continues to maintain that its pre-Sept.11 visa policies in Saudi
Arabia were reasonable because of a lack of specific intelligence indicating
otherwise. It is true that none of the 15 applicants was on a specific "watch
list" at the time. But they still would have been stopped in their tracks if the
State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs had simply followed even the
minimum requirements of the law with regard to their applications.

Astonishingly, even after the Sept. 11 attacks the State Department adamantly
refused to tighten visa procedures, waiting 10 months to begin interviewing all
nonimmigrant applicants between the ages of 12 and 70, including Saudi citizens.
Even today consular officers receive only a day or two of law enforcement
training -- hardly enough to even begin to learn the art of identifying security
risks. Nearly three years later, it's still far too easy for a terrorist to get
a visa to enter the United States.

As important as it was for the Sept. 11 commission to examine the intelligence
and air defense failures before the attacks, it is equally imperative to
recognize that simple enforcement of immigration law might have prevented at
least some of the attacks of that tragic day, and could stop new ones, if only a
stubborn bureaucracy would admit its mistakes and fix them.

The writer is a Republican senator from Arizona and chairman of the Senate
Judiciary subcommittee on terrorism and homeland security.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              50 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 21, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush's Retreat on Immigration Reform

BYLINE: Harold Meyerson

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 814 words


Marie Gonzalez sounds a bit like your classic Valley girl, punctuating her
sentences with the obligatory "for sures" and "you knows." And, for sure, the
18-year-old, who graduated this spring from Helias High School in Jefferson
City, Mo., seems in every way your normal American young woman -- on the tennis
and track teams in high school, very involved with her parish, looking forward
to college this fall. Well, conditionally looking forward to college.

For Marie, who seems to have stepped out of a 21st-century update of a Norman
Rockwell tableau, has a problem: The government wants to deport her to Costa
Rica. And Marie, whose parents brought her to the States when she was 5,  faces
the abrupt prospect of losing everything she has in all good faith worked for.

She can be forgiven for having thought she was leading a normal life. Her
father, after all, worked as a courier in the office of the governor of
Missouri. Her mother was a grade-school Spanish teacher. Her parents' initial
visas had lapsed and they had been applying for naturalization, but they plainly
lacked the proper documentation. Since this was  discovered in 2002, they have
been unable to work  (though her mother still teaches Spanish on a volunteer
basis). But for the support of the largely conservative, white parishioners in
their church, the Gonzalez family would have been in desperate straits. Their
straits are dire enough as is.

Marie's story, unfortunately, is not all that exceptional. Every year the
government  deports American teenagers -- who have gone to school here and are
on their way to productive careers -- to Latin American and Caribbean nations
they may not have seen since infancy. It's for that reason that legislators of
both parties support the Dream Act, which would enable 65,000 high school
graduates who are undocumented to become citizens if they complete college, and
allow them to pay the in-state  rate for tuition at public colleges and
universities.

The Dream Act passed the Senate Judiciary Committee last fall, with heavy
bipartisan backing and the support of Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch.
But like the Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits, and Security Act of 2003,
or Ag Jobs, which also looked bound for passage until some recent mind-boggling
legislative maneuvers, it has fallen prey to the Bush administration's
reluctance to do anything that might rouse the ire of the nativist right.

The demise of Ag Jobs is particularly instructive; it was the first bill since
God knows when that commanded majority support from each party's Senate
delegation and from the unlikely duo of agribusiness and the United Farm
Workers. For agribusiness, it would reestablish a guest worker program with far
fewer procedural restrictions and a temporary moratorium on higher wages. For
immigrant farm workers, it would hold out the promise of a path to legalization
provided they worked at least 360 days in agriculture over a period of several
years.  In essence, it created a kind of regulated indentured servitude, with a
binding commitment of legalized status at the end -- not the prettiest picture
of how to become an American, perhaps, but one that met the needs of all
involved parties.

Earlier this month, though, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist refused to let the
bill come to a vote -- so adamantly, in fact, that he willingly doomed the
business community's top legislative priority, a tort reform bill, to which Ag
Jobs would have been attached as an amendment. Frist has no history of nativist
passions; he was simply doing the bidding of the White House.

And the White House, it is clear, has made a strategic calculation. Karl Rove
knows perfectly well that the Latino vote is growing and is an increasing factor
in such swing states as Florida, New Mexico, Arizona and Nevada. But he also
knows that the president's half-hearted steps toward immigration reform were
greeted by a storm of protest from anti-immigrant forces in the very same
states, and that Rep.  Chris Cannon (R-Utah) actually incurred a primary
challenge (which he beat back) because he  had co-authored Ag Jobs in the House.

So once again, George W. Bush has decided that the votes he'll fish for are all
on the right. Gone are any illusions that he can do better among Latino voters
than he did in 2000. Now, it's John Kerry who's campaigning on his support for
Ag Jobs and the Dream Act, and immigrant rights advocates who are registering
new voters by the tens of thousands in such immigrant-heavy locales as Orlando
and Phoenix.

Marie Gonzalez just hopes the powers that be can resolve these matters quickly.
"Our life is worth living," she says, "and they shouldn't be taking it away from
us." For sure.

I erred last week in writing that the Senate was still sitting on 26 judicial
nominations. They have in fact all been confirmed.

meyersonh@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              51 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 29, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant's Troubles Continue;
Mentally Disabled Guinean Man Held in Limbo for 3 Years

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 992 words


Malik Jarno, a mildly mentally retarded teenager, has tried for more than three
years to immigrate to the United States. Instead, he has become an orphan of the
world.

In 1998, when he was 13, Jarno fled his native Guinea after his brother went
missing and his father was imprisoned and killed by government forces for
belonging to a political opposition group, human rights workers say. His mother
died of an illness when he was young.

Jarno sought a home with relatives, first in other parts of West Africa, then in
Europe. But none of them wanted to raise a mentally disabled boy, his attorneys
say. So they put him on a plane and sent him to the United States -- alone, and
with a fake passport.

The U.S. government does not want him here, either. Immigration officials have
been trying to deport him since he arrived at Dulles International Airport in
early 2001, saying his false papers raise questions about his story. Now 19,
Jarno has spent most of the last three years detained in Virginia jails.

Jarno's case highlights the problems faced by an estimated 5,000 children who
arrive in the United States every year, without proper papers and unaccompanied
by any adult. All are promptly detained in juvenile facilities by federal
immigration officials. After Congress became aware of Jarno's situation and that
of others, it shifted care of those youths to the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services.

His advocates say his story also shows the flaws of the immigration system.
After he was detained, for instance, federal immigration officials lost track of
his case, leaving him in Piedmont Regional Jail in Virginia for nine months
without the opportunity for a hearing.

During his detention and subsequent publicity, Jarno picked up powerful allies,
including 70 members of Congress who wrote to Homeland Security in support of
his case, dozens of human rights organizations, and 30 attorneys from four law
firms, who say they have donated at least $3 million worth of services to his
cause.

But for all of that attention, Jarno has yet to achieve his goal: asylum in the
United States.

"It's been terrible the things that happened," Jarno said in an interview. "Why
does [the U.S. immigration agency] hate me?"

Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.)  introduced a private bill in the House to grant
Jarno a green card, an unusual act for a federal legislator.

"I think Homeland Security would acknowledge that their early treatment of Malik
was wrong," Van Hollen said. "His deportation, if it came to that, would be a
miscarriage of justice."

At a preliminary hearing yesterday, federal immigration attorneys said they
would press forward with a deportation proceeding, scheduled for Aug. 12-13,
despite Van Hollen's bill. Normally such proceedings take a few hours. But
Jarno's case is being handled with unusual care. Lawyers for Jarno and the
government traveled to Guinea to investigate Jarno's story. At least 30
witnesses will be called; others will testify via satellite phone from Guinea.

Asa Hutchinson, undersecretary for Border and Transportation Security at
Homeland Security, denied that his agency has been unusually rigorous in Jarno's
case, calling the effort by immigration attorneys "routine." He added that if
the judge rules that Jarno should be deported, his department will hold off
sending him back to Guinea "for a reasonable time" to give Van Hollen's bill a
chance to pass.

Homeland Security officials have concerns about whether Jarno is telling the
truth, spokesman Bill Strassberger said. They believe, for instance, that
Jarno's birth certificate was forged and that he may not be who he claims to be,
Strassberger said.

"One of the most important things that an individual comes into an asylum
hearing with is their credibility," he said. "As soon as issues of credibility
arise, it becomes much more difficult to claim asylum."

Questions about the birth certificate also led to confusion over where Jarno
should be detained. Initially, he was put in an adult jail. Then, the Guinean
Embassy said the birth certificate, which showed him to be younger than 18, was
authentic, so Jarno was put in protective solitary confinement for several weeks
before being transferred to a juvenile facility. Finally, after a federal
investigation in Guinea renewed doubts about the document, he was returned to an
adult jail.

Jarno remained there until last Christmas Eve, when Hutchinson personally
ordered his release, citing "humanitarian concerns" about keeping a mentally
disabled teenager behind bars for so long. Jarno is now at International
Friendship House, a sanctuary for asylum seekers in York, Pa.

While in the juvenile facility, Jarno tested three times at an IQ of 65 or
lower. But immigration officials say those scores may be misleading because the
exam may not have been "culturally sensitive." Strassberger said authorities are
not sure Jarno is as mentally disabled as he claimed.

But Denise Gilman, director of immigrant and refugee rights at the Washington
Lawyers Committee, said the evidence backing Jarno's story is beyond "what any
reasonable person could be expected to produce" for asylum.

Asylum seekers usually need to produce evidence showing they have a reasonable
fear of returning to their native country, she said. In Jarno's case, human
rights workers in Guinea have written affidavits verifying his family's
persecution.

"I honestly think what Homeland Security is doing in continuing to pursue this
case despite the pile of evidence in his favor is, in a word, cruel," Gilman
said.

Jarno said one of the worst experiences of his life came inside the Piedmont
jail, where he said guards beat him and once used pepper spray on him. The
incidents, he said, which were the subject of a failed civil suit, tainted his
view of the United States.

But he still dreams of being able to stay in this country, largely because he
has no other options.

"I have nowhere else to go," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              52 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 10, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Good Decision

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 421 words


LAST WEEK, the U.S. government granted political asylum to Ilyas Akhmadov, who
was  the foreign minister of an elected, moderate, separatist Chechen government
and has been in exile since 1999. Or perhaps it is more accurate to say that
last  month, one part of the  government, the Department of Homeland Security,
dropped its appeal against another part of the  government: the immigration
court in Boston that granted Mr. Akhmadov asylum   months ago. The DHS appeal
had little foundation. After hearing Mr. Akhmadov's case, the immigration judge
pointed out that if he were returned to Russia, there was little doubt the
Chechen leader would be "shot without being afforded the opportunity to defend
himself in a trial, as has happened to other members of the Chechen government."
The subsequent appeal was widely believed to have been made not on the merits of
the case, but as a favor to the Russian government, which considers Mr. Akhmadov
a terrorist.

Not surprisingly, the Russian government  was displeased by the decision. "Such
acts do not correspond to the friendly spirit of Russian-American relations, and
do not help the joint fight against international terrorism," the Russian
foreign ministry declared. The Russian press was even more displeased by the
National Endowment for Democracy's recent decision to give Mr. Akhmadov a
prestigious grant. "A Grant for Anti-Russian Activity," blared one headline.

But the Bush administration's decision to drop the appeal, while politically
difficult, was the right one. The official explanation is that no links could in
fact be found between Mr. Akhmadov and international terrorism. More to the
point, Mr. Akhmadov is well known for denouncing terrorism, for opposing the use
of suicide bombs and for working, as he puts it, for a "negotiated peace" in his
country. To turn him over to the Russian government for arrest, interrogation
and possible execution would have  meant accepting the Russian definition of all
independent Chechen leaders as terrorists, a definition that simply doesn't hold
up to the facts.

Contrary to Russia's accusations, the decision does not represent any radical
change in Russian-American relations: No one, anywhere, is advocating any active
American military or even political intervention in Chechnya. That doesn't mean,
however, that the  U.S. government needs to agree with every piece of Russian
propaganda about the region, or, more important, to alter American laws on
political asylum in accordance with Russia's demands.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              53 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 6, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

PEC to Aid Immigration Review System

BYLINE: Roseanne Gerin, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: Financial; E04

LENGTH: 470 words


PEC Solutions Inc. of Fairfax won a five-year, $14.1 million contract from the
Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration Review to help build a new
system for managing documents and streamlining the appeals process.

The project aims to transform the agency and immigration courts from paper-based
organizations to paper-free ones. "It will eliminate much of the need to ship
paper documents around the courts," said Reed Hyde, director of the Justice
Systems Center at PEC Solutions.

The Executive Office for Immigration Review collects information about
non-citizens who appear in immigration courts, and  hears and decides
immigration cases for detainees, criminal aliens and asylum seekers. The office
consists of three organizations -- the Office of the Chief Immigration Judge,
the Board of Immigration Appeals and the Office of the Chief Administrative
Hearing Officer.

In fiscal 2003, the Office for Immigration Review handled about 300,000 cases at
the immigration court level and heard 48,000 appeals. There are 212 immigration
judges in 52 courts in the United States.

Under a project the agency calls eWorld, PEC Solutions will replace several old
computer systems with a new system for managing documents. Users will be able to
access court-related documents through an agency intranet site using a Web
browser.

PEC Solutions will manage the project and provide system support and
maintenance, Web development, database design, and integration and
administration services. The company will implement Web-based access to data and
documents, an e-filing system and an automatic assembly of case-related data for
judges and other authorities. The system will incorporate digital-audio
recordings in courtrooms.

"Up to this point, the courts have been very paper intensive," said Roy Carter,
senior vice president and general manager of criminal justice and intelligence
operations at PEC Solutions. "We're seeing a dramatic move by all courts to
reduce that paperwork and give electronic access to all users in the courts."

PEC Solutions provides similar electronic case and data management services to
the federal courts; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the
Drug Enforcement Administration; and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Carter
said.

PEC Solutions is a professional services firm specializing in Web-based IT
systems for government agencies. Other federal customers include the Defense and
Homeland Security departments, Veterans Benefits Administration, the Internal
Revenue Service and intelligence agencies. The firm employs more than 1,400
workers and had revenue of $172 million in 2003.

For more details on this and other technology contracts, go to
www.washingtontechnology.com. Roseanne Gerin is a staff writer with Washington
Technology Magazine.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              54 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 18, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Stuck In the Shadows

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez

SECTION: Editorial; A25

LENGTH: 772 words


You can usually tell what particular issues a politician feels deeply about by
the fact that he or she is willing to risk political capital on them. For
President Bush, one such issue is immigration reform, and in January he proposed
a plan to fix a system which, he observed, "is not working."

The idea was to create a temporary worker program that would enable the federal
government to begin to address the paradox of immigration today:  illegal
immigrants -- undeniable contributors to society but ineligible to be recipients
of its full promise -- living in a shadowy domain that poses a  security threat.

The proposal offered a rational approach to balance economic and security
concerns. But as the electoral year went on, Bush's advisers concluded he had no
political capital to spare. The proposal had been criticized from the left as
being too harsh and from the right as too generous, and the potential gains in
Latino votes just did not seem to outweigh the potential losses from Bush's
Republican base. For the second time in four years, immigration reform went on
the back burner.

State and local officials who bear the brunt of Washington's inaction and do not
have the luxury of sitting out immigration's challenges are filling the vacuum.
But people in Washington who are obsessed with security or inspired by
anti-immigrant sentiment threaten their efforts. The result is an even more
fragmented and dysfunctional system in urgent need of real leadership at the
federal level.

State and local officials are stuck "trying to manage the impact of migration,"
as California Assemblyman Marco Firebaugh put it. Most illegal immigrants work
more than 40 hours a week and pay taxes, yet they receive no benefits. That
means that when they or someone in their family gets sick, it is up to local
authorities to provide them with health care -- too often the  expensive health
care of the emergency room.

Local officials also patch together solutions in education, policing and
documentation. With no federal form of identification, nearly 1,200 police
departments and 340 city governments have turned to IDs known as "matriculas
consulares."  Issued first by Mexico and now by some other Latin American
countries to their nationals living here, the matriculas have become legitimate
forms of identification as agencies and governments have realized that in order
to know who lives in their communities, a foreign document is better than none.

Interestingly, President Vicente Fox last week had his second meeting with a
group of nearly 40 legislators, mayors and city council members from 15 states.
They are Fox's latest allies for bringing some semblance of order and dignity to
the lives of immigrants. Fox and Bush sought just that in 2001, but  the Sept.
11 attacks left Fox hanging from the paintbrush, as the Spanish expression goes,
when the Bush administration took away the ladder.

The hard work at state and local levels is being undermined by single-minded
interests at the federal level. What's more, those federal initiatives lack the
kind of balance that comes when the top leader of the land seeks an overall
compromise.

In a couple of weeks, for instance, the Bush administration is expected to issue
federal rules that would require medical workers to ask patients about their
immigration status. The purported intent is to better understand who receives
health care and how much it costs. While the result may not exactly mean asking
"docs to become cops," as Angela Kelley of the National Immigration Forum
predicts, it could dissuade immigrants from seeking professional care early.

Similarly, legislators in Washington, through proposals such as the one known as
the  Clear Act,  would enlist police officers as immigration agents. Police
departments around the country reject the idea out of concern that immigrants
would think twice about reporting crimes.

Perhaps nothing is more painfully illustrative of today's disconnect between
Washington and the rest of the nation on immigration than higher education.
According to the National Immigration Law Center, eight states, including the
four with the largest concentrations of immigrants, allow exemplary yet
undocumented high school graduates to pay in-state tuition to go to college.

The day they graduate, however, the grads will enter the job market as illegal
immigrants. Only the federal government can change that, but a bipartisan
proposal intended to allow these graduates to enter the work force legally has
been awaiting a vote for more than 26 months. So the so-called  Dream Act
remains just that.

desdewash@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              55 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 4, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Wal-Mart Discussing Settlement;
Probe Involves Use Of Illegal Workers

BYLINE: Michael Barbaro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 474 words


Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world largest retailer, is negotiating with a U.S.
attorney's office in Pennsylvania to settle a 10-month-old investigation into
whether it knowingly hired contractors who used illegal immigrants to clean its
stores, the company said yesterday.

The discount chain did not reveal details about the talks but, in documents
filed with Securities and Exchange Commission, predicted that any settlement
would not significantly affect its earnings.

Wal-Mart disclosed in November that it was the target of a federal grand jury
investigation into potential immigration law violations, after federal agents
arrested more than 250 cleaning-crew workers hired by outside contractors.

Wal-Mart's critics argued that the investigation undercut the chain's claims to
be a good corporate citizen and instead suggest its primary focus was keeping
down labor costs.

"The Wal-Mart myth is red, white and blue and the undocumented worker issue
damages the brand image," said Greg Denier, a spokesman for the United Food and
Commercial Workers union, which is trying to organize Wal-Mart's workers. "I
believe they are in talks to settle in order to maintain that brand image."

Gus Whitcomb, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said the company would not comment on the
talks beyond the chain's SEC filings. Wayne Samuelson, an assistant U.S.
attorney for the Middle District of Pennsylvania in Williamsport, where the case
is being handled, did not return a phone call last night.

The federal inquiry began after a series of pre-dawn raids on Oct. 23, during
which agents descended on 61 Wal-Marts in 21 states. The raids included eight
stores in Virginia -- in Sterling, Culpeper, Richmond, Winchester, Harrisonburg,
Lynchburg, Lexington and Madison Heights -- and two in Maryland, in Catonsville
and Mount Airy.

Agents also searched the chain's Bentonville, Ark., headquarters and carried
away boxes of paperwork. The company has declined to comment on what was taken
during the raids.

If Wal-Mart is found to have known about the workers' illegal status, the chain
could be fined up to $10,000 per worker, federal officials have said.

Wal-Mart, which employs 1.3 million people in the United States, faces several
lawsuits alleging general discrimination and wage violations, prompting its
chief executive, H. Lee Scott Jr., to tell investors at this year's annual
shareholder meeting that "we have to do things correctly."

Harley Shaiken, a University of California at Berkeley professor who specializes
in labor issues, said the company's decision to negotiate a possible settlement
with the government in the illegal immigrant worker case suggests it is engaging
in "public relations triage."

"I think we have reached a critical mass of bad publicity for Wal-Mart.
Settlements, as expensive as they are, stop the bleeding," Shaiken said.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              56 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 5, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 230 words


CASA GRANDE, Ariz. -- Immigrant smugglers opened fire on a rival group along a
highway Tuesday, killing four people and wounding five, authorities said.

Four suspects were later arrested in the desert.

Smugglers in a van chased down a pickup and SUV carrying other smugglers and
illegal immigrants, said Pinal County Sheriff Roger Vanderpool.

"This was clearly a retaliation to send a message," Vanderpool said. One group
earlier had taken the other group's human cargo, he said.

Passengers in the pickup and SUV did not return fire from the van, Vanderpool
said. The driver and three men traveling in the pickup were killed. Three people
in the truck and two in the SUV were injured.

The shootings came as Mexican President Vicente Fox was visiting Arizona to
discuss migration issues.

MODESTO, Calif. -- A police officer testified that he saw a bucket and mops in
plain sight in front of Scott Peterson's home as officers began investigating
his pregnant wife's disappearance.

The defense testimony is considered a counterpoint to a possible prosecution
argument that Peterson mopped the kitchen after killing Laci Peterson on the
night of Dec. 23.

Modesto officer Jon Evers, questioned by one of Peterson's lawyers, also said he
did  not  smell  bleach in the house. Other officers have reported detecting the
scent of bleach in the kitchen.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              57 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 8, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Smugglers' Disputes Spill Over;
Van Travelers Are Attacked by Mistake

BYLINE: Jacques Billeaud, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A19

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Jorge Zubia and his family were having a relaxing holiday trip until they saw
the muzzle flashes.

A man hanging out of a car window on an urban stretch of interstate opened fire
on their rented van. With his family crouching in the back and his front tires
flattened by bullets, Zubia struggled to keep the van under control.

But three vehicles boxed Zubia in and forced him over to the side of the road,
where a gunman tried to open the van's locked doors. Zubia's terrified relatives
yelled at the gunman, asking him what he wanted.

Then, the caravan drove off.

"I had with me what I most love in the world," Zubia said. "If they had
succeeded in opening the door, they would have hurt us."

Police suspect immigrant smugglers were responsible for the ambush in Phoenix
and at least five other roadway attacks last year in Arizona on families who had
nothing to do with the smuggling trade.

Smugglers who make money bringing people across the Mexican border into Arizona
have taken to kidnapping illegal immigrants from rivals and holding them for
ransom. But sometimes the smugglers mistake innocent families -- almost always
Hispanics -- for smuggled immigrants.

"These people were truly innocent victims," said Ken Witkowski, acting chief of
the Gila River Police Department, an agency based 40 miles south of Phoenix that
investigated four such attacks last year.

In recent years, immigrant smuggling has grown more dangerous, with
smuggling-related kidnappings and killings in the Phoenix area on the rise.

In a dispute between rival gangs of immigrant smugglers in Arizona, four people
were killed and several wounded in a shooting involving three moving vehicles on
Interstate 10 south of Phoenix, which has become a hub for illegal immigration
in recent years because of tighter patrols along the border in California and
Texas.

The mistaken-identity attacks pose an enormous threat, police said. Immigrants,
smugglers, families and passing motorists could get shot, and the ambushes could
lead to high-speed wrecks involving other cars.

"The potential for something catastrophic to happen is high," said Phoenix
Detective Tony Morales. "I'm surprised we haven't already had that happen."

Immigration officials say they have not heard of such attacks occurring
elsewhere in the Southwest.

The attacks have usually come late at night on or near Interstate 10, which runs
through Arizona's two biggest cities, Phoenix and Tucson. Police said smugglers
probably look for vans and other vehicles capable of carrying groups of people.

In the attack on Zubia's van, eight Zubia family members and a friend were
traveling from El Paso to Mira Loma, Calif., when they were ambushed on July 3
in the Phoenix area.

The attackers usually fire at the tires before using cars to try to force  their
victims off the road. The families always resist and have never been physically
hurt. In all but one of the six cases, the attackers got away.

Police are not certain why the would-be abductors gave up. They may have been
scared off by other motorists, encountered more resistance than expected or
realized their victims were not being smuggled, police said.

In the Zubias' case, the gunman "probably realized that it was the wrong van,"
said Susana Zubia, 20, Zubia's niece.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              58 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 23, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Smuggling Thrives Near Border;
100 People Are Found Trapped in L.A. 'Drop House'

BYLINE: Rene Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 918 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES April 22


From the outside, the little white bungalow looked no different from many others
on the mean streets of Watts. Old and worn, with boarded windows and a yard
strewn with trash, the house always appeared dark and vacant.

Inside, it festered with human misery.

Federal agents acting on a tip raided the place Wednesday and were startled by
what they found: More than 100 illegal immigrants were locked inside the tiny
home, living shoulder to shoulder amid rotting piles of food and debris as they
waited for family members to pay ransom to the smugglers who had led them across
the border.

"We were dumbfounded," said Kevin Jeffery, a special agent for the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "The house was in complete squalor. People
were just stacked on top of each other, with no room to move, no lights, and all
the doors were chained. They had no idea where they were, or how long they would
be there."

The discovery is but the latest sign of how large and brutal immigrant-smuggling
rings are becoming in regions along the nation's southwestern border, federal
authorities said.

With growing frequency, police or federal agents in Southern California and
Arizona are finding secret "drop houses" filled with illegal immigrants being
held captive by armed smuggling gangs until their families hand over much more
cash than they had bargained for when deals for their crossings were struck
south of the border.

Around Los Angeles in recent weeks, law enforcement officials have found more
than 70 illegal immigrants being held inside six rooms of a decrepit motel. They
have busted a brothel where teenage girls were unexpectedly being forced to work
off debts owed to smugglers who had secured their passage across the border.
They also caught smugglers on a freeway driving a pickup truck with 19 illegal
immigrants stuffed inside the camper top.

"This area has always been a smuggling hub, but more and more criminal
organizations are getting involved now," said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman in
the Southern California field office of the immigration agency. "This has become
a big, lucrative business. Some people think these smugglers are latter-day
Robin Hoods, but that's a myth. They're getting more violent, and the fees they
charge are escalating."

Federal officials say that smuggling operations around Los Angeles appear to be
intensifying in the aftermath of a new law enforcement crackdown against the
illegal trade in Arizona. Its border is teeming with illegal crossings in part
because of earlier federal crackdowns along the border in Southern California.

All of the illegal immigrants who were found locked inside the bungalow in the
Watts neighborhood this week had been led across the Arizona desert by smugglers
and then driven to Los Angeles, federal officials said. In all, 92 immigrants
have been detained. They are from Ecuador, Mexico, El Salvador and Guatemala.
About 20 others, as well as the smugglers, fled the house as the raid began and
have not been apprehended.

Federal agents said they found several pistols and a machete in the bungalow,
along with papers detailing how much each of the illegal immigrants was expected
to have their families in the United States pay for forged identification
documents and their release.

Jeffery said that the fees to escape captivity ranged from $1,500 to $9,000, and
that most of the immigrants appeared bound for the East Coast by bus or
airplane. He said they apparently had been held inside the 1,100-square-foot
bungalow for several days. Smugglers had removed every light bulb, padlocked
every door and boarded or barred every window. They also had forced all the
immigrants to hand over their shoes.

"These are ruthless characters," Jeffery said. "They don't treat these migrants
like human beings. They treat them like commodities. They look for small,
out-of-the-way places and just lock migrants away until they get all the money
they want."

Investigators say smuggling organizations are preying on desperation to reach
the United States and giving potential immigrants  no clue of the treachery they
could face during or after a border crossing. In recent years, some smugglers
have gone to the extreme of driving the wrong way on California highways with
their headlights off to avoid border checkpoints, a tactic that has resulted in
horrific crashes. Other smuggling gangs are holding immigrants whose families
cannot pay ransom in squalid drop houses for weeks, beating them or threatening
them with injury or death.

After the raid in Watts, police said, neighbors told them that smugglers
apparently had been using the bungalow as a drop house for the past two years.
Some reported seeing a white van regularly pull up and depart late at night. But
the operation went unreported until this week. After the raid, some neighbors
looted the home and set it on fire.

The growing evidence of smuggling networks around Los Angeles is bringing calls
for a greater federal response to the problem. City Council member Janice Hahn,
who represents Watts, said that federal officials are "abdicating their
responsibility" and must do more to stop smuggling gangs.

"I'm extremely concerned that we have an immigration policy that doesn't work,"
Hahn said. "What it has set up is a system that turns these people into
indentured servants. If someone does not pay their way out, they are held
against their will in deplorable conditions."

Special correspondent Kimberly Edds contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              59 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 28, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Smugglers Become More Ruthless;
Tactics Changing in Face of Federal Crackdown

BYLINE: Rene Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1304 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


No one was going anywhere until the smugglers got their money.

They had led the group of illegal immigrants across desolate desert, sneaked
them over the border, then packed them in vans and drove hundreds of miles to a
hideaway here. What came next was not supposed to be part of the passage.

"The first thing they did was take all their shoes," said Jessica Dominquez, a
local immigration lawyer. "Then they were all locked up, with no way to get
out."

Some of the immigrants spent days trapped inside a shack in the San Fernando
Valley, waiting for relatives to pay fees higher than they had expected. When
police acting on a tip raided the place last month, they found about 80
immigrants packed shoulder-to-shoulder in darkness and filth.

It was a house of horrors they are becoming accustomed to seeing.

From Southern California to Texas, as a federal crackdown against illicit
crossings intensifies along the nation's southwestern border, smugglers are
taking ruthless new steps to exploit the multitude of poor immigrants from
Mexico and Central America trying to reach the United States at  any cost.

In the past few months around Los Angeles, authorities have discovered more than
650 illegal immigrants being held captive by smuggling rings -- inside trucks
and motel rooms, in squalid bungalows without electricity, even at a brothel
where they were being forced to perform sex acts for their freedom.

Around Phoenix, more than 200 suspected smugglers have been apprehended since
last fall. Authorities have seized about 110 weapons and more than $5 million in
cash from them.

Human smuggling has become such a large, lucrative enterprise that other
criminal gangs are muscling into the market by ambushing smugglers once they
cross the border, kidnapping the immigrants and then charging higher prices for
their release. Earlier this year, a gang in Los Angeles even planted one of its
members in a group crossing over from Mexico and then hijacked the smuggling
operation.

"It's getting worse," said Greg Simons, a director of the Coalition for Humane
Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. "We have people telling us that their loved
ones are being held ransom and asking, 'What do we do?' It's ridiculous."

The latest smuggling ring uncovered here illustrates the new extremes of the
problem, federal officials said. Seven smugglers were caught last month holding
nearly 80 illegal immigrants captive inside a dilapidated 1,200-square-foot
house whose windows were covered by iron bars or chicken wire.

According to court documents filed in the case, many of the immigrants were from
Guatemala and had paid the smugglers at least $3,000 apiece. Their harrowing
journey to Los Angeles had taken two weeks.

Many were bound for the East Coast. But they were being held hostage while the
smugglers pressured their families for more money. The immigrants told federal
agents they were not allowed to sleep or use the bathroom without the permission
of the smuggling ring's leader, whom they called "El Diablo," or the devil.

Investigators said they found ledger books with names of hundreds of illegal
immigrants who had been held against their will inside the house in recent
months, along with cell phones and forms to transfer money by wire.

"Smugglers are so glorified in some Mexican music you'd think they just put
people on a Greyhound bus and give them cold drinks on the way up," said Kevin
Jeffery, a special agent in Los Angeles for the Bureau of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. "It's simply not true. They're callous criminals. It's all
about getting their money."

Human smuggling along the 1,950 miles of the southwestern border is an old
trade. Smugglers always have demanded cash for crossings, but they once did most
of their work near populated parts of the border. That kept costs low.
Immigration agents remember when most immigrants had to pay lone "coyotes" about
$250.

But security crackdowns in urban areas along the border, such as San Diego, have
pushed crossings into remote desert ranges -- and increased demand for smuggling
rings with the savvy and manpower to take immigrants to metropolitan areas.
Smugglers now need drivers, scouts, decoys, rental cars and homes for hiding.
Few now cross for less than $1,500.

"The stakes are being raised all the time," said Claudia Smith, who works on
immigrant issues for the California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation.

Security has been tightened along so much of the California border that
smugglers are constantly attempting treacherous and at times deadly crossings
through the Sonoran Desert and swarming into Arizona. Some of them have been
reaching the East Coast by flying with fake identification out of Phoenix's Sky
Harbor International Airport.

In response, federal officials are deploying scores of new immigration agents to
the Arizona border and to the Phoenix airport. They also plan to use unmanned
surveillance aircraft this summer along smuggling routes.

Robert C. Bonner, commissioner of the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection,
said the aggressive new tactics in Arizona are working. Smugglers are being
forced to charge higher fees because they have to take more risks to avoid
capture, he said, and their steep prices are deterring some from attempting
crossings.

At one point this year, agents were apprehending an average of 2,500 illegal
immigrants a day in Arizona, most of whom were crossing the border with the help
of smugglers. That tally has dropped to about 1,600 a day recently.

"I think we're getting a better grip on the problem," Bonner said. "We are
putting a lid on Arizona. That's the one door we need to slam shut."

But humanitarian groups say smugglers are only getting more cruel and cunning --
and appear to be a step ahead of law enforcement.

To evade new security measures around Arizona, they are driving many illegal
immigrants to the Los Angeles area. Finding haven in such a vast multicultural
metropolis -- and blending into round-the-clock crowds at Los Angeles
International Airport -- is easier.

Some residents in the immigrant communities here where smugglers operate also
are reluctant to tip off police or federal agents  for fear that the immigrants
being hidden will  be deported.

Once discovered, smuggling rings can still be tough to bust because often only
bit players in the shadowy enterprise -- drivers, clerks, lookouts -- get caught
in raids on staging houses. And  they can be hard to prosecute.

In April, authorities found about 90 illegal immigrants crammed inside a locked,
decayed home in the Watts area of Los Angeles. They arrested two men and a woman
at the scene and charged them with smuggling. But prosecutors later dropped the
case, in part because the illegal immigrants had been released from custody.

At the time of the arrests, there was not enough space in a detention center to
hold all of them. It also appeared unlikely, prosecutors said, that they would
return to cooperate as witnesses or to speak to defense lawyers.

The alleged smugglers are being held for deportation proceedings, but may never
be charged with crimes or lead investigators to the kingpins of the smuggling
ring.

But in Texas recently,  a Honduran woman pleaded guilty to organizing a
smuggling operation that led to the deaths last spring of 19 illegal immigrants
who suffocated inside an unventilated tractor-trailer. Prosecutors said she has
agreed to testify against other key defendants in the high-profile case.

Immigrant officials call that news a hopeful sign. But they concede that much
more must be done to disrupt or dismantle smuggling rings -- because they know
that many immigrants will  continue to rely on them, despite the growing perils.

"They hear the stories," Simons said. "But they need work. They need to eat.
They're desperate."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              60 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 15, 2004 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Smuggling Targeted;
Agents Patrol L.A. Airport in Crackdown on Trafficking

BYLINE: Sara Kehaulani Goo, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 651 words


Federal agents are patrolling terminals at Los Angeles International Airport in
a new effort to crack down on smugglers who have been routing illegal immigrants
through major airports in recent months, the Department of Homeland Security
said yesterday.

Officials at the department's Immigration and Customs Enforcement division said
they are responding to new tactics used by sophisticated smugglers who collect
big fees to bring people into the country illegally. Officials say smugglers are
now bringing migrants across the Mexican border by land through Arizona, then
booking them on low-fare airline flights from Los Angeles and other major
airports to destinations elsewhere in the country, including the Washington
area.

In April, 13 migrants were arrested at Baltimore-Washington International
Airport after Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents learned they were
smuggled onto a flight from Los Angeles. The same month, 88 migrants on a
Continental Airlines flight from Los Angeles were arrested in Newark, N.J.
Authorities also said there have been several arrests at Los Angeles
International's Terminal 1, where Southwest Airlines is stationed.

"Obviously, [the smugglers] look at it from a cost-benefit risk standpoint,"
said Asa Hutchinson, undersecretary for Homeland Security's Border and
Transportation Security unit. "If you look at [land] transportation costs from
the Southwest border to Newark, N.J., or North Carolina or a whole host of other
places, and you compare it with the cost of discounted airfares, just like other
air passengers, they are going to make those decisions."

Most of the migrants have traveled on domestic flights out of large airports in
Los Angeles, Seattle, Phoenix and Las Vegas, officials said. Federal law
requires only a government-issued identification card to board a flight within
the country. That can include a document from another country, such as a
driver's license, and the documents are not checked by customs agents. Homeland
Security officials said the problem is concentrated at airports in the West,
although many of the flights carrying smuggled migrants are headed to the East
Coast.

Officials at Washington area airports said they are not aware of any recent
increase in the number of people detained by federal agents as part of human
smuggling rings.

The agents at Los Angeles International, some in plain clothes and others in
uniform, are expanding a program that officials say already has proved
successful at major airports in Phoenix and Las Vegas. Persons familiar with the
new effort, who declined to speak publicly about the methods used, say agents
walk the terminals looking for suspicious behavior and requesting identification
from those they believe may be connected to a smuggling ring.

The National Council of La Raza, a civil rights organizations that advocates for
Latinos, said immigration agents have been conducting sweeps of bus and train
stations in Southern California in the last month, questioning passengers and
asking for identification documents to prove they are legal citizens.

The airport initiative sounds similar, said Cecilia Muñoz, La Raza's vice
president for policy. "It would be so much more heartening, especially to the
Latino community, if the bulk of the activity were on the smugglers themselves
and not the people being smuggled," she said.

Hutchinson said agents are trained not to conduct ethnic profiling, and are
acting on specific intelligence about smuggling operations. "We're not going for
everyone, checking their papers," he said.

Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, a
nonprofit group that supports immigration enforcement, said the government
should require passports from all nonresidents boarding domestic flights. "It's
not reasonable for a person from Des Moines to know what a Mexican driver's
license looks like," Camarota said.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 3, 2004



CORRECTION:  A July 15 article about increased efforts to crack down on
smuggling of illegal immigrants through airports inaccurately said that federal
law requires passengers to present a government-issued identification card to
board a flight in the United States. Federal law does not require the ID card,
but many airlines ask to see one.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              61 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 27, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Invisible Community's Hushed Cheer;
'Guest Worker' Plan Excites Area's Illegal Mexican Immigrants

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1110 words


It's been 25 years since Jorge Saavedra slipped over the border from Mexico, one
more peasant fleeing poverty. He is now the established owner of two Hispanic
grocery stores in the Maryland suburbs, but he has never forgotten his early
struggle to survive.

So when Saavedra heard this week that President Bush was planning to establish a
"guest worker" program and to legalize other immigrants already here, he was
thrilled.

"All of us who came from there had a lot of hunger," said Saavedra, a small man
with slicked-back hair, standing next to a plastic locker of warm tortillas in
La Poblanita, his shop in Riverdale Park in Prince George's County. "The people
over there come to work. They don't come to rob."

In the rapidly growing Mexican community in Washington, news of possible
immigration reform has inspired curiosity and hope. Mexicans, who make up
roughly half of the country's illegal immigrants, will probably be among the
main beneficiaries of the program.

Bush is expected to announce his proposal in mid-January. The program, which is
still being developed, would require the approval of Congress, which has largely
opposed easing immigration requirements since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks.

Shoppers interviewed in Riverdale Park, where a sort of Little Mexico has
flourished in recent years, were cautious about the possibility of a new
immigration program, with some wondering if it would be nothing more than an
election-year tease. If it does happen, they said, thousands of lives could be
transformed, in ways large and small.

"A work permit would let you go to other places where you could earn more.
Imagine! I'd be so happy," said Marisela, a 30-year-old single mother who works
as a cashier to support her three children back in Mexico. The Riverdale Park
resident declined to provide her last name because she is here illegally.

Roberto, 25, who also withheld his surname, comes from a family whose members
have immigrated to the United States seeking work for two generations. But now,
he said, the simplest transactions are nearly impossible without a work permit
or Social Security card.

"It's a basic element you need. If you go anywhere, buy a car, get a cellular,
they ask for your Social Security," said the construction worker, who lives in
Manassas. Many immigrants resort to using fake documents at such moments but
fear getting caught and perhaps arrested.

Although Mexicans represent the biggest immigrant group in the United States,
for years they were nearly invisible in the Washington area. That is changing.
Salvadorans remain the region's largest immigrant group, but, according to the
2000 Census, the nearly 32,400 Mexicans make theirs the fifth-largest community,
trailing the Korean, Indian and Vietnamese groups. The current number of
Mexicans could be much higher, experts say, because groups with large numbers of
undocumented people are often underrepresented in census data.

Concentrations of Mexicans have developed in such places as Manassas, Alexandria
and Hyattsville. In the census tract of East Riverdale, almost half the
foreign-born population is from Mexico, nearly 2,200 people.

Saavedra, who reached the United States in time for the last major immigration
amnesty in 1986, sees the growth reflected in the Mexican-owned restaurants,
bakeries and groceries that have sprung up not far from his shop near Kenilworth
Avenue and East West Highway. His store bustles with customers seeking Mexican
favorites: Jumex guava nectar; tamarind seeds; plastic tubs of rich, dark mole
sauce; even lollipops dusted with chile powder.

"All these people are in construction," said Saavedra, 45, a native of Puebla
state, waving at men in jeans and paint-spattered boots who were picking up
containers of lard or examining the packets of dried chiles, 14 different
varieties. "They're all Mexican. Honestly, this kind of opportunity doesn't
exist in Mexico."

Opportunity may draw Mexicans to the Washington area, but it hasn't been easy
for many to get work permits. Salvadorans and other Central Americans have
benefited over the years from programs granting temporary residence to people
whose homelands were engulfed in war or lashed by natural disasters. No such
program has been open to Mexicans.

Some have lived in the shadows for more than a decade, hoping to become legal.

Gina, a 31-year-old cleaning woman, arrived in the area 13 years ago, planning
to earn money to help her parents, who scratch out a living on a tiny farm in
the southern Mexican state of Veracruz. She married another Mexican here and has
two boys, ages 9 and 4. Without U.S. residency papers, she is reluctant to visit
home, for fear she won't be able to get back across the border.

"It's been so long since I saw my father," she said, shaking her head. "If I
went, I'd be afraid for my children. Something could happen to me. And they're
small." She declined to provide her last name.

For all their hopes, the Mexicans are aware that it won't be easy to get a new
program. Public opinion has swung against immigration since the terrorist
attacks. Some politicians and citizens feel that granting work permits would
reward those who arrived illegally.

And many worry that increased immigration will hurt U.S. workers. The Bush plan
would reportedly create a Web-based job registry in which employers who fail to
find U.S. workers could offer positions to foreign "guest workers." In addition,
some undocumented immigrants could get work authorization.

"The 'guest worker' provision of this proposal will sound the death knell of the
American middle class," Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, said in a statement. "Employers will never again
have to compete for workers by offering better pay or benefits. They will simply
have to look across the border."

Many immigrants disagreed.

Javier Ramirez sees immigration reform as a question of justice and a way to
avoid the hundreds of deaths that occur each year as migrants traipse across
baking deserts or hide in locked railcars and trucks. The construction worker
scoffed at the idea that U.S. workers could be harmed.

"Americans don't want to do this job. If we fix the Americans' highways, why
can't we have papers?" asked the 40-year-old resident of Manassas, who has lived
in the United States for 17 years and was sponsored for residency by an
employer.

But his brother Jose, who drives a cement truck, said he couldn't imagine the
program would solve the problems in the U.S. immigration system. "Too many
people would want to come. They all couldn't come," he said. "So people would
still arrive illegally."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              62 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 18, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Paring A Foreign Guest List

BYLINE: Ellen McCarthy

SECTION: FINANCIAL; DIGITAL CAPITAL ELLEN MCCARTHY; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 977 words


Three years ago, technology companies lobbied hard to expand a program that
allows skilled immigrants to enter the country with a temporary work permit
called an H-1B visa.

But now, with the number of H-1B visas allowed by the federal government slated
to decline dramatically, the tech industry -- the program's largest beneficiary
-- is largely quiet on the issue, if not entirely comfortable with the change.

The cap on H-1B visas, expanded by Congress to 195,000 annually effective in
2001, will fall to 65,000 a year Oct. 1 under a sunset provision. Associations
of technology companies, facing political headwinds on immigration and the
economy, have grudgingly accepted the cut. Even though the number of H-1B
workers has plummeted, some companies still worry that reducing the cap now will
hinder their ability to hire enough skilled workers when the economy recovers.

"We are supportive of the H-1B visa program. We think it allows tech companies
to hire uniquely skilled workers," said Thom Stohler, vice president of
workforce policy at AEA, an organization formerly called the American
Electronics Association. "But the reality is the cap is going back to 65,000 and
tech companies know this is going to be the case."

Stohler said the cut will not be a problem for information technology companies
now, because hiring in the sector has slowed significantly in the past several
years. In fact, the number of employees brought into the United States through
the H-1B program never came close to reaching the 195,000 annual capacity during
the past three years.

In 1999 and 2000, though, the program hit its 115,000-person cap and left plenty
of people on the waiting list, prompting tech companies to lobby for an
expansion. In 2001, when the ceiling was raised, 163,200 H-1B visas were
approved. After that, the numbers fell quickly. Just 79,100 workers immigrated
under the program in 2002; 56,000 visas were approved in the first six months of
this year, according to data from the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services.

Stohler predicted 80,000 applications next year, potentially leaving some
companies unable to hire the employees they want. So why not use a little of the
lobbying muscle tech organizations exerted so forcefully three years ago?

"This is a very anti-immigration environment in Washington," said William T.
Archey, president and chief executive of the AEA. "We'll accept the going back
to 65,000 and let's see what's going on with the economy in the foreseeable
future. And if in fact there is a lot of growth and much greater demand, let's
revisit this with the Congress."

Lately the percentage of first-time H-1B visa recipients going to work in the
tech industry has fallen dramatically. In 2001, 65 percent of all H-1B visas
were used by workers going to high-tech companies, but tech's share dropped to
34 percent in 2002, according to a recent study by the Department of Homeland
Security Office of Immigration Security.

Group 1 Software Inc. of Lanham has a handful of employees who were hired as
H-1B recipients, but the firm's executives are not concerned about the program's
reduction, said spokesman David Peikin.

"Right now we are finding an adequate pool of talented candidates in today's
economic environment, however this was a bigger issue during the economic boom,"
Peikin said. "I can't say we're staying up at night worrying about it."

At a Senate hearing on the issue Tuesday, several organizations worked to dispel
criticisms of the program, including the belief that it allows U.S. companies to
hire employees at below-market wages. The median annual salary of an H-1B worker
in the computer field in 2002 was $ 60,000, compared with $ 58,500 for all
computer systems analysts in the nation, according to Department of Homeland
Security statistics.

Harris N. Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of
America, a group that supported expanding the program, said the best outcome
would be a delay of any legislative action on the issue until the spring.

"We don't think this is a good time for members [of Congress] to be voting on
immigration matters. We hope the economy will be a lot stronger in the spring,"
said Miller. "There's no crisis, no driving thing to force Congress to vote on
this. It's much easier to have a rational, fact-based conversation when the
economy is stronger and unemployment is going down."

Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) emphasized the importance of protecting Americans
from immigration policies that could put them out of a job, and said that
reverting to the lower cap gives lawmakers "the opportunity to re-evaluate our
priorities and our policies for professional worker visas."

Groups representing American tech workers have lobbied to reduce the cap and
want further protection for domestic workers. The Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers Inc.-USA, which supported dropping the cap to 65,000,
suggested that companies should prove they attempted, but were unable, to hire
Americans before they are allowed to hire H-1B visa workers. The organization
also recommended that the companies continue to pay a $ 1,000 application fee
per H1-B worker that will go to a pool to train U.S. workers. At the end of the
month, if no action is taken by Congress, companies will pay only a $ 130
administrative fee.

"Primarily we think its important for the cap to drop back to its historical
level of 65,000 because we don't feel we need to be importing great numbers of
foreign labor when we have tremendous amounts of unemployed high-tech workers
here in our own companies," said Chris McManus, spokesman for IEEE-USA. "It has
made it harder for our own people to find jobs, and that certainly wasn't the
intent of Congress when they raised the cap to 115,000, then to 195,000."

Ellen McCarthy's e-mail address is mccarthye@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              63 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 22, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Cap on Hiring

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 355 words


FIVE MONTHS into fiscal 2004, the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services has announced that it is no longer accepting applications for H-1B
"business" visas, which are issued to educated foreign professionals. The number
of visas is capped, by Congress, at 65,000. As of last week, 65,000 visas had
already been granted. For the past few years, larger numbers of visas were
issued -- 78,000 in fiscal 2002, and 79,000 in fiscal 2003 -- because the cap
had been temporarily raised in the late 1990s to a possible 195,000 to
accommodate the demand for foreign computer and tech workers. The raised cap
then lapsed, but the demand, while never as high as some had predicted, has not
lapsed along with it.

The holders of H-1B visas are the forgotten face of the foreign work force. By
definition, they make nonsense of the prejudice that all foreign workers are
low-wage service workers who speak little English. Employers who hire H-1B
workers -- in the computer industry as well as pharmaceuticals, engineering and
medicine -- are required by law to pay them as much or higher than their
associates. A large percentage of those so hired are in fact graduates of
American universities. This is not surprising, inasmuch as about half of
American post-graduate degrees in mathematics, engineering and computer science
are awarded to foreign students. If this country were unable to retain such
homegrown talent, that failure would eventually translate into economic loss.
Already researchers at Carnegie Mellon University have predicted precisely that.

This should, of course, be a completely uncontroversial form of temporary visa:
It isn't possible to argue that the holders of these visas bring down American
wages. No one doubts that they do jobs for which there are clear, well-defined
shortages of Americans. The numbers are small, the requirements are rigorous.
The fact that even immigration advocates are wary about calling for a higher
cap, and that few seem to think it possible for Congress to raise the cap in an
election year, proves that the immigration debate has grown even more confused
and illogical.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              64 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 29, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Exhibit Offers a Portrait of Immigrant Workers;
Photos Document Hopes And Struggles of Janitors Trying to Build Better Life

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C05

LENGTH: 877 words


Rafael Ernesto Gonzalez cleans offices in a K Street office building, where he
toils unobtrusively among the well-heeled lawyers and their secretaries rushing
home to their families and homes and dinners.

It may be easy for some to overlook Gonzalez, a low-paid janitor who speaks but
a few words of English, but his concerns are shared by many in his situation. He
worries about his neighbors. He feels lonely. He struggles to pay his rent. He
feels guilty for the months he can't send money home to El Salvador because his
second part-time job ended. He strongly supports workers' rights. He's deeply
religious, and he's proud to be Latino. But he feels undervalued in this
country, and he has a message for the White House and Congress.

"Señor presidente, we are not a burden to this society," Gonzalez, 38, said. "I
always say that if one day the Hispanic community stops working, that would have
a great impact in this country because we contribute so very much."

Gonzalez has expressed some of his thoughts in a photographic exhibit, on
display at the District's municipal building, that is designed to give a voice
to one of the least visible and most marginalized workers in the region: the
immigrant janitor.

The exhibit, called unseenwashington, is a project sponsored by the Service
Employees International Union Local 82, which represents 8,000 workers in the
Washington area. Almost all are janitors, and two-thirds are Latino immigrants.

"Immigrants are such a completely ignored segment of the population and often
misunderstood as well," said Ian Birlem, a spokesman for Local 82. "By taking
cameras . . . and putting it straight into [the immigrants'] own hands, they've
been able to communicate their reality in a way that's very tangible and
meaningful."

Among the black-and-white photos on display through Thursday in the atrium of
the John A. Wilson Building is a picture of the ceiling of Reagan National
Airport by Sagrario Mutate. The picture is titled "Open Umbrellas" and shows the
steel columns and trusses that support the airport's domes and skylights. But
the caption, written by Mutate, belies the simplicity of the title and the
image.

"My first job in America was at National Airport," Mutate wrote. "When I worked
there it was difficult. I was so scared I looked down while I worked. Now I go
back there and it's different. I look up and I see forms and the beauty of the
airport."

The project is an offshoot of a national program initiated by SEIU Local 1199,
which represents 200,000 health care workers in New York. Its cultural arm,
Bread and Roses, started the project, arming members with point-and-shoot
cameras. That project, called unseenamerica, as well as the pictures from
unseenwashington will be included in a book to be published by Bread and Roses.

The Washington project was funded by the cultural arm of Local 82, Greenhouse
Cultural Project, and the Washington Area Partnership for Immigrants, a funding
collaborative of the Community Foundation. Seven Latino janitors met every
Saturday for 10 weeks at the Washington Center for Photography in Bethesda. Penn
Camera provided cameras at a discount; processing and developing was subsidized
by Chrome Photographic Services.

"Oftentimes you don't know how much enthusiasm is going to be in a classroom,
but they got excited," said Paul Pavot, the instructor. "They started coming in
with two rolls of pictures every week."

The result, he said, was "a sneak peek into their lives."

"You saw the views they're seeing, homeless people in the street, children
playing in the park, finding the beauty in their co-workers or window scrapers
that look like a ballet on the side of a building."

Among Gonzalez's pictures in the exhibit is one of a smiling, chubby boy sitting
on the front step of their apartment building and another of a union organizer
talking to janitors surrounded by their garbage cans, vacuum cleaners and trash
bags.

Gonzalez said he worried about the child because he lived in a two-bedroom
basement apartment with nine other people. The boy also reminded him of his own
three children, whom he misses so much, Gonzalez said. "One day [the people] all
moved out, and I don't know where he is now," Gonzalez wrote in the caption.

As for the picture of the organizer, he wrote, "Communication is very important
when it comes to improving janitors' lives."

Rosa Alcantara took a self-portrait, using the camera's timer, as she stood on a
friend's porch, looking into the early morning sun. "All day I work with
chemicals," she wrote in her caption. "I like to go out and see the sun, get
fresh air. In my country, I could walk around, but here, my neighborhood isn't
safe."

Some photos have obvious messages, such as the one of a young couple dressed up
for the girl's quinceanera, or Sweet 15. Others do not, such as the shot by
Maria Beatriz Medrano Flores of a construction site adorned by an American flag.
She titled it "A Place in Washington" and explained that the scene means much
more than a banner upon concrete, steel and scaffolding.

"The flag is important because it is a symbol of this country," she wrote in the
caption. "In this country there are opportunities for immigrants to improve
their lives and help their families."

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              65 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 21, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Agencies Fail To Share Data With IRS;
GAO Says Tax Violators Often Escape Notice

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 928 words


A year-long federal investigation has found that more than 100,000 businesses
that applied to hire immigrant workers since 1997  -- a quarter of the total --
probably violated U.S. tax law because they owed back taxes, failed to file tax
returns or never registered with the Internal Revenue Service.

Yet none of those businesses faced audits or increased scrutiny because the
Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is responsible for issuing
visas and approving the hiring of foreign workers, did not verify financial
information received from the businesses with the Internal Revenue Service.

The Government Accountability Office study, to be released today at a Senate
Finance Committee hearing, shows how federal agencies do not help the IRS
enforce an increasingly leaky tax code. Finance Committee aides said some
government agencies actually may promote tax dodges -- for example, by issuing
patents for potentially illegal tax shelters. In other cases, government
agencies are simply not communicating.

"It's unbelievable," said Senate Finance Committee Chairman Charles E. Grassley
(R-Iowa). "Tens of thousands of businesses get away without bothering to file
tax returns, even when they report taxable income to another government agency.
The message here is it's okay to cheat because odds are you won't get caught."

Businesses and individuals who want to hire foreign workers must show they are
legitimate employers with the ability to pay promised wages and benefits. To do
so, applicants often present tax records. But the GAO, Congress's independent
investigative arm, found substantial violations, including the use of false tax
returns and employer numbers, or inflated earnings.

Of the 413,723 businesses that applied to sponsor workers from 1997 to 2004, the
IRS had no record that 19,972 -- nearly 5 percent -- even existed. The GAO also
found that 67,949 -- 16.4 percent -- had not filed one or more tax returns, and
that 18,942 businesses had unpaid tax assessments totaling $5.6 billion.

One company sponsored more than 600 immigrant workers from 1997 through 2004,
but is delinquent on 12 tax returns totaling $8 million. Another company
sponsoring a temporary worker told the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services (formerly the Immigration and Naturalization Service) that it had an
annual income of $156 million. The IRS had no evidence that the firm existed.
And another firm told bureau agents that it earned $162,000 in taxable income in
2001 but told the IRS it earned nothing.

GAO investigators found that agents with the immigration bureau did not bother
to check whether the applicants complied with U.S. tax law.

"I'm a firm believer in the adage 'trust but verify,' " said Max Baucus (Mont.),
the ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee. "When it comes to tax law
abuses, the GAO report confirms that there may be too much emphasis on the first
and not the latter."

In response to the study, immigration bureau spokesman Christopher Bentley said
the agency was "always looking at ways to enhance not only our operations but
the sharing of information between government agencies."

Finance Committee leaders and aides said the breakdown between the immigration
and tax services perfectly illustrates how the government is failing to bridge
the expanding gap between taxes owed and taxes paid. That gap has now reached
$311 billion, nearly enough by some estimates to make up the federal budget
deficit.

Just as drivers pay parking tickets to local governments so they can re-register
their cars, federal taxpayers should have to come clean before they obtain
federal services, from registering with the Securities and Exchange Commission
to getting a student loan, Finance Committee officials said.

"The GAO testimony highlights how just a simple thing such as requiring a
taxpayer to confirm that he is current on his tax obligations will pay real
dividends," Grassley said in a written statement. "The IRS has to be thinking of
new and creative ways to bridge the tax gap."

The cost of noncompliance affects not only U.S. taxpayers but also the immigrant
workers themselves, the GAO said. Failure to file tax returns or pay back taxes
could indicate that a business is struggling financially and cannot meet its
obligation to its new employees.

IRS officials would not comment on the report, referring to their responses in
the GAO study. Those responses did not question the study's findings, nor did
they object to studying increased cooperation. Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services officials told the GAO that the agency could make decisions
more quickly and reduce the huge backlog of immigration applications if the IRS
provided taxpayer data.

By law, however, the IRS is not allowed to share taxpayer information with the
immigration service, so Congress would have to act, IRS officials noted. The
immigration agency does not automate financial data of applicants for work
visas, and it does not even use the same tracking numbers as the IRS.

There is substantial precedent for federal agency cooperation on tax matters.
The Social Security Administration has shared data with the IRS for nearly 30
years to help administer Social Security benefits and ensure taxpayer
compliance, the GAO noted. For nearly a decade, until 1996, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service would send the tax agency a form from anyone filing for
permanent residency. But because the INS form lacked Social Security numbers,
the cost of tracking down tax records outstripped the program's usefulness.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              66 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 27, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Granted Asylum, Nun Held in Va. Jail;
Tibetan Entangled in Post-9/11 Caution

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1117 words

DATELINE: HOPEWELL, Va.


Sonam always feared her devotion to Buddhism would land her behind bars in her
native China. As it turns out, she is serving a long term in jail -- not in East
Asia but in central Virginia.

The 30-year-old Buddhist nun, who grew up in a Tibetan village near the foot of
Mount Everest, fled to the United States in August after family members had been
tortured and friends jailed for their faith, she said. But when she arrived at
Dulles International Airport and requested asylum, federal immigration officials
detained her and placed her in the local jail in this small city outside
Richmond.

Sonam, who is known by that one name, has been here ever since except for a
brief visit in November to a court room in Arlington where a federal immigration
judge granted her asylum. But even as she was hugging her attorney in
celebration, the lawyer from the Department of Homeland Security announced that
she was appealing the case.

Sonam was then shackled and returned to her cell, where she waits for her next
court date, which is likely to be in the fall at the earliest, her attorney
said.

Sonam is among thousands of asylum seekers who have fled persecution in their
homelands only to be jailed in the United States, a new report by the New
York-based Lawyers Committee for Human Rights shows.

By law, the Department of Homeland Security detains all asylum seekers who
arrive without proper documents. But since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, federal immigration officials have also been denying parole to these
immigrants and appealing rulings in their favor, a practice that can keep them
locked up for years, according to the report, which monitored the department's
activities for a year and details scores of cases, including Sonam's.

Homeland Security officials deny they are trying to keep asylum seekers behind
bars, although they acknowledge that long incarcerations occur. They say they
are reviewing their practices in response to the report and are tallying
statistics on how many asylum seekers have been detained, refused parole or seen
their cases appealed.

"Even a well-balanced policy can get out of kilter on an individual case because
someone has exercised poor judgment," said Asa Hutchinson, the Homeland Security
Department's undersecretary for border and transportation security.

At the same time, he and others say there is concern that a terrorist could slip
into the country under the guise of an asylum request.

"People who come here may have no legitimate [reason]. They are here for
economic reasons or for criminal reasons and have been trained to assert
asylum," Hutchinson said.

"That requires us to be careful and . . . sometimes it makes people more
skeptical of asylum cases than they should be."

Last week, during an interview at the Riverside Regional Jail, Sonam spoke of
her journey to the United States that began with a desperate, eight-day walk to
Nepal across snow-capped mountains and ended with her first ride on an airplane,
which frightened her so much she couldn't look out the window.

Sonam Singeri, a Tibetan working for Radio Free Asia who has befriended Sonam,
was at the interview to translate. As soon as Sonam walked into the visitors'
room and saw Singeri, she collapsed into her arms and sobbed uncontrollably.

"It's so lonely. It's so hard. Why is this happening?" she cried out, Singeri
said.

Sonam told a story of flight and fear. She said her father had been jailed in
Tibet and tortured with electric shock. She described hiding from police patrols
as she made her way across the Himalaya Mountains to Nepal, where she lived for
three years.

But even there, she said, she worried about her safety. In May, the Nepalese
government began to round up Tibetan refugees and send them back to China, where
they were sure to face prison and torture, she said.

Even after asylum seekers such as Sonam have convinced immigration judges that
they are bona fide and pose no threat, Homeland Security lawyers continue to
press appeals in many cases, the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights report says.

"They are indefinitely detaining asylum seekers who have already been granted
relief, who present no risk, who have often been tortured in their home
countries," said Archi Pyati, who works in the lawyers committee's asylum
program.

"We are sending a message that in the United States . . . we don't hope that
asylum seekers find their way here because if they do they will find themselves
in a very difficult situation and in prolonged detention."

Immigrants seeking asylum in this country must prove not only their identities
but also that they are in danger in their native countries.

Sonam's case was appealed because she did not have enough documentation to back
up her story, according to a brief filed by Homeland Security attorney Deborah
Todd. The fact that Sonam lived in Nepal for three years indicated that she
could have safely stayed there and did not need to come to the United States,
Todd argued in her appeal.

Asked to comment, a spokesman for Homeland Security said the department does not
talk about ongoing cases.

Sonam said she had no way to get identity documents in Nepal because the
government does not recognize refugees from China. She feared that she would be
deported to China along with other Tibetans who were being sent back at the
time. So she sought a way to get to the United States.

Using the money she had made as a seamstress before she joined her monastery in
Nepal, Sonam booked a flight through Calcutta to Dulles.

After she was jailed in Virginia, her attorney, who has taken the case pro bono,
twice asked the Department of Homeland Security to release her from detention,
arguing that Sonam poses no danger. But immigration officials denied both
requests without much explanation, according to Sonam's attorney.

The hardest part of Sonam's life these days is that she cannot speak or
understand the language of the inmates or guards. (She is also illiterate in her
native Tibetan tongue.) She has not been able to have a conversation with anyone
since her hearing in November and wept as she recounted her seemingly endless
days of silence and isolation in jail.

"I live in a prison but always in my mind, I hold onto a picture of His Holiness
[the Dalai Lama] in my heart," she said. "This prison has become my monastery."

An hour into the interview, a guard tapped the window of the visitors' room. It
was time to go.

Sonam shed a few more tears. It might be months before her next conversation.
She hugged Singeri again and then followed the guard back to her part of the
jail where she does not speak, cannot understand anyone and where she waits in
her prison within a prison.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              67 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 14, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Government Is Losing Numbers Game

BYLINE: Albert B. Crenshaw

SECTION: Financial; F04 , CASH FLOW Albert B. Crenshaw

LENGTH: 1088 words


Which would you rather have the government enforce -- the tax laws or the
immigration laws?

You might not think of this as an either-or situation, but it seems to look that
way to a lot of federal officials.

It's a principle of U.S. tax policy that anyone who earns money here, citizen or
alien, legal or not, should pay taxes on that income.

It's another principle that tax information should be completely confidential
and except in rare circumstances be unavailable to anyone outside the Internal
Revenue Service, and even there it should be limited to workers who need it.

It's a third principle, or at least a rule, that Social Security numbers are
used as identifiers for taxpayers. And therein lies a problem.

In addition to their original use with Social Security and their use in taxes,
Social Security numbers have become a de facto national identifier. As such they
have become immensely valuable to people including lenders, retailers and
data-gatherers as well as crooks and illegal immigrants. As a result, phony
Social Security numbers, or numbers that can pass as Social Security numbers but
aren't, cause big problems for employers and for individuals.

To get a Social Security number, a person has to be legally allowed to work in
this country. For years, the Internal Revenue Service has struggled to find a
workable substitute, eventually coming up with "individual taxpayer
identification numbers," or ITINs (pronounced eye-tins), which it has been
issuing since 1996 to people who have income but aren't eligible for a Social
Security number (SSN).

ITINs seem to work for the IRS -- through last December, it had issued 7.2
million of them, according to Congress's General Accounting Office -- but they
are creating problems elsewhere.

To the casual eye, ITINs look just like SSNs. They have nine digits, and are
formatted just the way SSNs are: XXX-XX-XXXX. As a result, they are being widely
used by people who don't have SSNs to make it look as though they do. They look
legitimate to employers, and even to state officials.

Last year, the GAO was able to use a bogus foreign birth certificate to obtain
an ITIN, which it used in turn to open a bank account and get an ATM card. And
by simply making up a number and putting it on a fake ITIN card, GAO was able to
get a valid voter identification card in a state it did not identify.

The IRS is tightening its rules. A few months ago, the agency sent out a letter
to states warning them that ITINs are for tax purposes only, and should not be
accepted on applications for official documents such as driver's licenses. And
it now issues ITINs in a letter rather than on a Social Security-like card,
which may make it harder to fool people. But the GAO said the IRS still does not
require that an ITIN applicant appear in person, nor does it verify with third
parties the documents submitted with an application.

And the IRS concedes that employers, though required to make an effort to check
workers' work eligibility, can meet the legal requirement fairly easily, making
it easy for ineligible workers to escape notice. In some cases, the IRS has
tried fining employers, but Commissioner Mark W. Everson told a joint hearing of
the House Ways and Means oversight and Social Security subcommittees last week
that the fines "have not been sustained on appeal."

Over on the Social Security side, that system is collecting about $7 billion a
year it can't match with workers, so it goes into a "suspense file" unless and
until the agency figures out who it ought to be credited to. For 2001, for
example, about 4 percent of the W-2 forms the agency received have not been
matched, and as a result some $7 billion in Social Security taxes remain in the
suspense file.

A seemingly logical step would be to allow the IRS and the Social Security
Administration -- and the Homeland Security Department, for that matter -- to
share data, and perhaps to use ITINs more broadly for non-tax purposes. The GAO
noted that since people with ITINs who report wage income "are likely to be
illegal resident aliens," IRS data could be helpful in tracking them down.

However, Everson strongly opposed any non-tax use of ITINs. Such use might well
drive these people "further underground" and "we would collect fewer [tax]
dollars."

Deputy Social Security Commissioner James B. Lockhart III said, "There's
definitely a tension" between taxpayer privacy and the enforcement of other
laws, but he said his agency is working to make it easier for employers to check
the validity of a prospective employee's Social Security number.

But Patrick P. O'Carroll, acting inspector general of the Social Security
Administration, said his agency has found that "criminals shop for state and
local governments that . . . accept an ITIN" for such items as driver's
licenses.

"The misuse of ITINs could undermine [Social Security's] programs and our
investigative ability to provide reliable data to the law enforcement
community," he said.

The situation clearly has lawmakers scratching their heads. In the meantime,
though, if you run a small business or are an employer in some other way, check
prospective workers' SSNs with the Social Security Administration. And be alert
for misused ITINs. While they do look like SSNs, they begin with a 9 and have
either a 7 or an 8 as their fourth digit.

Also, safeguard your own SSN. Valid SSNs "are prized by criminals," Lockhart
said, for identity theft and other nefarious purposes. How much are they worth?
O'Carroll said his office broke up a ring of Social Security workers who were
selling genuine SSNs to crooks for $1,500 apiece.

The number of federally insured reverse mortgages taken out by older homeowners
in recent months leaped 76 percent from a year ago, according to the National
Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association.

The group ascribed the surge in popularity to several factors, including the
increasingly tight budgets of America's seniors.

Some 8,700 reverse mortgages, technically known as home equity conversion
mortgages, were made nationwide from October 2003 through January 2004, up from
4,948 for the same period a year ago. This January alone, 1,572 of these loans
were written, up 16 percent from January 2003, when the figure was 1,359.

A reverse mortgage enables homeowners 62 or older to borrow against the equity
in their home without taking on a new monthly mortgage payment. A reverse
mortgage isn't repaid until the borrower dies or moves out of the home
permanently, and the property is sold or refinanced.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              68 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 13, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Woman Who Abducted Grandson Is Paroled

BYLINE: Eric Rich, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Anne Arundel Extra; T03

LENGTH: 511 words


Afaf N. Khalifa, imprisoned for helping to abduct one of her grandsons from Anne
Arundel County and taking him to Egypt, has been granted parole and later this
month will be turned over to immigration authorities for deportation. An appeal
of her 2003 conviction is pending, and questions about Khalifa's future remain
uncertain.

But with Khalifa, who kept a family home in San Diego, now facing possible
deportation to Egypt, a parallel but opposite result is being sought in courts
in Cairo.

Michael Shannon, the father of the boy she helped kidnap, has asked an Egyptian
court to compel authorities there to enforce U.S. court orders and return Adam
Shannon, 7, and his brother Jason, 3, to their father.

The boys are living with their mother, Nermeen Shannon, who had legal custody of
Jason but not Adam when she and her mother flew to New York with them and then
on to Egypt in August 2001.

Police have an arrest warrant for Nermeen Shannon. The United States and Egypt
do not have an extradition treaty.

The court case in Cairo is a measure of last resort for Michael Shannon -- who
has since been granted custody of Jason -- but he gives it long odds.

"I don't know what's going on in Egypt," said Shannon, a computer consultant who
has been thrust into the national spotlight because of the case. "I can't even
get the State Department to look into it."

The case has been repeatedly delayed. What's more, he said, the family is
prominent in Egypt, where their acquaintances are said to include President
Hosni Mubarak. "The law does not apply to their family or their class of
society," Shannon said.

Shannon has retained Egyptian lawyer Nabil Hilmy, dean of law at Egypt's Zagazig
University.

The prominent legal scholar drew attention last year when he announced his
intention to sue "the Jews of the world" for allegedly stealing gold in biblical
times during the Jewish exodus from Egypt. He told a government weekly that the
value would be in the trillions of dollars, suggesting a schedule of repayment
over perhaps 1,000 years, media reports say.

Nermeen Shannon could not be reached for comment. She has said in the past that
Adam is learning Arabic, playing soccer and swimming at a private sports club.
He has a full-time nanny and attends "one of the most expensive and prestigious"
private schools in Cairo, the mother has said.

Michael Shannon said he may prevail in court if he can show that his ex-wife is
not a fit parent. A hearing in the Cairo case is scheduled for June 3, Shannon's
lawyer said in an e-mail.

Meanwhile, Khalifa's lawyer, William C. Brennan Jr., said the family is pleased
by the parole. Khalifa was sentenced to 10 years in prison after her conviction
in January 2003, but a judicial panel later reduced that to three years.

At Khalifa's original sentencing, the trial judge said her prison time might be
reduced if Nermeen Shannon returned with the child. That, Brennan said, put
Nermeen Shannon "in the difficult position of having to choose between the best
interests of her children and the best interests of her mother."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              69 of 230 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                       October 2, 2003 Thursday 10:54 PM

Immigration Reform Growing at the Grassroots

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Special to washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 803 words


Just days before Sept. 11, 2001, President Bush was committed to significantly
overhauling the current immigration system - a system so broken that millions
enter this country without a trace in a risky run across the border, and then
work without permits and basic workplace protections.

In the two years since, Washington has made no grand gesture to reform
immigration. Instead, a dragnet has swept across the land, detaining thousands
of immigrants and secretly deporting hundreds. This de facto overhaul of the
immigration system has become painful evidence that the nation Bush once
described as "more, not less, American" because of its immigrants, has changed.

Yet, despite the new era of the Patriot Act and its threats of deportation, most
illegal immigrants remain convinced that the chance for a better life here is
still worth the risk. And, in part, what gives them hope in what some describe
as one of the most hostile environments for immigrants in years, is the
proliferation of small gestures on local and state levels that are making big
differences in their lives.

These gestures are tacit recognition of the presence of illegal immigrants and
their needs and contributions to society. They appeal to a community's sense of
justice and, little by little, they nudge along a federal system playing
catch-up with the rest of the nation.

In Northern California, for instance, farmers in Napa County, home to a $4
billion wine industry, last year agreed to tax themselves to help provide better
housing for their immigrant field workers, most of them Mexicans. Their
intention: to make living conditions more humane for laborers they cannot do
without.

Last week, the town council in the Washington suburb of Herndon, Va., approved a
temporary shelter for day laborers. Supporters argued successfully that the site
would provide some order for an already extant but disorganized practice of
local immigrants gathering on roadsides and in parking lots looking for work. A
similar structure is already being built -- for similar reasons -- in nearby
Arlington County.

In a trend that began just two years ago, seven states now allow undocumented
immigrants who have fulfilled all other residency requirements to qualify for
lower in-state tuition at their colleges and universities. And at least 19
states now issue driver's licenses to those who lack legal residency -- despite
security concerns raised after 9/11.

Even non-U.S. documentation, the Mexican-issued consular cards or matriculas
consulares are being accepted as a legitimate form of identification by an
increasing number of local authorities, particularly police departments. Last
month, the U.S. Treasury Department decided the cards could be used to open bank
accounts, a decision that drew praise from financial institutions nationwide and
further legitimized the documents.

Other Latin American countries are sure to follow the matricula model. Already,
governments in El Salvador and Nicaragua are considering the issuance of such
documents for their citizens living here. If nothing else, the matriculas help
to document the undocumented, facilitating the work of authorities here.

There is perhaps no clearer symbol of how immigration reform has been paralyzed
than the fact that Bush barely mentions the "I" word in his speeches now.

Still, the issue will not go away, even on the national level. Those who don't
stand in the president's precarious position of trying to block the influx of
future terrorists while not appearing to be anti-immigrant can make the smaller
local and state gestures or even introduce legislation proposing smaller reforms
at the federal level.

Just last week, for instance, a bill was proposed in Congress to give legal
residency to illegal farm workers, who represent at least half of the
agricultural labor force. This would be less than 10 percent of the 8 million
immigrants living here undocumented.

The bipartisan measure is supported by farmers and farm workers alike and has
drawn praise as a first good step from even the most active pro-immigrant forces
-- the Freedom Riders of 2003 -- who converged in Washington this week to draw
attention to the plight of immigrant workers, legal and illegal. Traveling by
bus from cities all around the country, these hundreds of immigrants and their
supporters are inspired by the original 1961 Freedom Rides.

The original riders traveled federal highways into the Deep South to challenge
the practice of segregating bus stations and other public places in violation of
federal law. In an ironic twist of history, these new pro-immigrant freedom
riders are journeying from many of the places where changes are already
occurring to prod Washington to join the trend.

Marcela Sanchez's e-mail address is desdewash@)washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2003 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 3, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Small-Scale Immigration Reform

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 768 words


Just days before Sept. 11, 2001, President Bush was committed to significantly
overhauling the current immigration system -- a system so broken that millions
enter this country without a trace in a risky run across the border and then
work without permits and basic workplace protections.

In the two years since, Washington has made no grand gesture to reform
immigration. Instead, a dragnet has swept across the land, detaining thousands
of immigrants and secretly deporting hundreds. This de facto overhaul has become
painful evidence that the nation Bush once described as "more, not less,
American" because of its immigrants, has changed.

Yet despite the new era of the Patriot Act and its threats of deportation, real
and perceived, most illegal immigrants remain convinced that the chance for a
better life here is worth the risk. What gives them hope in part  is the
proliferation of small gestures on local and state levels that are making big
differences in their lives.

These gestures are tacit recognition of the presence of illegal immigrants and
their needs and contributions to society. They appeal to a community's sense of
justice, and, little by little, they nudge along a federal system playing
catch-up with the rest of the nation.

In Northern California, for instance, farmers in Napa County, home to a $4
billion wine industry, last year agreed to tax themselves to help provide better
housing for their immigrant field workers, most of them Mexicans. Their
intention: to make living conditions more humane for laborers they cannot do
without.

Last week here in Virginia, the town council in Herndon approved a temporary
shelter for day laborers. Supporters argued successfully that the site would
provide some order for the disorganized practice of local immigrants gathering
on roadsides and in parking lots looking for work. A similar structure is
already being built -- for similar reasons -- in nearby Arlington County.

In a trend that began just two years ago, seven states now allow undocumented
immigrants who have fulfilled all other residency requirements to qualify for
lower in-state tuition at their colleges and universities. And at least 19
states now issue driver's licenses to those who lack legal residency -- despite
security concerns raised after 9/11.

Even non-U.S. documentation, the Mexican-issued consular cards, matriculas
consulares, are being accepted as a legitimate form of identification by an
increasing number of local authorities, particularly police departments. Last
month, the U.S. Treasury Department decided the cards could be used to open bank
accounts, a decision that drew praise from financial institutions nationwide and
further legitimized the documents.

Other Latin American countries are sure to follow the matricula model. Already,
governments in El Salvador and Nicaragua are pondering the issuance of such
documents for their citizens living here. If nothing else, the matriculas help
to document the undocumented, facilitating the work of authorities here.

There is perhaps no clearer symbol of how immigration reform has been paralyzed
than the fact that Bush barely mentions the "I" word in his speeches now.

Still, the issue on the national level will not go away. Those who aren't in the
president's precarious position of trying to block the influx of future
terrorists while not appearing to be anti-immigrant can make the smaller local
and state gestures or even introduce legislation proposing smaller reforms at
the federal level.

Just last week, for instance, a bill was proposed in Congress to give legal
residency to illegal farm workers, who represent at least half of the
agricultural labor force. This would be less than 10 percent of the 8 million
immigrants living here undocumented.

The measure is supported by farmers and farm workers alike and has drawn praise
as a first good step from even the most active pro-immigrant forces -- the
Freedom Riders of 2003 -- who converged in Washington this week to draw
attention to the plight of immigrant workers, legal and illegal. Traveling by
bus from cities all around the country, these hundreds of immigrants and their
supporters are inspired by the original 1961 Freedom Rides.

The original riders traveled federal highways into the Deep South to challenge
the practice of segregating bus stations and other public places in violation of
federal law. In an ironic twist of history, these new pro-immigrant freedom
riders are journeying from many of the places where changes are already
occurring to prod Washington to join the trend.

desdewash@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              71 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 3, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants End 'Ride' With Pleas on Hill;
Increased Rights And Protections Are Advocated

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 752 words


Like many illegal immigrants, the 23-year-old Mexican lives in the shadows,
cleaning Chicago office buildings at night and avoiding authorities. Yesterday,
she emerged -- to tell her story in Congress.

In Mexico, "many of us didn't have enough to eat," said Janneth, one of scores
of immigrants who traveled to the capital on a "freedom ride" from across the
country. Her eyes welling with tears, the young woman told a legislative
assistant to Rep. William O. Lipinski (D-Ill.) that she and her siblings
sometimes were so hungry as children that they would ask neighbors for a
tortilla.

"I'm looking for opportunity," Janneth explained to the aide as a group of
fellow immigrants from Chicago nodded. "I don't want to hurt this country."

Janneth, who gave only her first name, was one of numerous immigrants who fanned
out through House and Senate office buildings yesterday to lobby for greater
rights. Some, though not all, were in the country illegally. That did not stop
them from pressing legislators or their aides for amnesty for undocumented
immigrants, increased worker protection and measures to allow speedier family
reunification.

The day of lobbying was a highlight of the "freedom ride," during which nearly
900 immigrants, union activists and civil rights supporters traveled on buses to
reinvigorate a campaign for immigrants' rights. Momentum in the U.S. government
to expand immigration stalled with the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, which
were carried out by hijackers from the Middle East.

The lobbying day began with a rally of a few hundred immigrants and their
supporters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol. Several Democratic legislators,
as well as John J. Sweeney, president of the AFL-CIO, pledged support and
invoked the spirit of the original Freedom Ride by civil rights activists in
1961.

"Today we are witness to the fact that the movement for civil rights in this
country has not come to an end," said Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Tex.).

The crowd, waving Mexican and U.S. flags, chanted "Si se puede!" -- Spanish for
"Yes, we can!"

However, it was not clear that the march would yield political results. Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
favors reducing immigration, noted that any reforms would need the support of
Republicans, who have a majority in Congress.

If the goal is convincing Republicans, he said, "the last thing I'd do is have
the AFL-CIO organize a convoy of illegal immigrants appropriating the
terminology of the civil rights movement."

Organizers of the rally said Republican legislators had been invited to speak
but did not attend.

Such political considerations seemed to matter little to the immigrants
wandering awestruck through the congressional office buildings.

"In most countries in Latin America, if you talk, the government doesn't listen
. . . but here, your voice can be heard," said Lucrecia, 40, another
unauthorized immigrant from the Chicago area who gave only her first name.

Janneth, Lucrecia and about a dozen others had hoped to make their case
yesterday morning to Lipinski, but the congressman was in a meeting.

So, sitting in white plastic chairs in a lunch area in the Rayburn House Office
Building, they poured out their stories to Emily Chibnall, 24, his legislative
assistant.

Lucrecia said her 19-year-old daughter, whom Lucrecia brought to this country a
decade ago, had worked hard in high school but could not afford college because
she was ineligible for in-state tuition rates. She pleaded for better
opportunities for children who are in the country illegally.

"It's a very sad situation," said the Mexican native. "Our children, like slaves
from Africa, didn't come by their own decision. They were brought here."

Another member of the delegation, Elvira Arellano, 28, said that she had been
fired from her job cleaning airplanes in Chicago after authorities did sweeps at
the city's airports following the terrorist attacks to detect those working
illegally. She has been ordered deported to Mexico but is hoping the order will
be reversed.

"I came in the caravan because we want to be free, free to work, without fear,"
she said.

Chibnall thanked the group for coming. "I think you guys were very clear," she
said, adding that Lipinski is in favor of immigration reform.

Janneth, who works seven days a week at two cleaning jobs, said she was
disappointed not to meet with the congressman.

"I hope she can convince him," she said. "We came all the way from Chicago."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              72 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 12, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

MVA's Rules On Licensing Of Immigrants Draw Scrutiny;
Attorney General's Opinion Embraced by Both Sides

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 1246 words


The question was simple: Is it legal for Maryland officials to deny a driver's
license to illegal immigrants?

The reply was complicated: No, wrote state Attorney General J. Joseph Curran Jr.
(D), the Motor Vehicle Administration cannot require applicants to prove that
they are in the country legally as a condition of getting a driver's license.
But yes, Curran added, the MVA can require applicants to prove their identity
with immigration documents "when other satisfactory identification is
unavailable."

MVA officials say that Curran's opinion endorses their current policy, which
requires foreign-born applicants to prove their identity with a range of
documents that only legal immigrants can get, such as a foreign passport with a
valid visa stamp or a green card. "It clarifies and reinforces that . . . we are
permitted to require the proofs of identity that we do, if someone doesn't have
a U.S. birth certificate," said MVA spokesman Buel Young.

But Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery), who submitted the question to Curran,
contends that his response validates her view: that by effectively barring
illegal immigrants from getting a license, the MVA is violating state law.

Now Gutierrez and her allies are hoping to use the attorney general's opinion --
issued with scant public notice last month -- as a new weapon in their
long-running battle to open Maryland driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

One idea under consideration by the Maryland Latino Coalition for Justice, an
association of immigrant advocacy groups, is to file a class-action suit against
the MVA on behalf of illegal immigrants who were denied licenses, Gutierrez
said. "Speaking through the Latino press, I've asked people to come forward, and
I have received letters from a sufficient number of individuals," she said.

Another option, Gutierrez said, would be to persuade members of a
soon-to-be-convened state task force to recommend alternative documents that
illegal immigrants could use to prove their identity, such as foreign passports
without a visa stamp, or out-of-state licenses.

"I am delighted with it," Gutierrez said of Curran's finding. "It clearly
establishes that there is no legal basis for denying a driver's license because
of someone's inability to prove legal residency."

The issue is being debated across the nation. More than 20 states, joined in the
spring by Virginia, have laws explicitly prohibiting illegal immigrants from
getting a license. Proponents of such measures say they are needed to discourage
further illegal immigration and to prevent terrorists from easily obtaining what
has in practice become a national identification card -- enabling the bearer to
open bank accounts, cash checks, rent cars and hotel rooms and fly on airplanes.

Meanwhile, at least a dozen states, joined last month  by California, have taken
the opposite tack, adopting laws intended to allow illegal immigrants to obtain
driver's licenses. In these states, the prevailing argument is that most illegal
immigrants are vital contributors to the economy, doing jobs that legal
residents won't accept, and that their presence is a fact of life that it is
safer to acknowledge than to ignore.

Even in states where the issue was presumed settled, it remains politically
charged. During the lead-up to Tuesday's recall election in California, for
instance, Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger criticized the man he ousted, Gov.
Gray Davis (D), for signing the driver's license law last month. And an exit
poll conducted for The Washington Post by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky
International found that 70 percent of the state's voters said they opposed the
driver's license law -- with the percentage even higher among people who voted
to recall Davis.

During Maryland's most recent legislative session, Gutierrez and other lawmakers
initially proposed a bill that would have granted illegal immigrants broad
access to driver's licenses. But they voted to scale back after it became clear
that the original measure probably would fail.

The new version, which was passed and signed into law by Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich
Jr. (R) in the spring,  established the task force to study the issue. Made up
of members appointed by the governor, the state Senate and the House of
Delegates -- including Gutierrez -- the panel is expected to begin its work this
year.

Still, immigrant advocates in Maryland say that even under current law, the MVA
does not have the authority to prohibit the state's estimated 56,000 illegal
immigrant residents from getting driver's licenses.

At first glance, Curran appeared to agree, noting in his opinion that neither
federal nor state law limits licenses to U.S. citizens and lawfully present
immigrants. As a result, Curran wrote, "an applicant's inability to prove lawful
presence in the United States is not itself grounds for denial of a license,"
and "the MVA may not deny a license to an individual because he or she is unable
to prove lawful presence in this country."

Whether that is what the MVA is currently doing remains in contention, however.

Under the agency's policy, applicants who lack a U.S. birth certificate must
prove their age and identity with (in addition to several other backup
documents) a valid immigration document or a passport with a visa or stamp
proving they were lawfully admitted  to the country.

The MVA's Young said the reason is not because these are documents that only a
legal immigrant would have access to, but rather because they are documents that
have already been vetted or issued by the federal government. "Federal entities
have better resources than the MVA to determine the person's identity," he said.

To be sure, Young acknowledged, requiring the documents "might effectively lead
an applicant to prove their lawful presence, but that's not what we're asking."

Gutierrez rejected that argument. "When a practice excludes a whole class of
people, it's not an accident. It's by intent," she said.

Furthermore, she said, the MVA could choose to accept a range of other proofs of
identity that illegal immigrants might have. The MVA's own regulations, as
opposed to the agency's actual practices, allow foreign-born applicants to prove
identity with two primary documents or one primary and two secondary documents
from a list that contains many items potentially available to illegal
immigrants. Examples include an out-of-state or international driver's license,
certified school records, a taxpayer identification card, a rental agreement and
utility or telephone bills.

The fact that the MVA's practice is more restrictive than its regulations could
spell trouble for the agency. "As a general rule, an agency's actions could be
open to challenge if they are not in accordance with their regulations," said
Robert N. McDonald, chief counsel for opinions and advice in the attorney
general's office.

Most important, to show that it has not violated state law, "the agency would
have to be able to justify that [the documents it requests of foreign-born
applicants] are the only documents that they think can show identification,"
McDonald said.

He declined to comment on whether the MVA's practice violates the law, however.
"We were not asked to look into that," he said.

Noting that Curran had simply laid out what the law requires, McDonald said,
"It's up to the agency to assess if their practices are in accordance with the
opinion."

Staff researcher Margaret Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              73 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 13, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Licensing Foreign Drivers Studied;
Illegal Immigrants Are Focus in Md.

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1246 words


The question was simple: Is it legal for Maryland officials to deny a driver's
license to illegal immigrants?

The reply was complicated: No, wrote state Attorney General J. Joseph Curran Jr.
(D), the Motor Vehicle Administration cannot require applicants to prove that
they are in the country legally as a condition of getting a driver's license.
But yes, Curran added, the MVA can require applicants to prove their identity
with immigration documents "when other satisfactory identification is
unavailable."

MVA officials say that Curran's opinion endorses their current policy, which
requires foreign-born applicants to prove their identity with a range of
documents that only legal immigrants can get, such as a foreign passport with a
valid visa stamp or a green card.

"It clarifies and reinforces that . . . we are permitted to require the proofs
of identity that we do, if someone doesn't have a U.S. birth certificate," said
MVA spokesman Buel Young.

But Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery), who submitted the question to Curran,
contends that his response validates her view: that by effectively barring
illegal immigrants from getting a license, the MVA is violating state law.

Now Gutierrez and her allies are hoping to use the attorney general's opinion --
issued with scant public notice last month -- as a new weapon in their
long-running battle to open Maryland driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

One idea under consideration by the Maryland Latino Coalition for Justice, an
association of immigrant advocacy groups, is to file a class-action suit against
the MVA on behalf of illegal immigrants who were denied licenses, Gutierrez
said.

"Speaking through the Latino press, I've asked people to come forward, and I
have received letters from a sufficient number of individuals," she said.

Another option, Gutierrez said, would be to persuade members of a
soon-to-be-convened state task force to recommend alternative documents that
illegal immigrants could use to prove their identity, such as foreign passports
without a visa stamp, or out-of-state licenses.

"I am delighted with it," Gutierrez said of Curran's finding. "It clearly
establishes that there is no legal basis for denying a driver's license because
of someone's inability to prove legal residency."

The issue is being debated across the nation. More than 20 states, joined in the
spring by Virginia, have laws explicitly prohibiting illegal immigrants from
getting a license. Proponents of such measures say they are needed to discourage
further illegal immigration and to prevent terrorists from easily obtaining what
has in practice become a national identification card -- enabling the bearer to
open bank accounts, cash checks, rent cars and hotel rooms and fly on airplanes.

Meanwhile, at least a dozen states, joined last month  by California, have taken
the opposite tack, adopting laws intended to allow illegal immigrants to obtain
licenses. In these states, the prevailing argument is that most illegal
immigrants are vital contributors to the economy, doing jobs that legal
residents won't accept, and that their presence is a fact of life that it is
safer to acknowledge than to ignore.

Even in states where the issue was presumed settled, it remains politically
charged. During the lead-up to Tuesday's recall election in California, for
instance, Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger criticized the man he ousted, Gov.
Gray Davis (D), for signing the driver's license law last month. And an exit
poll conducted for The Washington Post by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky
International found that 70 percent of the state's voters said they opposed the
driver's license law -- with the percentage even higher among people who voted
to recall Davis.

During Maryland's most recent legislative session, Gutierrez and other lawmakers
initially proposed a bill that would have granted illegal immigrants broad
access to driver's licenses. But they voted to scale back after it became clear
that the original measure probably would fail.

The new version, which was passed and signed into law by Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich
Jr. (R) in the spring,  established the task force to study the issue. Made up
of members appointed by the governor, the state Senate and the House of
Delegates -- including Gutierrez -- the panel is expected to begin its work this
year.

Still, immigrant advocates in Maryland say that even under current law, the MVA
does not have the authority to prohibit the state's estimated 56,000 illegal
immigrant residents from getting driver's licenses.

At first glance, Curran appeared to agree, noting in his opinion that neither
federal nor state law limits licenses to U.S. citizens and lawfully present
immigrants.

As a result, the attorney general wrote, "an applicant's inability to prove
lawful presence in the United States is not itself grounds for denial of a
license." Furthermore, "the MVA may not deny a license to an individual because
he or she is unable to prove lawful presence in this country."

Whether that is what the MVA is doing remains in contention, however.

Under the agency's policy, applicants who lack a U.S. birth certificate must
prove their age and identity with a valid immigration document or a passport
with a visa or stamp proving they were lawfully admitted to the country (in
addition to several other backup documents).

The MVA's Young said the reason is not because these are documents that only a
legal immigrant would have access to, but rather because they are documents that
have already been vetted or issued by the federal government.

"Federal entities have better resources than the MVA to determine the person's
identity," he said.

To be sure, Young acknowledged, requiring the documents "might effectively lead
an applicant to prove their lawful presence, but that's not what we're asking."

Gutierrez rejected that argument. "When a practice excludes a whole class of
people, it's not an accident. It's by intent," she said.

Furthermore, she said, the MVA could choose to accept a range of other proofs of
identity that illegal immigrants might have.

The MVA's own regulations, as opposed to the agency's actual practices, allow
foreign-born applicants to prove identity with two primary documents or one
primary and two secondary documents from a list that contains many items
potentially available to illegal immigrants.

Examples include an out-of-state or international driver's license, certified
school records, a taxpayer identification card, a rental agreement and utility
or telephone bills.

The fact that the MVA's practice is more restrictive than its regulations could
spell trouble for the agency.

"As a general rule, an agency's actions could be open to challenge if they are
not in accordance with their regulations," said Robert N. McDonald, chief
counsel for opinions and advice in the attorney general's office.

Most important, to show that it has not violated state law, "the agency would
have to be able to justify that [the documents it requests of foreign-born
applicants] are the only documents that they think can show identification,"
McDonald said.

He declined to comment on whether the MVA's practice violates the law. "We were
not asked to look into that," he said.

Noting that Curran had simply laid out what the law requires, McDonald said,
"It's up to the agency to assess if their practices are in accordance with the
opinion."

Staff researcher Margaret Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              74 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 24, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Also Opening

SECTION: Weekend; T39

LENGTH: 276 words


John Carlos Frey, the first-time filmmaker who wrote, directed, produced and
starred in this well-meaning but amateurish drama about the plight of illegal
Mexican immigrants, wants our pity. Okay, that's not exactly true.

What he wants is our righteous, white-hot anger over social injustice, but what
he's going to end up getting is a soggy Kleenex's worth of boo hoo hoo. That and
the feeling that this overly melodramatic tale -- about a self-loathing U.S.
Border Patrol agent (Frey) who goes undercover in Tijuana only to sneak back
across the border with a group of illegals in the hope of galvanizing American
anti-immigrant sentiment when he exposes the criminal support networks that
foster undocumented workers -- would have been more at home as a TV movie of the
week. There's a lot of shouting, finger-pointing and knitting of brows here, not
to mention the requisite change of heart our antihero undergoes after his
mission goes horribly, horribly awry and he winds up as a slave in a squalid
Southern California crystal meth factory. Of course, Hollywood didn't want to
make this movie, so Frey, a sometime television actor born in Mexico and raised
in San Diego, had to do it himself, mortgaging his home to cover the film's
$200,000 budget. In this case, Hollywood probably stayed away from the script
not because the subject matter was too hot to handle, but because, for once,
someone in the city had the good sense to recognize warmed-over cod-liver oil.
It's good for you. It just isn't very good. Contains obscenity, a sex scene,
sexual assault, violence, bloodshed and bigotry. At the Cineplex Odeon Dupont
Circle.

--  Michael O'Sullivan

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              75 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 25, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Grand Jury, Wal-Mart Probe Hiring Of Workers;
Investigation Focuses On What Executives Knew

BYLINE: Greg Schneider, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 890 words


A federal grand jury in Pennsylvania is listening to secretly recorded
conversations that allegedly suggest Wal-Mart Stores Inc. executives knowingly
hired cleaning-crew contractors that employed illegal immigrants, federal
sources said yesterday.

Immigration agents arrested 250 custodians Thursday at 61 Wal-Mart stores
nationwide on charges of working in this country illegally. Ten of those workers
were employed by Wal-Mart and the rest by contractors that supply overnight
custodial services, a company spokeswoman said yesterday.

The world's biggest retailer is conducting its own investigation and  plans to
review the citizenship status of all 1.1 million U.S. employees, though it's
uncertain how long that  could take, said company spokeswoman Mona Williams.

Wal-Mart has not seen any evidence that its executives knew contractors were
using illegal laborers, said company spokesman Tom Williams.

The 10 Wal-Mart employees arrested in the raids had been hired from cleaning
contractors in Arizona and Kentucky as part of a process of bringing those
services in-house.

The federal investigation began in Pennsylvania in 1998 and grew in scope over
the years, federal officials said. A grand jury there is considering issuing
subpoenas to Wal-Mart executives, sources said. In the meantime, the company has
ordered its stores to preserve all employment records, Mona Williams said.

"We've not received any subpoenas at this point, but we just want to make sure
we're doing everything possible to cooperate with the investigation and take any
internal corrective action we need to take," she said.

The detained workers, who were primarily from countries in Eastern Europe and
Latin America, were taken to Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement
facilities in the 21 states where they were arrested. Some were released and
others were still being held, bureau spokesman Garrison Courtney said.

Each worker could ultimately face deportation, and Wal-Mart or any contractor
that knowingly hired illegal immigrants could be penalized as much as $10,000
per worker.

Immigration experts said yesterday that the raids have implications far beyond
those penalties, suggesting that the government is taking a more aggressive
approach to enforcing immigration laws and holding employers accountable.

"The magnitude of this is unprecedented," said Elizabeth Stern, a partner with
the law firm Shaw Pittman LLP who advises companies on immigration issues.

As the world's biggest retailer and the nation's largest private employer,
Wal-Mart influences commerce throughout the United States. Wal-Mart's low-margin
discount pricing has driven smaller competitors out of business and forced other
major chains, such as Target Corp. and Kmart Corp., to imitate its practices.
Its demands that suppliers hold down costs have led some -- such as Levi Strauss
& Co. -- to move manufacturing to low-wage overseas markets.

In California, supermarket employees have gone on strike this year to protest
their chains' attempts to drive down wages to compete with Wal-Mart's expansion
into grocery sales. Lawsuits have been filed on behalf of thousands of workers
challenging Wal-Mart's employment practices, which are aimed at holding down
costs to pass savings on to customers.

One of the ways some businesses hold down labor costs is to fill low-rung jobs
-- such as custodial positions -- with undocumented immigrants, who are afraid
to stand up for better wages, said Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic
Center.

Of the country's workforce of some 140 million people, roughly 8 million are
undocumented laborers, Suro said. The typical practice, he said, is for a large
company to hire a contractor for low-skilled jobs and then look the other way as
the contractor fills those positions with illegal immigrants. The contractor
assumes responsibility for ensuring each worker is properly documented.

As such practices became more and more ingrained in U.S. business, and as the
nation enjoyed a boom period of huge job growth in the late 1990s, federal
immigration officials backed away from raiding workplaces to round up illegal
immigrants. In 1998, Suro said, the federal government processed nearly 7,800
people from such roundups; last year that total was only 2,061.

Instead, the government focused its scarce immigration resources on securing the
borders.

After the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service  was absorbed into the new Department of Homeland
Security along with several other agencies. The agency's enforcement arm
combined with that of the Customs Service to become the Bureau of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement. Where the INS had a little more that 2,000 agents for
enforcement, the new bureau has 5,500, and it can use agents from other agencies
within Homeland Security such as the Federal Air Marshals Service and the
Federal Protective Service, Courtney said.

"It's a huge force multiplier," he said. Where the agency was more concerned
with educating businesses about immigration laws in the late 1990s, he said, it
now can match that effort with stepped-up enforcement.

Stern, the immigration lawyer, said the more aggressive climate could be
stifling for businesses. "That's the wrong attitude when you are trying to
foster a national economic recovery," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              76 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 27, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Education for the Undocumented

BYLINE: William Raspberry

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 636 words


The Virginia General Assembly has approved a bill denying illegal immigrants the
benefits of in-state college tuition rates. But at least seven other states
specifically allow the reduced tuition for undocumented immigrants who meet
other residency requirements.

Which is the saner policy?

Virginia's Latino community -- and it is Latinos who usually come to mind in
discussions of illegal aliens -- has doubled in the last decade, to well over
300,000, making it a potentially potent political force in the state. Latino
leaders lobbied heavily against the tuition bill, and against a companion
measure (also adopted) to deny driver's licenses to illegals. Maybe legislators
thought they'd better pass the measures now, before the Latino vote develops to
the point where it can punish such "xenophobia."

But if it makes sense for Virginia to reserve its special benefits for its
citizens, including of course those citizens who are Latinos, how can it also
make sense that other states see it as reasonable to give special breaks to
people whose presence in America is unlawful while denying those breaks to
perfectly legal citizens from neighboring states?

Maybe the answer depends on whether you take a shorter or longer view of things.
The shortsighted view is that the immigrants, whatever their legal status, are
here. Many have been here for years, and most are likely to be here for years
into the future. Given their presence, aren't we better off making sure they are
well educated and healthy and productive?

It is the argument I found appealing back in 1981, when the question was the
constitutionality of a Texas law denying free public schooling to the children
of illegal aliens. It wouldn't be in the interest of the citizens of a state to
deny medical treatment to their sick neighbors, no matter their legal status.
How could it be in their interest to deny people the opportunity for gainful
employment by denying them the privilege of driving -- or to enforce the
ignorance of their children by keeping them out of school?

But isn't college different? The reason we have free public education is that we
think everybody needs at least a high school diploma in order to be productive.
And we make people pay for college because we think college is preparation for a
better-than-average life -- that higher education is an extra benefit. And if it
is, is it reasonable that the citizens of a state should foot the bill for that
"extra" for people who, if the law were enforced, wouldn't even be there?

One answer proceeds from sympathy for people who, properly documented or not,
work hard, seek to better their lives and live out the American dream. The other
flows from the logic that illegality has meaning or it doesn't. If it does, it
certainly ought to require that we not reward the lawlessness -- if only because
the rewards will undercut our efforts to reduce the lawlessness.

You don't have to be a xenophobe or an anti-Latino bigot to understand the
action of the Virginia legislature. The guy who illegally makes himself at home
in my shed may turn out to be a pretty good deal for me. Maybe he keeps the
grass cut and the snow shoveled and the porch painted -- all for less than I
could manage on the "legal" market.

But it doesn't follow that I have to put him in my will or otherwise give him
the status of family. Isn't the in-state tuition rate for family?

And even that misses the point, which is: If the federal government fails at its
job of keeping the illegals out of the country, why should it fall to the states
to pay the costs produced by that failure?

The problem, at bottom, is the inability of the federal government to enforce
existing immigration policy and its refusal to reform it. The states are simply
stuck with the unhappy result.

willrasp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              77 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 17, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Guests Who Pose No Threat

BYLINE: John Cornyn

SECTION: Editorial; A25

LENGTH: 840 words


Last month, headlines across the country announced that an orchestrated raid on
Wal-Mart stores had turned up 250 undocumented immigrants employed as janitors,
floor cleaners and general laborers. This type of controversy makes for good
press, but the truth is these headlines only obscure the truth about the depth
of our immigration problems.

The Wal-Mart workers were here illegally, to be sure. But it appears that they
were not here to sell drugs, nor were they here as terrorists. They were merely
doing their best to grasp a small part of the American dream -- working hard to
earn low wages, money that many of them saved to send home to their families, a
practice that is all too common for immigrants. For example, nearly one Mexican
in five regularly receives money from relatives employed in the United States.

While law enforcement resources were expended hunting down the Wal-Mart workers,
other risks were receiving much less attention, even though they clearly pose a
much greater threat. Further examination of our immigration system reveals a
litany of such overlooked outrages.

An estimated 8 million to 10 million individuals are in this country illegally.
The number of deportable criminals among the undocumented immigrants living in
America is unknown. Social Security numbers are key pieces of information used
in creating false identities. Under Social Security Administration policy,
individuals are allowed to obtain 52 replacement Social Security cards every
year. In fact, 69 percent of the 18 million Social Security cards issued in 2002
were replacement cards. This policy increases the potential for fraudulent use
of Social Security numbers by undocumented immigrants and others. Finally,
300,000 to 400,000 individuals are on final orders of deportation from the
United States -- but our government doesn't know where they are and thus cannot
enforce the deportation rulings.

The outrageous facts about our border security merit our attention and, more
important, our action. We need to start paying attention to these 300,000-plus
people running from final orders of deportation, not just 250 people mopping
floors in Wal-Marts. Our immigration system must distinguish between the benign
and the dangerous, and our law enforcement resources must be dedicated to
hunting the real bad guys.

The sheer number of potential security risks, the horrible costs of human
smuggling and the enormous gap between the resources offered to border agencies
and the resources needed to enforce the law have gone unaddressed by the federal
government.

Immigration concerns have gained even more urgency in the security-focused
post-9/11 world. Yet special-interest groups still dominate the discourse,
promoting their ideology over America's security and employing the potent but
morally repugnant rhetoric of fear.

We allow these groups to decide these issues by default at our own peril. We
must acknowledge that we have done far too little to reform a system that cries
out for change. The fruit of our current border policy is nothing but death,
danger and denial.

I am convinced that we must finally recognize the truth about our border with
Mexico. Every day families, businesses and workers cross the border. They own
property on both sides of the border. They marry and raise families across the
border. They fill jobs that in many cases go unfilled in the United States, and
they create jobs. They work and they live across national boundaries. We can no
longer deny both the sheer number of undocumented immigrants in our country and
the extent to which their labor makes a positive contribution to our economy.

The guest worker program I have proposed in the Border Security and Immigration
Reform Act of 2003 acknowledges the vital role hard-working immigrants play in
our economy and creates a comprehensive program that will serve as an important
step toward reestablishing respect for our laws. It will strengthen America's
homeland security, facilitate enforcement of our immigration and labor laws and
protect the millions who labor today outside the protection of the law.

My proposal gives undocumented immigrants an incentive to come out of the
shadows, to work within the law and then to return to their homes and families
with the pay and skills they acquire as guest workers in the United States. It
would protect immigrants from exploitation and from violence, and guest workers
would no longer have reason to fear the authorities. They would come to see the
law as an ally, not an enemy.

We need to spend our time chasing down the real threats to our nation -- the
smugglers, drug dealers and terrorists -- not simply those merely looking for a
better life for themselves and their loved ones. In the end, making scapegoats
of Wal-Mart workers won't solve any of our border security or immigration
problems, and it won't make our nation any more secure. Identifying, detaining
and deporting real threats to our nation and our families will.

The writer is a Republican senator from Texas.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              78 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 21, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For the GOP, Immigration Carries a Lot of Baggage

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: Outlook; B02

LENGTH: 1770 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


His fellow Republicans and others hardly knew what to make of Homeland Security
Secretary Tom Ridge's apparently off-the-cuff remark. At a Florida town meeting
earlier this month, Ridge responded to a question from the audience with a
startling comment about illegal immigrants. "As a country, we have to come to
grips with the presence of 8 to 12 million illegals, afford them some kind of
legal status some way," he said. Vague as it was, this was the first time an
administration official had raised the issue -- had even acknowledged the
problem of illegal immigrants, much less talked about legalizing them -- in more
than two years.

Was Ridge's aside an unguarded ad-lib, or could it have been a trial balloon
authorized by the White House, to test the waters on immigration reform?
Opponents of reform thought it was real and immediately leapt to the barricades.
Leading anti-immigration congressman Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican, went
so far as to call for Ridge's resignation. The White House ducked the issue,
announcing cryptically that its immigration policy was "under review." But in
the 10 days since, it has been signaling quietly -- dropping hints at news
conferences, meeting behind the scenes with reform advocates -- that it may
indeed be considering some kind of policy initiative.

Two years after 9/11, the immigration issue is back on the table, and
surprisingly enough, the debate has picked up almost exactly where it left off
when the attacks abruptly ended all discussion of reform. With fearful memories
fading and the economy on the upswing, businesses that rely on foreign labor are
again worrying about shortages, and many are clamoring for new guest-worker
programs. Meanwhile, unions and their Democratic allies sense that it may again
be safe to stand up for newcomers' rights, and they, too, are arguing for higher
immigration quotas, along with measures that would allow illegal workers already
in the country to earn their way in out of the shadows and become citizens. All
the Democratic presidential hopefuls have raised the issue on the stump. And
several bills, some Republican, some Democratic, are circulating in Congress.

The difference this time around is the division within the Republican Party. The
flap over Ridge's remark was a symptom of a far more significant conflict.
Republicans, even more than Democrats, have long been ambivalent about
immigration; business and libertarians are generally for increasing the number
of immigrants allowed in each year, rank-and-file voters more often for lowering
it. In the past year or so, that internal divide has deepened and intensified.

Part of what's widening the rift is fear of terrorism, part is concern about the
economy. Though there's no evidence that immigrants make the nation less safe or
"steal" American jobs, anti-immigration Republicans have done a brilliant job of
exploiting the public's anxiety. In the years since 9/11, Tancredo's
restrictionist Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus has more than quadrupled
from some 15 members to 69. Now that reform is again under discussion, they
frequently find themselves at odds with more immigrant-friendly Republicans, and
the conflict is shaping up as a potential battle for the soul of the party. If
the restrictionist wing prevails, there could be dire consequences not just for
the GOP, but for the nation.

The immigration issue now cuts a fault line clear through the Republican -- and
conservative -- universe. The Wall Street Journal is staunchly in favor of
higher ceilings, while the Washington Times and National Review carry the banner
of restriction. The Cato Institute is for liberalization; the Center for
Immigration Studies, also funded by conservatives, favors cracking down harder.
(My own right-of-center think tank, the Manhattan Institute, is split down the
middle.) Though it would cost businesses more to hire legal migrants, many
believe expanding quotas would make for a more reliable workforce, and they are
often the driving force in negotiations to create new guest-worker programs. But
many Republican voters -- the Pat Buchanan wing of the party and others -- are
up in arms over what they see as granting benefits, whether driver's licenses or
green cards or food stamps, to people they think have broken the law. When
pollsters probe for "intense opposition to immigration" -- the kind likely to
translate into votes and other action -- Republicans are far more adamant than
Democrats: According to a recent poll by the Pew Research Center, 54 percent
"completely" agree that yearly ceilings should be lowered.

So, too, in Washington. Pro-immigrant GOP legislators, many from border states
--  Sens. John McCain and John Cornyn  , Reps. Jeff Flake and Jim Kolbe -- are
pressing for measures to expand the legal labor supply and restore the rule of
law in heavily immigrant states by rerouting the illegal flow through legal
channels. No fewer than three GOP-sponsored guest-worker bills are circulating
on the Hill, along with a measure that would grant legal status to high-school
graduates who entered the country illegally as young children.

Meanwhile, the Tancredo faction is pushing in exactly the opposite direction,
pressing to fortify the border and augment interior enforcement. One of the most
controversial restrictionist measures would actively involve local police in
enforcing immigration law and arresting people who have no documents -- an
unprecedented practice opposed by many police departments on the grounds that it
would make it harder for them to do their jobs in immigrant communities.

The pro-immigration wing of the party makes by far the more persuasive case.
After all, as they point out, globalization makes immigration inevitable. We
can't just turn off the spigot -- and even if we could, the costs of doing so
would outweigh the benefits. Immigrants bring talent and energy, help stem the
tide of U.S. companies exporting jobs overseas, and are revitalizing urban
neighborhoods from Flushing, N.Y., to South Central Los Angeles. A large influx
of the kind we're experiencing today -- 1.3 million people a year, roughly
one-quarter of them illegal -- inevitably brings dislocations, and we need to
deal with those problems. But if global forces of supply and demand make
something like this influx unavoidable, surely it is preferable that it be legal
rather than illegal -- that we bring the entire flow above ground where we can
monitor and regulate it.

The irony is that by opposing a more rational, market-oriented immigration
policy, the restrictionists may be handing the issue to the Democratic Party. As
Democrats and Republicans in favor of higher ceilings realize, bipartisan
cooperation is the only way, in the current climate, to muster the votes to pass
legislation. More importantly, genuinely solving the problem requires meeting
both business and union concerns: providing a steady supply of workers while
also guaranteeing them market wages and labor protections so that they don't
undercut native-born laborers.

Neither a guest-worker program (a Republican idea that Democrats endorse only
under duress) nor a measure allowing illegal workers already here to come in
from the shadows (the Democrats' quid pro quo, accepted grudgingly by
Republicans) would work alone. Only the two together can hope to eliminate our
ever-growing underground workforce, putting industries from agriculture to the
hotel business back on a legal footing. But if Tancredo and his allies succeed
in blocking that kind of double-barreled reform, pro-immigration Democrats will
seize the issue and make it their own -- and eventually, chances are, polarize
the debate beyond all hope of a bipartisan solution.

Indeed, this may already be happening in Washington. The most promising
immigration legislation introduced this fall was a measure known as the AgJOBS
Bill, which would create a new guest-worker program and a path to legalization
for up to half a million Mexican farmhands. A balanced bill with some four dozen
Senate sponsors, half of them Democrats and half Republicans, it stood an
excellent chance of passing -- until it was held up in the Senate's immigration
subcommittee by chairman Saxby Chambliss, a Georgia Republican edging toward the
restrictionist camp. Meanwhile, negotiations to produce a similar package for
service-sector workers may be foundering on partisan disagreement; would-be
Democratic co-sponsors are threatening to bolt, and are thinking instead about
measures with far more expansive labor rights and less concern for law
enforcement.

Worse still for the GOP, Tancredo and his allies could be handing the political
future to the Democrats. Latino voters may or may not be a significant factor in
2004: Restrictionists point out that none of the most heavily Latino states --
New York, California, Texas -- are likely to be up for grabs. But even Bush's
lead pollster, Matthew Dowd, has long argued that the Republican Party needs to
win at least 40 percent of the Hispanic vote to remain competitive. And poll
after poll is unequivocal. Immigration is a defining issue for Latino voters,
with support for expanded quotas and legalization of those already in the
country running in the 80- to 90-percent range.

The White House can make a difference if indeed it comes forward with a
proposal, throwing its weight behind the pro-immigration wing of the GOP. But
even then, an effective solution would need to be bipartisan -- and the
challenge for the president will be to lead a broad-based effort. If he fails --
if the debate turns bitter and grandstanding -- it's possible that nothing will
pass until the Democrats retake Congress. And then, if and when something does
get through, it will almost surely be skewed sharply leftward, serving neither
business interests nor the rest of the country.

Does the national Republican Party want to go the way of the California GOP,
which waged war on immigrants and lost the reins of power for nearly a decade?
Do Republicans want to walk into the future tagged not just as anti-black, but
also anti-immigrant? If the merits of the issue made it necessary, party leaders
might rightly choose to pay that price. But they don't. We all, Democrats and
Republicans alike, have a stake in sensible, bipartisan immigration reform that
reflects the realities of the global marketplace and enhances our security.

</body>Tamar Jacoby is a senior fellow of the Manhattan Institute and the editor
of "Reinventing the Melting Pot: The New Immigrants and What It Means To Be
American," to be published by Basic Books in February.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              79 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 21, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 467 words


CHICAGO -- Rep. William J. Janklow (R-S.D.) has filed a motion asking for
acquittal of a second-degree manslaughter charge or a new trial, the Sioux Falls
Argus Leader reported Saturday.

Prosecutors did not present enough evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt
that Janklow is guilty of the felony charge, his lawyer, Ed Evans, argued in a
motion filed Thursday with the Moody County Clerk of Courts in Flandreau, S.D.,
the newspaper reported.

Under state law, 3rd Circuit Judge Rodney Steele has 20 days to rule on the
motion, the paper noted.

A Moody County  jury found Dec. 8 that Janklow was guilty of second-degree
manslaughter and three misdemeanors stemming from an Aug. 16 crash that killed
motorcyclist Randy Scott, 55, of Minnesota. Janklow sped through a stop sign,
and Scott's motorcycle hit the congressman's car.

PHOENIX -- The body of a missing Border Patrol agent was found in the Colorado
River near  where he had rescued a suspected illegal immigrant from the water.

James Epling, 24, accidentally drowned, the Maricopa County Medical Examiner's
Office said  after an autopsy.

Epling was last seen Tuesday chasing four suspected illegal immigrants along a
trail just north of the Mexico border on the California side of the river near
Yuma. He had pulled one of the immigrants, a Chinese woman, from the river.

*  ALBANY, N.Y. -- Divers recovered the body of a man believed to be the second
missing crew member of a Dutch cargo ship that capsized in port. Three members
of the Russian crew had been missing since the Stellamare tipped over while
being loaded last week. On Friday, salvage divers pulled the body of Yuri A.
Akofin, 48, from the ship's cargo hold. Jumbo Shipping, which owns the
Stellamare, had identified the missing sailors as Akofin, Victor Alexeev, 46,
and Sulieman A. Khasenevich, 43.

*  CHICAGO -- A federal judge approved a $99,000 settlement for panhandlers
after the city ban was found to limit commercial speech. Those arrested for
panhandling in the past four years can file a claim for $400, while those
ticketed can receive $50.

*  MIAMI -- Police conduct was a disgrace during demonstrations at the Free
Trade Area of the Americas meeting, according to a judge presiding over several
protesters' cases. In a court transcript from a Dec. 11 hearing, Circuit Judge
Richard Margolius said he saw at least 20 felonies committed by police, calling
it "pretty disgraceful what I saw with my own eyes."

*  LOS ANGELES -- Ten weeks into a labor strike that has hit more than 800
Southern California grocery stores, talks between the supermarkets' operators
and workers' union resumed for a day and ended abruptly after negotiators for
the supermarkets rejected the union's latest offer late Friday. No new talks
were scheduled.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              80 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 22, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Mexicans Protest Expulsion Program;
U.S. Says Effort Has Halted Desert Deaths

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 655 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Sept. 21


Mexican officials are strongly protesting a new U.S. program that flies illegal
immigrants caught in the Arizona desert hundreds of miles to Texas, where they
are returned to Mexico.

U.S. officials say the program, begun Sept. 8, is a humanitarian measure aimed
at preventing returned migrants from simply attempting to cross again into
Arizona, where many have died of exposure. Instead, U.S. officials are flying
them as far east as Laredo, Tex., into more populated and less dangerous
sections of the border.

The U.S. Embassy here said the pilot program, which concludes at the end of this
month, has worked. Nearly 2,400 illegal immigrants have been taken from Arizona
to Texas, and since the program began, no deaths have been reported in a desert
that has averaged more than one death a day in recent years.

But Mexicans are upset over the so-called Lateral Repatriation Program, which
has generated angry front-page headlines here in recent days. The Mexican
Foreign Ministry has submitted an "energetic" protest of the program, in which
captured immigrants are transported in handcuffs, to the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security. Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Ernesto Derbez told the Mexican
Congress last week that the government "cannot agree" with the plan.

While Derbez has not detailed the objections, analysts here said the plan poses
a political nightmare for President Vicente Fox. They said the spectacle of U.S.
officials flying handcuffed immigrants to distant ports for deportation is a
public relations disaster for Fox, who took office promising to forge an
agreement with Washington to make immigration to the United States safer and
easier for Mexican workers.

"It's all about perceptions and politics," said political analyst Ana Maria
Salazar. "This was a unilateral decision. And Mexicans assume that if it's a
unilateral decision by the United States, it's usually a bad deal for Mexico."

Salazar said the U.S. plan "may be more humane" than dropping immigrants back
over the border near Arizona, where many simply cross back into the baking
desert at the next opportunity. But "from the Mexican political perspective,"
she said, "it underlines just how difficult it's going to be to get a migratory
accord with the United States."

Officials in Mexican cities along the Texas border have also complained that
dumping thousands of immigrants in their communities will be expensive and
disruptive. They say the plan offers no long-term solution to illegal
immigration and will strain their already limited budgets for sending immigrants
back to their home towns.

Jeff Brown, a spokesman for the U.S. Embassy here, said the plan was "not
intended to be unilateral." He said U.S. officials had "extensive and open
discussions" with Mexican authorities. He said that the Americans offered to fly
the captured immigrants to airports near their home towns, or to Mexico City,
but that those offers were rejected because Mexican officials "didn't want those
flights going into Mexican airspace."

Brown said that adult males who are captured are flown in handcuffs as a
security precaution, because there have been cases in which they have attacked
U.S. officials. He said U.S. officials coordinate closely with Mexican
immigration authorities who receive the returnees.

Brown also said he saw no reason why the new program would affect long-term
prospects for a new immigration agreement between the United States and Mexico.
"I really don't see any logical reason that this would make it more difficult,"
he said.

Brown said the program would be evaluated after it ends to determine whether it
would be used again. But so far, he said, it seemed to be working. "We have
saved lives," he said.

Brown also said there had been a 17 percent drop in the number of illegal
immigrants apprehended in the Arizona desert since the program started,
suggesting that it has had "a positive deterrent effect."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              81 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 30, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Texans Assail Repatriation Flights;
Illegal Immigrants Being Returned From Arizona to Mexico Via Lone Star State

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 865 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN


Texas officials have joined the Mexican government in protesting a new U.S.
program that each week packs thousands of illegal Mexican immigrants onto
chartered planes in Arizona, flies them up to 850 miles to Texas and shuffles
them across the border there.

Politicians in Texas say the program is ill-conceived and is likely to cause
problems in their back yards if the immigrants, penniless and far from home,
keep trying to cross the border -- now into Texas.

"They say they're not criminals," Laredo Mayor Elizabeth G. Flores said of the
immigrants. "But they're hungry, and hungry people and desperate people do
desperate things."

A. D'Wayne Jernigan, sheriff of Val Verde County, which includes Laredo and 125
miles of the border, said his department has received more than 100 phone calls
about the program from locals, many concerned their cars will be stolen if
immigrants make their way back into Texas and are "desperate to get to their
final destination."

"Once they're returned to Mexico, they're going to come right back into this
area and we're going to have to deal with them locally," Jernigan said.

Crossing the empty, scorching desert of the Arizona border can take several days
on foot. A trip across the Texas border is still risky, but conditions are less
severe and the area more populated.

The Border Patrol insists the program will reduce the number of immigrants who
die from heat and dehydration while trying to make the five-day trek across the
Sonoran Desert into Arizona. The desert's solitude makes it the favorite
crossing point for those who smuggle immigrants, and it is by far the Border
Patrol's busiest sector. In the fiscal year ending last September, about 330,000
migrants were arrested there, and 134 died, nearly all of them Mexicans. In
June, the Border Patrol launched tough new measures to cut the flow of migrants
crossing the desert, adding 150 agents to the 1,700 already deployed, as well as
surveillance flights and rescue beacons. Now they are experimenting with a more
radical plan. Instead of being sent back across the Arizona border, since Sept.
8 the detainees have been flown to Texas and returned to Mexico from there.

The airborne Texas two-step works like this: Every day, about 300 illegal
immigrants are packed aboard two chartered Boeing 727-200s in Arizona and flown
to Air Force bases and airports in the Texas towns of El Paso, Del Rio, McAllen
and Laredo. The men -- but not the women and children -- are handcuffed and
accompanied by armed Border Patrol agents.

On arrival in Texas, buses whisk the migrants from the tarmac to border bridges,
where they are given hamburgers and a drink and sent packing across the Rio
Grande River into Mexico.

Each flight costs the government $ 28,000, not including fuel, buses and other
administrative expenses.

"This is a terrible idea," said Rep. Henry Bonilla (R-Tex.), whose district
includes an 800-mile stretch of the Texas-Mexico frontier as well as three of
the cities through which the migrants are now being sent back. "In many cases,
[migrants will] have no place to go except to run back into the United States."

Bonilla has introduced legislation that would forbid further such migrant
flights into Texas or any other domestic destination.

The new program, called "lateral repatriation," will save lives, said Mario
Villarreal, a spokesman for the Border Patrol. By flying the immigrants as far
as 850 miles away, they won't be able to reconnect with the same smugglers who
would just send them back across the Arizona desert, he said.  The program is a
pilot project that ends today, but initial indicators are encouraging, according
to the government, and the flights could well be resumed when temperatures start
to rise next spring.

In the first three weeks, three migrant deaths were reported in the Sonoran
Desert. In the same period last year, 10 died, Villarreal said.

The Department of Homeland Security has been meeting with officials in Texas
border cities, who say they were never informed that hundreds of illegal
migrants would be descending on their towns.

Del Rio Mayor Dora G. Alcala said she was assured that the deportees would not
become next-day illegal immigrants into her city, west of San Antonio.
Nevertheless, she said, "Arizona should be able to come up with their own
solutions."

Immigrant rights groups in Texas have denounced the program as a publicity stunt
that is unlikely to save lives. Ouisa D. Davis, executive director of Diocesan
Migrant and Refugee Services in El Paso, said the only way to curb dangerous
border crossings is to legalize Mexican workers in the United States, a position
similar to the Mexican government's.

"If they're determined to come to the U.S. and work . . . then people are going
to get back in touch with the smugglers and try to cross in the exact same
place," Davis said. "Or they'll try to cross here [in El Paso] and they'll end
up dead in the canal."

Border Patrol officials rejected the criticism. In the first three weeks
following the Texas transfer, just 1 percent of the deportees had been
rearrested in Texas. "At this point we're extremely happy in the positive
results," Villarreal said.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              82 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 10, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

The Immigration Plan: Who Wins, Who Loses?

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 497 words


Business groups claim that amnesty for illegal immigrants is necessary because
of "a shortage of workers willing to take low-wage jobs" ["Bush Plan Would Give
Immigrants Legal Status," front page, Jan. 7]. But statistical evidence suggests
otherwise. The U.S. unemployment rate for people with less than a high school
diploma is approximately 8 percent, reaching more than 13 percent for African
Americans and more than 10 percent for Asian Americans.

Creating more financial hardships for unemployed and poorly educated Americans
by liberalizing immigration laws to benefit undocumented immigrants is hardly
compassionate, despite President Bush's claims. Doing so to earn votes for
reelection is selfish.

CHRISTOPHER S. EDWARDS

New York

*

What is going on in President Bush's mind? Someone so involved in a war against
terrorism -- and who rammed through the formation of a Department of Homeland
Security --  should know that immigration, legal and illegal, is a tool of
terrorists. It's what made Sept. 11, 2001, possible.

The president says he wants to create a guest worker program that would match
"willing employers" with "willing workers." That is exactly why immigrants began
pouring into the United States illegally -- they are willing to work cheap, and
President Bush is making that possible.

Crime involving illegal aliens has risen dramatically since 1995, putting a
strain on law enforcement in cities throughout the country. New schools are
needed to handle the children of illegal aliens. There is no shortage of
evidence that the influx of illegal aliens is the root of many local
governments' budget problems.

The president calls these people "undocumented workers" or "illegal immigrants,"
but they are criminals who have broken our laws.

John O'Sullivan, editor of National Review, recently said, "Both our current
immigration policy and the 'reforms' proposed by the president are
national-security disasters waiting to happen." I agree.

ELMER M. SAVILLA

Burke

*

As a former Washingtonian who has lived in Mexico for four years, I have a
unique perspective on the immigration reforms proposed by President Bush.

About 38 percent of the residents of my town work in the United States, perhaps
half of them illegally. Last year I attended 11 funerals with friends whose
relatives didn't make it across the desert to a better life. Some of these
families had to borrow to pay for the crossing, which runs from $2,500 to $3,500
per person. With the average income here $45 to $50 a week, that's a lot of
money to be repaid. And the families must repay the debt even if their relative
died trying to reach the United States.

These Mexican friends want to come to the United States to work and send money
home to their families. They all dream of the day they can return to Mexico to
be with their families. Is it too much to ask a country that has so much wealth
to allow these Mexicans to take the jobs Americans don't want?

JIM MARTIN

Jocotepec, Mexico

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              83 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 11, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Hill Cool to Bush Immigration Plan

BYLINE: Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 923 words


President Bush's proposal to give temporary legal status to millions of
undocumented immigrants is running into stiff resistance from both left and
right on Capitol Hill and stands little chance of enactment this year, according
to supporters and opponents.

While this assessment is based on early responses, with the lobbying effort
barely begun, some lawmakers say the measure's only chance of passage this year
would require an all-out push by the president, and even that might not be
enough. Many liberal Democrats say the plan does not go far enough in helping
immigrants attain U.S. citizenship. And many conservative Republicans,
especially in the House, say it goes too far in rewarding foreigners who broke
the law to enter the country.

In light of these divisions, consensus may be difficult if not impossible in the
politically charged atmosphere of a presidential and congressional election
year, congressional and other sources said.

Under the proposal, which has yet to be drafted in legislative form, an
estimated 8 million undocumented immigrants in the United States would be
eligible for temporary legal status for three years, renewable for an
unspecified period, provided they are employed and Americans cannot be found for
the jobs. Employers could bring in new workers under the same conditions. But
these temporary workers would not automatically qualify for permanent residency
status or citizenship, and Bush said he expects them to eventually return home.

It usually takes several years to pass major immigration bills, which are
legally complex and politically sensitive. Moreover, they generally  are drafted
on a bipartisan basis, which is difficult in an election year.

Because of these factors, even GOP congressional leaders appear skeptical about
prospects this year.

"Democrats are not going to want to give Bush a victory in an election year, and
there is some significant opposition from conservative Republicans," a senior
House Republican leadership aide said. "This makes it very difficult to do in an
election year." The aide estimated as many as 50 House Republicans could vote
against the proposal.

"It's something we're going to try to do, but it's going to be tough," said an
aide to GOP leaders in the Senate, which is regarded as more open to
liberalizing immigration rules.

Foes were even more dubious about prospects. "Based on the conceptual plan as
laid out, it's highly unlikely it will ever see the light of day" in Congress,
said Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), an outspoken critic of Bush's proposal.

Only if Bush lobbies fervently for the proposal -- and is willing to expend some
political capital during his campaign -- does it stand a chance of passage
before the November elections, several congressional sources suggested in
interviews last week. A more likely scenario, according to immigration
strategists, is that one or both chambers may begin work on the proposal, but
votes would be deferred.

"I would anticipate some very interesting hearings on the issue and some
important preliminary action, but no action on the House and Senate floors until
2005," said Randel Johnson, a vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
which favors the Bush proposal.

"Immigration reform is never easy," and this will be no exception, said Cecilia
Muñoz, vice president for policy with the National Council of La Raza, the
nation's largest Hispanic civil rights group. "It all depends on how much
political capital that Bush is prepared to invest in it."

Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who sponsored a broader proposal but spoke favorably
of Bush's initiative, also said that a major presidential push -- including a
demand for action by August in next week's State of the Union message -- is
essential for passage this year. "The administration sets the agenda," he said.

Some strategists in both parties believe Bush may be content to use the proposal
in his reelection campaign to court Latino voters, rather than push it to a vote
this year. But McCain said such a strategy could backfire. "The Hispanic
community will have expectations raised," he said, "and if the
Republican-dominated Congress can't act . . . it could be damaging to
Republicans."

Muñoz expressed a similar view. "I'm not sure the Latino electorate will buy
nice ideas in the absence of action," she said.

So far, the White House has given little if any indication of how forcefully
Bush would lobby for the proposal. In the past, the extent of his engagement has
included a full-court press for tax cuts and considerably less involvement for
other bills.

Nor is it clear how far Republican leaders in Congress would go in pushing for
quick action. Democrats said they believe the issue does not enjoy a high
priority with GOP leaders, in part because it is so divisive in their caucuses.
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) has said he is optimistic about the
bill's prospects. But House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-Tex.), while stopping
short of declaring opposition, said he had "heartfelt reservations" about a
program that "seems to reward illegal behavior."

Democrats say they will offer an alternative, probably along the lines of a
bipartisan bill being drafted by Senate Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle
(D-S.D.) and Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) that includes a path to permanent
resident status.

Any new immigration bill must be bipartisan, a Senate Democratic aide said. "If
it's only political, a lot of Democrats are going to be unwilling to make
concessions," the aide said.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              84 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 24, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Keeping Our Doors Open and Secure

SECTION: Editorial; A17

LENGTH: 293 words


The Jan. 11 Outlook article  "Welcome to America"  confuses the respective
missions and responsibilities of the Department of Homeland Security and the
Department of State.

Both departments are installing biometrics programs, and we work closely
together to combat illegal immigration and terrorism -- yet we each have
specific roles.

U.S. VISIT is a program of the Department of Homeland Security. While U.S. VISIT
represents one layer of the war on terrorism, its broader purpose is to combat
illegal immigration and stop known criminals, prior immigration violators  and
travelers with false documents before they cross our borders.

Consular officers of the Department of State issue visas after interviewing most
applicants, checking records in a comprehensive database and, when appropriate,
obtaining an interagency security advisory opinion.

Electronic fingerprints taken at the visa window will be checked against
Homeland Security's database and will help verify identity at the port of entry.

U.S. VISIT is much more than capturing digital finger scans and photographs. It
is a seamless process that builds on the work of two departments.

For officers in both Homeland Security and State, it is about providing new
tools to verify, identify and prevent the admission of criminals and terrorists.
For our visitors, it is about allowing them to protect their personal privacy.
Together, it is about providing an additional layer of security for our citizens
and our visitors.

-- Asa Hutchinson

Washington

-- Maura Harty

Washington

The writers are, respectively, undersecretary for border and transportation
security at the Department of Homeland Security and assistant secretary of the
Bureau of Consular Affairs at the Department of State.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              85 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 26, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Colleges Can Bar Illegal Immigrants;
Ruling by U.S. Judge On Va. Schools Is Said To Be First in Nation

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 577 words


A federal judge in Alexandria ruled yesterday that Virginia's colleges and
universities may deny admission to illegal immigrants -- a ruling that experts
said was the first of its kind in the nation.

The decision by U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III came in a lawsuit filed
against seven Virginia schools accused of violating the rights of the immigrants
by refusing them entry.

"It is clear that denying illegal aliens admission to public colleges and
universities simply removes another public incentive for illegal immigration,"
Ellis wrote. He stopped short of dismissing the case, however, ruling that it
could proceed to trial because the plaintiffs have a right to try to prove
whether the schools are using federal standards to identify applicants who are
in the country illegally.

Virginia Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore (R), who is defending the schools,
said he was pleased by the ruling. Kilgore's 2002 memo to Virginia's public
colleges and universities, which urged them to reject illegal immigrants, was
one impetus for the lawsuit, Ellis wrote. The suit was filed in September in
U.S. District Court in Alexandria.

"Legal immigration has made this country what it is," Kilgore said in a
statement. "I continue to believe that it is not too much to ask that people
obey the laws of our society before they take advantage of what our society has
to offer."

Tisha Tallman, an attorney for the plaintiffs, who include a high school senior
who is an illegal immigrant, said she is "delighted" the case is allowed to
continue. "We are reviewing the judge's decision," she said, ". . . and will
then make a determination on what next steps we will be taking."

The lawsuit names the University of Virginia, Northern Virginia Community
College, Virginia Tech, the College of William and Mary, Virginia Commonwealth
University, George Mason University and James Madison University as defendants.

The issue of granting access to higher education for illegal immigrants has
become increasingly controversial in recent years.

The Virginia House of Delegates this month passed a bill that would prohibit
admission of illegal immigrants by public colleges and universities. The
measure, which lawyers said also is the only one of its kind in the nation, is
pending in the Senate.

The Virginia bill and Ellis's ruling run counter to a recent national trend in
which seven states have allowed illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition rates
at public colleges, said Josh Bernstein, director of federal policy for the
National Immigration Law Center. Maryland passed such a bill last year, but it
was vetoed by Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R).

The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1982 that illegal immigrants are entitled to a
primary and secondary education, but it has been silent on higher education. In
1998, a federal judge in California struck down the state's Proposition 187
ballot initiative limiting services to immigrants, including access to higher
education. Lawyers said that is the only other time a federal judge has
considered the issue before Ellis's ruling yesterday.

One of the schools that was sued in the Alexandria case, Northern Virginia
Community College, allows admission of illegal immigrants but does not let them
pay in-state tuition, said Everett Vann Eberhardt, the school's director of
legal affairs.

"Why we were part of that lawsuit, I'm not sure I understand," he said.

Staff writer Amy Argetsinger contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              86 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 26, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Colleges May Bar Illegal Immigrants;
Judge's Ruling Is Said to Be U.S. First

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 576 words


A federal judge in Alexandria ruled yesterday that Virginia's colleges and
universities may deny admission to illegal immigrants -- a ruling that experts
said was the first of its kind in the nation.

The decision by U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III came in a lawsuit filed
against seven Virginia schools accused of violating the rights of the immigrants
by refusing them entry.

"It is clear that denying illegal aliens admission to public colleges and
universities simply removes another public incentive for illegal immigration,"
Ellis wrote. He stopped short of dismissing the case, however, ruling that it
could proceed to trial because the plaintiffs have a right to try to prove
whether the schools are using federal standards to identify applicants who are
in the country illegally.

Virginia Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore (R), who is defending the schools,
said he was pleased by the ruling. Kilgore's 2002 memo to Virginia's public
colleges and universities, which urged them to reject illegal immigrants, was
one impetus for the lawsuit, Ellis wrote. The suit was filed in September in
U.S. District Court in Alexandria.

"Legal immigration has made this country what it is," Kilgore said in a
statement. "I continue to believe that it is not too much to ask that people
obey the laws of our society before they take advantage of what our society has
to offer."

Tisha Tallman, an attorney for the plaintiffs, who include a high school senior
who is an illegal immigrant, said she is "delighted" the case is allowed to
continue. "We are reviewing the judge's decision," she said, ". . . and will
then make a determination on what next steps we will be taking."

The lawsuit names the University of Virginia, Northern Virginia Community
College, Virginia Tech, the College of William and Mary, Virginia Commonwealth
University, George Mason University and James Madison University as defendants.

The issue of granting access to higher education for illegal immigrants has
become increasingly controversial in recent years.

The Virginia House of Delegates this month passed a bill that would prohibit
admission of illegal immigrants by public colleges and universities. The
measure, which lawyers said also is the only one of its kind in the nation, is
pending in the Senate.

The Virginia bill and Ellis's ruling run counter to a recent national trend in
which seven states have allowed illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition rates
at public colleges, said Josh Bernstein, director of federal policy for the
National Immigration Law Center. Maryland passed such a bill last year, but it
was vetoed by Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R).

The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1982 that illegal immigrants are entitled to a
primary and secondary education, but it has been silent on higher education. In
1998, a federal judge in California struck down the state's Proposition 187
ballot initiative limiting services to immigrants, including access to higher
education. Lawyers said that is the only other time a federal judge has
considered the issue before Ellis's ruling yesterday.

One of the schools that was sued in the Alexandria case, Northern Virginia
Community College, allows admission of illegal immigrants but does not let them
pay in-state tuition, said Everett Vann Eberhardt, the school's director of
legal affairs. "Why we were part of that lawsuit, I'm not sure I understand," he
said.

Staff writer Amy Argetsinger contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              87 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 3, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

5 Charged in Work Visa Fraud;
Men Secured False Papers for Immigrants, Indictment Alleges

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 615 words


A Bethesda lawyer and four businessmen have been charged with submitting false
documentation to state and federal officials to obtain work visas for dozens of
undocumented immigrants during a five-year period, federal authorities announced
yesterday.

From Jan. 1, 1998, to Dec. 31, 2002, the defendants used fraudulent
documentation to obtain immigrant visas for at least 50 foreign workers,
according to the 23-count indictment unsealed in U.S. District Court in
Greenbelt.

The defendants allegedly filed fraudulent papers with labor officials seeking
visas for immigrants to fill jobs as restaurant workers, brick masons, painters
and automotive repair shop managers, the indictment states.

Some of the immigrants using the documents have been apprehended and deported,
said a federal investigator who spoke on condition of anonymity. Others never
actually came to the United States, and their documents might have been used for
other workers, he said.

Allan J. Doody, special agent in charge of the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement bureau in Baltimore, said determining who may have obtained the work
permits and where they are now is part of an ongoing investigation. "Our goal is
to ensure the integrity of the system," he said.

The defendants are charged with conspiracy to harbor undocumented immigrants,
labor certification fraud, racketeering, and aiding and abetting. Two of the
defendants harbored immigrants who had entered the country illegally from
Canada, federal authorities said.

Federal prosecutors are seeking the forfeiture of $600,000 in cash and six homes
or businesses in Potomac, Herndon, McLean and New York City, the indictment
states.

"The indictment should send a message to those who take advantage of the
immigration laws -- particularly immigration attorneys and businessmen who
exploit their small businesses and law practices to sponsor aliens illegally --
that they will be prosecuted aggressively," U.S. Attorney Thomas M. DiBiagio
said in a statement.

Maqsood Hamid Mir, 51, an immigration lawyer with a practice in Bethesda and a
home in Potomac, said he would continue to run his law practice despite the
indictment. He declined further comment.

Yesterday, Abdul R. Javaid, 68, owner of a gas station and automotive repair
shop from McLean, was brought before a federal magistrate in handcuffs.

Javaid's attorney, John T. Riely, told the court that his client is a U.S.
citizen and has no criminal record. At the end of a brief hearing during which
Javaid did not enter a plea, U.S. Magistrate Judge Jillyn K. Schulze allowed
Javaid to remain free pending further court appearances with a collateral bond
-- specifically, his house.

Schulze directed Javaid to surrender his passport and not to travel beyond the
Washington area.

In an interview, Riely said Javaid, a Pakistani emigre who is a naturalized
citizen, "certainly asserts his innocence." "I think he was caught up in
something right now that's beyond his knowledge," Riely said. The attorney
declined to elaborate.

The other people indicted are Mohammad Bajwa, 38, of Herndon, owner and operator
of a money transfer business and construction company; Zulfiqar Ali, 43, of
Virginia Beach, owner of several gas stations in Virginia and in New York; and
Jamal Hussain, 45, of Kingston, N.Y. Hussain and Ali are brothers, the
indictment states.

If convicted, the defendants each face up to 20 years in prison on the
racketeering charges, and lesser penalties on the other charges.

Last year, a federal judge in Virginia sentenced an Arlington immigration
lawyer, Samuel G. Kooritzky, to 10 years in prison for fleecing hundreds of
desperate immigrants in a massive labor fraud scheme.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              88 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 10, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

GOP Forces Controversial Issues;
Panel Sidestepped on Marriage, Immigration Proposals

BYLINE: Tim Craig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 772 words


Restive Republicans in the Maryland General Assembly dragged two contentious
issues -- same-sex marriage and driver's licenses for illegal immigrants -- to
the floor of the House of Delegates yesterday, trying to put Democrats on the
record on matters otherwise resolved in committee.

By a vote of 82 to 52, Democrats fought off an attempt to attach an amendment
prohibiting recognition of same-sex marriages performed in other states onto a
bill that would set fees for marriage licenses. The "defense of marriage"
proposal was narrowly defeated Friday by the House Judiciary Committee.

When a bill on commercial driver's licenses came up later, Del. Herbert H.
McMillan (R-Anne Arundel) attempted an end run by offering an amendment that
would prohibit undocumented immigrants from obtaining driver's licenses.

The House postponed until today a vote on that measure, which is similar to a
proposal rejected by the Democrat-controlled Judiciary Committee.

Republicans say the legislative maneuvers are designed to display their growing
influence in the assembly and are the opening salvos in an effort to force
moderate and conservative Democrats to cast votes that may not please
constituents.

"I think there are fundamental differences between the two parties on a number
of issues, and I think you are going to see some spirited floor debates," said
Del. William J. Frank (R-Baltimore County).

But Democratic leaders decried the GOP game plan, saying it ignores decades of
established procedures and traditions and seeks to run roughshod over the
committee system. "Obviously, they have no respect for the institution," said
House Speaker Michael E. Busch (D-Anne Arundel).

House and Senate committees sort through hundreds of bills a year to weed out
frivolous or politically unpopular legislation. Traditionally, the full House
and Senate will consider only bills that have been approved by a committee.

"I think we are advancing real close to the edge with our committee system,"
said Del. Maggie L. McIntosh (D-Baltimore), head of the House Environmental
Matters Committee. She later added, "This is becoming like Congress."

Republicans appeared giddy that their tactics had frustrated Democratic leaders.
"We are just playing by the rules they have laid down, and I guess that is
driving them crazy," McMillan said.

Busch suggested yesterday that the tactics could backfire and that Democrats
could retaliate against the GOP and the agenda put forth by Gov. Robert L.
Ehrlich Jr. (R).

Although well short of a majority in either the Senate or the House, Republicans
have become emboldened by Ehrlich's 2002 election, the party's first
gubernatorial victory in more than three decades. The GOP is hoping to increase
its 14 seats in the Senate and 44 in the House by targeting Democrats who
represent rural districts.

In the Senate, Republicans have pledged to use parliamentary maneuvers to block
bills they oppose and force votes on those they support. Senate President Thomas
V. Mike Miller Jr. (D-Calvert) has tried to head off the GOP with rule changes
making it easier to shut down a filibuster.

With a debate over same-sex marriage sweeping the nation, and polls showing a
majority of the public opposed to the notion, Republicans in Annapolis said they
wanted lawmakers to take a stand. Nine Democrats sided with 43 Republicans in
supporting the proposed amendment. Del. Jean B. Cryor (Montgomery) was the only
Republican to vote against it.

Even Del. Emmett C. Burns Jr. (D-Baltimore County), the sponsor of the original
bill, opposed the amendment, because he worried that the GOP tactics set a bad
precedent. "I fought with all of my ability to get this law passed in
committee," Burns said. "I lost in committee, and having lost in committee, I
live by the committee report."

The Judiciary Committee voted 11 to 9 Friday to reject Burns's legislation.
Burns and several Republicans had argued that Maryland could be forced to
recognize same-sex marriages performed elsewhere. But panel members countered
that the state already defines marriage as being between a man and a woman.

The committee had also rejected a bill that would have specifically outlawed
driver's licenses for illegal immigrants, saying a commission established last
year is studying the issue.

The House leadership delayed voting on McMillan's amendment on driver's licenses
because he broke precedence by failing to share his amendment with the committee
chairman.

McMillan said that was no mistake. "When you're in the ring, you try not to
telegraph your punches," he said. "It's not my job to make life easy for
committee chairmen."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              89 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 21, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Students Rally for Tuition Benefit;
Many Undocumented Youths Say They Can't Afford Out-of-State College Rates

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 654 words


Dressed in satiny caps and gowns, about 70 high school students gathered on the
West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol yesterday, looking like any other radiant
springtime graduates -- except for the signs they wore on the front of their
gowns. "Now What?" they read.

The students were holding a mock graduation ceremony to highlight the
difficulties they faced as illegal immigrants hoping to go on to higher
education. And they hoped to drum up support for legislation that would make it
easier to extend in-state tuition rates at public colleges to students without
legal U.S. residency.

Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the District-based Center for Community
Change, which helped organize the rally, said about 65,000 students would
graduate from U.S. high schools this year but face difficulties going on to
college because of their lack of legal status.

"Those are 65,000 dreams denied," he told the crowd of activists and students
from across the country.

The issue has gained steam as seven state legislatures have granted in-state
tuition benefits to undocumented immigrants and numerous others are considering
it. But it has also stirred considerable opposition. Last year, Gov. Robert L.
Ehrlich Jr. (R) vetoed a bill that would have allowed Maryland high school
graduates to pay in-state rates, regardless of their immigration status.
Virginia does not allow the practice, either.

Immigrant activists argue that many undocumented students are in a bind: They
were brought to this country as children, have grown up here and want to make
the most of their lives. But many cannot afford to pay out-of-state tuition
rates at public universities, which can be three times the rates that state
residents pay.

"It's really unfair that even though we've worked so hard and done all these
things, we can't go to college," said a high school senior from Silver Spring,
who identified himself only by his middle name, Josue, because of fear of being
detained by authorities. He said his parents brought him to this country from
his native Guatemala when he was 3.

Opponents argue that providing the tuition benefit will encourage illegal
immigration and give an advantage to some young people that is not extended to
American students who live out of state.

"The reason the pro-amnesty forces are pushing the [legislation] is, they see it
as giving amnesty to the most mediagenic part of the illegal population, kids
who want to go to college. They see that as a way to make the case for a broader
amnesty," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies. He said the children's parents should be held accountable for bringing
them here illegally.

The bills currently in Congress -- the Student Adjustment Act in the House and
the DREAM Act in the Senate -- would change a current law that discourages
providing in-state tuition to those without legal status. The proposed
legislation would also give students temporary legal status and an eventual
chance for permanent residency.

The bills have attracted the support of legislators from both parties, but have
not made it to a vote in either chamber. Those at yesterday's demonstration
called on President Bush to give his blessing to the bills. He has not spoken of
the measures.

Another student, who gave her name only as Melina, said she hoped the measures
would pass by the time she graduates from T.C. Williams High School in
Alexandria next year. She also declined to give her last name for fear of being
deported.

Melina said her parents began bringing her from Mexico to the United States for
long periods when she was a toddler, and the family moved here for good when she
was 10. Melina, the daughter of a construction worker and a babysitter, hopes to
be a doctor but is worried that her status could keep her from further studies.

"I feel really upset," she said. "You're willing to work and go to college so
you can be someone."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              90 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 6, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

On the Border, A Saner Plan;
Relax Quotas, Then Be Tough

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: Outlook; B01

LENGTH: 1677 words


The Black Hawk helicopter swooped down into the Arizona desert one day last
week, and four agents jumped out to round up a dazed band of illegal immigrants,
who hadn't expected arrest to come out of the sky. The raid was an early salvo
in the Department of Homeland Security's new high-tech effort to seize control
of the most porous stretch of the U.S.-Mexican border. When all the pieces are
in place, probably by the end of the month, the $10 million Arizona Border
Control, or ABC, initiative will deploy 260 new agents and a small arsenal of
equipment -- aerial drones, airplanes, helicopters and ground sensors -- as well
as additional prosecutors and tents to hold those apprehended trying to enter
the country.

The department's immediate goal is to complete a crackdown begun more than a
decade ago in California and Texas -- an effort that succeeded in closing off
large segments of the frontier, only to funnel a vast flow of illegal migrants
through Arizona. But ABC also points boldly to the future: Though not heralded
as such, it is the administration's first serious step toward implementing the
controversial immigration proposal President Bush outlined in January.

No, that's not a misprint or a misstatement. What the president proposed was a
historic liberalization of U.S. policy: a loosely structured and uncapped
guest-worker program that could radically increase the number of foreigners
admitted each year. And yes, ABC is a tough-as-nails enforcement effort. But
paradoxical as it sounds, the two go hand in hand. Indeed, we as a nation can't
have one without the other -- can't have liberalization without enforcement, and
can't have meaningful enforcement without liberalization.

Like its predecessors, the Arizona initiative will probably make a tangible
difference in a limited area. The most successful of the earlier efforts,
Operation Gatekeeper, implemented early in the Clinton years between San Diego
and Tijuana, significantly reduced the numbers trying to cross in that region.
Long stretches of double fencing, video cameras and ground sensors, a dramatic
increase in border agents and a new strategy of higher visibility combined to
put an end to nightly free-for-alls in which literally thousands of people would
simply run from one country to the other.

Similar operations followed at other popular crossing points, and local Border
Patrol units claimed victory, only to find illegal entries skyrocketing in more
remote places such as Arizona. The difference is that the Arizona terrain is
rougher and the distances longer, making the transit much riskier -- a migrant
dies every day now in the Sonoran Desert -- and any effort to patrol the line
much more difficult. ABC hopes to defeat this deadly geography with unmanned
aerial drones to detect migrants in the desert and with more creative
prosecutions of smugglers. But skeptics are already warning that the flow will
simply be diverted elsewhere, while the new restrictive measures will fuel the
growth of more sophisticated smuggling rings.

So, are our efforts to control our borders highly effective -- or utterly
futile? The truth is, it depends -- because border enforcement is only part of
the solution. Ultimately, we cannot hope to control the flow until we come to
grips with the economic demand that lures foreign workers here in the first
place. The last time we tried immigration reform, in the mid-'80s, we thought we
could remove that magnet by imposing sanctions on employers who hired illegal
workers, and we failed miserably. But that doesn't mean we can't succeed -- only
that we must set a more realistic goal.

There can be no hope, in a global economy, of eliminating American employers'
increasing reliance on imported labor. But we can and must do a better job of
managing the demand: by meeting the bulk of it through legal means -- higher
legal immigration quotas -- and then using our potentially powerful enforcement
tools, both at the border and in the workplace, to keep the flow within those
more realistic bounds. The best analogy is Prohibition. Imposing a ban on
alcohol only fueled illicit activity and made a mockery of the law; recognizing
reality and managing the demand allowed us to control drink very effectively
with liquor licenses and import duties.

So, too, with immigration. It's currently all but impossible to impose any kind
of sanction on the half-million or more people who come here illegally every
year, even with stepped-up border enforcement. Aggressive prosecution of
employers would require criminalizing whole sectors of the U.S. economy. And
with the undocumented population now numbering 8 million to 10 million, even
simple crimes such as document fraud can seem beyond the legal system's reach.
The result is hugely demoralizing, for law enforcement and for the rest of us.

As during Prohibition, we invite a poisonous contempt for the law. Just ask
employers with a foreign-born workforce about the I-9 employment eligibility
form that they must fill out for every laborer -- knowing that most of the
Social Security numbers they write in are fraudulent. Thanks to new technology
and a better database, the Social Security Administration can now spot false
numbers electronically, and last year it began alerting employers. But heavily
immigrant-manned businesses and the local communities that depend on them rose
up in protest, and the SSA backed off. In communities like that, even when we
have the capability, we can't afford to enforce our implausibly restrictive
immigration code.

Why do we have such an unrealistic, patently unenforceable policy? For political
reasons, of course. For years now -- decades, in fact -- Congress has been
passing stern-sounding immigration measures to reassure a public clamoring for
control of our borders. The result: a militarized frontier and quotas far too
low to support our vigorous economic growth. But at the same time, in instance
after instance going back nearly a century, we have winked at those laws and
routinely flouted them for the sake of businesses dependent on migrant labor.

Disingenuous as it was, the compromise worked reasonably well for a time, but
the numbers have gotten too big now, and civil society is growing less and less
tolerant of that kind of hypocrisy. The two conflicting demands aren't going to
disappear any time soon. On the contrary: Demographic and economic trends make
us increasingly reliant on immigrant workers, and yet the public is still
insisting on intensified control of the frontiers, today more than ever. The
challenge in this century will be to craft a more honest way to reconcile the
two needs, combining liberalization with truly effective enforcement.

The means are available. Widening legal immigration channels should greatly
reduce the illicit flow: All the evidence suggests that most migrants would
prefer to come legally. But this will not eliminate the need for monitoring or
sanctions.

The most promising monitoring tool is the electronic database. The Border
Patrol's IDENT system, a computerized registry of arrestees and other suspects
that was critical to the past decade's success on the frontier, is being linked
to other digitized records from the State Department, the FBI and elsewhere to
create the vast new U.S.-VISIT database against which federal agents will soon
vet every foreigner who enters the country. Biometric identifiers and
computerized lists are also likely to form the core of any new effort to check
employer compliance, including participation in a temporary worker program.
Random audits and occasional raids can be used to keep employers honest. And
anti-racketeering measures developed to fight organized crime can help combat
smuggling cartels.

As ever in such endeavors, the devil will be in the details. Privacy safeguards
will be essential. Identification numbers -- such as Social Security or credit
card numbers -- may turn out to be more effective than physical visas or worker
ID cards. And arguably the most important breakthroughs will be psychological:
for the public, accepting a dose of realism about immigration, and for business,
understanding that the law is now going to be enforced.

Meanwhile, policymakers will have to look beyond the border to devise new
alternatives, both in the workplace, where economic regulation may be as
important as more conventional enforcement, and internationally, as we develop
ways to cooperate with immigrant-sending countries. Along with the ABC
initiative, for example, Homeland Security is expected to collaborate with
Mexican authorities to fly apprehended migrants back to their home villages
instead of simply returning them across the frontier -- a sensitive joint effort
intended to pave the way for more critical kinds of cooperation. We mustn't kid
ourselves: We will never have an airtight border. But the outlines of a new
system are taking shape, and intriguing experiments abound.

The immediate question, predictably, is about politics -- how to get from here
to there. We need to start, some reformers argue, by proving we can enhance
enforcement, restoring public confidence in the immigration system before we
even begin to think about liberalizing the criteria for admission. Perhaps,
others counter, but we can't expect much more than marginal improvements unless
enhanced enforcement is accompanied by a radical easing of quotas, whether with
a guest-worker program such as the one the president is proposing or by some
other means.

Which should come first -- the chicken or the egg? Can we make the leap of
faith, or must we inch our way forward with efforts like the ABC initiative? The
Bush administration, perhaps shrewdly, is trying both approaches. But one way or
another, we need to cover the distance -- to replace our old unenforceable
hypocrisy with an honest, modern answer that works.</body>Tamar Jacoby is a
senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. Her most recent book is "Reinventing
the Melting Pot: The New Immigrants and What It Means To Be American" (Basic
Books).

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              91 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 11, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Parents Can Return After Mexico Burials;
Illegal Immigrants to Attend Funerals for 3 Slain Children

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 535 words


Three children who were hacked to death in a crime that stunned Baltimore are to
be buried in Mexico this weekend after the victims' parents, who are illegal
immigrants, were told they could travel to the funeral and then return to the
United States legally for at least a year, officials said.

The arrangement, which U.S. immigration authorities said they agreed to at the
request of officials of the Mexican consulate and of Baltimore, cleared the way
for the parents -- Ricardo Espinoza; his wife, Noemi "Mimi" Quezada; and
Quezada's niece Maria Andrea Espejo -- to fly to Mexico yesterday.

The bodies of the victims, Ricardo Espinoza, 9, his sister Lucero Quezada, 8,
and their cousin Alexis Espejo, 10, will be flown to Mexico today.

Mexican consular officials said the Mexican government is covering the family's
travel and funeral expenses.

The children were bludgeoned and slashed in their apartment in northwest
Baltimore the afternoon of May 27 while their parents were at work.

Two relatives of the elder Ricardo Espinoza -- a brother, Policarpio Espinoza,
22, and a nephew, Adan Espinoza Canela, 17 -- have been charged with three
counts of first-degree murder and are being held without bail.

A relative who is helping with the funeral arrangements in the family's home
village of Tenenexpan in southeastern Mexico predicted a large turnout.

"Everyone from Tenenexpan will come, of course, but also hundreds of people from
the neighboring villages," said Ninfa Lozano, 65, who is related to the victims
by marriage.

"Their [late] grandfathers were very humble people, but they were very well
known and very well liked here," she said. "There aren't words for what we have
all been feeling about this. We're all walking around in emotional exhaustion.
How could someone do this to innocent children?"

Lozano spoke from Tenenexpan's public telephone. Like many of the village's
roughly 2,500 residents, she said, she could not afford phone service of her
own.

The hamlet, which is a few miles from the city of Veracruz, lies in a region
that produces mangos. But the season is short, Lozano said, and many adults
"have to scratch here and scratch there to find work."

Several hundred have left to find jobs elsewhere in Mexico and in the United
States, she said. The victims' parents were among them. Quezada and Espinoza
left nearly a decade ago, settling first in Mexico City and then in Baltimore,
where they sold tacos from a truck. Espejo and her son, Alexis, had also moved
to Mexico City and joined Espinoza and Quezada in Baltimore about six months
ago.

Now the parents will be returning to bury their children in a shared grave that
has been dug in the village cemetery.

After the funeral, the parents will be "paroled" back into the United States for
one year to be available to officials investigating the case and for any future
trials, said Ernestine Fobbs, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland
Security.

During their parole, the parents will be permitted to work. If all trials have
not been completed by the time the parole expires, immigration authorities will
consider extending it, Fobbs said. But, she added, "this is temporary. It
doesn't mean they can stay here forever."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              92 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 23, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Law Making Immigrants Uneasy;
Group to Monitor Deportee Statute

BYLINE: Elaine Rivera, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 486 words


A coalition of advocates and community leaders yesterday encouraged immigrants
to continue to cooperate with local police departments on criminal
investigations despite a new Virginia law allowing them to detain some illegal
immigrants without a warrant.

The coalition, the Virginia Alliance for Sensible Community Police Efforts,
announced at a news conference that it would monitor police departments to guard
against racial profiling and other abuses.

"We are in favor of stopping terrorism, gang activity and drug trafficking, but
what this law will do is make a vulnerable community" even more vulnerable, said
J. Walter Tejada, an Arlington County Board member.

Tejada said misinformation about the law has caused fear among immigrants. A
possible consequence, he said, is that immigrants "will not report crime."

The law, which will take effect July 1, allows police to arrest and hold illegal
immigrants  who return to this country after being convicted of felonies and
deported. Police will be able to hold suspects as long as 72 hours without bond
while waiting for federal immigration agents to pick them up.

It is one of several steps that Virginia officials have taken to tighten
security after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

Local law enforcement officials have sought to reassure immigrant communities by
meeting with advocates and holding community meetings. They also have been
conducting training sessions for senior police officials on how the law should
be applied, said Dana Schrad, executive director of the Virginia Association of
Chiefs of Police.

"I don't think there will be a problem," Schrad said. "There are clear-cut
parameters when this particular authority will be used by local and state
police. This is not an opportunity to go out and round up a bunch of illegal
residents."

However, Jorge E. Figueredo, executive director of the Hispanic Committee of
Virginia, said he would encourage immigrants to call the committee if they see
abuses. His group will establish a database to help monitor detentions, he said.

Another member of the new coalition, the Virginia Justice Center, will join with
the American Civil Liberties Union and the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund to monitor how police agencies  apply the law, said Tim
Freilich, managing attorney at the center.

Schrad said the law would not dramatically change the relationships between
police and immigrant communities. She called the law a "procedural change" that
"will allow a little more information sharing between local, state and federal
officials who investigate these cases."

"If you are a law-abiding citizen, you are not the intended subject of this
statute," Schrad said. "The intent of this statute is to enable Virginia law
enforcement agencies to work with federal law enforcement officials to address
terrorism and violent gang activity that may involve illegal residents."

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              93 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 23, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Law Worries Immigrants;
Group Vows to Monitor Statute on Holding Deportees

BYLINE: Elaine Rivera, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 486 words


A coalition of advocates and community leaders yesterday encouraged immigrants
to continue to cooperate with local police departments on criminal
investigations despite a new Virginia law allowing them to detain some illegal
immigrants without a warrant.

The coalition, the Virginia Alliance for Sensible Community Police Efforts,
announced at a news conference that it would monitor police departments to guard
against racial profiling and other abuses.

"We are in favor of stopping terrorism, gang activity and drug trafficking, but
what this law will do is make a vulnerable community" even more vulnerable, said
J. Walter Tejada, an Arlington County Board member.

Tejada said misinformation about the law has caused fear among immigrants. A
possible consequence, he said, is that immigrants "will not report crime."

The law, which will take effect July 1, allows police to arrest and hold illegal
immigrants  who return to this country after being convicted of felonies and
deported. Police will be able to hold suspects as long as 72 hours without bond
while waiting for federal immigration agents to pick them up.

It is one of several steps that Virginia officials have taken to tighten
security after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

Local law enforcement officials have sought to reassure immigrant communities by
meeting with advocates and holding community meetings. They also have been
conducting training sessions for senior police officials on how the law should
be applied, said Dana Schrad, executive director of the Virginia Association of
Chiefs of Police.

"I don't think there will be a problem," Schrad said. "There are clear-cut
parameters when this particular authority will be used by local and state
police. This is not an opportunity to go out and round up a bunch of illegal
residents."

However, Jorge E. Figueredo, executive director of the Hispanic Committee of
Virginia, said he would encourage immigrants to call the committee if they see
abuses. His group will establish a database to help monitor detentions, he said.

Another member of the new coalition, the Virginia Justice Center, will join with
the American Civil Liberties Union and the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund to monitor how police agencies  apply the law, said Tim
Freilich, managing attorney at the center.

Schrad said the law would not dramatically change the relationships between
police and immigrant communities. She called the law a "procedural change" that
"will allow a little more information sharing between local, state and federal
officials who investigate these cases."

"If you are a law-abiding citizen, you are not the intended subject of this
statute," Schrad said. "The intent of this statute is to enable Virginia law
enforcement agencies to work with federal law enforcement officials to address
terrorism and violent gang activity that may involve illegal residents."

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              94 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 30, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 444 words


The U.S. Department of Homeland Security will start flying  illegal Mexican
immigrants to their home towns next month as part of a controversial program
aimed at reducing illegal immigration.

Homeland Security Undersecretary Asa Hutchinson said yesterday that the United
States and Mexico had agreed to a pilot program, through Sept. 30, to repatriate
illegal immigrants found in the Arizona-Sonoran Desert region.

"The interior repatriation program is voluntary," Hutchinson told reporters.
"Eligible migrants who are apprehended entering the U.S. illegally will be
offered the opportunity to return to their home via air or bus transportation."

The first flight is expected to be July 12, after the United States finalizes
contracts for air transport. Mexicans who participate will be flown to Mexico
City or Guadalajara and then bused to their home towns.

The program was touchy for Mexicans sensitive to U.S. interference in their
internal affairs.

But Mexican and U.S. officials agree on the need to boost security along the
2,000-mile border to reduce the number of Mexicans who die each year making the
illegal crossing in search of a higher standard of living in the United States.

The Bush administration has denied a request for the Justice Department's
database on foreign lobbyists, contending that copying the information would
bring down the computer system.

"Implementing such a request risks a crash that cannot be fixed and could result
in a major loss of data, which would be devastating," wrote Thomas J. McIntyre
of Justice's office for information requests.

Advocates for open government said the government's assertion that it could not
copy data from its computers was unprecedented but representative of generally
negative responses to Freedom of Information Act requests.

"This was a new one on us. We weren't aware there were databases that could be
destroyed just by copying them," Bob Williams of the Center for Public Integrity
said yesterday. He said the group expects to appeal the decision.

States are getting a reminder from the federal government: Make plans quickly to
spend more than $2 billion in education money or be ready to lose it.

The Education Department has found that all the states, the District and eight
territories have high cash balances left from 2002, including money meant for
poor children, disabled students and those who speak limited English.

That money must be legally earmarked toward a specific expense by Sept. 30, 27
months after it was released to states.

States then have two years to spend the money. Funds not committed or spent
revert to the federal treasury.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              95 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 11, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Casting Wide Net Over Immigration;
Japan's Web Site Solicits Tips on Violators

BYLINE: Gary Schaefer, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A16

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


The Internet site of Japan's Immigration Bureau has never been particularly
foreigner-friendly: Information about almost everything from getting a visa to
getting deported is available only in Japanese.

But foreigners say the site's newest feature is downright nasty.

The bureau this year began soliciting tips over the Internet about suspected
illegal immigrants, enlisting the public in a high-profile deportation campaign.

"What's next -- paid informers?" said Osvaldo Yamamoto, a 30-year-old welder
from Brazil. "Nobody wants to overstay their visa, but everybody wants a chance
to work. Reporting on these people is a worse crime."

Japan isn't alone in cracking down -- the United States and many European
nations are taking tougher lines on illegal immigrants, too -- but the organized
solicitation of tips is unusual.

The online tip-off system, which started in February, is part of a government
campaign to halve the estimated 250,000 illegal immigrants in Japan over the
next five years.

Raids and roundups have multiplied, and visa requirements are being revised.
Employers and even language schools that sponsor foreigners are under heightened
surveillance. About 50,000 foreigners were deported last year for visa
violations.

Authorities say they are just keeping the streets safe, echoing a theme of
police, conservative politicians and the mass media blaming foreigners for an
upsurge in crime.

"It's shaken people's belief they are living in the safest country in the
world," said Hidenori Sakanaka, Tokyo's top immigration official. "We can't
ignore this situation."

Authorities cite some scary-sounding statistics: Arrests of foreigners jumped 23
percent in 2003, hitting a record for a third straight year. More than half of
those arrested were illegal immigrants, and almost two-thirds of crimes by
foreigners involved groups of two or more.

The figures got a chilling -- and widely publicized -- illustration last year
when several Chinese students were arrested for murdering a Japanese family,
ransacking their house and throwing their handcuffed bodies into a bay.

Rights groups, however, see something different: a disturbing trend toward
scapegoating in a country where foreigners make up less than 2 percent of the
population of 127 million.

"The overwhelming majority of people who break the law in this country are
Japanese, but nobody would dream of asking for tips about suspicious Japanese,"
said Shinichiro Nakashima, a member of Kumustaka, a support group for foreign
workers in southern Japan.

Nakashima points to a fact rarely mentioned in the same breath as foreign crime:
While the total of crimes reported in Japan has risen to record highs for seven
of the last eight years, the number committed by foreigners remain as tiny as
their population.

Last year's headline-making figure of 40,615 offenses by foreigners amounted to
just 1.45 percent of all crimes. And most illegal immigrants arrested were
detained on a charge with no effect on public safety: overstaying their visas.

The online tip system has become a flash point for foreign anger. Groups ranging
from Amnesty International to the Catholic Bishops' Conference of Japan blasted
the system, saying it encourages the public to look at all foreigners as
potential criminals. They urged a general amnesty for illegal immigrants.

Ismail, a 43-year-old electrician from Pakistan who spoke on condition his full
name not be used, said he was invited to Japan in 1992 as a trainee for an
electronics company. He stayed on after his visa expired, moving from job to
job. Now he fears deportation may be a mouse click away.

"We are not criminals; we are not losers," Ismail said. "We are working all day,
but there is no peace for us."

Wariness of outsiders has a long history in Japan. The country emerged from 200
years of self-imposed isolation only in the mid-19th century. After that,
generations of Japanese schoolchildren were taught to think of themselves as a
"single-race nation," although the phrase is officially frowned on today.

Sakanaka, the immigration official, said his agency was merely doing its duty.
But the outcry over the online tip-offs led authorities to add a disclaimer to
its Web site acknowledging that most foreigners in Japan are "law-abiding" and
admonishing tipsters not to engage in "slander."

Some critics say Japan's immigration policy is moving in the wrong direction --
throwing foreigners out when it should be bringing them in to supplement a
workforce that will dwindle in coming decades after a long decline in the
birthrate.

But they concede that concerns about a population crisis are overshadowed by
fears that more foreigners would mean more crime.

"As a nation we have little experience with immigration, and the media only
focuses on the negatives," said Motohisa Furukawa, a lawmaker with Japan's main
opposition party, the Democrats. "Changing attitudes could take a couple of
generations."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              96 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 26, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants' Cost To Government Studied

BYLINE: Mary Fitzgerald, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A21

LENGTH: 587 words


A report that found that illegal immigrants in the United States cost the
federal government more than $10 billion a year -- a sum it estimated would
almost triple if they were given amnesty -- has drawn criticism from immigration
advocacy groups.

For its report, the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based group
that advocates tougher immigration policies, used Census Bureau figures to
compare the revenue that illegal immigrants contribute through taxes with the
cost of government services they use.

"Households headed by illegal aliens imposed more than $26.3 billion in costs on
the federal government in 2002 and paid only $16 billion in taxes, creating a
net fiscal deficit of $10.4 billion, or $2,700 per illegal household," said
Steven A. Camarota, author of the study.

The costs outlined in the report include government services such as Medicaid,
medical treatment for the uninsured, food assistance programs, the federal
prison and court systems, and federal aid to schools.

The study acknowledged that, on average, the costs that illegal-immigrant
households bear on the federal government are less than half that of other
households, and that many of those costs relate to their U.S.-born children. It
also pointed out that tax payments by illegal-immigrant households constitute
one-fourth those of other households because of low-income jobs.

"With nearly two-thirds of illegal aliens lacking a high school degree, the
primary reason they create a fiscal deficit is their low education levels and
resulting low incomes and tax payments, not their legal status or heavy use of
most social services," Camarota said.

The report estimates that granting legal status to illegal immigrants would
dramatically increase their cost, causing the net fiscal deficit to rise to
nearly $29 billion because, the author argues, unskilled immigrants would have
access to more government services while continuing to make modest tax payments.

Camarota concluded in his report that the fiscal impact could be lessened only
by stringently enforcing immigration laws, a view that drew criticism from some
immigration specialists and advocacy groups that also accused him of not coming
up with constructive recommendations.

"Implied within this study's findings is the sense that if these people could
suddenly be made to disappear, the federal government would be $10 billion to
the plus, and that is almost certainly not true once you look at the numbers,"
Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at the Urban Institute, said in an interview.

"Should you charge up to undocumented aliens the cost of small-business loans
that they don't get or the cost of civil litigation, among other things? This
report does that," he said.

Frank Sharry, director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant advocacy
group, took issue with the report's treatment of illegal immigrants' U.S.-born
children, who are American citizens.

"The costs of the children of immigrants are accounted for [in the report], but
not their contributions to the economy as workers and taxpayers," he said in a
written statement, adding that the report's conclusions were not helpful to the
debate on immigration reform.

"There is a growing consensus in both political parties that our immigration
system needs to be comprehensively reformed," Sharry said. "Our current system
of haphazard laws, spotty enforcement, border chaos and unfair restrictions
needs to be replaced by a regulatory regime that makes immigration safe, legal
and orderly."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              97 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 20, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Advocates Win Award;
In Florida, Workers Cracked Slavery Ring

BYLINE: Kari Lydersen, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 622 words

DATELINE: IMMOKALEE, Fla.


Romeo Ramirez came here from Guatemala, via Mexico, sneaking into the United
States when he was 17 to pick tomatoes. Not long after he got here, he joined
the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, an advocacy group working to improve the
lives of thousands of migrant workers in this swath of swampy South Florida.

Not long after joining the coalition, Ramirez went undercover at the behest of
federal prosecutors investigating some of the contractors who supply migrant
workers to farmers. The contractors sometimes beat the workers and forced them
to live and work at gunpoint. Last year, as a result of testimony from Ramirez
and two other workers, three of the contractors near here were convicted in U.S.
District Court on slavery and extortion charges and sentenced to a total of 34
years in prison.

"I saw people being threatened, and I saw that they couldn't leave," Ramirez,
23, said in an interview, speaking in Spanish. "It was injustice."

On Thursday, Ramirez and two other members of the workers rights coalition,
Lucas Benitez and Julia Gabriel, will receive the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights
Award in Washington for their role in helping expose five slavery rings. It is
the first time since it was instituted in 1984 that the award, which includes a
$30,000 cash prize, has been given to members of a U.S. organization.
Representatives of the foundation credit the three with helping free more than
1,000 farmworkers from slavery conditions. Smugglers sneaked the workers into
the United States, where they were turned over to contractors who put them to
work in fields, forcing them to live under armed guard.

Michael Riggs, human rights director of the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Center
for Human Rights said the three workers were doing important work that deserved
attention. "They are all former migrant farmworkers, and they're using pretty
creative tactics to help other migrant workers get out of those situations," he
said. "They've helped put behind bars some of the people who are responsible for
these situations."

Immokalee is a town of about 14,000 that swells to 30,000 during the fall and
spring harvest seasons. It appears more like a town in Latin America than the
United States -- young Mayan boys from Guatemala bike down the street wearing
Che Guevara T-shirts and Nikes, and Haitian women in bright skirts and head
wraps amble by foreign money transfer outlets and taco shops.

Every day well before dawn, hundreds of men and some women gather in the parking
lot behind the coalition office to file onto old school buses that will take
them to the fields.  The Coalition of Immokalee Workers has been around since
1995, and there are now about 2,500 workers who carry laminated CIW cards earned
by attending at least two of the coalition's weekly meetings. Members say that
because of their activism, gross human rights and wage violations against
workers in the area are now relatively rare.

"If the boss won't let a worker get a drink or stop for lunch, we show them our
coalition card, and they give us our rights, because they know we will march if
they don't," said Francisca Cortez, a  woman from Oaxaca, Mexico, who came here
five years ago to work in the fields.

According to a 1998 Department of Labor study, farmworkers make an average of
$7,500 a year. Workers' advocates say wages have not risen since then. And
migrant workers such as  those at Immokalee rarely have any kind of health
insurance or access to workers' compensation.

"People are still enslaved by low wages and unhealthy working conditions," said
Benitez, 27, an immigrant from Guerrero, Mexico. "The root of these problems is
the same as the root of slavery, the desperation of these immigrants to make a
living."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              98 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 23, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Get Work Abroad

BYLINE: Howto

SECTION: Sunday Source; M10 , HowTo

LENGTH: 656 words


When my husband landed a spot on the "Lord of the Rings" film crew,  we packed
our bags for Middle Earth: New Zealand. Our friends pledged to visit. But when
they saw pictures of our posh (and criminally cheap) beach house,  they wanted
to know how they could come -- and stay for good.  If you've got a case of
wanderlust, how can you do it if? Try these tips to start.

FIND A SPONSOR. The easiest way to become an international professional of
mystery is to work for a U.S. company or agency with offices overseas. If your
current firm doesn't do business abroad, consider querying former employers that
do. "A lot of companies like to hire alumni," says Denis Gaynor, who created
Monster.com's Work Abroad section (workabroad.monster.com) while living in New
York and now logs on from London.

GET READY FOR RED TAPE. Work   permits and visas can be hard to get in places
like Europe, where employers have to prove that a foreigner has skills they
can't find at home. One little-known way to get a visa: ask grandma. Some
countries, including Ireland and Italy, allow second-generation, U.S.-born
descendants to become dual citizens, after which they can  work throughout the
European Union. And there are other ins to investigate. New Zealand, for
example, has a "partner" rule that allows couples who've lived together for at
least two years to both work in the country if one secures a work visa ahead of
time.

KNOW THE MARKET.  Investigate the specialized skills desired in various
countries. "People in engineering have great opportunities -- they are the most
likely to be assigned abroad," says Bill Nolting, a director at the University
of Michigan International Center. The Foreign Service, CIA and Centers for
Disease Control also send employees globe-trotting. And Gaynor adds that the
public sector actively recruits overseas: The U.K. National Health Service, for
instance, is one of the world's largest employers.

DO YOUR HOMEWORK. Long before writing "Untangling My Chopsticks: A Culinary
Sojourn in Kyoto," author Victoria Abbott Riccardi arrived in Japan jobless. But
before she went, she networked like crazy.  "I tried to talk to anyone and
everybody who'd lived in Japan," she says, "so I had a sense that I could get a
job."  Once on the scene, search for leads at tourist offices or Westerner
hangouts, or scour English-language publications and bulletin boards in bars,
churches and universities. To improve your chances, learn the local business
etiquette: Do interviewers like small talk? Do they shake hands? Do they require
a five- or eight-page CV vs. a bare-bones U.S. résumé? Gaynor also says to know
what a prospective employer's staff titles mean: "Managing director" can equal
"CEO" in some countries.

PLAY IT SAFE. Be sure to check out the State Department's safety warnings for
the country you're traveling to (www.state.gov/travel). If you have a job set
up, ask your employer about its political status and financial stability. In
developing or volatile countries, you should know whether "your organization is
going to be at odds with the government," says journalist Tiare Rath, who worked
at a newspaper in Lebanon for three years. And know that promises made before
you go aren't always kept. You may be assured a certain salary, Rath says, but
then "you get there and they say they don't have the money. So you have to be
prepared to fight for yourself."  Courtney Macavinta

Resources

Association for International Practical Training. www.aipt.org. Information on
how to get a cultural-exchange visa to work in more than 30 countries.

Transitions Abroad. www.transitionsabroad.com. A clearinghouse of articles and
resources.

University of Michigan International Center. www.umich.edu/~icenter/overseas. A
directory of the best work-abroad sites.

"Work Your Way Around the World" (Vacation Work Publications, 2003). Popular
guide on how to find overseas jobs in advance or on the spot.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              99 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 11, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Laborers Underpaid, Federal Judge Rules;
Md. Man Told to Compensate Workers

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 428 words


A federal administrative law judge has found that a Prince George's County
landscaper who has a contract with the District to maintain city parks and
recreation centers owes tens of thousands of dollars to 23 Mexican workers whom
the landscaper brought into the United States to work for him in the spring of
2001.

In a 77-page decision, Judge Stephen L. Purcell wrote that the "evidence
convincingly proves . . . that workers were not paid at the applicable minimum
wage, were not provided with fringe benefits required by the contract, and were
not adequately compensated for overtime and holidays worked."

Purcell directed the Labor Department to calculate exactly how much Jeffrey L.
Jones, owner and operator of Lawn Restoration Service Inc., owes the workers. In
addition to the 23 foreign workers, Jones underpaid 33 local workers, Purcell
found.

In May 2002, federal labor officials filed an administrative complaint alleging
that Jones cheated the 56 workers out of $91,173 in wages.

That figure could increase, depending on the calculations that Purcell has
directed labor officials to make. Purcell said the calculations should include
interest the workers are owed on the money they should have been paid. Purcell
also ordered that Jones be prohibited from receiving federal and D.C. government
contracts.

Jones, whose business is based in Capitol Heights, did not respond to phone
messages yesterday seeking a comment on the ruling. Jones brought the foreign
workers into the Washington area under a federal guest worker program.

Labor Department officials said they were pleased with Purcell's decision.

Jones could appeal, though he would run the risk of adding to the interest he
owes. Purcell's final order, with a specific dollar amount, is expected in early
February.

Purcell's decision "is more evidence this company should be prohibited from
doing business in the District of Columbia," said D.C. Council member Adrian M.
Fenty (D-Ward 4). "The District government should find a landscaping firm that
can not only cut grass, but treat its workers fairly."

Jones, who has a $739,939 city contract, also overcharged the Mexican workers
for housing, Purcell wrote.

Jones put all 23 workers into an Anacostia home he had rented. In April and May
2001, Jones paid $2,866 in rent, but collected $7,350 from the workers for the
accommodations, Purcell wrote.

"In light of the fact that the Anacostia house was clearly overcrowded,
underfurnished, and in very poor condition . . . the profit made by Jones on
rent is unconscionable," Purcell wrote.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              100 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Incumbent Reaches Beyond His Base

BYLINE: Dan Balz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1116 words


With his Democratic challengers preoccupied, President Bush demonstrated the
advantages of incumbency yesterday with a proposal for undocumented workers
aimed squarely at the Latino community, which is destined to be one of the most
important swing constituencies in the November election.

At a time when the Democratic candidates are  competing to attract the support
of their party's most loyal -- and often most liberal -- activists, the
president's proposal to legalize undocumented workers looked beyond his
conservative Republican base. It was the latest indicator that Bush and his
political advisers plan to press their advantages to shape the general election
environment well before Democrats even find a nominee.

That general election is still a long way off, and Bush faces significant
challenges, from stabilizing Iraq to restoring the jobs lost on his watch. Nor
is it clear that the guest-worker proposal will pay big political dividends,
given the criticism it received for not offering undocumented workers the
prospect of legalization.

But this president starts the year from a far more solid political foundation
than did his father, including an approval rating higher than  any incumbent
seeking reelection since World War II. Any hopes among Democrats that they might
pattern 2004 as a rerun of 1992 appear to be gone, according to Republican
pollster Bill McInturff, who said Bush and his father faced "two fundamentally
different situations" in their reelection campaigns.

At this point 12 years ago, three in five Americans said they wanted the country
taken in a different direction. Last month, a Washington Post-ABC News poll
showed that almost three in five felt positive about this president's policies.
At the beginning of 1992, Bush's father's economic approval rating  was about 25
percent. Bush's is just over 50 percent. Last month, according to a Washington
Post-ABC News Poll, almost three in five Americans said the economy was not good
or poor, compared with nine in 10 who gave the economy negative ratings a dozen
years ago.

Still, Bush faces a country far more divided and polarized than did his father,
who lost his reelection bid, or President Ronald Reagan, who won his in a
landslide. His political team has been focused on trying to expand support by
appealing to different constituencies, from suburban women to younger men to
senior citizens to investors, knowing that small changes in big support from any
of those groups can pay off significantly in 2004.

No constituency figures more prominently into that strategy than Hispanics, the
most rapidly growing minority group in the country, one with a tradition of
supporting the Democratic Party and a critical force in big states including
California and Texas and small states such as Arizona, New Mexico, Nevada and
Colorado. Bush's advisers say unless they can attract a bigger share of the
Latino vote, the GOP will have little chance of becoming the country's dominant
political party.

Bush was moving toward proposing changes in immigration law before the attacks
of Sept. 11, 2001, according to a White House official. Those attacks
dramatically changed the climate on immigration and border security and forced
Bush to set aside any thought of immigration law reform. But reaching out to the
Latino community has remained one of Bush's most important political objectives,
despite the fact that immigration reform is a divisive issue within the GOP.

Many conservative Republicans oppose liberalized immigration laws. A Pew
Research Center poll last year found that twice as many conservative Republicans
as liberal Democrats believe that immigrants threaten traditional culture in the
country.

Twelve years ago, Bush's father could not have proposed anything opposed by
Republican conservatives because he faced a primary challenge from conservative
commentator Patrick J. Buchanan, who was strongly against liberalized
immigration. Without a primary challenge and enjoying unprecedented support from
GOP conservatives, this president can do so without significant political risk.

One Bush adviser said immigration is far less a hot-button issue among
conservatives than some analysts suggest. "It's more conservative pundits than
conservatives," the adviser said. "The way this is coming out, with temporary
legal status, I am not worried about the conservative base."

Democrats took issue with Bush's proposal, arguing that it does not go far
enough. Bush's proposal, in the words of Sen. John F. Kerry (Mass.), "rewards
business over immigrants" by giving companies a pool of cheap labor while
failing to put undocumented workers on a path toward permanent legal residency
or citizenship.

But a Democratic strategist, speaking on a not-for-attribution basis, described
the proposal as "brilliant" politics that could help to refurbish Bush's
"compassionate conservative" credentials, appeal to moderate swing voters and
make it much harder for Democrats to win several states on their target list.
"They've done a lot to try to put the general election away and at a minimum
they may have taken Arizona and New Mexico off the table," the strategist said.

Bush's team has systematically tried to chip away at Democratic constituencies
with policy initiatives, starting with education at the beginning of his
presidency and most recently with legislation adding a prescription drug benefit
to Medicare. Social Security privatization, a Bush initiative in the 2000
campaign aimed at younger voters, could come back in this campaign.

Those Bush policy initiatives have produced mixed political results, however.
Bush's emphasis on education initially narrowed the Democratic advantage on the
issue but the margin has widened again over the  past year. The prescription
drug bill has been far more controversial than Republican strategists had hoped,
and Bush's approval rating among Americans over age 65 in last month's Post-ABC
News poll was 50 percent, compared with 59 percent overall.

New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson (D) predicted a similar fate for Bush's
guest-worker proposal. "If it ends here, I believe politically it will not make
much difference," he said. "With the Latino voter, it will not advance the
Republican cause."

But Bush reminded the Democratic candidates, who have spent the past year in a
conversation with their activists, that neither side can win the election only
on the strength of support from members of their own party. From the bully
pulpit of the White House, Bush enjoys a luxury his opponents cannot match now,
and in stepping out on immigration he demonstrated that he intends to press that
advantage early and aggressively in this election year.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              101 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 8, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

New Visa Ceiling Called Threat to Teacher Recruitment;
Urban Schools Fear Restriction Will Cause Fall Staffing Shortages

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1268 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


A year ago, Vivek Agarwal left his home and family in India for a job teaching
science at Houston's M.B. Smiley High School, a dingy inner-city school where
dropout rates have been high. Agarwal, 36, who has a master's degree in
chemistry and 14 years of experience in the classroom, has since spent long
hours preparing innovative lessons and study materials for his students, who had
been taught by a substitute for the six months before he arrived.

He is driven, he said, by his "keen desire to be the best teacher in the world."

For more than a decade, urban school districts from Washington, D.C., to
Southern California have relied on international recruitment -- and generous
visa rules -- to attract thousands of foreign teachers to fill jobs in areas
with critical shortages, including math, science, bilingual education and
special education.

But recent changes to a foreign worker visa program are threatening schools'
ability to recruit and hire teachers such as Agarwal, school district officials
say. They say a new limit on H-1B visas, a category U.S. schools and
corporations use to temporarily hire foreign employees for specialty
professions, has curtailed a crucial supply of mostly Asian and Latin American
teachers.

Last month, midway into the fiscal year, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services announced it had reached the new ceiling on issuing the
visas{ndash}65,000, a 17 percent cut from the number issued last year -- and no
more would be issued until October, when fiscal 2005 begins. Because
corporations take most of those slots, the visa cutoff has forced many schools,
which usually recruit most aggressively in the spring and summer, to cancel
international recruiting trips, turn away foreign applicants and worry that they
will be short-staffed when the new school year begins in the fall.

"It will be impossible for these schools to have enough teachers in place for
the new school year," said Paul L. Zulkie, president-elect of the
Washington-based American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Among those affected is the Prince George's County school system in Maryland,
which was in the process of recruiting more than 40 math and special education
teachers from the Philippines when the cutoff was announced. If Prince George's
schools have teaching vacancies in the fall, officials will wait until October
to hire the teachers, said Robert J. Gaskin, human resources team leader.

Since the early 1990s, urban and rural schools have struggled with teacher
shortages caused by low salaries, retiring baby boomers, poor working
conditions, growing enrollments and mandated reductions in class sizes.
Education officials say that despite aggressive recruiting, advertising and job
fairs by school districts at home, too few Americans want or are qualified to
fill all the available vacancies for teachers.

To bridge the gap, school officials began looking overseas. The figures are
fuzzy, but educators estimate that at least several thousand foreigners are
teaching in the United States on H-1B visas, which are valid for as many as six
years. Although teachers recruited overseas represent a small fraction of new
hires each year, they tend to be concentrated in large urban areas.

Demand for foreign teachers has been particularly acute in fast-growing Texas,
the nation's second most populous state, where Spanish-speaking bilingual
education teachers are in short supply.

School district officials in Houston and Dallas say they knew this year's visa
ceiling would be reached quickly, so they sought foreign teachers last fall. But
the  limit cut off valuable months of recruiting time, they say.

In Houston's main school district alone, it is thought about 500 foreign
teachers are working on temporary visas. Walter Simmons, director for staffing
and recruitment for Houston's 45,000-student Alief Independent School District,
estimates the district will need 100 new bilingual teachers this fall, not all
of whom could be hired in the United States. To make up the shortfall, 15
bilingual teachers were recruited in Mexico in November, Simmons said. Eleven
have been issued visas, but applications for the other four are pending and they
may not have made the cut, he said.

If not for the new limit, Simmons said, the district  probably would have hired
at least 10 more foreign teachers this spring. "We know that the odds are we're
not going to find enough," he said.

Beginning in 2000, Congress tripled the annual ceiling for H-1B visas, to
195,000, mostly to accommodate the high-tech boom's soaring demand for workers.
The higher ceiling was for a three-year period, and after a year or so, the
slumping high-tech sector sapped demand for the visas. But even as high-tech
sputtered, the demand for teachers' visas remained strong. Last year about
78,000 of the visas were issued, not only for high-tech employees and teachers,
but also for foreign fashion models and health care workers.

Immigration lawyers have pushed Congress to raise the  limit again and allow
some foreign workers, including school teachers, to be exempt from the limit --
as college professors and visiting scholars are. But in an election year when
immigration and weak job growth have become campaign issues, the lawyers say
Congress is unlikely to raise the limit.

Critics of the H-1B program have complained that the visas allow companies to
bring in foreign labor for jobs that Americans could fill. Educators say that is
not the case in the classroom, pointing to federal estimates that schools will
have to fill 200,000 teaching jobs each year until the end of the decade.

"The persons to fill those positions are not in the pipeline," said Linda
Isaacks, an associate superintendent for the Dallas Independent School District,
which hired more than 90 foreign teachers last year.

The new visa  limit has meant hardships even for teachers who have already been
recruited and hired, and it may have dissuaded others from applying. To ensure
they made the cutoff, Mexican teachers recruited last fall for Houston schools
were asked to pay a $1,000 U.S. government fee that guarantees visa processing
within two weeks. As a result, the number of teachers in next fall's crop
plummeted to 106 from 150, said Rene Ruiz, director of Region IV Education
Service Center, a recruiting and training organization that finds Mexican
teachers for schools in the Houston area.

For now, school districts say they are left to compete with one another for
scarce teachers and scramble to devise ways to find others. Dallas officials are
planning a recruiting trip to Puerto Rico, where teachers who want to work in
the United States do not need visas.

At Houston's Smiley High, Agarwal, the Indian science teacher, says he would
like to stay in the United States permanently. He acknowledged that teaching at
Smiley High was tough at first. Some students had trouble understanding his
accent; some were rowdier than students he had dealt with before. But in a few
weeks, his wife, a journalist whom he has not seen since he left India, will
join him in Houston. "I think I'm in the right place now," he said. "These kids
need a good teacher."

Smiley High's administrators consider Agarwal and eight other foreign teachers
recruited last year major assets, and the thought of doing without more like
them is dispiriting for the educators.

"He's young, energetic, he has vast knowledge of the subject area, and he has a
good rapport with the students," said Norris Rhines, principal of the
1,500-student school. "It would be very difficult to find someone of his caliber
here."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              102 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 17, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Pickle Boycott Ends as Farmworkers Join Union

BYLINE: Estes Thompson, Associated Press

SECTION: Financial; E02

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C. Sept. 16


More than 8,000 farmworkers brought to North Carolina under a federal visa
program signed a deal Thursday for union representation, and the group said it
would drop a five-year boycott of a major pickle company.

Mount Olive Pickle Co. also said it would increase the price it pays growers for
cucumbers by more than 10 percent over three years, and the growers said they
would in turn raise wages by the same amount for the workers who pick the
vegetables.

State AFL-CIO officials called the unionization the largest in North Carolina
history.

The deal between the Farm Labor Organizing Committee and the North Carolina
Growers Association lets the Ohio union sign up legal migrant workers who come
to North Carolina under the federal H-2A visa program.

The growers association uses the program to supply foreign labor to about 1,000
farms, including a small number that grow cucumbers for Wayne County-based Mount
Olive Pickle, which says it has the second-biggest-selling brand of pickles in
the country.

"Workers have never been able to speak for themselves, and the union agreement
gives them an opportunity to do that without fear of retaliation," union
President Baldemar Velasquez said.

The union agreed to end the boycott of Mount Olive Pickle that it launched in
1999. The union had said Mount Olive Pickle had a responsibility to improve
working conditions on farms that grow its cucumbers. The company disagreed,
saying farmers should handle labor issues.

No North Carolina groceries ever pulled Mount Olive pickles from shelves, though
major groups joined the boycott, most recently the National Council of Churches
and the United Methodist Church.

"I am one pickle packer who is glad to be out of a pickle today," said Mount
Olive Pickle President Bill Bryan.

The agreements were signed during a news conference at a Raleigh church social
hall, which was packed with union supporters and more than a dozen farmworkers
who followed the event through translators. Two cucumbers adorned the signing
table.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              103 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 21, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Officials Dedicate Canadian Border Base

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: BELLINGHAM, Wash. Aug. 20


As part of a dramatic boost in surveillance of the Canadian border, federal
officials Friday dedicated the first of five planned bases for regular flights
to look for drug runners and others crossing illegally by air or land.

The Bellingham Air and Marine Branch is to have a staff of nearly 70, two
helicopters, an airplane and a high-speed boat by year's end. Similar bases have
policed the Mexican border for three decades, but the new facility is the first
on the Canadian border.

The five new bases, which will dot the border from Washington state to  Upstate
New York, are a response to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks as well as
smuggling of illegal   immigrants and drugs, including British Columbia's potent
strains of marijuana.

"Smuggling is a two-way street," said Michael Milne, spokesman for the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, part of the Department of Homeland
Security. "We've got cocaine and money going north, B.C. bud and human smuggling
coming south."

A second station in Plattsburgh, N.Y., is scheduled by the end of the year,
Milne said, followed by bases near Detroit; Grand Forks, N.D.; and Great Falls,
Mont.

The Bellingham base initially will have only enough money to operate flights
about eight hours a day.

"Our greatest asset right now is they don't know when we're going to be
operating," said Mitch Pribble, a pilot and associate field director for the
office.

The aircraft will allow agents to track suspicious flights when the pilot does
not report to customs or talk on the radio. Federal pilots will follow such
aircraft or direct agents on the ground.

Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) said Congress earmarked $35.2 million in the current
fiscal year to get the Bellingham station up and running.

"I feel like the northern border is finally getting its due," Murray said.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              104 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

California Repeals Law On Licenses for Immigrants;
Assembly Bows to Governor's Wishes

BYLINE: Rene Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES Dec. 1


-- California lawmakers gave Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) his first
legislative victory Monday by repealing a controversial law that would have
granted illegal immigrants in the state the right to obtain a driver's license.

In a swift and stark political reversal, the state Assembly, which is dominated
by Democrats,  voted 64 to 9, with seven abstentions,  to abolish the measure.
The state Senate took the same step late last month.

The law, scheduled to take effect Jan. 1, would have granted driver's license
privileges to nearly 2 million illegal immigrants, many of them working in
California's vast farming fields. It has been a political priority for Latino
leaders across the state. Similar laws are under debate across the country.

But Schwarzenegger had demanded the law's repeal even before his resounding
victory this fall in California's recall election. He said the measure, which
was approved during the summer by then-Gov. Gray Davis (D), posed too many
security risks in a time of heightened national concern over terrorism.

As soon as he took office two weeks ago, Schwarzenegger ordered the legislature
back to work in part to abolish the law, which polls suggest most Californians
strongly oppose. Lawmakers also have been facing pressure from Republican
activists campaigning to overturn the law through a ballot initiative next
spring.

"I am extremely grateful that partisan differences were set aside to reach this
important agreement," Schwarzenegger said in a statement after the  vote. "I
hope it is a sign that politics-as-usual is on its way out."

But the fight over the politically divisive issue appears to be far from over.

Even as they voted to repeal the law, Democratic legislators promised to send
Schwarzenegger another bill early next year that would grant illegal immigrants
the right to have a driver's license but would contain stricter security checks.

Latino lawmakers who fought for passage of the law earlier this year said that
Schwarzenegger has assured them he is willing to consider a revamped version of
it -- which could put him in a political predicament.

If the governor reopens discussion of the issue, he risks outraging his
Republican base. But if he rejects attempts at compromise, he could infuriate
many Latino voters. Schwarzenegger said Monday that he is looking forward to
finding "a sensible solution."

Some lawmakers say they voted for repeal only because state Sen. Gilbert Cedillo
(D), who authored the original bill granting the right to licenses, told them
that he and Schwarzenegger had "made a commitment" to approving a new version of
the legislation  next year. Cedillo met privately with Schwarzenegger recently
to discuss the issue.

The license law has become one of the most explosive political subjects in
California. In their fight to overturn it, GOP activists have created posters
with Osama bin Laden's photo on a state driver's license and charged that the
law would give terrorists a powerful tool to open bank accounts and gain access
to airplanes.

But advocates of the measure say illegal immigrants have become an indispensable
and widely accepted part of California's workforce and should be allowed to
drive.

About a dozen other states allow illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses
under certain conditions. California also had such a law about a decade ago.

Davis had twice vetoed proposed license laws while governor, but changed his
mind at the start of the recall campaign, saying the measure would improve road
safety by forcing illegal immigrants to take driving tests and get insurance.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              105 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 15, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Civil Rights Charges Dog Citizen Patrols on Border;
Armed Groups Seek to Curb Illegal Immigrants, Smugglers

BYLINE: Evelyn Nieves, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1137 words

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Ariz.


Jack Foote took a call from a rancher in distress and sprang out of his chair
like a jack-in-the-box. He was carrying a .45 on his hip, but that was hardly
enough. "The guy was shot at, or something like that," he said, breathing hard
as he rushed around the old two-bedroom farmhouse that has become the
headquarters of Ranch Rescue.

He threw on a camouflage shirt and an assault vest packed with ammunition, food
and water. He strapped a knife and more ammunition to his legs. Then he grabbed
his walkie-talkie, black sunglasses and an AR-15 rifle. It was the middle of a
warm, sleepy Sunday afternoon. Foote, who calls Ranch Rescue a citizen patrol to
protect private property from trespassers, was nearly trembling with outrage at
what he sees as the audacity of the "alien smugglers" once again terrorizing a
U.S. citizen with the bad luck to live in Cochise County, the main entry point
for illegal border crossings into the United States.

After rushing to the scene of the phone call, 20 miles from Ranch Rescue, it
turned out that the call that agitated Foote so much was not quite what he
thought. The rancher, a man with a black bandanna on his head and a rifle on his
lap, said he had been run off the road (by a "white man with red hair") when he
slowed his motorcycle to snoop on a car as it crept along the shoulder, as
smugglers tend to do. But the incident did little to dispel Foote's fears.

"I tell you, it's getting more and more dangerous out there," said Foote, a
baby-faced 46-year-old Texan who moved last month to Douglas, epicenter for the
citizen patrols commonly known as "border vigilantes."

People who live in and around Douglas (population 15,000), which lies one mile
from the Mexican border, tend to agree. So do human rights groups that track the
lives and deaths of migrants. The debate here is about just why life on this
edge of the country is getting so scary.

Human rights groups say the U.S. border control strategy, which has funneled
almost all traffic into this country into a 261-mile stretch of desolate,
deadly, Arizona desert, has created a lucrative market for organized smuggling
rings as driven and armed as the Mafia. But many residents are just as worried
about people such as Foote, with his volunteer army in full war gear and his
bristling anger. In recent months, the groups have drawn a spate of negative
attention. Members of Ranch Rescue, the American Border Patrol (which moved from
Sierra Vista, Ariz., to Douglas earlier this year) and the Civil Homeland
Defense (based in the tourist town of Tombstone, 45 miles from Douglas) have
been arrested on such charges as carrying concealed weapons, firing weapons and
assaulting migrants.

Jennifer Allen, director of Border Action Network, a volunteer organization
advocating civil rights for migrants and border residents alike, said that
groups such as Ranch Rescue, Civil Homeland Defense and the Barnetts -- a
Douglas-area rancher family that says it has picked up 10,000 illegal migrants
using armed patrols since 1999 -- are feared by many of their neighbors.

Allen's group, with  Don MacKenzie, who is groundskeeper and vice president of
Summerland Monastery Inc., sued the Barnetts in U.S. district court last week.
The suit claims that Roger Barnett, his wife, Barbara, and brother Donald
conspired to interfere with the civil rights of immigrants and impersonated law
enforcement officials. It seeks an injunction against them.

Roger Barnett did not return a phone call to his towing business seeking comment
last week.

Ranch Rescue, which Foote describes as a network of independent chapters in
several border states, has legal troubles of its own. Casey Nethercott, 36, a
Ranch Rescue member from Texas who a few months ago bought the Douglas ranch
that the group now calls its headquarters, was arrested recently  by the FBI. He
was charged with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution in a Texas case in which
he was accused of detaining migrants -- a Salvadoran couple -- and
pistol-whipping at least one of them. He had failed to appear in a Texas court
for a hearing on the charges and was also to be arraigned on a third charge,
possession of a firearm by a felon, according to the Jim Hogg County
prosecutor's office. (The felony record stems from an assault with a firearm
conviction in Riverside County, Calif., in 1996.) He was extradited to Texas,
where he remains in jail.

Ranch Rescue has also been sued by the Southern Poverty Law Center and the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund for civil rights violations.
The mayor of Douglas repeatedly speaks out against Ranch Rescue, and the Douglas
City Council has passed a resolution  condemning the group.

Foote knows Ranch Rescue's reputation has gone from bad to worse. Trained in
computer technology after a three-year stint in the Army, he has a hard time
finding work. He said he found a job here in the computer department of a
private school a week after he arrived, but was suspended when the school found
out about his involvement in Ranch Rescue.

He figured the group is so controversial because people do not want it to catch
smugglers. Ailing Douglas, where houses cost as little as $40,000 and there is
no industry besides cattle ranching, needs the smugglers to stay alive, Foote
surmises. "A lot of people make money helping the drug and human smugglers," he
said.

But victims of the smugglers love Ranch Rescue, Foote said. He is quick with
anecdotes about private property owners who he says were harassed, threatened,
beaten and even kidnapped by armed intruders. But human rights groups also tell
anecdotes about migrants found shot or stabbed to death, with no suspects ever
found.

They point at the case of two men in Yuma, Ariz.: Matthew Hoffman, 23, and
Alexander Dumas, 26, who were convicted in October of conspiracy to commit
unlawful imprisonment for handcuffing five of six suspected illegal immigrants
(including the 16-year-old smugger and three children) and holding them at
gunpoint. The men received 120- and 30-day sentences after pleading guilty.

Ranch Rescue is unfazed. It plans on expanding operations. It is in the midst of
"Phase II of Operation Thunderbird," which it began Nov. 15 with dozens of
volunteers, including members of the Missouri Militia. The operation will
involve not only continuous armed patrols to catch "illegal alien trespassers,"
but also the construction of more facilities on the property. The group plans to
build a bunkhouse to hold Ranch Rescue members, similar to one they have already
built that holds 10 bunks, as well as a lookout tower and a massive wall to
secure the property.

"This is going to be a fortress," Foote said. "This is going to be Fort Apache
when we're done with it."

Special correspondent Kimberly Edds contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              106 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 21, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Two Charged With Document Fraud;
N.Va. Men Allegedly Sold Fake Social Security, Green Cards in Large Operation

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 588 words


Federal and state authorities yesterday arrested two Northern Virginia men and
charged them with running a large document fraud ring that sold fake Social
Security and green cards to illegal immigrants.

Bernardo Arrieta Hernandez, 30, of Falls Church and Jose Luis Esteban
Navarette-Audelo, 26, of Arlington were arrested at noon by Fairfax County
detectives and Department of Homeland Security agents. They face federal charges
of immigration fraud.

Federal law enforcement officials described the document fraud ring -- in which
the men allegedly produced hundreds of counterfeit Social Security cards, green
cards and work permits at three apartments in Falls Church and Arlington -- as
one of Northern Virginia's largest in recent years.

The investigation is continuing, and the men could face additional or upgraded
charges, the law enforcement officials said. Hernandez and Navarette were being
held last night at the Alexandria jail and did not yet have attorneys.

U.S. Attorney Paul J. McNulty in Alexandria called the case "a clear example of
the serious and widespread problem of document fraud in this community." He
vowed to aggressively pursue more of what his office called "fraudulent document
mills."

The charges resulted from a nine-month investigation by a federal and state task
force that includes Fairfax police, the FBI and the U.S. Postal Inspection
Service. The task force was started by McNulty, who has said that his office
began targeting document and identity fraud more aggressively after seven of the
19 hijackers in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks obtained fraudulent
Virginia identity cards.

Federal officials said they are investigating who bought the documents and what
was done with them.

Hernandez and Navarette produced the Social Security and green cards and work
permits and sold them for a fee of $80 to $190 each, according to an affidavit
filed in federal court by Douglas H. Comfort, a special deputy U.S. marshal.

The documents "appeared genuine to the untrained eye," Comfort wrote, but
contained printing errors, false information and fictitious account numbers.

"Based on the results of my investigation to date, I believe Hernandez and
Navarette have been producing counterfeit cards for at least a year and have
sold large numbers of them," Comfort wrote, adding that the sales occurred "on a
grand scale."

Authorities obtained much of their information from someone identified in court
documents only as "confidential witness" or "CW" who allegedly bought numerous
fraudulent documents from the men.

The affidavit says the witness obtained 12 counterfeit green cards, two
counterfeit work permits and 14 fraudulent Social Security cards from Hernandez
and Navarette during six purchases. The witness bought the documents between
July 2003 and this month at an apartment in Falls Church or near the Culmore
Shopping Center parking lot, the affidavit says.

The witness supplied the two defendants with the photographs and names of "known
criminals and terrorists," the affidavit says. "In each instance, Hernandez and
Navarette paid no attention and produced the cards without question," without
even claiming they had the authority to do it, it says.

Hernandez and Navarette are scheduled to appear Monday in U.S. District Court in
Alexandria. Navarette was arrested at his apartment in Arlington; Hernandez in
his car outside his apartment in Falls Church. Their homes were searched. The
contents of those searches are expected to be revealed next week in court
hearings.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              107 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 29, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
Feb. 22-28

SECTION: Metro; C04

LENGTH: 508 words


A federal judge in Alexandria ruled that Virginia's colleges and universities
may deny admission to illegal immigrants. Experts said the ruling was the first
of its kind in the country.

The decision by U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III came in a lawsuit filed
against seven state schools accused of violating the rights of immigrants by
refusing them admission.

Ellis did not dismiss the suit, ruling that it could proceed to trial because
the plaintiffs have a right to try to prove whether the schools are using
federal standards to identify applicants who are in the country illegally.

Fairfax County homeowners would pay an average of $421 more in real estate taxes
next fiscal year under a budget proposed by County Executive Anthony H. Griffin.

Griffin's $2.7 billion budget represents a 4.5 percent increase over the current
county budget. Under the proposal, the county's real estate tax rate would
remain steady at $1.16 per $100 of assessed value. The typical household would
pay $4,147 in real estate taxes, an increase of $421 over this year's tax bill.

In Prince William, County Executive Craig S. Gerhart proposed a $679 million
budget for the coming fiscal year that increases spending by $68 million, or
11.1 percent. Gerhart proposed cutting the property tax rate 6 cents, to $1.10
per $100 of assessed value. Still, the average homeowner's tax bill would
increase 9.4 percent, or about $240, because of skyrocketing property
assessments.

The Fairfax County Board of Supervisors gave unanimous approval to a tax plan to
help pay for extending Metrorail.

The plan, put forward by a group representing landowners in and around Tysons
Corner, would levy additional real estate taxes on businesses in that area to
pay for the county's share of the 23-mile project's first phase, an extension of
Metro from West Falls Church to Wiehle Avenue in Reston.

A union representing Prince William County bus drivers went on strike Thursday,
causing significant delays for commuters.

The drivers' action meant that OmniLink and OmniRide, local and commuter buses
that serve about 3,500 passengers daily, had to operate on emergency status.
Only 35 of the usual 65 buses were running. Transit officials said the emergency
status will continue until more drivers report to work.

The strike came after months of contract negotiations. No more talks were
scheduled, transit officials said.

*  National Zoo Director Lucy H. Spelman announced that she will resign at the
end of the year, after a report was released that said the zoo was suffering
from a lack of accountability at all levels. The report, by the National Academy
of Sciences, which is reviewing zoo operations at the request of Congress,
concluded that the zoo's lapses are widespread and threaten the well-being of
its 2,600 animals.

*  Auditors reported that millions of dollars is missing from Metro's pay
parking lots and garages. Agency managers acknowledged that lax oversight has
allowed large-scale theft. The audit estimates that $500,000 to $1 million was
stolen annually.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              108 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 20, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Audio of Attorney-Detainee Interviews Called Illegal

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 973 words


Employees at a federal detention center clearly violated prison rules and
federal law by recording the private conversations of attorneys and their
clients, who had been arrested as part of an immigration dragnet in the weeks
after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, according to legal experts and a government
investigation.

Many defense attorneys and civil liberties advocates also said yesterday that
the recordings appeared to be part of a larger effort by the Justice Department
to limit or even eliminate the ability of lawyers to adequately defend foreign
nationals with alleged connections to terrorism investigations.

"The Justice Department has had a very conscious policy since 9/11 of denying
access to lawyers and, when they allow access, undercutting the detainees' right
to counsel," said Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil
Liberties Union. "It has been a clear and distinct policy of trying to limit
attorneys at every turn."

A report released Thursday by  Inspector General Glenn A. Fine of the Justice
Department found that on more than 40 occasions, guards and other employees at
the federal Metropolitan Detention Center (MDC) in Brooklyn, N.Y., intentionally
made videotapes of attorney-client meetings that included prohibited audio
recordings.

The report also found that as many as 20 guards at the MDC physically and
verbally abused post-Sept. 11 detainees, who were being held on immigration
charges while authorities sought to determine whether  they were connected to
terrorism; none was ever charged with a terrorist crime. Many of the incidents
of abuse were confirmed through videotapes discovered by investigators that
prison officials had previously claimed had been destroyed.

On some of the tapes reviewed by Fine's investigators, conversations between
detainees and their attorneys were clearly audible, and Fine said the audio
recordings were purposely made by setting up cameras on tripods outside attorney
visiting rooms. Some detainees were told to stop speaking Arabic or to speak
English because they were being taped, and officers frequently lingered outside
to eavesdrop on the conversations.

The audio recordings of attorney conversations "violated the law and interfered
with the detainees' effective access to legal counsel," the report said. Many
legal experts also said the tapes constitute a clear breach of centuries-old
laws and regulations that treat attorney-client conversations as sacrosanct
except in limited circumstances.

"While jails are notoriously not private, there is usually an obligation to
ensure that those meetings are held in an environment that is confidential,"
said Thomas D. Morgan, a law professor at George Washington University. "It's
been a  long-standing position that communication between an attorney and their
client is private and [disclosure] cannot even be compelled by a court."

One exception to this general prohibition was implemented in October 2001 by
Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, who issued a directive permitting the
monitoring of attorney-inmate meetings in the case of a threat to national
security. Such monitoring requires the approval of the attorney general and
notice to the inmate and the inmate's lawyer.

But Fine's report notes that, according to attorneys for the federal prison
system, that authority was never used at the Brooklyn facility. In addition, a
December 2001 memo to wardens of federal prisons in the Northeast region said
that "visits from attorneys may . . . be visually recorded, but not voice
recorded," according to the inspector general's report.

Robert S. Litt, a Justice Department official in the Clinton administration,
said: "The fact that they could have done this through these administrative
procedures, and didn't, seems to take away any argument that there was cause for
this."

"It's clearly improper, and I doubt that anyone at the Department of Justice
would contend it wasn't," Litt said. "But I also assume they would say that
since these tapes were not used in any way, there is no real harm."

The Bureau of Prisons has referred all questions about the report to the Justice
Department, which has said that all the allegations are under review by
prosecutors for possible criminal charges.

Whether such recordings are unconstitutional is a matter of legal debate,
experts said. Many defense attorneys argue that breaching the privilege violates
the constitutional right to effective counsel and against self-incrimination,
but the courts have yet to settle the matter definitively, attorneys said.

"The argument is that you can't have an attorney-client relationship if you have
to say, 'Tell me whatever you want but understand that you're being recorded,' "
said George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley. "It produces a
chilling effect."

Thursday's findings were a follow-up to a June report by Fine focused on 762
foreign nationals who were detained on immigration violations in connection with
the Sept. 11 investigation, including 84 held at the MDC. The earlier report
found "a pattern of physical and verbal abuse" at the Brooklyn facility and said
detainees throughout the system faced delays and roadblocks in attempting to get
attorneys or find out information about their cases.

An Ashcroft memorandum six days after the attacks declared that "federal law
enforcement agencies and the United States Attorneys' Offices will use every
available law enforcement tool to incapacitate" individuals suspected of
connections  to terrorist groups.

The Justice Department implemented a "no bond" policy for all the detainees --
despite questions about the legality of such a move -- and immigration
authorities established a "communications blackout" that severely limited
detainees' ability to contact relatives or their attorneys, the June report
said.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              109 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 30, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Detainee to Be Deported On Immigration Charges;
Supporters Allege Racial Profiling in Case

BYLINE: Michelle Garcia, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 558 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK June 29


A Pakistani immigrant detained almost three years ago after taking autumn
photographs near an  Upstate New York reservoir  lost a final appeal on Tuesday
and  faces deportation.

In the end, dozens of members of  Congress, an international circle of
supporters and a flurry of petitions could not  stop the Bureau of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement from issuing a deportation order for Ansar Mahmood, 27.
A pizza deliveryman, Mahmood is one of the longest-held detainees from a roundup
of Arab and Muslim men in the days after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

Federal officials took Mahmood into custody in October 2001, not long after he
asked a stranger to shoot his photo as the sun dipped behind the Catskills
Mountains. Federal officials feared that he might be a terrorist scouting the
reservoir, which was in the background of the photo, for a possible attack. They
later cleared Mahmood of any such suspicions.

But when federal agents searched Mahmood's house, they found evidence that he
had co-signed for an apartment and registered a car as a favor to two illegal
immigrants. That was a deportable crime, federal immigration officials said.

William Cleary, an immigration field director in Buffalo, wrote to Mahmood: "You
received extraordinary benefit under this country's generous immigration system
and immediately set out to violate and undermine that very system."

Mahmood's  lawyer said the government is being vindictive. This ruling "just
shows a lack of compassion by the current administration," Rolando Velasquez
said. "Ansar's case highlights just how draconian those [immigration law]
changes really are."

Advocates have rallied around the soft-spoken Pakistani, believing  that he had
become a victim of a  roundup that targeted Arab and Muslim immigrants, and was
charged with a crime that before the terrorist attacks would have gone
unnoticed. Susan Davies, a Chatham, N.Y., resident who helped lead the  movement
to free Mahmood, said: "His case was so clearly a case of racial profiling, it
seemed only right that they shouldn't deport him."

Mahmood, a legal permanent resident, entered the United States in 2000 after
winning an immigration lottery. He sent money  to Pakistan to support his family
there, and his supporters called him a model of what the United States hopes for
from its immigrants.

An immigration judge first ordered his deportation in July 2002, a decision
upheld this week. Immigration officials said Tuesday that racial profiling was
not a factor.

"It has no bearing on the case," said Michael Gilhooly, spokesman for the Bureau
of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "The facts of the case cannot  be
disputed."

Supporters have vowed to push  for a last-minute reprieve. But nothing short of
a congressionally approved bill can stop his deportation.

Mary Lavelle, a secretary in Velasquez's office, said she has heard her share of
creative client stories, but still took the uncharacteristic move of joining the
movement to free Mahmood. Lavelle said she was "brokenhearted" by the ruling.

"If America had Ansars for citizens, this would be such a wonderful place to
live," she said. "He is everything we should want for a citizen."

Mahmood called his lawyer's office, Lavelle said, to ask how his supporters had
taken the news and then added: " 'Don't worry about me. I'm strong.' "

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              110 of 230 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                       September 19, 2003 Friday 07:34 AM

Salvadoran Immigrants Warn Leftist Candidate

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez, Special to washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 821 words

HIGHLIGHT: Maria Esquino, Jorge Granados and Elmer Arias are not ideologues
struggling to prevent the rise of former communist guerrillas in Latin America.
But from their humble positions here they may actually be more effective doing
so.


Maria Esquino, Jorge Granados and Elmer Arias are not ideologues struggling to
prevent the rise of former communist guerrillas in Latin America. But from their
humble positions here they may actually be more effective doing so.

The three are Salvadoran immigrants, members of Latin America's largest per
capita diaspora. Today roughly one in every four Salvadorans lives in the United
States. Of the 2 million Salvadorans here, a quarter of them live in the U.S.
capital region.

Esquino, Granados and Arias crossed paths this week when one of El Salvador's
presidential candidates came to Washington to press the flesh months before the
March election. And even though Salvadorans living abroad are not eligible to
vote, more candidates will certainly follow as the United States becomes more
and more part of the Latin American campaign trail.

Salvadoran immigrants here have raised significantly their profile back home
since the last presidential elections in El Salvador in 1999. Their
contributions to the country's economy have doubled; their money transfers alone
are the largest source of foreign currency for El Salvador, surpassing all
exports, foreign investment, tourism and foreign aid. Their cash and clout has
increased so much they transcend Washington's typical centers of influence. They
are not U.S. officials needing to be courted, convinced or assured, nor do they
head one of Washington's multilateral lending institutions, powerful think
tanks, or lobbying firms.

They are instead part of the much larger Latin American immigrant community in
this country, which by nature, culture and proximity, is maintaining
ever-tighter bonds with the homelands. These immigrants, especially Salvadorans,
Mexicans and Dominicans, have an influence in their countries U.S. foreign
policy-makers only dream of.

Many Salvadoran immigrants, like others from Latin America, feel discouraged by
Washington's current formulas for the region. Still, they recognize the
opportunities they've received here and are wary of any newly elected leader in
their homeland who might put those opportunities at risk. They are, in fact,
emerging as the best ally official Washington has to ensure that any future
changes won't be too radical, nor any reforms too distant from Washington's own
priorities.

That became particularly evident this week during the visit of former Farabundo
Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN) guerrilla commander Schafik Handal, the
presidential nominee of the now-leftist FMLN party and one of El Salvador's top
contenders. U.S. officials for some time have been concerned about Handal's
vision for El Salvador, a possible alignment with Fidel Castro, and what his
leftist policies might mean to Salvadoran democracy, the country's recent
economic gains and its close ties with Washington.

Handal said in an interview he did not seek a meeting with Bush administration
officials because he was convinced that they would keep their word and respect
the outcome of the elections, he said in an interview. Instead he went to a
restaurant in the Virginia suburbs and a church in a Washington working-class
neighborhood where some messages were perhaps as blunt and some signals as clear
as if they had come from the State Department or Capitol Hill.

Arias hosted Handal Sunday night at a restaurant he owns. He said he warned
Handal against straining relations between Washington and San Salvador to the
detriment of Salvadorans living here, many of whom have seen their temporary
work permits extended several times.

?We have come to a country that has opened its doors to us and given us
opportunities, and so (he) should take certain measures and change certain
policies,? Arias said he told Handal.

Granados was among dozens who attended the church meeting, but not with the
blind loyalty of the former FMLN militant he once was. He said he would have
preferred a younger candidate to the 72-year-old Handal. But he showed
confidence in the ability of those behind Handal to prove, particularly here,
that the FMLN has evolved and become ?a legitimate force with good intentions.?

Also present were Esquino and her husband, indigenous Salvadorans living in
exile after being tortured in El Salvador 10 years ago. In an interview she said
they have managed to garner support for their people back home only from U.S.
Native American organizations. Even with the most compelling reasons to be
skeptical of any leadership, she was there to take the measure of Handal and of
the impact Salvadoran native groups had on shaping his views of the rights of
native peoples.

Esquino, as did the others, suggested that the future of the FMLN would depend
on its ability to break with the past. Regardless of who wins next year, the
future president stands to gain much by keeping Washington and San Salvador in
sync.

Marcela Sanchez's e-mail address is desdewash(at symbol)washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2003 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 230 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                       January 22, 2004 Thursday 10:30 PM

In Bush?s Immigration Gesture, a Sign of Normalcy

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez, Special to washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 727 words


President Bush's new immigration plan -- which he pressed for the third time in
as many weeks in his State of the Union address Tuesday night -- is generating a
lot of heat and opinions. These days you can find viewpoints, as my mother would
say, ?hasta en la sopa'' -- even in your soup.

Many Democratsdismiss the Bush plan as an election-year gimmick to garner
Hispanic votes. Others say that immigration reform won't go anywhere soon
because the issue is too controversial to handle during an election year.

Some conservatives have dubbed the president's temporary worker plan as an
amnesty in disguise because, they say, there is nothing more permanent than a
?temporary'' worker.

Mexico too has its critics. After Bush laid out his proposal last week in
Monterrey, some in the press dismissed it as a fancy ?deportation plan.? One
headline read ?El American dream? is not for Mexicans.

It should be easy to agree with one -- or more -- of those views. In fact, not
long ago I might have stood with the skeptics. After all, the 9/11 terrorist
attacks had ushered in one of the most hostile environments in years for
immigrants.

Easing restrictions on a system that had shown to be the perfect camouflage for
terrorists seemed to have no place in that post-attack environment. The fact
that Bush is suggesting it now, with his own re-election at stake, is a gesture
that cannot be ignored. At the very least, it may be a sign of the return to
more normal times.

If I am more hesitant to pass judgment now, it is because I have been arguing
for so long -- and as strongly as I can -- for some of this normalcy. Terrorism
had so poisoned the well that it killed, for 28 months, any talk about
immigration reform. Normalcy holds out the promise that we might have a more
rational discussion and see the benefits of helping bring millions of illegal
immigrants out of the shadows.

Some immigration advocates and leaders in Congress have opted to see Bush's
proposal as a step forward. And, in fact, they are using the momentum sparked by
the president to continue pushing for more comprehensive reforms. While it is
unlikely they will make any legislative progress without Bush's direct
involvement, they will present and further the core arguments for wider
immigration reform: that it makes sense for economic, security and moral
reasons.

Bush's gesture is certainly not without political risks. The president is under
considerable fire on domestic issues, in particular over the loss of about 2.3
million jobs on his watch. Immigrant workers -- newly arrived or newly legalized
-- would seem to be ready and unwanted competitors with the U.S. unemployed.

Even economists such as Jared Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute or
immigration experts such as George Vernez of the RAND Corporation worry that
extending a hand to undocumented immigrants now is untimely. The recent job
losses, particularly among the lower-skilled, make a guest worker program
unnecessary, Vernez argues.

That would be the case if the jobs lost were in the service or agricultural
sectors, where most immigrants go. But statistics show that most jobs are being
lost in manufacturing -- to workers overseas, not immigrants to the United
States. This is a result of globalization and free trade, not immigration.

You could more likely blame immigrants for contributing to lower wages and fewer
benefits by being willing to do jobs for less than U.S. workers. But it is the
employer who really wins. By pushing his proposal, Bush is vulnerable once again
to charges that his administration is pandering to big business interests.

According to Bernstein, some critics have begun to call Bush's plan the Wal-Mart
Employment Act. In their view, it will help maintain a constant supply of cheap
labor for companies such as Wal-Mart ? the world's biggest retailer and the
largest private employer in the United States -- that sell goods at very low
prices by holding down labor costs.

Be that as it may, Bush's gesture is still important, in part because it
reignites a debate about one of today's most pressing issues. But most
importantly, it shows that terrorism no longer has the monopoly over the
immigration-reform debate. Hopefully this is one that Bush has won and the
terrorists have lost.

Marcela Sanchez's e-mail address is desdewash@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2004 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 230 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                         March 22, 2004 Monday 10:17 AM

"New Americans" Reveals Old Values

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Jabari Asim

SECTION: NATION

LENGTH: 794 words

HIGHLIGHT: "Dirty Pretty Things," my favorite of the many good films I saw last
year, revolves around a group of immigrants who work various jobs at a British
hotel. A pivotal scene takes place near the movie's end, when a suspicious white
man confronts the film's Nigerian-born hero, played by Chiwetel Ejiofor.


"Dirty Pretty Things," my favorite of the many good films I saw last year,
revolves around a group of immigrants who work various jobs at a British hotel.
A pivotal scene takes place near the movie's end, when a suspicious white man
confronts the film's Nigerian-born hero, played by Chiwetel Ejiofor.

The man asks him, "How come I have never seen you before?" "Because we are the
people you never see," Ejiofor says before launching into a brief but powerful
speech about the various thankless and essential roles people such as himself
perform. Although he is talking about Britain, he could just as well have been
speaking about the United States.

The struggles and heartaches of the immigrant experience -- illegal and
otherwise -- are often downplayed or ignored amid our often-contentious
discussions about newcomers to American society, who are now arriving at a rate
of roughly 1.3 million a year. "The New Americans," a seven-hour documentary
project, aims to compensate for that imbalance. The PBS series, which debuts
this month, tracks five immigrant stories over the course of four years. Always
compelling and frequently heart-wrenching, each story begins in the homeland of
its subject and follows the immigrants through their arrival and adjustment to
American life.

The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, passed amid the great social
ferment of the civil rights era, did away with ethnic restrictions and made it
easier for nonwhite immigrants to legally enter the country. "The New Americans"
reflects that shift. Its subjects hail from Mexico, Africa, India, the West
Bank, the Middle East and the Caribbean -- nearly everywhere, it seems, but
Europe.

Among them is Israel Nwidor, a member of Nigeria's oppressed Ogoni tribe, who
along with his wife and two children is living in a refugee camp when the
program begins. Having survived imprisonment and torture, he sees the United
States as a land of almost magical promise. "I will be accepted in America," he
predicts, where "blacks living in the northern part of America are free and not
discriminated against."

Not all of the subjects in "The New Americans" come from circumstances so dire.
Anjan Bacchu, a successful software engineer in India, heads to Silicon Valley
in search of Internet riches. Ricardo Rodriguez and Jose Garcia, Dominican teen
phenoms already under contract to the Los Angeles Dodgers, seem tantalizingly
close to the major leagues and millions of dollars.

I found all the stories absolutely fascinating, although I was most moved by
that of Pedro Flores. The Mexican native worked as a meatpacker in Kansas for 13
years, 1,500 miles from his wife and six children. The most agonizing moments of
the series show Pedro laboring heroically to bring all his loved ones together
despite daunting obstacles -- including insufficient funds and American red
tape. Pedro never whines and, amid intense stress, never raises his voice to his
wife and children. He just keeps working, leading by example and offering kind
words of encouragement. The very opposite of a deadbeat dad, Pedro embodies the
family values that so many Americans claim to revere.

Ironically, people like Pedro are often seen as a threat to those values. One of
the most recent examples of such thinking is Samuel Huntington's "The Hispanic
Challenge," an inflammatory essay in the current issue of Foreign Policy
magazine.

Sounding like a eugenics professor, Huntington writes that the "single most
immediate and serious challenge to America's traditional identity comes from the
immense and continuing immigration from Latin America, especially from Mexico,
and the fertility rates of these immigrants compared to black and white American
natives." He worries, "Will the United States remain a country with a single
national language and a core Anglo-Protestant culture?"

As Huntington's critics have pointed out, distrust and fear of newcomers is a
tradition as old as the country itself. Noting with alarm all the blacks in his
midst following the Revolution, Patrick Henry wondered: "Our country shall be
peopled. Shall it be with Europeans or with Africans?" At least Henry didn't
have to deal with identity politics, which Huntington partly blames for creating
the "doctrines of multiculturalism and diversity" that fail to recognize the
danger the Mexicans pose.

Folks such as Huntington will find their fears eased if they watch "The New
Americans." They might also consider the words of Barack Obama. The son of a
Kenyan immigrant, he is vying to become our nation's third black senator since
Reconstruction. "I have an unusual name and an exotic background," Obama said
after winning the Illinois Democratic primary, "but my values are essentially
American values."


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2004 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 230 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                       March 31, 2004 Wednesday 11:00 AM

Homeland Security;
Borders, Transportation, Immigration

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Undersecretary for Border and Transportation Security, Dept. of Homeland
Security

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1508 words

HIGHLIGHT: Asa Hutchinson will discuss enforcement of the nation's borders and
transportation and immigration systems against terrorism.


Federal officials pointed out in a confidential bulletin to local authorities
after the March 11 Madrid bombings that transit systems are difficult to secure
against a sneak attack because of the relatively reduced security, and public
transit officials argued that anti-terrorism efforts must extend beyond the
aviation industry.

In his role as undersecretary for Border and Transportation Security at the
Department of Homeland Security, Asa Hutchinson is responsible for coordinating
the enforcement activities of the nation's borders and transportation and
immigration systems.

He was online Wednesday, March 31 at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss current efforts to
protect the country against terrorism attacks.

A transcript follows.

Editor's Note: Washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions.

________________________________________________

washingtonpost.com: Please stay with us. Asa Hutchinson will be along shortly.

_______________________

Asa Hutchinson: Good Morning. I am glad to be with you. I look forward to your
questions today.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Asa Hutchinson, welcome to washingtonpost.com. Glad to have
you with us.

The big news today is that Condoleezza Rice will testify and President Bush and
Vice President Cheney will meet privately with the 9/11 commission to submit to
questions about whether the White House responded quickly enough to threats from
al Qaeda before the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. What is your reaction to the
president's decision to comply#63;

Asa Hutchinson: I am pleased that the Commisssion and just as importantly, the
American public will have the benefit of her insights and measures the
Administration was implementing prior to 9-11. I do think the Commission's work
is important and as someone who works on the homeland security operations I hope
their report will be constructuve and help us to do a better job in the future.

_______________________

Tucson, Ariz.: I know you just announced a new initiative to "close the border"
in Arizona to illegal immigration, but what are you doing to pick up the
hundreds of thousands of illegals that came through before that program began?
As you can expect when we in Arizona hear that Iraqi citizens have been
illegally crossing the borders here we get alittle more anxious.

Asa Hutchinson: We are doing a lot to apprehend those that are illegally in this
country. Our biggest responsbility is responding to local law enforcement and
worksite enforcement. Finally, we make sure those who commit crimes and are in
the country illegally, are identified and removed from the country. In a free
country this is a challenging task.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Mr. Hutchinson- How is DHS working with FBI to share
fingerprint information on potential terrorists?

Asa Hutchinson: We work closely with the FBI and our US-VISIT system compares
fingerscans of foreign travelers with a portion of the FBI fingerprint database,
and we are looking to expand this connection. We also are connecting our Border
Patrol processing centers with the FBI fingerprint databases.

_______________________

Selkirk, N.Y.: Has the ban on ethnic profiling hampered efforts to screen for
possible terrorists? If so, to what extent?

Asa Hutchinson: No. It has not hampered our efforts at all. It is the right
policy and ultimately it strengthens our respect for law enforcement and the
crminal justice system.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: I've read that there is a current hiring freeze for bureaus of
Customs and Border Protection, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and
Citizenship and Immigration Services due to an investigation into a budget
shortfall. Is this only temporary, or do you expect the problem with the budget
to affect DHS long term hiring? Will a hiring freeze affect your mission?

Asa Hutchinson: The temporary suspension of new hires in three of the
department's 22 agencies was a prudent management step to make sure we do not
exceed the spending limits for the year. This is just one of the challenges when
you bring together 22 different accounting systems and realign the agencies in
order to more effectively fight terrorism. This will not impact our primary
missions.

_______________________

Baltimore, Md.: Spain was scheduled to have the Container Security Initiative of
Customs and Border Protection implemented at its ports prior to the March 11
Madrid bombing. Has that schedule been delayed? Accelerated?

Asa Hutchinson: That should not cause any delay.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: Good morning. I have a few short, but important questions
about homeland security and public transportation.

What can be done to prevent bomb attacks that target public transportation in
the U.S? Are any other countries in the world equipped with bomb detection
equipment that could thwart attacks like the recent bombings in Madrid? What are
the major limitations for a comprehensive security strategy on America's public
transportation system, especially concerning small explosive devices and
chemical or biological attacks?

Thank you very much for offering your insights.

Asa Hutchinson: We are working to establish a baseline of security for rail and
mass transit. Since 9-11, local transit authorities have spent over %1.5 billion
dolars to increase security and the department has issued security grants and
installed bio-chem detection equipment in various transit locations. We are
doing more, we are investing in technology research to help develop a new
generation of explosive detection equipment that will be more suitable to the
mass transit environment.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Last week at the Border Trade Alliance Conference, one speaker
from San Diego mentioned that "perception of US-VISIT impacts are already
affecting our economy". Could you comment on what efforts are being made to work
with border communities to mitigate the impact of US-VISIT?

Asa Hutchinson: This is really a perception problem since we have been very
careful with US-VISIT to facilitate travel and not to clog the borders. We have
listened very carefully to the border communities and continue our outreach to
them. One example is the interim exemption for the laser visa when used as a
limited border-crossing card.

_______________________

Pittsburgh, Pa.: Do you believe the U.S. Army should have any role in border
protection, why or why not?

Asa Hutchinson: The primary border security responsibility lies with law
enforcement. The military supports law enforcement with intelligence information
and logistical support.

_______________________

Los Angeles, Calif.: Undersecretary: My question is about civil rights. Someone
once said, "do not trade rights for safety" and that makes a lot of sense to me
and to people I talk to. We are worried that in the zealotry to stop or prevent
attacks by "terrorrists", that an irrevocable precedent will be set, that laws
will be changed that will alter the constitutional safeguards we treasure and so
heavily depend on. There is wording in both the Homeland Security Act and the
USA Patriot Act that truly scare me and appear to be unconstitutional. The
common individual is unaware of how these facts can affects their lives, they
are scared for themselves or their family members being caught up in an
'event'and fail to see the tremendous, catastrophic result of these changes. I
may not have to remind you, undersecretary that there is historical precedent
for taking away rights in the name of safety. What is the administration doing
to change these acts as to reflect the American constitutional way of life?
Thank you in advance for your answer.

Asa Hutchinson: The Constitution is still in place and will not be suspended for
security purposes or any other reason. We have a civil rights officer and a
chief privacy officer. We are the first department to have congressionally
mandated officers in this area. They are part of the checks and balances in this
department. We should not trade rights for safety, but sometimes we do give up a
little convenience to assure security of our travelers.

_______________________

Wheaton, Md.: If illegal aliens and drug dealers can still move across our
borders, is it right to assume terrorists and weapons can do the same?

Asa Hutchinson: Obviously an open border can be misused by drug dealers,
terrorists and illegal migrants. For that reason we are taking aggresive steps
to secure our borders. It is more difficult for a terrorist because a terrorist
must be able to operate, have documentation and the neccessary ingredients for
an attack and the layered defenses that we use gives us greater protection from
terrorists.

_______________________

Asa Hutchinson: Thank you very much for your questions. I enjoyed my time here
with you today. All the Best

_______________________

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2004 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 230 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                        April 1, 2004 Thursday 09:39 PM

Immigrants' Money Could Serve Hemispheric Cohesion

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez, Special to washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 782 words

HIGHLIGHT: Ten years ago, the North American Free Trade Agreement created a
development bank with $3 billion in capital to fund environmental projects along
the United States-Mexico border. Yet to date, less than 4 percent of that amount
-- about $96 million -- has been lent.


Ten years ago, the North American Free Trade Agreement created a development
bank with $3 billion in capital to fund environmental projects along the United
States-Mexico border. Yet to date, less than 4 percent of that amount -- about
$96 million -- has been lent.

When the North American Development Bank (NADBank) was established, the
intention was clear -- to be the first step toward much more U.S. assistance to
Mexico to ease the pains of economic integration. Environmental projects were to
be mere steppingstones.

But the bank was hamstrung by Washington?s neglect. Only last week did the U.S.
Congress end a four-year debate to allow it to lend money at lower than market
interest rates and expand its operations from 62 miles to 186 miles beyond the
Mexican border. Crippled at the outset, and still hobbling, NADBank is a clear
indication of just how distant Washington's development priorities have become
from those of Latin America's.

Contrast the feeble trickle of funds from the bank with the flood of money
pouring into Mexico in the form of international money transfers, better known
remittances. Last year, immigrants working in the United States sent $31 billion
to relatives in Latin America -- more than $13 billion of that to Mexico.
Salvadorans, Dominicans and Guatemalans send home billions more. While not
?development funds? in the traditional sense, remittances and the hard work of
Latin American immigrants in the United States are transforming conditions back
home.

These funds are sent most frequently through firms such as Western Union, which
charge high transaction fees and provide no other service. It is in this
transition between remitter and recipient that much of the power of this capital
is lost.

And it is there that financial institutions want to be. Multilateral
organizations such as the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and other
lenders, big and small, are now deeply involved in efforts to attract remitters
and provide them with a less expensive and, in the long run, more productive way
to send money home.

Their goal, agreed to over the weekend at the IDB's annual conference in Peru,
is to increase to 50 percent by 2010 the number of families receiving
remittances through traditional financial institutions.

The principle is surprisingly simple. When an individual deposits money in a
financial institution to transfer as remittances, for the brief period the money
is actually in transition, the institution's assets increase. The increased
assets, in the hands of an institution committed to development, can be used to
finance short-term loans for micro enterprises and investment in essential
infrastructure projects.

Up to 20 percent of the funds in transition could be transformed into more
productive initiatives, according to Atsumasa Tochisako, former Bank of Tokyo
representative in Latin America and now president of a new micro finance
institution based in Washington.

But even if financial institutions did little to move capital to essential
development projects, the simple fact of getting remitters and recipients to use
them would be a step toward what the IDB calls ?financial democracy.''

Putting money into financial institutions would provide many remitters and
recipients alike first-time access to savings accounts or lines of credit. This
could have a snowball effect. If recipients were to turn their cash into assets
at a bank, they would improve their standing with lending institutions, expand
their credit and increase their buying power way beyond what their cash in hand
could bring.

While some may think this is all quite new, Latin America is, in fact, following
the pattern seen in Europe. There, migrant remittances reached remote areas of
Ireland, Portugal and Spain before more traditional European Union assistance
through investment banks and structural funds arrived.

Raul Hinojosa, UCLA professor and one of the chief proponents of NADBank, said
in an interview that this is how ?remittances can lead the way to understanding
the importance of other investment.'' In other words, private remittances can
inform the use of public capital.

Sadly, official Washington continues to believe that free trade alone is the
best path to regional integration, while many leaders in Latin America, and
idealistic academics and analysts in this country, still believe that
integration will occur through deliberate and generous assistance from the
north.

Fortunately, this disconnect between leaders hasn't stopped the many remitters
and a few financial visionaries from imagining the new possibilities that one
day may help bring together those two paths still so far apart.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2004 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 230 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                          June 4, 2004 Friday 11:00 AM

Sesno Reports: Press One for English

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Brookings Institution

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2223 words

HIGHLIGHT: Audrey Singer, Brookings Institution Center on Urban and Metropolitan
Policy, discussed immigration in Washington, D.C.


"Press One for English," the latest hour-long episode of the public affairs
television show Sesno Reports, brings together policymakers, community leaders
and citizens for a town hall meeting examining the trends and implication of
immigration in the Washington, D.C. region.

Show participant Audrey Singer, visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution
Center on Urban and Metropolitan Policy, took your questions and comments.

"Press One for English" airs Thursday, June 3 at 8 p.m. ET on WETA. Sesno
Reports is a public affairs series exploring issues, opportunities and
challenges facing the National Capital Region and the nation. The series is
hosted by Frank Sesno, veteran journalist, former CNN Washington bureau chief
and GMU professor of public policy and communication.

The transcript follows.

Editor's Note: Washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions.

________________________________________________

Audrey Singer: Hello all. The Washington region has emerged as a major immigrant
gateway in the past 25 years. I'm glad to take your questions on this topic and
on immigration issues more generally.

_______________________

Ashburn, Va.: I'm very concerned about the comments made by the Maryland
Governor Bob Erhlich and his likewise collegue Donald Schaefer about the
multiculturalism statements. My question is why isn't our TV media making a
bigger indept coverage on these senseless comments? Those comments seem very
prejudice and biased. It appears many immigrants I've spoke to in Maryland are
not aware of their views.

Audrey Singer: I think there has been a considerable amount of press on this
topic. It may take awhile for people to hear about it. The important issue is
that we want to hear from our leaders comments that are supportive, tolerant and
inclusive about immigrants and all people who live in the region. Montgomery
County Executive Doug Duncan and others has made some very helpful comments in
this regard.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Why are trends surrounding immigration different here in D.C.
-- higher educational attainment, more integration into the local economy, as
opposed to places like LA and Miami where most seem to end up in a bizzare,
off-the-books existence?

Audrey Singer: The Washington metropolitan area is blessed with a stable,
growing economy thanks largely to the federal government and associated
industries located here. Immigrants fill jobs at all skill-levels in this kind
of economy. Washington attracts the full range of immigrants here, whereas in LA
and Miami, the market is sauturated, and immigrants and native born alike have
been leaving recently. We also get a lot of highly educated international types
who work in international agencies.

_______________________

Emporia, Kan.: It may not be "P C " but isn't any new immigrant to the US who
doesn't become English fluent stay doomed to a perminent underclass "serf" or
minimum level sector of the labor pool ?

Audrey Singer: I think most people, including immigrants, would agree that
English language proficiency is the best way to get ahead in this country. But
immigrants who come here as adults say it is often the hardest thing to do once
they are here. There is a lot of hope for the children of immigrants who atttend
our schools, learn the language quickly and go on to lead productive lives.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Just curious: when did this debate begin to focus so much on
the "rights" of illegal immigrants, instead of the right (and obligation) of law
enforcement to deport them#63; I for one don't really care if they get as little
legal process as possible, because it's a bottom line issue. If they are here
illegally, they must be sent home.


Audrey Singer: I think the growth of the illegal or undocumented population in
recent years has made many people, including federal and local policymakers,
business people, and advocates think long and hard about why so many people want
to live here in "the shadows." If it were simply a matter of enforcing the
border and keeping people out, we could focus efforts there. Despite the
enormous sums of money we spend at the border trying to keep people out, there
are other forces at work. Employers continue to recruit workers, often directly
from abroad, regardless of legal status. Family unification drives many to come
who may be in line for visas but are on a long waiting list for green cards.
Students come here to be educated, and along the way find job opportunities,
fall in love, start families, etc. These processes all contribute to why we have
a growing undocumented immigrant population in the United States.

_______________________

Lincoln, Mass.: How has the influx of immigrants over the past 10 to 20 years
influenced growth on the outskirts of metropolitan areas? Some are claiming that
immigrants are contributing to sprawl. What do you think about this idea?

Audrey Singer: There are now more immigrants living in suburban areas than in
central cities. Some argue that as the suburbs have begun to look more like
cities in terms of their population characteristics that this has made
native-born whites fearful and they have continue to move further away from the
core of urban areas. I don't know if we have proof on this topic yet, but there
is plenty of speculation.

_______________________

Randolph, N.J.: What impact will the growing immigrant population have on the
politics in Maryland? Are the good ol'boys such as Gov. Erhlich already feeling
threatened?

Audrey Singer: Maryland is an interesting state with regard to immigrants and
the politics behind immgigration there. Although the Gov. made the statements
that he made, there are plenty of policies, particularly in the counties with
large immigrant populations, that show that Maryland is doing a lot to assist
immigrants in integrating into local communities. And Mayor O'Malley of
Baltimore has recently opened up an office to welcome immigrants and help them
make it in Baltimore.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I watched the show, and had this impression: the panelists who
want to see more enforcement of our immigration laws had facts and arguments on
their side, while the folks who for whatever reason oppose our immigration laws
relied almost entirely on cliches and platitutes about the United States being
"a nation of immigrants". How do you think this debate can proceed when one side
is so blinded by slogans that it can't actually formulate an argument or
confront inconvenient facts#63;

Audrey Singer: I guess I would say that those in favor of continuing immigration
and helping immigrants incorporate into American society recognize that
immigrants are going to continue to come here and make contributions to US
society and economy, so why not make it easier for people to succeed in this
effort. They acknowledge that it not without conflict and resistence at times,
and in localities, but that we can make it work better.

_______________________

Seattle, Wash.: Can we expect immigration to help the U.S. cope with the
forthcoming surge in seniors as baby boomers retire?

Audrey Singer: You bet. Immigrants, their children and grandchildren are and
will be an important component of our labor force. Unlike Western European
countries and Japan who are facing huge deficits in labor supply as their
population greys, we are admitting immigrants at high enough level to stave this
off for now. Who's going to take care of us when we are old? Who's going to fill
the treasury in the decades to come?

_______________________

Boston, Mass.: Our society today is not assimilating new immigrants as quickly
as they are arriving. Why is that? Should we be concerned? And what does this
mean for our future?

Audrey Singer: If we compare today's immigrants with historical trends, its
difficult to know if contemporary immigrants will assimilate in the same way
because enough time has not elapsed. In the first decade of the 20th century we
admitted almost as many immigrants as we did in the 1990s. We are now several
generations away from those Europeans who seem to have "melted" seemlessly into
America. But America changed along the way, and it is very likely that the
impact of this wave of immigrants largely from Latin America and Asia will also
change America. It already has. Should we be concerned? In the grand scheme of
concerns about where we are headed, I think we have bigger things to worry
about.

_______________________

Poolesville, Md.: Does the suburbanization of immigrants in this region mean
that we have fewer "ethnic enclaves" than other regions where the immigrant
population is more rooted in older, central city neighborhoods? If so, does that
affect their ability or desire to incorporate more fully into the economy and
society?

Audrey Singer: Washington's lack of historical immigration means there are
really no residential enclave like NY's lower East Side, Chicago's Little
Village. So immigrants arriving here are moving to suburbs that offer
opportunies in terms of housing, jobs, schools etc. My research on immigration
to the region shows that immigrants are not clustering by national origin,
creating pretty heterogeneous neighborhoods.

_______________________

Atlanta, Ga.: It seems that more and more immigrants are arriving here with
little or no skills. They act as a huge burden to U.S. taxpayers, since these
people clearly take away more in services than they add. Why not be prudent and
limit immigrants to those with a decent command of English and good skills, as
Canada and some other European countries do?

Audrey Singer: Our admissions policy for legal permanent residents (green card
holders) prioritizes the unification of families. Its been our prevailing
ideology that we keep families together. While we do have provisions for
employment and skills-based admissions, they account for a much smaller
proportion of permanent entries. We have chosen to use temporary visas, such as
H1-B's to admit the highly skilled for temporary periods of time. People have
argued that we need this flexibility to keep up with ebbs and flows of labor
demand.

_______________________

Vienna, Va.: Isn't the continuing high level of immigration keeping wages down
for lower-level jobs? With the continuing high turnover, what's the incentive
for employers to ever raise pay rates? Who can live on minimum wage? Seems like
we're going towards a permanent underclass here.

I read somewhere that we'd have a labor shortage if immigration declined
significantly. As a workingman, I don't see what's wrong with a labor shortage!

Audrey Singer: My sympathies to the working man, but the reality is we have a
Wal-Mart economy where wages are kept low to yield large profits for
corporations and low prices for the rest of us.

_______________________

Harrisburg, Pa.: Baltimore and other communities have encouraged and assisted
immigrants to move into marginal neighborhoods, establish a stable community,
and reverse the past spread of urban decline. Do you see this as a possibility
in other cities, and what needs to be done to allow such efforts to be
successful#63;

Audrey Singer: Really, what will revitalize declining communities in cities with
dropping population is job opportunities. For Cleveland or Balitmore or
Philadelphia to have success in their campaigns to attract immigrants, it should
come with some economic development plan as well. Then the available housing and
commercial stock that exists and is vacant can be utilized. I do think
leadership that sends a symbolic welcoming message is important to this process
too.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Isn't the concern about immigrants not learning English a
little paranoid? Every time I tune into the Spanish language channels (to watch
football) there seem to be an awful lot of advertisements for English language
tuition, audio cassette courses etc. Surely if they are beng advertised there
must be a relatively large market for them and therefore a desire amongst
immigrants to learn English?

Audrey Singer: English proficiency can be low in some communities and there is a
large segment of the immigrant population with little formal education from
their own country. That said, many of these people are working long hours and
don't have much time to commit to English classes. There also is a shortage of
local programs for adult language learners. Without a large infusion of federal
or local grants to run English programs, many adult will falter. However, their
committment to their children's English proficiency is high. Plus the children
watch English-tv, go to public schools and otherwise keep up with American
popular culture which has a huge assimilating effect.

_______________________

Audrey Singer: Thanks to all who submitted questions, I unfortunately couldn't
get to all of them. Immigration is changing metropolitan areas and neighborhoods
in many areas--both established and new--across the country. Learn more about
how immigration has changed Washington, D.C .and other metropolitan areas at
www.brookings.edu/urban

_______________________

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2004 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 230 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 17, 2004 Thursday 10:30 AM

Fox Seeks Heartland's Embrace

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez, Special to washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 794 words

HIGHLIGHT: WASHINGTON -- I am optimistic about Vicente Fox's scheduled visit to
Minnesota this week, the first by a Mexican president. And I am not the only
one. Minnesota's governor, Republican Tim Pawlenty, is "ecstatic'' about it,
comparing its significance to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's trip there in
1990.


WASHINGTON -- I am optimistic about Vicente Fox's scheduled visit to Minnesota
this week, the first by a Mexican president. And I am not the only one.
Minnesota's governor, Republican Tim Pawlenty, is "ecstatic" about it, comparing
its significance to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's trip there in 1990.

While in Minnesota, Fox will announce his decision to open a Mexican consulate
in the Twin Cities. He will also visit a local school named after the late labor
activist Cesar Chavez, where about 95 percent of the students are Hispanic, half
of them children of immigrant workers. During the 1990s, Minnesota saw a 130
percent increase in its immigrant population, two-thirds of them Mexican.

My hope is that in the Midwest, Fox can find what he lost in Washington.
Certainly he won't get the national immigration reform he envisioned prior to
Sept. 11, 2001. But his appeal to this country's better nature -- the better
nature that seems so much more evident in Midwesterners -- could go a long way
to improving both immigrants' lives here and the relationship between the two
countries.

I must admit I am optimistic because of my own personal experience. I love the
Midwest and its people. So much so that I married one -- a North Dakotan. My
in-laws of German and Swedish ancestry have always impressed me with their
openness and generosity toward outsiders, guided in part by the words of my
husband's grandmother: "You can't help how you were born but you can help how
you think." A generation before they adopted this big-city girl from Colombia,
my in-laws welcomed another Hispanic to the family, Uncle Bill, a
Mexican-American fighter pilot from East Los Angeles who served in Vietnam.

Of course, not every Hispanic's experience is like ours. I saw that as a cub
reporter in the early 1990s working at The Grand Forks Herald, the daily
newspaper for "the Forks" area of North Dakota and Minnesota. Migrant workers
told me then of the suspicious looks they encountered, and of the day they awoke
to find leaflets strewn along their street calling them "welfare grease balls"
and telling them to go back to Mexico.

Most likely Fox will not explicitly address the difficulties and prejudices
encountered by his compatriots. His visit is, in fact, designed to highlight the
positive experiences of Mexicans in this country.

Fox's stop in the Twin Cities will be part of his third visit to the Midwest
since his 2000 election. He will also go to Chicago, home to the second largest
U.S. enclave of people of Mexican origin after Los Angeles.

Just outside Chicago, he will stop in Cicero, Ill., whose town president, Ramiro
Gonzalez, was born in Mexico. There Fox will highlight how far and deep Mexican
roots have extended throughout this country.

Fox will swing over to Michigan too, one of the states where authorities are
confronting the migrant reality in an immigrant-friendly way. Michigan allows
undocumented immigrants to hold driver's licenses and extends in-state college
tuition benefits to residents regardless of their legalstatus.

Minnesota's Pawlenty has said Fox's presence "will draw attention to Minnesota's
... increasing diversity of our population." That's quite a contrast from the
words of another Republican governor, Robert Ehrlich of Maryland, where I now
live, who last month badmouthed multiculturalism as "crap" and "bunk."

Fox will find open hearts in the Heartland. But will the Midwest show Fox the
way to the hearts of so many in this country who feel more threatened than
enriched by the newcomers? Or will the vaunted Midwestern kindness falter too as
immigrant numbers continue to climb along with social ills that many established
residents associate with the new population?

That better nature has been tested in the Forks recently. The disappearance and
murder of a 22-year-old Minnesota woman last fall shook that traditionally
peaceful community along the Red River. The man charged with the crime is a
registered sex offender of Mexican origin.

According to The Grand Forks Herald's reports, Hispanics are feeling the
backlash, especially those in the small town of Crookston, Minn., where the
murder suspect grew up. They are demoralized and see their efforts to integrate
vanishing. On the radio, callers and commentators talk of closing the doors to
Mexicans.

Others, though, have no interest in vengeance and are, for instance, putting
their energies into establishing a scholarship endowment in the victim's memory
at the University of North Dakota, where she was a student. The lasting gesture
that tries to make some good out of a tragedy is part of the spirit I admire
most in Midwesterners. And it keeps me optimistic.

Marcela Sanchez's e-mail address is desdewash@washpost.com.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2004 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 230 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                         June 25, 2004 Friday 12:50 PM

Where to Find Federal Law Enforcement Jobs

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Eric Yoder, Special to washingtonpost.com

SECTION: JOBS

LENGTH: 961 words

HIGHLIGHT: Although the Justice Department, the parent agency of the Federal
Bureau of Investigations (FBI), is the first agency that typically comes to mind
when the topic is federal law enforcement, numerous other agencies also employ
law enforcement officers.


Although the Justice Department, the parent agency of the Federal Bureau of
Investigations (FBI), is the first agency that typically comes to mind when the
topic is federal law enforcement, numerous other agencies also employ law
enforcement officers.

Although these agencies offer a wide variety of occupational specialties, they
are all actively hiring. This is not only because of increased responsibilities
for a nation on a higher security footing, but also because they are losing many
of their more experienced officers to retirement.

For example, the FBI is hoping to increase its force of special agents by about
1,000 this year. And while proposals are pending to reorganize the Immigration
and Naturalization Service (INS) into two separate agencies, it will hire more
than 700 Border Patrol agents and more than 1,000 new immigration inspectors.
They will add as many as 5,000 new positions next year. And with new federal
prisons opening up, the Federal Bureau of Prisons expects to add some 1700
positions. Customs Service is adding nearly 300 inspectors.

The federal government maintains the USAJobs site as a one-stop shopping center
for federal vacancies, including those in the law enforcement field. However,
because not all jobs are posted there, it's also wise to check out the
individual agencies' sites.

Justice Department


The Justice Department has five major law enforcement-related branches: FBI,
INS, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Federal Bureau of Prisons and United
States Marshals Service.

The DEA commonly has positions in criminal investigative work such as special
agents, forensic chemists, and intelligence research specialists. Special
agents' responsibilities, which make up the agency's backbone, include
conducting surveillance, infiltrating drug trafficking organizations,
confiscating illegal drugs, and conducting money laundering investigations.

The U.S. Marshals Service provides security services in the federal court
system, such as transporting prisoners, maintaining custody of prisoners,
presenting and guarding prisoners in court, maintaining order in court, serving
civil and criminal warrants, and seizing property under court orders.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service



The INS has two main categories of law enforcement positions, border patrol
agents and immigration inspectors. Most border patrol agents work along the
U.S.- Mexico border. Immigration inspector positions are available nationwide
and are assigned points of entry to the country.


FBI special agents investigate violations of federal statutes such as organized
crime, civil rights violations, foreign counterintelligence, and drug
trafficking matters.

The Federal Bureau of Prisons provides security, medical care and other services
in federal prisons. Virtually all prisons have ongoing needs for correctional
officers, who make up the largest part of the agency workforce.

Treasury Department


The Treasury Department has four major law enforcement arms, the U.S. Customs
Service, the United States Secret Service, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms (BATF) and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).

The Secret Service is best known for protecting the president but it also
enforces laws on counterfeiting of currency and securities, forgery and altering
of government checks and bonds. It has both a uniformed and special agent
divisions.

IRS criminal investigation special agents investigate money laundering and tax
evasion. They also serve on multi-agency task forces with other federal
agencies, such as campaign protective assignments or undercover assignments. The
agency has a special need for experts in recovering data that may have been
encrypted, password protected, or hidden by other means.

The Customs Service is responsible for drug interdiction, import/export
inspection, collection of duties, and inspection of personal goods being brought
into the country. It also ensures the overall security of U.S. borders. Customs
inspectors are responsible for goods, seized drugs, and currency. Canine
enforcement officers work with drug-detector dogs to search vehicles, cargo
vessels, mail shipments, and baggage.

The BATF has the leading role among federal agencies for the investigation of
international arms trafficking, illegal arms movement, and use of explosives. It
also has regulatory authority over the manufacture, possession, receipt and
transfer of firearms, destructive devices, and explosives.

Other Agencies


Most large federal agencies have an office of inspector general (IG), which
conducts investigations into programs that agency administers. IGs look for
fraud, waste, abuse and potential criminal conduct. They collectively form the
President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency, which maintains a site with a
centralized job listing for IG investigative and law enforcement personnel and
links to individual IG pages. In addition, numerous federal programs have
investigative, accounting and auditing arms, some of whose employees fall under
the special employment provisions of federal law enforcement officers.

The Federal Aviation Administration seeks several thousand new federal air
marshals, who respond to criminal incidents aboard U.S. air carriers, as well as
other in-flight emergencies. The General Services Administration (GSA) operates
the Federal Protective Service, which provides security in federal buildings
owned or leased by the GSA.

While many positions in the U.S. Coast Guard are uniformed military, the agency
also has a civilian workforce that includes criminal investigative and inspector
positions.

<i>Editor's note: This article by Eric Yoder, was aquired by washingtonpost.com
on February 10, 2003.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2004 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 2, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants in Our Politics

BYLINE: Harold Meyerson

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 845 words


"Being a foreigner, being an immigrant," Elia Kazan, the great Turkish-born,
Anatolian Greek director who died this week, once mused. "I mean, I wasn't in
the society. I was rebellious against it."

The irony, of course, is that Kazan virtually defined our national culture at
the midpoint of the 20th century, directing such quintessentially American
classics as "Death of a Salesman" and "On the Waterfront." Which should hardly
be surprising. The immigrant rebellion against American society that Kazan
claimed to personify has been most typically a struggle against those who would
keep immigrants at society's margins, both legal and economic. From the Irish of
the 1840s to the Latin Americans, Asians and Africans of today, the object of
this least threatening of rebellions has been to secure the right to become an
American -- to speak not only to the nation but for it.

That's certainly the goal of the roughly 500 immigrants who pulled into
Washington yesterday afternoon on buses that brought them here from as far away
as Seattle and Los Angeles. The Immigrant Workers Freedom Riders, as they call
themselves, traveled across the country to dramatize their claim to full rights
from the nation that they are helping to build.

Today, the bus riders will become citizen (and non-citizen) lobbyists on Capitol
Hill. They want immigrants already working in the States to be able gain legal
residency and a path toward citizenship and to be able to bring their spouses
and children here as well.

Unlike their predecessors in the earlier great waves of immigration to the
United States, huge numbers of the immigrants who've come here in the past 25
years have done so outside the law. The American economy beckoned them, but the
polity -- as was not the case when the Irish, Italians, Germans and Russians
came here -- has not. For the first time in American history, then, we have a
huge immigrant population -- the 2000 Census says that 12.4 percent of the
national workforce is immigrant -- permanently consigned not even to
second-class citizenship but no citizenship at all.

And yet, as today's lobbyists make clear, a growing number of these non-citizen
Americans are finding ways to openly influence public policy even if they can't
vote. This week in California, as the recall contest comes down to its final
days, the largest get-out-the-vote efforts to keep Gray Davis in office will be
waged by unions, the most active of which have predominantly immigrant
memberships.

In Los Angeles the two most active unions during election season are invariably
the janitors of the Service Employees International Union and the waiters and
housekeepers of the Hotel and Restaurant Employees union. These two locals have
played a major role in mobilizing the new immigrant voters who have moved Los
Angeles and California to the left over the past decade.

At the moment, the campaign to turn out Latino immigrant voters seems one of the
few aspects of the Davis campaign that's going well. Most recent polls have
shown California Latinos almost evenly split on the recall, partly because some
Latinos want to ax Davis as a way to elect Cruz Bustamante.

But there is a dramatic gap between longtime Latino citizens and more recently
arrived immigrant Latino voters, most of whom have registered to vote only since
1994's Proposition 187 threatened to throw the children of the undocumented out
of public schools. In polling released last week by a consortium of groups
including the Pew Hispanic Center, 51 percent of English-speaking Latino voters
wanted to recall Davis, while just 39 percent of Spanish speakers felt the same
way. Other polling suggests this gap is far wider.

Much of this difference can be attributed to Davis's having signed legislation
permitting undocumented immigrants to get driver's licenses. The massive
campaign that some unions are waging among Spanish-language voters -- targeting
800,000 of them statewide -- accounts for this gap as well.

The votes of the Spanish speaking, of course, are nowhere near enough to keep
Davis in office, and in this election he may well lose more votes than he gains
for having signed that driver's license bill. But as Pete Wilson can attest, and
as Karl Rove fears, the Republicans can overplay their hand by campaigning
against immigrants.

In the meantime, the transformation of California politics unleashed by the
entry of immigrants into politics -- a transformation that a Schwarzenegger
victory can delay but not deny -- is already responsible for enactment of the
first paid family-leave program in the land and the likely enactment (if, as
expected, Davis signs the bill this week) of mandated employer-financed health
coverage. In this, California's new immigrants are following the path laid out
by the immigrant activists of the last century, who provided much of the vision
and support for the policies that became the core of the New Deal. Like their
predecessors, they are not just pounding on the doors of American society but
defining it for the better.

meyersonh@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              119 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 6, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Parents Study the Language of Learning;
Howard County Offers Help With Such Unfamiliar Phrases as PE Teacher, Field Trip

BYLINE: Ylan Q. Mui, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 986 words


The memory of her son's first day of school in the United States, four years
ago, still brings Seung Ja Park close to tears.

She cried that day, too. The Korean family had immigrated recently to Maryland,
and her son, Julius, had entered second grade speaking little or no English.
Park had been a teacher in her homeland, but U.S. schools seemed just as foreign
as the language.

"She was sending her son into a world where he did not know the language, did
not know anyone," said Young-chan Han, an outreach specialist for immigrant
families in the Howard County school system who translated for Park during a
recent interview. "It was that fear, that uncertainty."

Now, Park's son is a sixth-grader at Dunloggin Middle School in Ellicott City
and speaks perfect English. Her daughter, Ji Ho, a second-grader at nearby St.
John's Lane Elementary School, was 21/2 years old when the family came to the
United States, and she can happily make her way through "Amelia Bedelia" books.

But Park still needs help making sense of everything from report cards to
back-to-school night. So she, along with 15 other immigrant parents, signed up
for a new outreach program in Howard that teaches practical English used in the
classroom and helps bridge cultural differences.

Like many school systems in Washington's fast-growing suburbs, Howard has
stepped up services for immigrant families as the region becomes increasingly
diverse. The county's fastest growth has been among Asians, who make up about
7.5 percent of the population, according to census figures.

The county school system translates all of its information for parents into
Spanish, Korean and Urdu. But Florence Hu, assistant principal at St. John's
Lane, said miscommunication continues. There was the time, for instance, when
some Pakistani students mysteriously stopped eating lunch -- a call to the
parents uncovered that they were fasting for the Muslim holiday of Ramadan.

"I just feel there's a partnership between parents and children. They're a part
of each other," said Hu, who was born in Taiwan. "The most exciting development
stage happens during the school years, but because of the language difference
and cultural difference, this partnership is disconnected. [Immigrant] parents
were shut off from . . . children's learning process. We need to reconnect."

So Hu came up with the idea of an English class that would help parents learn
what a physical education instructor does, how to read a field trip permission
slip and what to say during a parent-teacher conference. The eight-week course
is held Tuesday evenings for parents of students at St. John's Lane, though Hu
eventually hopes to expand the program to other schools and counties. Two
English teachers volunteered to develop the curriculum for parents, while other
staff members watch over the children.

At the inaugural class Tuesday, Hu greeted parents in English as they walked
into a fourth-grade classroom and searched for their name tags. Most of the
parents were from Korea, Pakistan and Taiwan.

"Hello, how are you? Can you find your name?" she asked, inclining her head and
bowing slightly. Practicing American-style handshakes would come later.

The parents settled into the elementary school's pint-size desks with their No.
2 pencils and spiral-bound and marble composition notebooks. One woman flipped
through the New Little English Dictionary as teachers Pat Previdi and Mary
Belfrage went over the class objectives on the chalkboard: Ask and answer
questions. Identify people who work at school. Use vocabulary.

They began with a game that mirrors one their children play in class, called
inside/outside circles. Parents made two rings, one inside the other, then moved
around and asked each other questions: What is your name? Who is your child's
teacher? What grade is your child in?

There were nervous titters at first, and some responded in halting English. Park
answered slowly, glancing at the overhead projector with fill-in-the-blank
responses. But soon, everyone was chattering away, bragging about their children
in their native languages dotted with English.

"Some of you have a lot to talk about," Previdi said, laughing. Then: "Do I hear
English?" Park smiled sheepishly.

After the game, the teachers put together a who's who at the school. Many
parents have never had a gym or art class. No one had ever explained what
exactly a "media specialist" does.

Each parent got a slip of paper with a job description and worked in groups to
figure out who holds that position. Parents read their answers aloud in front of
the class after they were done. Most solved the problem, but some clearly were
still confused.

"I may have a fire drill," a nervous-looking woman read from her slip,
pronouncing each word carefully. "I don't know exactly what a fire drill means,
but I think custodian?"

Previdi and Belfrage exchanged glances and smiles. They hadn't anticipated that
one. They detoured from their lesson plan to explain that a fire drill does not
mean that the school is on fire; it's just a practice led by the assistant
principal. They added "fire drill" to the list of vocabulary words on the board,
and the parents dutifully copied it into their notebooks.

The night ended with a brief explanation of their children's "Friday folders,"
which teachers use to send home notes and seatwork at the end of each week.

The parents stared blankly at Previdi and Belfrage. No problem; they'll go over
it again next week, along with how to write an absentee note. Class dismissed.

As the parents filed out, their children rushed from a neighboring classroom to
meet them. Park's daughter, Ji Ho, grinned broadly, showing off the gap where
her two front teeth were. She handed Park a cutout of Tacky the Penguin that she
had made with construction paper while her mother sat in class.

"Your mommy was a good student," Previdi said to Ji Ho. "She did a good job."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              120 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 14, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants' Children Fuel Growth Among Latinos;
Native-Born Population Taking New Paths in Education, Workforce and Beliefs,
Researchers Say

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 1323 words


The U.S.-born children of immigrants are replacing their parents as the
fastest-growing generation in the Latino population, and the shift will have
profound effects on the country's largest minority group.

A report to be released today by the Pew Hispanic Center predicts that by 2020,
nearly half the growth in the nation's Latino population will be from the second
generation. Within seven years,  it is predicted to account for one in nine
school-age children. And through 2020,  it is forecast to make up one in four
new members of the nation's workforce.

The growing influence of those in the second generation, who will outnumber
their parents within two decades, will rewrite the profile of Hispanic life in
the United States. The children of immigrants are likely to move closer to the
mainstream than their parents -- marrying people from other backgrounds, for
example. Their political views are likely to change as well, becoming more
liberal on abortion, experts say, but less supportive of affirmative action.
Their earnings and education will surpass those of their parents, experts
predict, but will not close the gap with the Anglo majority.

"The biggest difference is that we're shifting from a process where the largest
component is Spanish-speaking immigrants -- where language and immigration
status were two enormous questions -- to growth of a population that is
English-speaking and native-born," said Roberto Suro, the Pew center's director.
"You totally move away from the issues that have been dominant. They have a
totally different set of issues than their parents do."

The report forecasts that Latinos of all generations will have an immense impact
on schools and employment because of high birthrates, because other groups are
not growing as quickly and because immigration will continue at a brisk pace.
Even though currently one in eight workers is Latino, the report forecasts that
their numbers in the labor force will grow more than all other groups combined
-- by 12.6 million by 2020, compared with 11.6 million for the rest of the
workforce.

The generational change could be seen in a dramatic way in the Washington area,
where immigration was the major force that drove up the Latino population by
nearly 90 percent in the 1990s. Although a majority of Latinos in the nation
were born in the United States, most in the metropolitan area are foreign-born.
The Washington area also has a disproportionately high number of well-educated
immigrants, who are in a better position to help their children achieve.

Fairfax County School Superintendent Daniel A. Domenech, who was born in Cuba,
has seen the generational change in his family.

"My children, who were born here, grew up as Americans. And they were certainly
proud of their culture, but they did not have the same issues I had," he said.
"I came not speaking a word of English. I had to deal with all those issues --
the accent, the prejudice, what have you. They grow up blending, acculturating,
being seamless with the majority of Americans, meeting much less resistance in
school or going for jobs."

His grown children, he said, use English in their daily lives and do not speak
Spanish well. Domenech added that he thinks eventually Latinos will be people
"whose culture may consist more of going to a Spanish restaurant than of what
they cook at home."

The Pew center's report is based on population projections by demographer
Jeffrey S. Passel, formerly of the Census Bureau and now of the Urban Institute.
He forecasts that the Latino population, now 35 million, will grow to 60 million
by 2020.

For three decades, that population has been redefined by a huge influx of
immigration, pushed by a 1965 law that opened doors to relatives of people
already here. Immigrants accounted for 45 percent of the nation's Hispanic
growth during that time, a larger share than any other generation during that
period. But now, even as immigration continues, the single largest share of
growth -- 47 percent through 2020 -- is coming from the second generation, the
Pew report says. It defines second generation as anyone with at least one
Hispanic immigrant parent.

The birthrate will reverse the dominance of immigrants in the Hispanic
population; their children will supplant them. By 2020, children of immigrants
will outnumber their parents by 21.7 million to 20.6 million, the report
projects. Further, 18 million more will be made up of Hispanics who are at least
third generation.

These children of immigrants are growing up in households where most of their
parents did not finish high school and many work at low-skilled jobs, such as in
construction or janitorial services. Most immigrant children, given better
opportunities, will surpass their parents in education and earnings, experts
say. Daughters are more likely to hold paying jobs than their mothers.

Even so, the second generation will have difficulty catching up with
non-Hispanic whites in socioeconomic terms, experts say, for a variety of
reasons. A parent's education level often predicts how well a child will do.
Many second-generation students attend poor schools. And they are growing up
during a government fiscal crisis that is resulting in cutbacks to community
colleges, loan funds and other programs that have helped students of past
generations.

By 2025, half of the second generation will be working-age adults, the Pew
report says. If current school dropout rates among Hispanics remain high, they
will have a hard time finding work.

Steven A. Camarota, research director of the Center for Immigration Studies,
said these children "are growing up in a very different world in terms of the
dynamics of assimilation" than did previous generations. Many well-paid
blue-collar jobs in mines and factories that did not require a college education
have disappeared, replaced by an economy in which jobs are increasingly at the
top or the bottom.

"How these kids do in the future is extraordinarily important to our country,
because they are a really big group," said Camarota, whose group favors limits
on immigration. "The stakes are very high."

As those in the second generation move from their parents' homes to their own,
they also will shed some of their parents' habits and beliefs. Although they
grow up hearing their parents tell them that their lives are better in the
United States, "the kids who were born here don't know about Mexico," said
Belinda Reyes of the Public Policy Institute of California. "They only compare
themselves to kids in the United States."

Rodolfo O. de la Garza, a Columbia University political scientist, said
second-generation Latinos are less religious than their parents and have more
liberal views on abortion. Ricardo Ramirez, a political science professor at the
University of Southern California, said immigrants tend to support affirmative
action more than their children do. Both said the children of Latino immigrants,
like their parents, do not necessarily favor more immigration, because it means
more competition for jobs.

But Ramirez and de la Garza said the children of Latino immigrants are more
likely to vote Democratic than Republican, in part because they support a strong
role for government. Ramirez said the GOP would have better luck courting
Hispanic immigrants than their children because the first generation is more
conservative on some issues.

The ascendance of the Latino second generation will pose opportunities and
potential pitfalls for those seeking to appeal to a group with growing numbers
but potentially less cohesion.

"Just having a translation [into Spanish] of information isn't enough," said
Sonia M. Perez, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza. "There
is going to be even more diversity in the population, not just in national
origin, but diversity in opinion, diversity in interests, diversity in what the
problems are. For marketers, this is not just a bloc."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              121 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 18, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Let the Immigrants Run?

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 360 words


As a naturalized citizen of the United States since 1970, I agree that
immigrants such as  Arnold Schwarzenegger, Mel Martinez, Jennifer Granholm and
Elaine Chao should have a shot at the highest office in the land ["Let
Immigrants Run," editorial, Oct. 10].

For generations, immigrants have come to these shores, adding their cultures and
stories while adopting the traditions and language of their new home. Within a
matter of years, many become successful Americans. After the 20-year citizenship
requirement currently proposed, they should be able to follow the American ideal
that "anybody can become president."

For more than two centuries, we have been tweaking our Constitution to provide
equal opportunities for all races, religions and genders. It is time we knocked
out this major roadblock to a united America.

MAURO E. MUJICA

Washington

The writer is chairman of U.S. English, a citizens' group dedicated to
preserving the role of English in the United States.

*

The Post seems to be making the case that amending the Constitution to allow
foreign-born citizens to run for president would do no harm in this day and age
-- certainly not the potential harm the Founders envisioned of tampering by
foreign powers in our affairs.

This is beside the point. The Constitution should be amended only when there is
a compelling need to do so for the good of our nation. A balanced federal budget
is a good thing in the abstract, but attempts to amend the Constitution to
mandate such have thus far been wisely turned away, rightly forcing political
give and take among legislators to work it out and remain accountable. Burning
of the American flag is a disgusting act, but again, we have so far resisted
attempts to go to the extreme measure of seeking a remedy by amending the
Constitution.

In the case of the presidency, we are a nation of nearly 300 million with no
shortage of native-born talent. What is the compelling interest in amending our
founding document to allow foreign-born citizens to run for president -- a
position only 43 people in our country's history have been given the honor and
responsibility of holding?

BRUCE BLOSIL

New York

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              122 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 23, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Dual Role Possible For Malvo's Mother;
Jamaican's Testimony Sought at Trials

BYLINE: Tom Jackman and Josh White, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: VIRGINIA BEACH Oct. 22


-- Prince William County prosecutors are seeking to have sniper suspect Lee Boyd
Malvo's mother reenter the United States to testify against her son's alleged
co-conspirator, John Allen Muhammad, sources close to the case said Wednesday.

The prosecutors have agreed to allow Una James, a Jamaican native, to remain in
the country and testify on her son's behalf at his trial next month in nearby
Chesapeake, Va., the sources said.

After Malvo and Muhammad were arrested in the sniper shootings  in October 2002,
authorities questioned James, who acknowledged that she had entered the country
illegally. She was deported and ordered not to try to come back.

But one source close to the case said  James would be allowed to return to the
country to testify at the sniper trials under a temporary immigration "parole."
Michael Nance, a Seattle criminal defense lawyer who represented James briefly
after her son was arrested, said that there was discussion during the
immigration case of such a return  by James and that "it was always my
understanding that it could be done, that either side could bring her in."

Nance  said James also had immigration lawyers representing her in Seattle;
those lawyers did not return calls Wednesday. Michael S. Arif, one of Malvo's
attorneys, said he could not confirm that James would be returned to this
country, but he said that "she would certainly be a welcome addition to the
defense effort for her son."

Malvo's attorneys have tried to obtain James's testimony, believing that she
would support their assertion that Muhammad, 42, dominated Malvo, 18, and
manipulated him into participating in the sniper shootings. James has told
television interviewers in Jamaica that she was suspicious of Muhammad from the
time they first met, calling him a "demon."

Malvo's  attorneys tried to arrange her testimony by video from Kingston,
Jamaica. Fairfax County prosecutors objected to teleconferencing, saying they
wanted to cross-examine witnesses in person. Fairfax Circuit Court Judge Jane
Marum Roush said both sides had to agree and would not allow the video
testimony.

But Prince William County prosecutors want James's testimony, too. They do not
have any witnesses who saw Muhammad fire the sniper rifle, so they are using
other testimony to try to  establish Muhammad's role as the leader of the
"sniper team."

That theory of the case is similar to Malvo's defense. The teenager's attorneys
hope to convince the jury in his  trial that his responsibility is diminished
because he was "under the spell" of Muhammad. James, presumably, would assist
both Muhammad's prosecutors and Malvo's defenders, the sources said.

Immigration matters are now handled by the federal Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services. Mike Gilhooly, a spokesman for the bureau, said he could
not discuss James's case because of privacy concerns. But he said federal law
"does allow us to authorize aliens who might otherwise be inadmissible to enter
the United States in order to testify in court cases or for other law
enforcement purposes."

Malvo, also born in Jamaica, faces trial in the Oct. 14, 2002, slaying of Linda
Franklin outside a Home Depot in  Fairfax County. Muhammad's trial is underway
here in the Oct. 9, 2002, killing of Dean H. Meyers in Prince William County.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              123 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 30, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Voters' Split Ticket;
Some U.S. Citizens Also Cast Ballots in Homeland

BYLINE: Phuong Ly and Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1181 words


The presidential candidate swept into the restaurant to the cheers of more than
600 supporters and the jaunty beat of a patriotic song. Volunteers at the
entrance hawked T-shirts emblazoned with slogans. Suburban voters who had paid
$20 apiece to attend pushed past reporters and photographers for a chance to
shake the candidate's hand.

The rally at Maxim Palace Chinese restaurant in Falls Church last week had all
the trappings of an American political campaign -- except that the candidate,
Lien Chan, is running for office in Tai- wan.

Just as American candidates are courting the growing legions of Asian and Latino
immigrants, so, too, are contenders from overseas. Presidential hopefuls from El
Salvador and Taiwan, running in close elections slated for March, have made the
Washington suburbs and other U.S. cities prime campaign stops this fall.

The candidates look to these expatriates not just for their financial support or
the influence they wield with relatives back home. They also want their votes.
It is a trend, political scientists say, that could have profound implications
on policies abroad as well as political participation here.

The attention to politics overseas is particularly strong among newer arrivals,
whose sense of identity is tied much more closely to their country of origin,
immigration experts say.

Consider Francisco Pacheco, a former leftist guerrilla in El Salvador's civil
war who sought asylum here eight years ago. Now that the political party that
grew out of the guerrilla movement has a shot at winning the presidency, Pacheco
says, he can't imagine sitting out the campaign.

"For more than 20 years, I fought to change my country for better, and I still
have that goal," said Pacheco, who settled in Silver Spring.

Last month, Pacheco and about 40 other volunteers representing the Farabundo
Marti National Liberation Front, or FMLN, in the Washington area helped arrange
for the party's candidate, Schafik Handal, to visit a Washington church and a
Northern Virginia restaurant. Tomorrow night,  the group is scheduled to sponsor
a fundraiser at a D.C club.

Politics abroad has its allure for longtime residents as well. Yuan "Tony" Lin,
who helped coordinate the rally for the Taiwanese candidate, immigrated 20 years
ago. Yet he considers it natural to be involved in politics back home even
though he is a U.S. citizen, votes in U.S. elections and owns an interior design
store in Rockville.

"We would do anything to defend the United States. This is our country now,"
said Lin, who plans to bring his family back to Taiwan to cast ballots for
president. "But we still have emotions, friends and relatives in Taiwan. We
still care about the people there."

And the foreign politicians care about their U.S. constituents, who can feel
disenfranchised here, said Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery), the first Latina to
serve in the Maryland House of Delegates. Latin American leaders have lobbied
U.S. lawmakers on issues such as driver's licenses for undocumented immigrants
and work permits.

To the extent that immigrants living here tend to be pro-American, their
involvement in politics back home could prove helpful to the United States. Many
Washington area Salvadorans say they won't back a leader who creates tensions
with their new country.

Elmer Arias, who owns the Falls Church restaurant that Handal visited, said he
stressed that message to the candidate. "They need to understand that this
country has been supporting El Salvador for many years," Arias said.

There is concern in immigrant communities, however -- particularly after the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks -- that involvement in overseas politics could
raise questions of loyalty.

Hung Nguyen, who organizes voter registration drives in Fairfax County, said
voting in another country's elections gives fuel to unfair accusations that
immigrants aren't "real Americans." He also worries that interest in overseas
politics could divert energy from those here.

"If you're voting in another country, your allegiance is elsewhere," said
Nguyen, who emigrated as a child from Vietnam. "You're saying your loyalty here
is a matter of convenience."

To some extent, immigrants have always kept up with homeland politics. But
cheaper airfares, readily available phone cards and the popularity of satellite
TV have made connections much easier to maintain. U.S. law does not prohibit
voting in another country's election, and some foreign governments are doing
what they can to bind expatriates to the country they left behind.

Mexico, which accounts for more than a quarter of the foreign-born population in
the United States with 7.8 million people, changed its laws in 1998 to allow
dual citizenship. During the 2000 presidential election, polling places were set
up near the U.S. border, and thousands crossed back into Mexico to vote.

Mexican immigrants, who number about 65,000 in the Washington region, are
lobbying for the right to cast absentee ballots in the 2006 election. Immigrants
from El Salvador and Guatemala, which is holding an election next month, are
also asking for absentee ballots.

Those with asylum status or temporary visas that would prevent them from
reentering the United States cannot go home to vote.

Although Taiwanese officials could not say how many of the roughly 2.4 million
people of Chinese descent here -- 69,000 in the Washington region -- vote in
homeland elections or donate to campaigns, they said the number is likely small.

The same is true of Salvadorans, who number about 85,000 in the region and
765,000 nationwide, according to the 2000 Census. But that might be changing.
"I'm hearing a lot of buzzings about community leaders who are already planning
to organize charters to bring people to vote," said El Salvador's ambassador,
Rene Leon.

Even if the residents abroad do not vote, foreign politicians gave good reason
to heed their views: El Salvador receives an estimated $2 billion from
expatriates every year -- the country's largest source of foreign currency,
surpassing all exports and foreign investment.

Immigrants here can also influence relatives back home. "If you cannot vote,
call your friends and relatives or write them letters," the Taiwanese candidate
Lien, flanked by U.S. and Taiwanese flags, urged his supporters at the rally.
"Ten, 20, 100, 1,000 of them, tell them to vote."

Lien's speech and the wild applause were beamed to East Asia via one Hong Kong
and three Taiwanese TV stations.

Still, such political fervor among immigrants may not last beyond one
generation, experts say. Lin, who organized the Taiwan political event in Falls
Church, has tried to get his children, graduates of Thomas S. Wootton High
School and the University of Maryland, interested in Taiwanese politics.

But Ping Lin, 28, admits that she worries more about U.S. taxes than Taiwan's
relationship with China. When told that her father expects the entire family to
vote in Taiwan's election in March, she looked surprised.

"I thought I was going to Taiwan for a vacation," she said. "I didn't know we
were voting."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              124 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 31, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Burgess's 'Tracings' Rooted in His Family Tree

BYLINE: Lisa Traiger, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: Weekend; T22

LENGTH: 630 words


THE CURLED edges and faded sepia tones of old family photographs. Stories culled
bit by bit from family gatherings. Hundred-year-old ship manifests waiting to be
rediscovered in archives. These became the starting point for choreographer Dana
Tai Soon Burgess's evening-length "Tracings," a new work premiering Thursday at
the Kennedy Center's Terrace Theater that honors a century of Korean migration
to America.

"Tracings" tells one story, that of Burgess's great-grandfather, Chai Chin
Hyung, who arrived in Honolulu on the SS Gaelic on March 30, 1903, disembarking
from one of the first ships carrying Korean immigrants. They came to Hawaii to
escape political hardship from the Japanese at home, and they were hired as
cheap labor to work in the sugar cane and pineapple plantations. For Burgess,
this isn't only his great-grandfather's story, it's the story of the United
States: "I'm more interested in the universal experiences that occurred, because
we are a country of immigrants."

Burgess likens "Tracings" -- part of the joint Kennedy Center-Smithsonian
Institution Korean American Centennial Project -- to a memory album. "The
continuous 65-minute work," he says, is "a collage of emotional situations and
the decision-making" that Korean immigrants had to contend with as they left
their homeland and set out for a new world, a new life and a new identity.

In founding the contemporary dance group Dana Tai Soon Burgess & Company in
1992, the choreographer sought ways in which he could integrate his own Asian
American background with the Western aesthetics of modern dance.

He has succeeded on many levels, developing a Washington-based company with
growing national and international stature that integrates both Western and
Eastern sensibilities. (On Thursday, Burgess will be presented with the Pola
Nirenska Award, for making an outstanding contribution to dance in the
Washington area.) His works value a sense of design, often embracing sculptural
or architectural elements.

Time and how it is used and marked also represents for Burgess his Asian roots.
"Because I'm an Amerasian, there's some in-between place that makes sense to
me," he explained recently.  "In Western dance," he continues, "time is often
linear and it feels faster. The Eastern sensibility is a little more cyclic.
Something is constantly going in a circle, it goes back on itself, then moves
forward."

For "Tracings," the cycle of immigration and assimilation, leaving and arriving,
informs the work. The choreographer researched his great-grandfather's story as
he left Korea in the wake of a Japanese takeover and persecution. Koreans
fighting for independence found aid and escape from American Christian
missionaries who saw opportunities to recruit workers.

Three generations of Burgess's family on his mother's side labored on the
plantations. Burgess's grandfather eventually rose to plantation foreman, and
his mother, Anna Kang Burgess, now a visual artist, was born on a Del Monte
pineapple plantation and worked the fields when she was young.  She makes a
cameo appearance in the opening moments of the work.

"My family was large and close-knit," he says, "but though I'd heard little
vignettes, I didn't have an idea of the larger stories." Nor did he understand
how unrelentingly difficult and exhausting plantation labor was until he began
researching the living and working conditions of early Korean immigrants. "It
feels gratifying to honor my family and all of the immigrants who came over in
1903. Their stories are just amazing. That spirit to jump into the void and
become a new American is quite courageous."

DANA TAI SOON BURGESS & COMPANY -- "Tracings," Thursday and  Nov. 7 at 7:30 at
the Kennedy Center's Terrace Theater. 202-467-4600. www.kennedy-center.org.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              125 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Fox Stands Behind Juarez Killing Probe;
Mexican Rejects Widespread Criticism

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A17

LENGTH: 779 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Oct. 31


President Vicente Fox said Friday that he had no evidence of corruption or
incompetence in investigations into the unsolved killings of scores of young
women in the border city of Ciudad Juarez, despite a torrent of criticism from
human rights groups.

Amnesty International and other rights groups, members of the U.S. Congress and
victims' families have alleged that investigations into Mexico's most notorious
killing spree have been poisoned by fabricated and lost evidence, shoddy
investigative techniques and police torture of suspects.

"I respect their opinion, but we haven't found those conditions in these cases,"
Fox said in an interview, adding that he was satisfied with the investigations
into the decade-long string of killings.

Fox spoke at the presidential complex, Los Pinos, before a three-day swing next
week through the border states of Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. There, he will
meet government, civic and business leaders to bolster economic ties between the
two nations and press for immigration reforms to aid Mexicans who want to work
in the United States.

While immigration reform is Mexico's top foreign policy priority, there is no
more pressing issue along the border than the Juarez murders, which have
resulted in extensive international criticism from human rights and women's
groups.

Fox said investigators had made good progress in their work on the killings. In
the last 10 years, about 100 women in Juarez, many of them young factory workers
who were also raped and mutilated, have been killed in a pattern identified with
these attacks.

"The government of Mexico has always seen what it wants to see," said Eric
Olson, of Amnesty International in Washington. "The government of President Fox
has failed to deal with this issue from the outset."

Fox said many of the murders have  been solved. Olson said Amnesty International
believes none of the cases has been properly resolved. He said many cases had
been tainted by confessions obtained by police torture.

Rep. Hilda Solis (D-Calif.), who led a four-member congressional delegation to
Ciudad Juarez two weeks ago, said in an interview that "a high level of
incompetence" had marred the investigations. She said victims' family members
told her of "mind-boggling" examples of mishandled evidence and suspects
tortured into confessing.

"I have to believe that the president may not be given all the information," she
said. "I know that it's somewhat uncomfortable for outsiders to come in and make
these statements. But this is an international humanitarian crisis that is going
on. The whole world is waiting to see what is going to happen."

A report issued by the Washington Office on Latin America, an advocacy group
that organized the congressional delegation to Juarez, said, "It was clear that
the Mexican authorities have not done enough to prevent violence against women,
investigate women's murders, or respond adequately to the concerns of the
victims' families."

The report also concluded that "families of the victims are ignored, deceived,
and oftentimes harassed by the authorities," and that "families of the victims
have no faith in the state authorities to conduct effective or serious
investigations." It said, "the authorities commit human rights violations in the
attempt to 'solve' the murders" and that "women continue to be murdered and the
local authorities have not improved investigations."

Fox noted that state officials are responsible for investigating murders in
Mexico. But he said that in recent months, the federal government has assigned
more than 500 police to patrol in Juarez and that it has begun assisting state
authorities in investigations in some of the cases.

He said the federal government had established a commission of social, economic
and justice officials to comprehensively review the killings and the conditions
in Juarez that might have contributed to them.  Two weeks ago, Fox appointed a
well-known human rights official, Maria Guadalupe Morfin, to help coordinate
efforts among federal, state and local officials.

"Our first priority is to make sure that we have a new environment where this
kind of crime does not repeat," Fox said. "Now we have a program to make sure
women are fully respected in Juarez; the mechanisms that are in effect right now
are getting results, important results."

He said crime was down 15 percent in Juarez in the three months since the
federal police presence there was increased.

"If we keep these actions consistent, I'm sure we will have a Ciudad Juarez that
will be totally different, a Ciudad Juarez that will have tranquility for its
citizens and will have rule of law," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              126 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Undocumented but Not Unwanted

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 223 words


The recent immigration raids on cleaning crews at 61 Wal-Mart stores in 21
states [Business, Oct. 25] rounded up 250 undocumented minimum-wage workers.

A federal grand jury investigation of what Wal-Mart executives knew about their
contractor's hiring policies and when they knew it probably will reveal the
obvious: that America makes massive use of an underground labor force -- day
laborers, agricultural workers, hospitality employees, etc.

Most of these workers are here to stay, and by consumption of their labor and
skills, we implicitly accept their presence. Yet they remain expendable.

Wal-Mart Stores Inc., rather than bite the bullet and stand up for those who
clean  its  buildings, wants to feign ignorance and go after the "culprits." It
plans to review the citizenship status of all 1.1 million of its U.S. employees.
U.S. commerce cannot live openly with undocumented workers, but it cannot live
without them either.

The real regulator of immigration is not raids on Wal-Mart or the immigration
agents along the U.S.-Mexico border, it is the job market. And as long as this
country has a demand for cheap,  undocumented labor -- the labor most easy to
exploit -- an army of workers will be available to fill those jobs, no matter
how high the fences and how sophisticated the detection equipment.

FRED MILLS

Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              127 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 5, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

POP NOTES

SECTION: Style; C05

LENGTH: 282 words


Reversal of Fortune: Rapper Slick Rick (Ricky Walters)  has been ordered
released from the Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center in
Florida, where he has been held in legal limbo for 17 months. A federal judge
ruled Friday  that the Bureau of Immigration Affairs  erred in 1997 when it
ordered the U.K. native deported because of a 1991 attempted-murder conviction
in this country, saying the decision denied Walters due process.

The ruling also reinstated a Bureau of Immigration Affairs waiver, issued in
1995,  that allowed Walters to stay in the United States. It's  not known
exactly when the rapper will be released . . . Ailing: Britney Spears has
canceled  an appearance at the MTV Europe Music Awards later this week, citing
illness. According to a spokesman for her record label, the pop singer returned
home to Louisiana over the weekend suffering from a throat infection and the flu
. . . Good Works: Missy Elliott has signed on as spokeswoman for Break the
Cycle, a Los Angeles domestic-abuse prevention group. According to Elliott's Web
site, she's launching a $5 million fundraising and awareness campaign for the
group, as well as donating proceeds from her "Where My Girls At?" tour.
Elliott's  new album, "This Is Not a Test," is due out Nov. 25 . . . In
Memoriam: Friends and relatives of the late Run-DMC DJ Jam Master Jay (Jason
Mizell) gathered in Queens last week to remember the hip-hop star on the first
anniversary of his  slaying. Police say they have pursued several leads in the
case, including some that suggest Mizell was killed in a dispute over money, but
the shooting remains unsolved.

-- Compiled by K. Wilcox

from Web and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              128 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 10, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Working Solution

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 393 words


MORE THAN A THIRD of the Senate has signed up to co-sponsor it, and a good
number of House members have too. Business leaders really want it; so do trade
union leaders. Surprisingly, on an extremely divided Capitol Hill, the bill that
appears to be gaining support affects one of the country's most controversial
issues: immigration reform. Last week Mexican President Vicente Fox met with
governors of three border states -- Arizona, New Mexico and Texas -- to discuss
the same initiative. Now is a good time for Congress to consider making space in
its schedule to get this bill done this year.

Although immigration reform proposals are many, the one attracting interest at
the moment is unusual because it is the product of a long series of negotiations
among agribusiness, United Farm Workers of America and a wide range of
politicians. Sponsored in the Senate by Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Larry E.
Craig (R-Idaho) and in the House by Howard L. Berman (D-Calif.) and Chris Cannon
(R-Utah), the bill deals with the thorny problem of migrant farm workers -- some
1.6 million people, at least half of whom are thought to be illegal. Farmers
across the country depend on these mostly Mexican workers but find it nearly
impossible to employ them legally. At the moment, some enter on a temporary visa
scheme, but the system is so burdensome and bureaucratic for both employers and
workers that only some 50,000 people manage to use it.

The legislation would amend the temporary visa scheme to cover more workers.
Critically, the bill also offers temporary visas to people who are already in
this country and can prove they have been and still are legitimately employed.
This program, while it would not solve the problem of the 8 million other
illegal aliens in this country, would allow at least some workers to come and go
freely, to return home during the off season and to function legitimately within
the American legal system. It would also add to American domestic security --
more people crossing the border would have visas -- and prevent some of the
terrible border deaths that are now so common they barely make the news. This
country must finally  recognize the existence of immigrant farm workers. There
isn't much point insisting that they shouldn't be here, in theory, when the food
industry, in practice, would not function without them.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              129 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 11, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Scholar Confronts 'Ugly Face of America'

SECTION: A Section; A17

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


Muzaffar Iqbal, a Canadian professor, recalls his stomach tightening as a U.S.
immigration officer took his passport, bearing stamps from Saudi Arabia,
Pakistan and Kazakhstan, and ran it through a scanner last December. Then the
man said: "Come with me, sir."

Iqbal, who was born in Pakistan in 1954 and moved to Canada in 1979, had been
invited to Washington by Georgetown University's Center for Christian-Muslim
Understanding, to take part in planning a conference.

But now he was being diverted. At a facility at Toronto's Pearson Airport where
travelers go through U.S. immigration checks, he was led down a corridor of
temporary offices. He came to a room where 10 other people were waiting in
various states of agitation.

Iqbal knew that a few months earlier, officials in Ottawa had issued a travel
advisory that U.S. immigration officials were paying special attention to
Canadians born in Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria. (Pakistan, Saudi Arabia
and Yemen were later added to the list.) Canadians protested. The minister of
natural resources, Herb Dhaliwal, who was born in India, called the policy "the
ugly face of America."

In the room, Iqbal waited and waited, and missed his flight. Finally, an agent
took him to a small room where a sign on the wall said everything would be
recorded and videotaped. The agent took Iqbal's passport. "You are a Pakistani
citizen," the agent said, according to Iqbal.

"I said, 'No, I'm a Canadian citizen. You are holding my Canadian passport in
your hand.' "

"Yes, but you were born in Pakistan." The agent looked at his passport and said,
"You've been to Saudi Arabia, Kazakhstan."

"Yes."

"What were you doing there?"

"Research," began Iqbal, who founded the Center for Islam and Science in Canada
and had done postdoctoral work at the Montreal Neurological Institute of McGill
University. He recalled telling the agent that he had traveled to those
countries as part of efforts to help develop scientific institutions in Muslim
countries.

The agent took Iqbal to a smaller room and said he had to register. He gave him
forms and started asking questions about his background. "Then I realized,"
Iqbal said, that "this was the famous NSEERS," the National Security Entry-Exit
Registration System, "and I would have to be fingerprinted and photographed. And
I realized if you go to the United States, you are supposed to report every
move."

He asked an agent: "Do you think I'm a security threat to your country?"

The reply was: "I'm just doing my job. If I don't do it, I will be fired."

"I said, 'I don't want to go to your country,' " Iqbal recalled. "I took my
passport and I just left quickly." Iqbal said he has decided to stay away from
the United States "until they remove this condition."

--  DeNeen L. Brown

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              130 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 20, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Trade Lawyer Gunter Heinrich von Conrad Dies

SECTION: Metro; B08

LENGTH: 365 words


Gunter Heinrich von Conrad, 68, an international trade lawyer, died of an
apparent heart attack Nov. 13 at his apartment in Recklinghausen, Germany. He
was a resident of McLean and was traveling on business.

Dr. von Conrad was born in Cologne, Germany. He and his family immigrated to the
United States after World War II. He served in the Army and became a U.S.
citizen. He received a doctorate in jurisprudence from the University of Cologne
in 1963 and then completed legal studies at George Washington University,
receiving a master's degree in comparative law in 1965.

In 1967, Dr. von Conrad joined the Washington office of the international trade
law firm of Barnes, Richardson & Colburn, and he practiced throughout his
career. He became managing partner in 1974, dividing his time between
Washington, New York, Geneva and Bonn, where he represented numerous U.S. and
foreign interests on international trade, customs and immigration issues before
administrative agencies, federal courts and the White House.

Among his areas of special expertise were anti-dumping and unfair trade actions,
national security trade restrictions, international tariff negotiations and U.S.
regulation of imported steel products.

Dr. von Conrad retired in 2000.

In the 1970s, Dr. von Conrad was a columnist for the Washington Journal, a
German-language news weekly. He was an adjunct professor of law at Georgetown
University, a guest instructor at German universities, an author of
German-language publications on U.S. trade law and a sponsor of internships for
foreign students studying U.S. legal systems.

In 2000, Dr. von Conrad was awarded the Bundesverdienst Kreuz, the highest order
of merit awarded by the German government to private citizens, for his
professional, philanthropic and charitable accomplishments.

Dr. von Conrad was a lay leader and a lay preacher in the Washington German
Lutheran Church.

His primary avocation was sailing, and he participated in races on the
Chesapeake Bay and in the Atlantic Ocean.

Survivors include his wife of 45 years, Margret of McLean; a daughter, Carol van
Baal of Bonn; a son, Dr. Yorck von Conrad of Bethesda; a brother; and two
granddaughters.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              131 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 20, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

New Hotline Gives Koreans A Helpful Connection

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Howard Extra; T03

LENGTH: 707 words


The calls usually come in the evenings, sometimes up to 15 a night. A Korean
woman fears being deported if she leaves her abusive husband. Another immigrant
doesn't understand why her teenage daughter is becoming so Americanized and
insists on going out on weekends. A son calls to ask how his father can apply
for Medicaid benefits.

Launched Nov. 3, an information hotline staffed by Korean-speaking volunteers
has become widely used by Howard County immigrants and those from surrounding
suburbs who feel more comfortable seeking advice from someone who speaks their
native language.

The hotline, sponsored by the Korean American Community Association of Howard
County, is staffed by volunteers from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
Callers are referred to county agencies, nonprofit services or private
psychologists and counselors. They also are often given an explanation of the
cultural differences between the United States and their homeland.

Sue Song, the association's president, said language barriers and a cultural
shame about asking for help make the hotline a popular option for immigrants.
Many residents are also unaware of services, such as counseling for domestic
violence, which is more of a taboo in South Korea than in the United States, she
said.

"In our culture, it's not okay to ask for help," said Song, a consultant on
mental health issues who practices in Baltimore and on the Eastern Shore. "They
don't want to be perceived as a failure."

The calls to Care Line, which are confidential, show there were needs that often
went unheard, organizers said.

Howard County has become home to nearly 6,200 people of Korean descent, a 161
percent increase since 1990, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Some Korean
American leaders think the actual figure is at least twice as high because many
immigrants arrived after the 2000 Census, when the count was taken.

The hotline and training for its volunteers are being paid for with a $20,000
grant from the philanthropic Horizon Foundation in Columbia and another $20,000
that was raised through private donations and a classical music concert held by
the Korean Association. Nearly 700 people attended the concert in October.

"This is a way we can reach out and help people," said Rep. Elijah E. Cummings
(D-Md.), who was one of several political leaders at the fundraiser. "All of us
at some point in our lives have been like a blind person at a busy highway,
waiting for someone."

The hotline is the second initiative launched recently to help immigrants better
understand and access county services. In September, volunteers from a Latino
advocacy group started holding "office hours" on Tuesday and Thursday evenings
at Dasher Green-Owen Brown School in Columbia.

Ayudo Centro, or "help center," as the initiative is called, is designed to
encourage Spanish-speaking immigrants to ask bilingual volunteers for
information and referrals. About a handful of people drop by during the evenings
to get information about English classes in the county or for someone to
translate a government letter they've received, said Viviana Simon, chairman of
the board of directors for Alianza de la Communidad, which means community
alliance.

The organization has received about $22,000 in grants from the Horizon
Foundation, the Episcopal Diocese of Maryland and St. John the Evangelist Roman
Catholic Church.

Korean Association leaders say they want to expand their services and plan to
seek funding from the county as well.

Six volunteers have been trained, but more may be needed to staff the hotline,
said Sylvia Kim, who coordinates the volunteers. The group is also maintaining a
database of calls to help track what types of services are requested the most.

"Now that the community knows the Care Line number, I'm afraid the calls will
increase," Kim said. "I'm afraid of complaints from the community about, 'I
called them and nobody answered.' "

The popularity of the hotline may mean that attitudes among Koreans about
seeking help can change, organizers say.

Kim said at the end of most calls, the immigrants thank volunteers for
listening. Some callers promise to ring back and report any problems or
progress.

The number for the Care Line is 410-461-1088.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              132 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 28, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Special Case

SECTION: Editorial; A40

LENGTH: 448 words


CONSIDERING THE number of applicants, the inadequate computer systems and the
famously overworked and underpaid staff, it is no wonder that the U.S.
immigration bureaucracy makes mistakes. Every once in a while, though, a
controversial immigration case comes along that  reflects deeper problems with
the system. The detention of Malik Jarno, a mentally retarded teenager from
Guinea, is one such case.

As in many such stories, some of the details are murky. According to Amnesty
International, Mr. Jarno arrived in this country via Paris, on what proved to be
a false passport, that had been given to him by a guardian. In a garbled manner,
he asked for political asylum. Assessing the truth of this claim was difficult,
because he spoke no English and could not read or write. Eventually, though,
claims that his parents had been killed in tribal fighting and his house
bulldozed were partially upheld by an investigation carried out in Guinea by an
officer of the U.S. Agency for International Development. Claims that his real
age on arrival in this country was 16 were also upheld, by the Guinean embassy's
confirmation of the authenticity of his birth certificate. Mr. Jarno has
nevertheless been kept in prison with adult criminals since his arrival nearly
three years ago. In fact, Amnesty contacted him after hearing that he had spent
his first 81/2 months in prison without being processed in any way at all. He is
now at risk of being deported back to Guinea, where he has no family to support
him.

Although the Department of Homeland Security claims to have been establishing a
list of lawyers  equipped to deal with pro bono child immigration cases, Mr.
Jarno's case proves that the system is still deeply flawed. Despite official
insistence that the system works well for juvenile refugees who enter this
country alone, almost everything that could have gone wrong for Mr. Jarno did.
When officials were shown proof that Mr. Jarno was only 16, they responded by
moving him into solitary confinement. Mr. Jarno, who has the support of
Amnesty's lawyers as well as some members of Congress, is probably better
protected than others who have no legal assistance at all. The fact that he
remains in prison, at risk of deportation, following a capricious legal process,
nevertheless makes a mockery of this country's laws on political asylum and
refugees. We hope that the office of Asa Hutchinson, undersecretary for border
security, will see fit to prevent his deportation. In the longer term, Sens.
Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Sam Brownback (R-Kan.) have proposed legislation
to upgrade child immigration services. Mr. Jarno's case is another reason to
listen to them.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              133 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 7, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Churches Adopt African Aura As Role of Immigrants Grows

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 1340 words


On Faith appears the first Sunday of each month.

As the somber notes of the hymn sounded from the organ, the parishioners of St.
John's Episcopal/Anglican Church filed to the altar to receive Communion and a
blessing from the priest.

Then it was time to get down.

Clapping in rhythm, the priest and congregation of more than 200 people, most of
them African and Caribbean immigrants, burst into the song "Jesus Never Fails."
Women wearing vibrantly patterned tunics danced down the center aisle. Two choir
members shook castanets, and one man banged a small drum. A handful of older,
white parishioners, who had started attending the church decades ago when it was
a predominantly white crowd, refrained from clapping -- though they couldn't
help but bob their heads to the beat.

The scene at the 94-year-old Prince George's County church captured the
distinctly African influence that is sweeping into many area worship services.
Christianity is growing faster in Africa than on any other continent. And as the
number of immigrants from Nigeria, Liberia, Ethiopia and Sierra Leone grows, the
fervor of African worship is being infused into churches here.

About 100,000 African-born people live in the Washington region, a major
immigration hub that is home to about 10 percent of the total U.S. population of
Africans. Scholars estimate that about half are Christians, and the rest are
Muslims or practice indigenous African religions.

Betty Klimek, 64, said the services at St. John's have become less formal than
what she was used to, but "they're not that drastically different."

"My only objection is to the wine; it's a little stronger than I like," she said
of Communion. "But they believe in God. The thing the church is supposed to do
is to help the people who are there. In our case, the people are just from
different parts of the world."

In fact, scholars say, the African immigrants' brand of Christianity hark back
to traditions that once held sway at many mainstream U.S. churches but that have
faded over several decades. With services that typically run at least two hours,
the African Christians tend to emphasize evangelizing, a more literal reading of
the Bible and a conservative stance on such social issues as gay marriage.

Jacob Olupona, a professor at the University of California at Davis who is a
leading scholar on African churches, calls the immigrants "reverse
missionaries."

The majority of African Christians in the United States are Pentecostal and are
rapidly planting churches across the country. Many others belong to the Anglican
Communion -- which has half its worldwide membership in Africa -- and have
joined Episcopal dioceses in the United States.

"They're bringing a revitalization of spirituality," said Olupona, whose father
was an Episcopal priest in Nigeria. "For centuries, the West took Christianity
to Africa. The Africans are now of age and of the position to bring Christianity
back to the West."

Most of the region's African immigrants arrived in the past 15 years, partly
because of the U.S. government's issuance of "diversity visas" to a wider range
of nationalities. The majority speak English and are well-educated
professionals, enabling them to adapt to their new homes more quickly than other
immigrant groups have.

Until about a decade ago, St. John's, a small stone church in downtown Mount
Rainier, had a congregation that was becoming smaller and aging. Now, children
fill the Sunday school classes, the choir has formed again and the church
newsletter has gone back into production. About 100 Nigerian immigrants attend
the Igbo-language service, and parishioners from Sierra Leone, Ghana, Liberia
and the Caribbean join the white and African American congregants at the
English-language service. Just one member of the church leadership is white; the
others are African immigrants.

Even at some predominantly white Episcopal churches, African immigrants have key
leadership positions. At Episcopal Church of the Ascension in Gaithersburg,
where less than one-quarter of the nearly 600 parishioners are African and
Caribbean immigrants and there is no foreign-language service, the senior warden
this year is a Liberian immigrant.

Other African newcomers have planted offshoots of churches based on their home
continent. Bethel World Outreach Ministries International, a nondenominational
church in downtown Silver Spring, is connected to a church in Liberia and was
formed in 1990 by a handful of refugees who had fled civil war. The church
boasts more than 2,000 members from various African nations, with services in
English and French.

Half a mile away, the eight-year-old Jesus House, DC attracts more than 1,000
people to its weekday and Sunday services, which are conducted in English. The
Pentecostal church, with a sanctuary of glass and brick, is the largest of about
80 parishes in the United States that have ties to the Redeemed Church of Christ
in Nigeria. Most members are Nigerian immigrants, but there are some from the
Caribbean as well as some African Americans.

The church's minister, the Rev. Ghandi Olaoye, said immigrants appreciate the
freedom and stability the United States offers but feel the country has become
too secular. He cited the restrictions on prayer in school and the move toward
gay marriage.

"The foundation of this country was Christianity, and that's what made this
country great," said Olaoye, who was sent by Nigerian officials to Silver Spring
to lead the church.

Still, Olaoye and other clergy and religion scholars said African immigrants are
unlikely to have a broad influence on U.S. society until their numbers become
more significant.

When the first openly gay Episcopal bishop was consecrated in New Hampshire last
month, church leaders in Africa were the most vehement in their condemnation.
Many Africans in the United States felt similarly but hesitated to be so vocal.

"They are really not in a position to say much," said Emmanuel Nwokolo, who
emigrated from Nigeria in 1988 and is senior warden at St. John's. "Here, it's
really hard to go against the bishop. There's a fair amount of liberalism
associated with living in America, and we have to accept that."

Besides, he said, there are so many other concerns at a vibrant, growing church.

In the packed fellowship hall last Sunday, a church leader auctioned off
crockpots of food that raised about $6,000. In the back of the room,
parishioners helped themselves at tables that groaned with pans of plantains,
yams, beans, baked chicken and sweet dough snacks that celebrated a West African
harvest holiday similar to American Thanksgiving.

Fourteen-year-old Maureen Ebele Obike, who emigrated with her family from
Nigeria five years ago, said that she had been surprised to find so many
churches with Nigerians that they could choose to attend. Sitting on a sofa, she
cradled her baby brother as other children stopped to admire the infant.

"It's like being home, except there are other people here, too, more people from
different ethnic groups," she said.

Brian Roman, a white parishioner who has attended St. John's since 1981, felt at
home, too. Roman, 58, said that when the choir sings in Igbo, he's able to
follow along because the tunes are the same hymns that he grew up with. Many
times, he said, he's been impressed and inspired by African parishioners who
come to the church for worship even on weekdays and can cite specific
Scriptures.

"I'm impressed by their sense of seriousness," he said. "There is a dedication
to understanding the Gospel and not forgetting it the rest of the week after
Sunday. It makes me think I should be more familiar with it."

As Roman hurried to leave the holiday bazaar early to go to his job at Amtrak,
two women wearing brightly patterned dresses and scarves insisted on fixing him
a paper plate of plantains. Arthur Dixon, the church treasurer, who is
originally from Sierra Leone, offered him a ride to the train station.

In a way, the gray-haired Roman was being treated like a welcomed immigrant at
St. John's.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              134 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 7, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Students Face Big Tuition Barrier;
Cut Off From Lower In-State Rates, They Find a College Education Too Costly

BYLINE: Vanessa Petit, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Juan is a straight-A student who graduated from high school this year with a 4.0
grade-point average and dreams of becoming a journalist. But the 18-year-old
Colombian will not  be pursuing his career goal anytime soon.

He is among the thousands of immigrant students who fall under a federal law
that prohibits public universities from charging lower in-state tuition unless
all legal out-of-state students receive the same rate.

For Juan, who did not want his last name used because he feared he could be
deported, it is particularly frustrating. His family left Colombia when he was
12 with hopes of providing him and his younger sister a better future in the
United States.

"I'd love to go to the University of Florida, but it's unimaginable the amount
of money that I have to pay. I can't afford it," said Juan, who lives in
southwestern Florida where he works part time at a restaurant and takes a few
community college classes.

Out-of-state or international tuition typically costs more than three times
in-state tuition. At the University of Florida, Juan would have to pay nearly
$14,000, compared with the in-state charge of about $3,000.

Florida is among a growing number of states where efforts are underway to
reexamine the issue. In the past two years, Oklahoma, Washington, Illinois, New
York, California, Utah and Texas have passed laws to reduce the cost of tuition
for immigrant students.

State Rep. Juan Zapata said he will propose legislation next year that would
help students such as Juan by allowing undocumented students to pay in-state
tuition at state colleges and universities. A similar bill did not pass earlier
this year.

"This bill establishes, for tuition purposes, that if you went to a Florida high
school you wouldn't have to pay the out-of-state tuition," said Zapata, a
Republican from Kendall, a Miami suburb.

The Urban Institute, a Washington-based nonpartisan research organization,
estimated that 50,000 to 60,000 undocumented immigrants graduate from U.S. high
schools every year and about 3,300 to 5,300 undocumented students graduate from
Florida high schools. It is  not known how many students are paying the
out-of-state tuition or what happens to them once they graduate from high
school.

"Florida has the fourth-biggest immigrant population. In this sense, Florida
should pass this bill. It's long overdue," said David Skovholt, director of
Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, an organization that helps promote
immigrants' rights.

In Congress, the Senate Judiciary Committee has approved legislation that would
permit immigrants who have lived in the United States for at least five years to
apply for legal resident status once they graduate from high school. The measure
would eliminate the provisions of the current federal law that discourages
states from providing in-state tuition to undocumented student immigrants.

The federal legislation, dubbed "The Dream Act," is sponsored by Senate
Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Sen. Richard J. Durbin
(D-Ill). The measure is expected to be considered by the Senate and the House
next year.

David Ray, spokesman for the Washington-based Federation For American
Immigration Reform, which advocates limits on immigration, argued that these
policies undermine national security and encourage illegal immigration.

"The states that pass these laws play the part of the problem but not the
solution," Ray said. "It's not consistent with the security needs of the
country. We can't set a precedent that they can get away with illegal
immigration. They are illegal aliens and should not be given taxpayers'
subsidies."

Josh Bernstein, director of federal policy for the National Immigration Law
Center, which promotes immigrants' rights, said students should not have to wait
for Congress to sort out the politics.

"It's fair to say that it makes sense that when you are a child, your
immigration status be tied to that of your parents, but once you're an adult it
should depend on your own merits," Bernstein said. "This can't wait. It will be
a transformative event in their lives."

Zapata said that if these immigrant students pay state sales tax, then they
should benefit from subsidized tuition. The state also would capitalize on the
investment it has already made in these students when they attended public
school, he said.

"We don't want to make this an immigration issue," he said. "Many will be
legalized at some point in their lives."

One recent high school graduate finds herself torn between leaving the United
States and her family or following her long-term aspirations.

Cecilia, who also did not want her last name used, arrived from Uruguay with her
family four years ago to escape that Latin American country's prolonged economic
slump.

"My parents wanted a better future for themselves and a good education for us,"
the 18-year-old said. "Don't get me wrong. Uruguay has great schools, but
because the economy doesn't work, I could study to be a doctor and end up
driving a taxi."

But now, after learning English and completing high school in Miami, Cecilia may
return to Uruguay to study to become a physical therapist. If she leaves she
will not be able to return to the United States, because she has overstayed her
tourist visa. Her parents and two sisters cannot leave the country either
because their reentry would be denied.

"I can't imagine not being able to see my parents and sisters for many years,"
she said. "But I want to continue studying, and I can't pay the out-of-state
tuition."

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              135 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 12, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A34

LENGTH: 585 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Advocates are asking Hispanics throughout California to refuse
to go to schools, work or stores today in response to the repeal of a law that
would have allowed undocumented immigrants to get driver's licenses.

"Latino and immigrant communities don't have to roll over," said Edward
Headington, a spokesman for the Mexican American Political Association, one of
two groups organizing the protest. "There is strength in numbers."

At 11.9 million, Hispanics make up about a third of the state's population.
California, home to the nation's largest Hispanic community, has been the scene
of a series of divisive battles over immigration.

*  BIRMINGHAM -- Prosecutors said they will seek the death penalty against
serial bombing suspect Eric Robert Rudolph in a deadly blast at an abortion
clinic. U.S. Attorney Alice H. Martin said Attorney General John D. Ashcroft had
authorized her office to seek the death penalty in the 1998 bombing, which
killed a police officer and seriously injured a nurse. Rudolph, 36, was captured
in North Carolina on May 31 after a five-year manhunt and also is accused in the
1996 Olympic bombing in Atlanta.

*  KEY WEST, Fla. -- Six Cubans accused of hijacking a passenger plane to
Florida were convicted Thursday after failing to convince a jury it was actually
a "freedom flight" undertaken with the crew's cooperation. The federal hijacking
charges carry a mandatory 20 years in prison, with a possible life sentence. The
March 19 hijacking was the first in a string of air and boat hijackings that
strained relations between Havana and Washington.

*  COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Ohio lawmakers approved legislation that would let
residents carry concealed weapons, but Gov. Bob Taft (R) said he would veto it.
The bill, passed by wide margins in the House and Senate on Wednesday, would
allow Ohio residents to carry concealed weapons after passing a background check
and completing safety training. Forty-five other states have some version of a
concealed-weapons law, according to the National Rifle Association.

*  TALLAHASSEE -- A driver and a companion who crashed a stolen car through the
gates of the Florida governor's mansion didn't appear to be targeting Gov. Jeb
Bush (R) or his family, authorities said. Bush, the president's brother, was not
home but his wife, Columba, was when the car smashed through their home's gate
Wednesday night and then crashed out another gate onto a street behind the
mansion, Florida Department of Law Enforcement officials said. The car did not
hit the mansion. No one was injured.

*  PENSACOLA, Fla. -- Marines will have much more room to roam when their boots
hit the sand today for their first exercise at Eglin Air Force Base, a
replacement for Vieques Island in Puerto Rico. Eglin is the nation's largest air
base, covering 724 square miles, or two-thirds the size of Rhode Island. The
Marines for decades had trained on a Navy bombing range of about 23 square miles
on the eastern end of Vieques. In May, it was turned over to the Interior
Department for a wildlife refuge after a series of protests following an
incident in which errant bombs killed a civilian security guard in 1999.

*   BERKELEY, Calif. -- Harvard University law professor Christopher Edley Jr.
has been tapped to become dean of the University of California at Berkeley law
school, university officials said. Edley is also a member of the U.S. Commission
on Civil Rights. He served as special counsel to President Bill Clinton.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              136 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 12, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Tougher DMV Law Means Longer Lines;
Residency Rule Adds to Agents' Burden

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 899 words


The usual long wait to get a driver's license in Virginia is about to get
longer.

Beginning in the new year, the state Department of Motor Vehicles will require
more than proof of one's address and identity before issuing a license:
Applicants will also have to prove that they are not illegal immigrants.

For U.S. citizens, that means presenting a passport or birth certificate. For
those born elsewhere, it gets more complicated.

DMV agents could be called on to examine thousands of different immigration
documents from applicants trying to verify their legal status -- everything from
foreign passports to papers guaranteeing political asylum. And the more time
agents spend examining those papers, officials say, the longer the lines will be
for everyone.

Officials at DMV are preparing for the new "legal presence" requirement and have
spent $2 million to hire more personnel, train staff to recognize immigration
documents and educate the public about the change. Only those seeking new
licenses or renewing expired licenses will be required to show proof of legal
U.S. residency. So DMV officials are urging customers in need of other services
to avoid local branches, if possible, by doing business on DMV's Web site or by
phone.

Sponsors of the bill predict that the wait could grow at branches, especially in
Northern Virginia, where the lines are already the longest in the state and the
concentration of immigrants is the highest. Of particular concern are what the
DMV refers to as its four "hot spots," where the wait typically reaches 45
minutes to an hour: Alexandria, Arlington County, Tysons Corner and Woodbridge.

"There are hundreds, if not thousands, of documents that we are putting all in
the hands of a customer service agent," said DMV Commissioner D.B. Smit. "I'm
confident we are making all the right moves, but I can't promise that we won't
make a mistake."

This year, the General Assembly tightened Virginia's driver's license laws,
despite protests from immigrant groups. The state had been stung by reports that
several of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorists took advantage of lax state rules to
obtain licenses and then used them as proof of identification at airports and
flight schools. Sponsors say the new regulations will help keep licenses from
falling into the wrong hands, and they likened the anticipated longer lines to
the inconveniences found at the airport after the terrorist attacks.

"This is the post-9/11 era, and we have an obligation in Virginia to make sure
our documents are as accurate and secure as we can make them," said state Sen.
James K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr. (R-Fairfax), a chief sponsor of the bill. "We were
one of the states that gave out the licenses [to some of the terrorists], and we
were one of the states that the terrorists attacked, so it is incumbent on us to
respond forcibly, and we have done so.

"I have this feeling that the word in foreign countries was getting a license in
Virginia was a cinch," he said. "Now the word is . . . you better have your
documents right and ready."

O'Brien acknowledged that the legal presence requirement alone would not
necessarily stop terrorism, but he said it was an important part of the overall
response by state and federal governments to boost security. Despite initial
concerns about the measure, Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) signed it into law.

Immigrants and groups that advocate for them worry that the law will lead to
racial profiling at DMV offices. Already, ethnic minorities are being denied
driver's licenses unfairly, they contend, partly because immigrants cannot
always document their status. What's more, the federal government can sometimes
take more than a year to produce the papers necessary to document the status of
immigrants who are legally in the United States. In the meantime, those same
people need to be able to drive to get to jobs.

Mary Bauer, legal director of the Virginia Justice Center, which lobbied against
the bill, argued that the law will make the roads more dangerous because
undocumented immigrants will end up behind the wheel anyway -- unlicensed and
untested. There is little public transportation to their jobs, she said.

"Everyone benefits from immigrant labor," she said. "We cannot live with the
fiction that there aren't millions of undocumented people living and working in
the U.S., that if we make them ineligible for benefits and we treat them real
bad, they won't exist. That simply isn't going to happen."

But Bauer said overturning the law would be hard because of "misperceptions
about immigrants and the kind of post-September 11 backlash in which immigrants
are equated with terrorists."

State governments across the nation are split on the issue. Over the past two
years, some state assemblies have rushed to propose legal presence bills while
others have moved in the opposite direction. About half of the 50 states,
including Maryland, do not have laws requiring driver's license applicants to
show proof that they legally live in the country. But many have policies that
make it difficult to get a license without a valid passport or visa.

In general, federal law is unclear on what rights illegal immigrants should have
in this country. Although immigration officials warn that they are subject to
deportation, U.S. courts have ruled that they have some privileges while they
are here, such as the right to a public education.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              137 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 12, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

New DMV Law Means Longer Lines in Va.;
Verifying Proof of Legal Residency Will Add to Burden of Agents, Immigrants

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B07

LENGTH: 899 words


The usual long wait to get a driver's license in Virginia is about to get
longer.

Beginning in the new year, the state Department of Motor Vehicles will require
more than proof of one's address and identity before issuing a license:
Applicants will also have to prove that they are not illegal immigrants.

For U.S. citizens, that means presenting a passport or birth certificate. For
those born elsewhere, it gets more complicated.

DMV agents could be called on to examine thousands of different immigration
documents from applicants trying to verify their legal status -- everything from
foreign passports to papers guaranteeing political asylum. And the more time
agents spend examining those papers, officials say, the longer the lines will be
for everyone.

Officials at DMV are preparing for the new "legal presence" requirement and have
spent $2 million to hire more personnel, train staff to recognize immigration
documents and educate the public about the change. Only those seeking new
licenses or renewing expired licenses will be required to show proof of legal
U.S. residency. So DMV officials are urging customers in need of other services
to avoid local branches, if possible, by doing business on DMV's Web site or by
phone.

Sponsors of the bill predict that the wait could grow at branches, especially in
Northern Virginia, where the lines are already the longest in the state and the
concentration of immigrants is the highest. Of particular concern are what the
DMV refers to as its four "hot spots," where the wait typically reaches 45
minutes to an hour: Alexandria, Arlington County, Tysons Corner and Woodbridge.

"There are hundreds, if not thousands, of documents that we are putting all in
the hands of a customer service agent," said DMV Commissioner D.B. Smit. "I'm
confident we are making all the right moves, but I can't promise that we won't
make a mistake."

This year, the General Assembly tightened Virginia's driver's license laws,
despite protests from immigrant groups. The state had been stung by reports that
several of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorists took advantage of lax state rules to
obtain licenses and then used them as proof of identification at airports and
flight schools. Sponsors say the new regulations will help keep licenses from
falling into the wrong hands, and they likened the anticipated longer lines to
the inconveniences found at the airport after the terrorist attacks.

"This is the post-9/11 era, and we have an obligation in Virginia to make sure
our documents are as accurate and secure as we can make them," said state Sen.
James K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr. (R-Fairfax), a chief sponsor of the bill. "We were
one of the states that gave out the licenses [to some of the terrorists], and we
were one of the states that the terrorists attacked, so it is incumbent on us to
respond forcibly, and we have done so.

"I have this feeling that the word in foreign countries was getting a license in
Virginia was a cinch," he said. "Now the word is . . . you better have your
documents right and ready."

O'Brien acknowledged that the legal presence requirement alone would not
necessarily stop terrorism, but he said it was an important part of the overall
response by state and federal governments to boost security. Despite initial
concerns about the measure, Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) signed it into law.

Immigrants and groups that advocate for them worry that the law will lead to
racial profiling at DMV offices. Already, ethnic minorities are being denied
driver's licenses unfairly, they contend, partly because immigrants cannot
always document their status. What's more, the federal government can sometimes
take more than a year to produce the papers necessary to document the status of
immigrants who are legally in the United States. In the meantime, those same
people need to be able to drive to get to jobs.

Mary Bauer, legal director of the Virginia Justice Center, which lobbied against
the bill, argued that the law will make the roads more dangerous because
undocumented immigrants will end up behind the wheel anyway -- unlicensed and
untested. There is little public transportation to their jobs, she said.

"Everyone benefits from immigrant labor," she said. "We cannot live with the
fiction that there aren't millions of undocumented people living and working in
the U.S., that if we make them ineligible for benefits and we treat them real
bad, they won't exist. That simply isn't going to happen."

But Bauer said overturning the law would be hard because of "misperceptions
about immigrants and the kind of post-September 11 backlash in which immigrants
are equated with terrorists."

State governments across the nation are split on the issue. Over the past two
years, some state assemblies have rushed to propose legal presence bills while
others have moved in the opposite direction. About half of the 50 states,
including Maryland, do not have laws requiring driver's license applicants to
show proof that they legally live in the country. But many have policies that
make it difficult to get a license without a valid passport or visa.

In general, federal law is unclear on what rights illegal immigrants should have
in this country. Although immigration officials warn that they are subject to
deportation, U.S. courts have ruled that they have some privileges while they
are here, such as the right to a public education.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              138 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 17, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Considers Expanding FBI Database;
Names of Noncrimimal Deportees and Student Visa Violators Would Be Added

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 873 words


Homeland security officials want to add tens of thousands of illegal immigrants
and foreign students to an FBI database designed primarily to help police
apprehend wanted criminals, allowing them to instantly identify foreign
nationals who have been deported or have violated student visas.

The proposal -- part of a broad push by the Bush administration to more closely
monitor foreign nationals since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks -- is
raising concerns among some civil liberties advocates and law enforcement groups
that fear it will bring police heavily into the business of  apprehending
immigration violators who have committed no serious crimes. In some cases, they
said, that could violate state rules that prohibit police from enforcing federal
immigration laws.

Spokesman Jorge Martinez stressed that the Justice Department has not yet made a
decision on the plan.

Under the proposal, the FBI's main fugitive database would be expanded to
include the names of 140,000 immigrants who are deported each year for
noncriminal reasons, officials said. An unknown number return to the country and
are here illegally. Authorities also would add the names of thousands of foreign
students who do not show up for class or otherwise violate their visas.

The FBI's database, known as the National Crime Information Center (NCIC),
includes the names of more than 40 million felons, fugitives, missing persons
and others being sought by law enforcement agencies. It is used by more than
80,000 law enforcement agencies.

The database had been expanded to include immigrants who were deported for
felony crimes, failed to show up for deportation hearings, or registered during
a special program aimed at visa holders from Muslim nations that was implemented
after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

But adding the names of noncriminals who were deported and student visa
violators would significantly expand the number of foreign nationals on the
list, officials said.

"It's adding more information out there," one Department of Homeland Security
official said. "The last thing we want is for an encounter to occur, they can't
do something and then this person commits a crime or something else that is
detrimental to the community."

Three of the Sept. 11, 2001, attackers entered the United States on student
visas, including one, Hani Hanjour, who never showed up for classes. Hanjour was
ticketed for speeding in Arlington six weeks before he piloted the airplane that
crashed into the Pentagon.

The proposal comes at the same time that President Bush is beginning to revive
an immigration proposal that would allow some people illegally in the United
States to work toward legal status.

Even before the latest proposal, several major law enforcement groups have
raised serious concerns about the inclusion of immigration violators in the
FBI's criminal database. And the American Civil Liberties Union is expected to
file a lawsuit as early as today challenging the practice.

"This is another step in what appears to be the Justice Department's calculated
plan to try to obliterate the separation between criminal law enforcement and
immigration status violations," said Lucas Guttentag of the ACLU's Immigrants
Rights Project.

Many states and localities prohibit police from enforcing civil immigration laws
or even inquiring about an individual's immigration status, often because of
state constitutional concerns. Many police officers say they are wary of
detaining immigration violators without a warrant for fear a court could hold
them accountable for an unlawful arrest.

The International Association of Chiefs of Police has urged the federal
government to limit the database to individuals who have warrants for their
arrest and to issue clear guidelines for local law enforcement. A committee of
police chiefs that advises the FBI's database division recently raised similar
concerns about the proposed expansion.

"We want to help if it's somebody DHS believes is a threat to the country," said
Bill Casey, deputy superintendent of the Boston Police Department, who chairs
the advisory committee. "But our position is that you have to have a warrant on
the individual."

The issue is also part of a broader debate over the proper role of local police,
many of whom fear that illegal immigrants will stop reporting crime if they
cannot trust law enforcement and that relations with Hispanics will be strained
if police are seen as an arm of federal immigration authorities.

"There's this issue, which is dealing with NCIC, and the broader issue of law
enforcement getting into the business of enforcing immigration, which is a
philosophical problem," said Gene Voegtlin, legislative counsel for the police
chiefs' association. "It's an area state and local law enforcement hasn't been
involved in before, and it's an area that is yet to be resolved."

The Justice Department issued an internal legal opinion last year arguing that
states and localities have the "inherent authority" to enforce civil and
criminal violations of immigration law, sources have said. Alabama and Florida
have begun pilot projects that allow troopers in those states to enforce
immigration laws, and bills to widen the practice are pending in Congress.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              139 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 17, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Canadians' Culture of Tolerance Is Tested by Cases Against Arabs

BYLINE: DeNeen L. Brown, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A34

LENGTH: 1603 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


Hassan Almrei, a Syrian who immigrated to Canada on a fake passport, sat in a
glass cage in a courtroom, watching lawyers in flowing black robes argue his
case.

A tall man thinned by a hunger strike, Almrei, 29, listened intently as
prosecutors accused him of having links to terrorists and demanded he be
deported to Syria, where he was born. His attorney, Barbara Jackman, argued it
would be inhumane to send the man to a country known for torture.

From time to time, Jackman leaned through the window of the cage to talk with
her client. Almrei, who had failed as a small restaurant owner in Toronto,
admitted in an affidavit that he had lied to government agents about his
activities, but denied he was a terrorist.

The cases of Almrei and other Canadian immigrants of Arab descent underscore the
tensions in a larger debate in Canada about how to deal with immigrants accused
of involvement in terrorism. Canadians pride themselves on ideals of tolerance,
inclusion and the belief that immigrants should have the same rights as Canadian
citizens. At the same time, the country is wrestling with how to protect
national security and answer critics who contend that the country's liberal
immigration policies make Canada easy prey for terrorists.

"Two years after September 11, there is a failure to come up with a policy on
terrorism here, at home, and globally," said Wesley Wark, a professor of
international relations at the Munk Center for International Studies at the
University of Toronto. "There is a great deal of divisiveness in Canada about
how Canada wants to pursue the war on global terrorism."

In the past few months, Canada has been forced to deal with a series of cases
including that of Maher Arar, a Canadian Syrian arrested in the United States,
accused of having links to terrorists, then taken by U.S. agents to Syria where
he says he was tortured. Arar's secret deportation to Syria incensed many
Canadians, who said the United States had not respected Arar's Canadian
citizenship.

Jean Chretien, then the prime minister, angrily criticized the United States for
deporting Arar, and critics demanded details about Canada's intelligence
relationship with the Bush administration. Many Canadians were also angry that
U.S. officials appeared unapologetic about how they handled the Arar case. Arar,
who denies the accusations, has filed a lawsuit against Jordan and Syria for
torture. He also plans to sue the United States for violating his rights.

"The response in Canada was 'How dare they?' " said John Thompson, director of
the MacKenzie Institute, which studies organized violence and political
instability.

The Arar case also has cast a shadow over other recent cases against Canadians
of Arab descent accused of terrorism. Soon after Arar was freed by Syrian
authorities, another Canadian citizen, Abdul Rahman Khadr, 20, said U.S.
authorities sent him against his will to Afghanistan after he was freed from the
U.S. prison camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where he had been detained for alleged
links to al Qaeda. Khadr said he had told U.S. authorities he wanted to return
to Canada upon his release.

Canada's Foreign Ministry said Khadr  had requested to be sent to Afghanistan,
where he was captured  in November 2001. Khadr's brother, Omar, 17, is still
being held at Guantanamo Bay, accused of killing a U.S. soldier with a grenade
during a shootout in Afghanistan. Their Egyptian-born Canadian father, Ahmed
Khadr,  is alleged to be a leader of al Qaeda wanted by the United States.

Martin Rudner, director of the Canadian Center for Intelligence and Security
Studies at Carleton University in Ottawa, said attorneys in each of the cases
accuse the Canadian government of failing to protect its citizens. "In the case
of Khadr and Almrei, the legal representation uses the Arar case to say there is
a huge problem with how the Canadian government is operating," Rudner said. "In
the Khadr case, once again the Canadian government seemed unable or unwilling to
assist Khadr, and the United States simply plopped him back in Afghanistan and
left him to his own devices to find his way back to Canada. I don't think that
is the case. But questions were raised about Canada's ability to protect its
citizens."

Another Syrian-born Canadian, Abdullah Almalki, is being held in a Syrian
prison. His relatives have demanded that Canada push harder for Almalki's
release. Canadian Muslims are also urging the Canadian authorities to seek the
release of Ahmad Abou El-Maati, an Egyptian Canadian who was arrested in Syria
soon after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States and accused of ties
to terror groups. Syria turned El-Maati over to Egyptian authorities two months
after he was arrested.

Canada portrays itself as a socially liberal society. It is nation of
immigrants, legal and illegal, who are seen as essential to its growth.
Immigrants and those who work to legalize their status play a major role in
shaping Canadian politics. Since the 1960s, when then-Prime Minister Pierre
Trudeau opened Canada's doors to more immigrants of color, millions have
immigrated to Canada, changing the face of its society. Recent government
statistics show that immigrants from West and Central Asia and the Middle East
grew from 13,360 in 1961 to 162,220 in 2001. The number of immigrants from
Southeast Asia grew from 14,095 in 1961 to 185,665 during that period.

Unlike in the United States, where many immigrants feel pressure to assimilate,
Canada encourages people to maintain their cultural identities.

"It gives us great strength, but also exposes several vulnerabilities," said
Rudner, who said terrorist groups have exploited Canada's tolerance.

Critics of Canada's immigration policies trace the problems to a 1985 Canadian
Supreme Court decision that they say allows criminals to exploit the system.

The court "said that anybody who reaches Canada is entitled to all the same
rights and legal protection of Canadian citizens regardless of their status.
That was a flare that went up that told people around the world we are an easy
mark and we have had an uncontrollable refugee problem every since," said
Thompson, of the MacKenzie Institute.

"Once someone gets into the country illegally, it's enormously hard to find
them, and once we find them, it's enormously hard to get them out," Norman
Inkster, former commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police told a
discussion group of the Couchiching Institute on Public Affairs.

As Canada grows more diverse and more cosmopolitan, Thompson says, it has
imported more of the world's conflicts. The 1985 bombing of an Air India flight
that killed 329 people was one of the most notorious acts of alleged
international terrorism prior to the Sept. 11 attacks.

The Air India bombing was allegedly planned in Canada by militant Sikh
separatists who wanted to retaliate for an Indian government raid on the Golden
Temple of Amritsar, the Sikh faith's holiest shrine. Still, Thompson said, there
is a certain naive belief among some Canadians outside intelligence and police
circles that terrorism could never occur in Canada. "There has always been
disillusions about security in Canada, that Canada is always deemed to be safe
from the world's troubles, that violence could never occur here," Thompson said.
"The feeling is we are peacekeepers, we are doing this out of altruism and the
world loves us for it."

There is a sentiment among Canadians that even if accused terrorists are guilty,
they deserve the same rights as any other Canadian until they are convicted. The
argument is similar to one in the United States, where civil libertarians
express concern that homeland security measures and the Patriot Act will erode
the constitutional presumption of innocence. In addition, there is a pride here
in trying to avoid stereotyping people based on their background.

"A lot of Canadians have difficulty understanding we are under threat," Thompson
said. "Osama bin Laden mentioned Canada as a target this year."

On the seventh floor of the federal courthouse in downtown Toronto, the
conflicts were evident. A Muslim community leader argued that Almrei should be
freed on bail.

"In my opinion this word, al Qaeda, has been invented," said Aly Hindy, an imam
at a mosque in Scarborough. "Young people, you ask them their religion and they
say, 'I'm a Muslim, but I'm not a terrorist.' We have to distinguish between
people fighting for freedom and people liberating their own country and people
doing terrorism."

Almrei submitted an affidavit admitting that he underwent weapons training in
Afghanistan, that he lied to Canadian agents who interrogated him, that he lied
to gain refugee status in Canada and that he helped another man suspected of
terrorism obtain a fake passport.

"Canada has a duty to ensure this country does not become a safe haven for
terrorists," said Donald MacIntosh, a prosecutor. "Even if Mr. Almrei were to be
at risk of torture, the extraordinary danger he poses to the security of Canada
requires he not be allowed to remain in Canada."

Jackman, Almrei's attorney, said Canada was being hypocritical as it tries to
deport Almrei to Syria while complaining that the United States deported Arar to
Syria. "They torture first and ask questions later, or they ask questions while
they're torturing," Jackman said.

A federal judge decided to delay the deportation, saying, "The undisputed
evidence on general conditions in Syria shows that the human rights record of
Syria is poor, and that detention and torture are not uncommon. It is unlikely
that Syrian authorities would release him."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              140 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 31, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Computer Backups Frustrate Immigrants;
Green-Card Lottery Jams State Dept. Site

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 959 words


Immigrants crowded into community service agencies and lined up in photocopy
shops yesterday to file applications by a midnight deadline for one of the most
eagerly awaited global contests: the U.S. government's green-card lottery.

The annual lottery gives permanent residency cards to 50,000 randomly chosen
foreign citizens, allowing them to live and work in the United States. Millions
typically apply in a last-minute frenzy.

But this year, the process was particularly chaotic, because the government
required that all applications be filed online -- and the Web site became
overwhelmed.

At the Ethiopian Community Development Council office in Arlington, desperate
immigrants turned up clutching thumb-size family photos. None succeeded in
filing an application on the backed-up State Department site.

"Everyone in my family knows the story of the lucky lottery," said Hussein
Ahmed, 30, a computer consultant from Alexandria. He was trying to apply for his
grandmother, uncles and cousins back in Somalia. But unless he made it through
the choked-up computer system by midnight, they had no crack at the drawing.
"It's tough luck," he said, crestfallen.

A State Department spokesman confirmed that the system had developed a lengthy
backlog since Monday. But he said applicants had been given two months to apply,
twice the time normally allotted.

"It's human nature to wait until the last minute," said the spokesman, Stuart
Patt.

The lottery program was established in 1990 to provide opportunity to people
from nations that send few immigrants to the United States. It is not open to
citizens of big migration countries such as Mexico and El Salvador.

The 50,000 "diversity visas" make up a small fraction of those awarded annually
to immigrants. But for those without family or business relationships in the
United States, the visas may be the only route to U.S. citizenship. Most people
file from abroad, though some immigrants lacking permanent residency papers try
from the United States. U.S. residents are allowed to submit applications for
friends or relatives abroad.

"This is just like winning the lottery, really. It's not cash, but it's a better
life," said Saba Berhane, who was helping immigrants at the Ethiopian council
office.

The State Department switched to online filing for the lottery in an effort to
reduce fraud. But many immigrants called the system burdensome, saying they and
their relatives abroad do not have access to computers.

Hussein, like many immigrants, found it difficult to have the photos of his
relatives digitally scanned and adjusted to the required size. After fruitless
trips to a photocopy shop and a camera store, he arrived at the Ethiopian
community center. His family in war-torn Mogadishu had no way to get to a
computer or scanner.

"I'm in America, and I couldn't do this. Imagine someone in Africa trying to
scan this," he said.

Hanna Andarge, 25, also of Alexandria, mastered the photo scanning but not the
computer submission. She waited four hours Monday while workers at the Ethiopian
center tried to enter her applications for her half-brother and his three
children. Yesterday, she returned to check on their progress.

Nothing had changed.

"I don't think they're going to make it for everybody, because of the computer
problem," fretted the Ethiopian-born waitress. She longs to be closer to her
half-brother, who was recently widowed. "If I tell him it doesn't go in the
computer, he's going to be so upset."

Similar scenes of last-minute hope and frustration played out across the
Washington area. At a Kinko's in Silver Spring, immigrants lined up to scan
photos and use the Internet.

"It's been extremely busy for the last three weeks," said manager Kirby Wood.

At the Newcomers Community Service Center near Dupont Circle, Shemeles Arega
told a stream of African immigrants yesterday that he had not succeeded in
submitting a single application through the jammed site. Many headed to friends'
houses or Internet cafes to keep trying their luck.

"People are running, really, to submit their applications," Arega said.

Several immigrants and their advocates said the complications would undoubtedly
result in fewer people applying for the lottery.

The State Department disagreed. Patt, the spokesman, said the final number of
applicants was expected to top 6 million, compared with 7.3 million last year.
But in the past, many people submitted multiple petitions, he said. Such a
practice is fraudulent but could not always be detected when forms were sorted
manually, he said.

He said officials had determined that many poor countries had sufficient
Internet outlets to serve applicants, who must have at least a high school
education or its equivalent.

"All I can tell you is, the three countries that have the most registrations
through today [are] Bangladesh, Nigeria and Ethiopia," he said. "If people in
those countries have been able to come in such large numbers, it has not proven
to be such a barrier."

Some immigrants accepted the system's difficulties with the equanimity of
practiced gamblers facing a long shot. They included Nabil Al-Amer, an Iraqi
immigrant who works at a 7-Eleven. When he heard of the visa lottery, he was on
the phone, pronto, to an Iraqi friend in Lebanon, to tell him he would put in an
application for him.

The workers at the Ethiopian center seemed unlikely to file his application on
time, Al-Amer, 33, acknowledged. "Closed, computer. Who knows?" he shrugged. But
fate and the United States had been good to him before, transporting him to
Arlington as a refugee. Maybe his friend would be lucky, he said.

"There's nothing there in Lebanon. . . . Here, everything you like. Everything!"
he said jubilantly. "You are freedom here."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              141 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 20, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Salvadoran Exiles' Warnings for the Homeland

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A31

LENGTH: 806 words


Maria Esquino, Jorge Granados and Elmer Arias are not ideologues struggling to
prevent the rise of former communist guerrillas in Latin America. But from their
humble positions here they may actually be effective doing so.

The three are Salvadoran immigrants, members of Latin America's largest per
capita diaspora. Today roughly one in every four Salvadorans lives in the United
States. Of the 2 million Salvadorans here, a quarter live in the Washington
region.

Esquino, Granados and Arias crossed paths this week when one of El Salvador's
presidential candidates came to Washington to press the flesh months before the
March election. And even though Salvadorans living abroad are not eligible to
vote, more candidates will certainly follow as the United States becomes more
and more part of the Latin American campaign trail.

Salvadoran immigrants have significantly raised their profile back home since
the last presidential elections in El Salvador in 1999. Their contributions to
the country's economy have doubled; their money transfers are the largest source
of foreign currency for El Salvador, surpassing all exports, foreign investment,
tourism and foreign aid. Their cash and clout have increased so much that they
transcend Washington's typical centers of influence. They are not U.S. officials
needing to be courted, convinced or assured, nor do they head one of
Washington's multilateral lending institutions, powerful think tanks or lobbying
firms.

They are instead part of the much larger Latin American immigrant community in
this country, which, by nature, culture and proximity, is maintaining
ever-tighter bonds with the homelands. These immigrants, especially Salvadorans,
Mexicans and Dominicans, have an influence in their countries that U.S. foreign
policymakers only dream of.

Many Salvadoran immigrants, like others from Latin America, feel discouraged by
Washington's current formulas for the region. Still, they recognize the
opportunities they've received here and are wary of any newly elected leader in
their homeland who might put those opportunities at risk. They are, in fact,
emerging as the best ally official Washington has to ensure that any future
changes won't be too radical, nor any reforms too distant from Washington's own
priorities.

That became particularly evident this week during the visit of Schafik Handal,
former guerrilla commander in the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, now
presidential nominee of the leftist FMLN party and one of El Salvador's top
contenders. U.S. officials for some time have been concerned about Handal's
vision for El Salvador and what his leftist policies -- including a possible
alignment with Fidel Castro -- might mean to Salvadoran democracy, the country's
recent economic gains and its close ties with Washington.

Handal said in an interview that he did not seek a meeting with Bush
administration officials because he was convinced they would keep their word and
respect the outcome of the elections. Instead he went to a restaurant in the
Virginia suburbs and a church in a Washington working-class neighborhood where
some messages were perhaps as blunt and some signals as clear as if they had
come from the State Department or Capitol Hill.

Arias hosted Handal Sunday night at a restaurant he owns. He said he warned
Handal against straining relations between Washington and San Salvador to the
detriment of Salvadorans living here, many of whom have seen their temporary
work permits extended several times.

"We have come to a country that has opened its doors to us and given us
opportunities, and so [he] should take certain measures and change certain
policies," Arias said he told Handal.

Granados was among dozens who attended the church meeting, but not with the
blind loyalty of the former FMLN militant he once was. He said he would have
preferred a younger candidate to the 72-year-old Handal. But he showed
confidence in the ability of those behind Handal to prove, particularly here,
that the FMLN has evolved and become "a legitimate force with good intentions."

Also present were Esquino and her husband, indigenous Salvadorans living in
exile after being tortured in El Salvador 10 years ago. In an interview, she
said they have managed to garner support for their people back home only from
U.S. Native American organizations. Even with the most compelling reasons to be
skeptical of any leadership, she was there to take the measure of the man and of
the impact Salvadoran native groups had on shaping his views of the rights of
native peoples.

Esquino, as did the others, suggested that the future of the FMLN would depend
on its ability to break with the past. Regardless of who wins next year, the
future president stands to gain much by keeping Washington and San Salvador in
sync.

desdewash@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              142 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 25, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Local Housing Survey Finds Conditions Poor;
'International Corridor' Residents Call for Action

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: PRINCE GEORGE'S EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 1244 words


A recently released study of housing conditions in the largely immigrant
"international corridor" spanning Langley Park in Prince George's County and
Silver Spring and Takoma Park in Montgomery paints a bleak picture. About 40
percent of renters surveyed had peeling paint in their homes, a possible lead
paint hazard. About 48 percent complained of rodent or insect infestations.
Almost 20 percent said they were without heat at least once during the winter.

Yet the study's authors say the report, which was commissioned by Montgomery
County and released last week, also comes with a silver lining: Many of the 18
local residents hired to conduct the survey were so disturbed by what they saw
that they have since become community activists.

So it is that Jaime Velazquez, a 54-year-old Colombian construction worker who
lived in Silver Spring when he was hired to do the survey but has since moved to
Langley Park in Prince George's, now routinely hands out fliers advertising
events held by the immigrant advocacy group CASA de Maryland. The organization
conducted the study in conjunction with researchers from the University of
Maryland.

Similarly, Maria Carolina Guzman, a 34-year-old former teacher from El Salvador,
was motivated to volunteer at her daughter's school, Rolling Terrace Elementary
School in Takoma Park. Another Salvadoran, Sandra Herrera, 34, of Silver Spring
has joined a neighborhood group promoting pedestrian safety in the corridor.

Then there is Alexander Valencia-Reyes, 32, a part-time student who was prompted
not only to organize a tenants association in his apartment complex in Silver
Spring, but also to take a job with CASA's housing program helping to form
similar groups in other buildings. CASA's work extends frequently between
Montgomery and Prince George's, so there is likely to be a ripple effect in both
counties.

"I definitely don't think I would have gotten so involved [in the community] if
it hadn't been for doing the survey," Valencia-Reyes said.

"It really made me think about trying to solve all these problems."

This side effect was not exactly accidental, said Maria Elva Maldonado,
co-organizer of the study and director of the housing program at CASA.

To be sure, she said, the primary reason for the study -- which was sponsored by
Montgomery County at CASA's urging -- was to establish a baseline of current
housing conditions in the corridor. After CASA and the county make hoped-for
efforts to improve the situation, they plan to conduct a new survey and assess
their success.

To that end, the researchers selected a portion of the international corridor
considered representative of the whole -- a series of neighborhoods, known as
Long Branch, clustered around University Boulevard and Piney Branch Road in
Montgomery County on the border with Prince George's -- and sent the survey
teams door-to-door over a seven week period in summer 2002.

Now that the data have been processed and analyzed, Montgomery officials said,
they are looking at how they might strengthen code enforcement in the area. Most
notably, county officials are contacting all of the roughly 175 rental
properties in Long Branch that fall under their jurisdiction. The reasons for
doing this are to determine whether owners of properties built before 1950 have
complied with state laws requiring them to reduce the lead paint hazard in their
buildings, and to offer to pay half the cost of testing such buildings for lead
paint.

Apart from the study's main purpose, Maldonado said, "We also saw this as a real
opportunity to offer people organizational training on how to gain the
confidence of their communities and then follow through." Maldonado said that
she made a point of choosing surveyors who not only possessed good communication
skills and knowledge of the neighborhood, but who seemed likely to treat their
assignment as more than just a job.

"It wasn't a question on the application, but I was really interested in finding
folks who volunteered that they really saw this as a chance to work with their
community," she said.

In exchange, the surveyors who went door-to-door through their assigned
neighborhoods for about 12 to 15 hours per week while conducting the survey,
were paid $ 15 per hour.

Despite the temporary nature of the job, more than 150 people applied, Maldonado
said. Many of those selected were highly educated in their home countries but
hold low-paying jobs in the United States because of their limited English. For
instance, Velasquez, the construction worker, was an agricultural engineer in
Colombia. Herrera's most recent job was as a cafeteria cashier in College Park
even though she has a bachelor's degree in business administration from a
university in El Salvador.

They conducted the interviews with Spanish-speaking residents -- who make up the
majority of the residents in the area -- while English-speaking partners
interviewed non-Latinos.

The system proved effective: About 40 percent of the 809 household heads
contacted by the surveyors agreed to answer the survey, which resembled the
long-form questionnaire of the Census and took 30 to 40 minutes to complete.

Before beginning the study, the surveyors were given a two-week training course.
Much of it focused on teaching them to enter the results of the survey into
specially programmed hand-held computers. But many said they also came away with
skills that have come in handy during their subsequent community organizing.

"We got a lot of tips on what to do if someone doesn't want to talk to you. I
learned how to introduce myself and not feel shy, and to not feel bad if someone
rejects you," Valencia-Reyes said. "I also learned how important it is to really
listen to what people in the community are saying to you about their problems."

Because the surveyors were residents of Long Branch, most were already at least
somewhat aware of the area's housing problems. Indeed, Guzman complained, drunks
routinely sleep in the stairwell of her building because there is no lock on the
front door. She added, "My floor is in terrible shape, and you have to be really
careful about leaving food out even for a moment because of all the
cockroaches."

Nonetheless, many surveyors said they were shocked at the living conditions they
encountered -- and by the difficulty many residents reported in getting building
managers to fix problems.

"In one apartment there was a huge hole under the kitchen sink, and you could
see the roaches and mouse droppings," Valencia-Reyes said. "In other buildings
there was trash everywhere and the smell of human waste. . . . It was really
nasty and it made me really sad and angry, because it seems like the management
companies . . . didn't care how people were living."

As much as she shared the surveyors' concerns, Maldonado said she took hope in
watching it spur them to greater activism. "After they'd come back [to CASA's
office] from doing the surveys, they'd stay late into the night talking about
the people they'd met and the questions they had about how to help them. It was
amazing to watch." Even though by this point they were off the clock, "we
couldn't get rid of them," Maldonado said with a laugh. "They were just so
enthusiastic."

Now, Maldonado hopes that similar surveys will be launched in other communities.
"It really gets past the frustrations people have in dealing with government,
and shows them a different and powerful way of making their voice heard."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              143 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 25, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Area Housing Survey Finds Conditions Poor;
In Long Branch, A Call for Action

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: MONTGOMERY EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 1242 words


A recently released study of housing conditions in the largely immigrant
"international corridor" spanning Langley Park in Prince George's County and
Silver Spring and Takoma Park in Montgomery paints a bleak picture. About 40
percent of renters surveyed had peeling paint in their homes, a possible lead
paint hazard. About 48 percent complained of rodent or insect infestations.
Almost 20 percent said they were without heat at least once during the winter.

Yet the study's authors say the report, which was commissioned by Montgomery
County and released last week, also comes with a silver lining: Many of the 18
local residents hired to conduct the survey were so disturbed by what they saw
that they have since become community activists.

So it is that Jaime Velazquez, a 54-year-old Colombian construction worker who
lived in Silver Spring when he was hired to do the survey but has since moved to
Langley Park in Prince George's, now routinely hands out fliers advertising
events held by the immigrant advocacy group CASA de Maryland. The organization
conducted the study in conjunction with researchers from the University of
Maryland.

Similarly, Maria Carolina Guzman, a 34-year-old former teacher from El Salvador,
was motivated to volunteer at her daughter's school, Rolling Terrace Elementary
School in Takoma Park. Another Salvadoran, Sandra Herrera, 34, of Silver Spring
has joined a neighborhood group promoting pedestrian safety in the corridor.

Then there is Alexander Valencia-Reyes, 32, a part-time student who was prompted
not only to organize a tenants association in his apartment complex in Silver
Spring, but also to take a job with CASA's housing program helping to form
similar groups in other buildings. CASA's work extends frequently between
Montgomery and Prince George's, so there is likely to be a ripple effect in both
counties.

"I definitely don't think I would have gotten so involved [in the community] if
it hadn't been for doing the survey," Valencia-Reyes said.

"It really made me think about trying to solve all these problems."

This side effect was not exactly accidental, said Maria Elva Maldonado,
co-organizer of the study and director of the housing program at CASA.

To be sure, she said, the primary reason for the study -- which was sponsored by
Montgomery County at CASA's urging -- was to establish a baseline of current
housing conditions in the corridor. After CASA and the county make efforts to
improve the situation, they plan to conduct a new survey and assess their
success.

To that end, the researchers selected a portion of the international corridor
considered representative of the whole -- a series of neighborhoods, known as
Long Branch, clustered around University Boulevard and Piney Branch Road in
Montgomery County on the border with Prince George's -- and sent the survey
teams door to door over a seven-week period in summer 2002.

Now that the data have been processed and analyzed, Montgomery officials said,
they are looking at how they might strengthen code enforcement in the area. Most
notably, county officials are contacting all of the roughly 175 rental
properties in Long Branch that fall under their jurisdiction. The reasons for
doing this are to determine whether owners of properties built before 1950 have
complied with state laws requiring them to reduce the lead paint hazard in their
buildings, and to offer to pay half the cost of testing such buildings for lead
paint.

Apart from the study's main purpose, Maldonado said, "We also saw this as a real
opportunity to offer people organizational training on how to gain the
confidence of their communities and then follow through." Maldonado said that
she made a point of choosing surveyors who not only possessed good communication
skills and knowledge of the neighborhood, but who seemed likely to treat their
assignment as more than just a job.

"It wasn't a question on the application, but I was really interested in finding
folks who volunteered that they really saw this as a chance to work with their
community," she said.

In exchange, the surveyors, who went door to door through their assigned
neighborhoods for about 12 to 15 hours per week while conducting the survey,
were paid $ 15 per hour.

Despite the temporary nature of the job, more than 150 people applied, Maldonado
said. Many of those selected were highly educated in their home countries but
hold low-paying jobs in the United States because of their limited English. For
instance, Velasquez, the construction worker, was an agricultural engineer in
Colombia. Herrera's most recent job was as a cafeteria cashier in College Park
even though she has a bachelor's degree in business administration from a
university in El Salvador.

They conducted the interviews with Spanish-speaking residents -- who make up the
majority of the residents in the area -- while English-speaking partners
interviewed non-Latinos.

The system proved effective: About 40 percent of the 809 household heads
contacted by the surveyors agreed to answer the survey, which resembled the
long-form questionnaire of the Census and took 30 to 40 minutes to complete.

Before beginning the study, the surveyors were given a two-week training course.
Much of it focused on teaching them to enter the results of the survey into
specially programmed hand-held computers. But many said they also came away with
skills that have come in handy during their subsequent community organizing.

"We got a lot of tips on what to do if someone doesn't want to talk to you. I
learned how to introduce myself and not feel shy, and to not feel bad if someone
rejects you," Valencia-Reyes said. "I also learned how important it is to really
listen to what people in the community are saying to you about their problems."

Because the surveyors were residents of Long Branch, most were already at least
somewhat aware of the area's housing problems. Indeed, Guzman complained, drunks
routinely sleep in the stairwell of her building because there is no lock on the
front door. She added, "My floor is in terrible shape, and you have to be really
careful about leaving food out even for a moment because of all the
cockroaches."

Nonetheless, many surveyors said they were shocked by the living conditions they
encountered -- and by the difficulty many residents reported in getting building
managers to fix problems.

"In one apartment there was a huge hole under the kitchen sink, and you could
see the roaches and mouse droppings," Valencia-Reyes said. "In other buildings
there was trash everywhere and the smell of human waste. . . . It was really
nasty and it made me really sad and angry, because it seems like the management
companies . . . didn't care how people were living."

As much as she shared the surveyors' concerns, Maldonado said she took hope in
watching it spur them to greater activism. "After they'd come back [to CASA's
office] from doing the surveys, they'd stay late into the night talking about
the people they'd met and the questions they had about how to help them. It was
amazing to watch." Even though by this point they were off the clock, "we
couldn't get rid of them," Maldonado said with a laugh. "They were just so
enthusiastic."

Now, Maldonado hopes that similar surveys will be launched in other communities.
"It really gets past the frustrations people have in dealing with government,
and shows them a different and powerful way of making their voice heard."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              144 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 28, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Ansar Mahmood's American Dream;
A Pakistani Immigrant Waits for Deliverance in Jail Rather Than Be Deported Back
Home

BYLINE: Hanna Rosin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1282 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO


The photograph shows the niece he has never met bundled into a red jumper and
chasing a ball. But all Ansar Mahmood sees is the ground shifting around her:
cracks in the cement wall, damp floor, rusting water heater, a bicycle missing a
spoke, all the repairs left undone while he's stuck in this jail. Nineteen
months in the Buffalo Federal Detention Center, long enough to give his baby
face edges and to earn him this dubious national record: Mahmood may be the last
person detained on immigration charges in the weeks following the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks who is still in jail, fighting deportation.

"Every day, every day, same routine," he says. Breakfast at 7 and then -- this
is what kills him -- he sleeps until almost noon, because what else is there? "I
cannot anymore sit here to do nothing."

Even in jail he works steadily, earning a dollar a day washing dishes so he can
call his parents in Pakistan. "Come home," they say. But then something -- his
father's cough, perhaps -- will remind him of what's forever lost if he does
return: medicine, school fees for his sisters, heat, a shot at the middle class.

"What can I do there?" he says. "No job, no money, just sit to look at my family
to suffer? I cannot imagine I put myself in such a position."

It's a wretched choice: jail in the United States or a bored, guilt-ridden
freedom in Pakistan.

Mahmood was one of hundreds of immigrants arrested after Sept. 11 and threatened
with deportation on immigration violations. But unlike many in that anonymous
mass, he had a green card and a committee of supporters in his adopted town of
Hudson, N.Y., started by customers on his pizza delivery route.

After a Washington Post article about him a year and a half ago, Mahmood got a
legal fund, new lawyers, international press. By now one might think he'd be the
perfect candidate for one of those bittersweet Sept. 11 anniversary stories -- a
fatherless baby's first word, a widow who finds new love. In his case, the
headline would have read something like "Breaking Through Barriers: Small Town
Saves Muslim Immigrant From Deportation." But Mahmood's story is stuck in the
second-to-last chapter.

He was cleared of terrorism charges days after his arrest that November. But as
in many immigrants' cases, investigators uncovered something that in a different
time might have stayed hidden or ignored: Mahmood had helped an undocumented
friend from Pakistan rent an apartment, a common favor in the immigrant network.
For that, he was convicted of harboring an illegal immigrant -- a charge that,
before Sept. 11, had been used almost exclusively against smugglers at border
points.

"He was just in the wrong place at the wrong time," reads a petition circulating
in Hudson. "He worked 12-hour days, sent $ 500 a month to his elderly parents
and sisters." But the facts, once uncovered, don't disappear. So far his legal
appeals have all failed. Short of a special congressional bill voiding his
deportation order, he's stuck in detention until he agrees to join the next
planeload of deportees back to Pakistan.

Which lately Mahmood is thinking of doing. So earlier this month three of his
friends from Hudson piled into their Toyota Camry with a bag of cherries and
drove the five hours to Buffalo to get him to change his mind.

Visiting hour was really a half-hour, so each would get only 10 minutes to talk
on a phone through a glass pane.

"Who's first?" the guards asks. Susan Davies, who'd talked to Mahmood the most
on the phone, stands up. She was "like the mother" of the crowd, Mahmood will
later say. She remembered that the next day was his 26th birthday, and said she
wanted to give him two things: a hug and a peach. The guards wouldn't allow
either.

Mahmood's previous visitors had all been journalists or lawyers and he prepared
for this day as eagerly as a child at show and tell. Sitting on the other side
of a glass divider, he lays out a pile of photographs one by one, pointing out
every relative. "This is the brother above me," he says. "This is his child,"
meaning the adorable niece. But after three or four, he finds himself distracted
by the background.

There, in the bottom left, is the water heater. The last time he traveled to
Pakistan he had enough money to buy his family many of the accessories of the
middle class: a 26-inch TV, a refrigerator, "the big biggest one, bigger than my
uncle's!" In retrospect this seems a mistake. "Now they have bills coming more,"
he says, meaning the electricity bills. Maybe he should have taken care of the
basics, the roof, the floor. From where he is now it looks like showing off, and
worse: "I helped them come near to middle class but not all the way," a more
frustrating fate.

Next is Nancy Rothman. She has never talked to Mahmood before, yet she is the
one who moves him most. With her moist eyes and piles of long hair falling out
of clips she radiates the empathy of one of his doting older sisters.

"This is the first time we speak," he says as soon as she picks up the phone on
her side of the glass divider. "I miss my family. I cannot be with them. You are
my family."

Again he goes through the pictures, but then puts them away and aims for more
common ground. "Hudson is so beautiful," he says, catching her by surprise. He
then runs dreamily through his favorite streets on his pizza delivery route,
down to the house numbers ("19 Gahbauer Road. So pretty"). He tells her his
favorite place in the world is Philmont, so "beautiful in the snow." (It's an
old mill town that Rothman will later point out is known locally as Filthmont.)
"I am in Pakistan 23 years but Pakistan is not my home," he says. "My home is
Hudson."

The two women use up most of the half-hour, so Azim Goldrick gets only a few
minutes. Because Azim is a man, Mahmood, who tends to the overemotional, is
determined not to cry. Instead he makes global comparisons.

In Pakistan, he says, people will cheat you. But in America "everyone is equal."
In America there is an immigration lottery, which someone like him can win.
There are jobs by the millions. In America, everyone is so nice -- he is
thinking particularly of his co-worker at Domino's who would help him fill out
his tax returns, and whose family now prays for him every day. Azim tells him
not to lose hope, says he, too, will pray for him.

That evening Mahmood can't eat his dinner. He can't wash his face or sleep. He's
both giddy and somber. "God make their mind soft, so they help me," he says,
because he can't believe three virtual strangers would otherwise help somebody
like him.

But days in detention are long. Two weeks later his mood is dark again. More and
more at night he thinks of outside, of freedom, he says. The vision that comes
to him is "driving, in the snowstorm delivering pizzas. Just me, the policeman
and the man cleaning the streets. It is beautiful."

But this is not his choice. Outside right now means Pakistan, and "I cannot go
back to Pakistan." It's not that his parents will be disappointed to see him.
But his face will mean the end of their hopes. "If I go back it means everything
finished for them." Now that he's really thinking of leaving, his parents don't
tell him to come home anymore. His sister once whispered not to come, there is
nothing there for him.

Mahmood is religious enough to think his fate will depend on "what's written for
my life." His hopes are cautious. Right now they are pinned on something he
heard on the radio, a quote from Abraham Lincoln implying "the people's opinions
can influence anything," meaning the people of Hudson. He's also heard from a
friend that the next plane back to Pakistan leaves at the end of the month.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              145 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 4, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The Week Ahead

BYLINE: Economic indicators:

SECTION: Financial; F03

LENGTH: 217 words


Jan. 5-9, 2004

Former Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner Doris  M. Meissner,
now at the Migration Policy Institute, speaks on 10th anniversary of NAFTA at
National Press Club.

Economic indicators: December vehicle sales.

Institute of Medicine opens two-day conference on quality  of medical care.

House Small Business Committee holds hearing on proposed new regulations on real
estate settlements.

Apple's  Macworld convention opens in San Francisco.

Economic indicators: November factory orders, December ISM service index.

Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman William H. Donaldson addresses
mutual fund directors at St. Regis Hotel.

Treasury Secretary John W. Snow addresses U.S. Chamber of Commerce Outlook 2004
forum.

National Academies host forum on improving international labor standards.

American Enterprise Institute hosts forum on liberalizing trade in financial
services.

Federal Reserve Governor Donald L. Kohn speaks on the U.S. and global  economies
at the Atlanta Fed.

AEI hosts forum on stock option expensing.

Consumer Electronics Show opens in Las Vegas.

Brookings Institution holds  conference on insurance regulation.

Russell Sage Foundation hosts forum on poverty and work at the National Press
Club.

Economic indicators: December unemployment and payrolls.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              146 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 6, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

The Global Village;
Along Queens Boulevard Lies a World Comprising Immigrants' Many Pasts And
Longed-for Futures

BYLINE: Lynne Duke, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C01

LENGTH: 1461 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Ali  El Sayed's dark blue beret lists rakishly atop his head. His white cook's
tunic barely covers his broad girth. He is a big man, a happy man and a loud one
as he deftly navigates the tight benches and tables in his tiny, colorful
Egyptian cafe. The heavy scent of pungent spices fills the air. Yellowed family
photos and artifacts of his North African culture festoon the walls as El Sayed
dishes out comedy and serves a plate of sizzling something to a pair of amorous
Friday evening patrons.

"Here we go, baby! Some octopus. Take that!"

He steps back, like a middle-aged magician, pleased at the culinary creation.
He's slipped some "hanky panky" in it, he jokes, to ramp up the table's romance.
Back in Egypt, from which he emigrated many years ago, he was a pesticide
chemist. Now he's a chef and owner of the Kabab Cafe, and more -- sort of a sage
of Steinway Street, a bittersweet lover of the American dream, and an icon of
Queens's immigrant communities as profiled in a new multimedia exhibition at the
Queens Museum of Art.

The exhibit is based on the book "Crossing the Blvd: Strangers, Neighbors,
Aliens in a New America."  The book is filled with the first-person narratives
of El Sayed and 78 other immigrants living in the New York borough that is the
United States' most ethnically diverse locality. And the museum exhibit includes
audio narratives, as well as photographs from the book.

Immigrant life in Queens, as told in the intimate, rich, comic, ironic and sad
stories of the refugee and immigrant masses, is the life of people so often seen
but not heard in America's big cities, except in places where their critical
mass has rewoven the nation's ethnic fabric.

"I came here, I was a chemist and a communist. Now I'm a chef and a miserable
capitalist," El Sayed says, as told to the book's authors. "It didn't matter I
had a college degree. I was an immigrant, so I got a job as a dishwasher. By the
end of the year, I was a chef. I knew I was never going to be a rich man so I
said, 'Let me do something I really like.' I went to the chef's program at the
Culinary Arts Institute. I was so happy to do something very far from the
disastrous business of killing insects and animals and people. I love people! I
don't want to kill them. I want to feed them."

Archie Bunker doesn't live here anymore -- not in the Queens of "Crossing the
Blvd." Queens today, with 100 nationalities and 138 languages among its 2
million people, is a cultural kaleidoscope where Bhutanese rub shoulders with
Ecuadoreans, where Nigerians coexist with Tajiks. New enclaves have overtaken
the Irish, Italian and German ones of old. Commercial strips like Steinway
Street (named for an old Steinway piano factory there) now house shops owned by
Latinos and Arabs, Asians and Africans. What links them all is the desperation
and desire that brought them here. As one immigrant says, "America can do
without you, but you can't do without America."

The book takes its title from Queens Boulevard, a 12-lane thoroughfare that
symbolizes the dangers and obstacles that immigrants face, not least of which
are the routine traffic deaths that have made this boulevard notorious. A
husband-and-wife team of documentary artists, Warren Lehrer and Judith Sloan,
produced the book and exhibit. She is an actress and oral historian who teaches
at New York University. He is a photographer and writer specializing in
innovative book design, who teaches at the State University of New York at
Purchase. They live in Queens amid the waves of human movement into and out of
the borough. And as artists who don't create within the mainstream, they share
with their subjects the mentality of being different.

"We feel like we're outsiders, like we're aliens, not hooked into the
mainstream," says Lehrer.

From 1999 to 2002, Lehrer, 48, and Sloan, 47, who also is artist-in-residence at
the Queens International High School, traveled through the immigrants' lives.
The Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks became an integral part of their work,
especially in chronicling the lives of Arab Muslims. The authors recorded
immigrant stories, photographed their world, learned their cultural symbols,
mores and the prized possessions with which they fled their homelands and came
to the United States. They focused on the "new immigrants," those who benefited
from the 1965 reform of U.S. immigration laws that once gave preference to
people from Western Europe. The lifting of that restriction opened the door to
immigrants from across the globe.

Some of them came through support networks, others "arrived like shrapnel flung
from distant wars often fueled by American foreign policy," the authors write.
But for such spare references, the book is largely nonpolitical and
nonideological. The narratives, the authors say simply, often "reveal the human
toll wrought by the machinations of post colonial empires, played out in the hot
zones of a Cold- and post-Cold War world."

There is Bovic Antosi, of Congo  (formerly Zaire), imprisoned in his country
after the ouster of the late dictator Mobutu Sese Seko, then held in detention
by Immigration and Naturalization Services for two years upon entry into the
United States. There is Shekaiba Wakili, an Afghan immigrant who returned to her
country to find her mother, Sultana Wakili, from whom she was separated through
divorce and war. And Ana Maria Asuncion of the Philippines, who endured the
horror of rape at the hands of her own U.S. immigration lawyer.

Lehrer and Sloan became involved in the lives of some of their subjects --
driving people to immigration hearings, offering advice, friendship, just being
an anchor.

For Amy Li, Sloan offered ideas for making the life of an 8-year-old a bit
easier. A member of the Falun Gong spiritual sect in China, Li was arrested and
tortured for practicing her beliefs. She fled the country under threat of being
taken to a labor camp, and left her child  behind. Since publication of the
book, Li has succeeded in bringing her daughter to the United States. But the
girl's name is Dou Dou (pronounced doo doo). Sloan suggested to Li that the name
might cause taunting by other children, so the mother is pondering a different
name for her child. Children, after all, can be cruel. In the book, an Indian
boy says he was called "Gandhi-head." An Egyptian youth had to endure the name
"Mummy Boy."

The narratives are engaging, especially the one about the raging bull. The bull
was to have been the showpiece of a rodeo staged by two Mexican immigrant
brothers, Lazaro and Juan Navarro, hoping to bring a bit of home to their new
community. But the bull got away. Its flight is told in the book from the
perspective of the Mexican, Indian, Ecuadorean and American-born witnesses who
saw the beast rampage through the streets of Queens and meet its bloody end in a
police fusillade.

The stories are so different, and yet many of the immigrants' lives are so
similar.

"Every single immigrant has similar problems," says Morshed Alam, a 1984
Bangladeshi immigrant, a chemical engineer and founder of the New American
Democratic Club, based in Queens. "They have a money problem. They have a public
education problem. They have a job problem. They have a health problem."

And Alam should know -- not only from his own experience, but from those of the
11  relatives he's supporting, not to mention the six more who've obtained visas
and also will be immigrating. The immigrant struggle is the basis of Alam's
politics. The only solution, he says, is for immigrants to form coalitions
across their ethnic groups. It works, he says. With coalition support, he has
twice served on the New York City school board. (He's also run for the state
senate and lost.) He learned his political technique back in Bangladesh, where
he was a budding but ambitious student activist. As told in the book, his
political journey was pure show business -- and he didn't even have a Washington
political strategist!

"The college had an annual sports event at the stadium every fall. Even though I
am not a sportsman, I put my name as a competitor on all the events: soccer,
running, long jump, gymnastics. At the start of each event, they called the
names of participants to come to the field while 2,000 students sat watching in
the stands. When they called Morshed Alam on the loudspeaker, I didn't come.
They announced my name again, Morshed Alam. I still didn't come. By the time
they announced my name six times . . . everybody was wondering and looking, who
is this guy Morshed Alam? That's when I ran onto the field. I did this for 10
different events. I wasn't good at any of the games, but by the end of the
weekend everybody knew my name."

The Queens Museum of Art exhibit runs through March 14.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              147 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Backs Out Of Talks in Cuba On Immigration

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A20

LENGTH: 615 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Jan. 7


U.S. officials said Wednesday that they have postponed scheduled immigration
talks with Cuban officials, prompting the government of President Fidel Castro
to charge that the Bush administration is "aggravating the tensions between both
countries" for political purposes in an election year.

The State Department spokesman, Richard Boucher, said U.S. officials declined to
attend a meeting proposed by the Cubans for Thursday in Havana because the
Cubans were unwilling to discuss key issues on the U.S. agenda.

"The point is not just to have a meeting; the point is to deal with the serious
issues involved," Boucher told reporters Wednesday.

The talks, normally held every six months in alternating countries, are the
highest-level regular diplomatic contact between the two nations, which have not
had formal relations in more than 40 years.

The meetings were established under accords reached in 1994 and 1995, and are
intended to avoid an exodus of Cuban refugees to the United States. In the
summer of 1994, more than 30,000 Cubans set out for the United States on boats
and rafts.

The White House has taken an increasingly hard line against Castro's government.
Bush administration officials have worked to tighten the four-decade-old
economic embargo against Cuba and have punished U.S. citizens who have visited
Cuba in violation of a near-total travel ban.

Roger Noriega, the State Department's top official on Latin American issues,
warned Tuesday that Castro, whom he described as a "broken-down old dictator,"
was promoting "provocative" policies designed to destabilize democratic
governments in the hemisphere.

A statement issued by the Cuban Foreign Ministry said the U.S. decision not to
attend the immigration meeting "is compounded by the long list of aggressions,
plans and statements made in the last few months against our country by the U.S.
government." It said the United States charged that Cuba was not "seriously
addressing" the issues between the countries.

"In the imperial language of the U.S. officials," the statement said, the U.S.
stance  "means that Cuba should be willing to make all necessary unilateral
concessions and accept all demands and whims from the U.S. authorities."

The Cuban statement also charged that the Bush administration was trying to
appeal to Miami-based Cuban exiles who oppose Castro and have clout in U.S.
presidential politics. Boucher said the decision was "not an election issue."

Under U.S.-Cuban immigration accords, the United States agreed to return Cuban
refugees picked up at sea. But the United States also maintains a policy known
as "wet-foot, dry-foot," in which Cubans who make it to land are allowed to
stay.

Cuban officials have long argued that the policy encourages Cubans to try to
make the dangerous crossing and violates the spirit of the immigration accords.
The Cuban statement issued Tuesday called the policy "irrational" and an
obstacle to "normalization of the migration flow."

Boucher said the Cuban government had failed to honor several aspects of the
immigration accords, including issuance of exit permits for those who qualify
for U.S. visas.

He also said Cuba continued to bar U.S. diplomats in Cuba from traveling
throughout the island, a restriction put in place a year ago when Cuba rounded
up and jailed scores of dissidents accused of conspiring with the United States
to undermine Castro's government.

"We're moving toward a situation where there are fewer and fewer normal contacts
between the two governments," said Wayne Smith, a former top U.S. diplomat in
Havana who now works at the Center for International Policy in Washington, which
favors increased ties between the countries.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              148 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 9, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Immigrant Labor Plan Leaves Mexicans With Doubts

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 895 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Jan. 8


When Cecilia Gamez heard about the immigration reform plan President Bush
announced  Wednesday, she had a thought:  A program like that might have saved
her husband's life.

Roberto Rivera was one of 19 illegal immigrants who died last May in a
sweltering trailer truck on a highway in Victoria, Tex., abandoned by the
unscrupulous human smugglers Bush hopes to put out of business with a new
temporary worker program.

Gamez, 30, said her husband would have taken advantage of a provision that would
allow employers to sponsor immigrant workers, so that they would not have to
face the dangers of crossing illegally. But she said she feared that Bush's
announcement was nothing but election-year posturing.

"Bush says he will do it and I hope he will, but I doubt it -- they always say
things and don't do them," Gamez said in a telephone interview from her home in
the village of Pozos in Guanajuato state. "It would be good because it would
avoid many more deaths. My husband never thought this would happen to him."

Gamez's reaction to Bush's proposal is typical of many in Mexico: enthusiasm
tempered with deep reservations or outright skepticism.

Many Mexicans are pleased that Bush has chosen to take on their number-one issue
in such a prominent way, using a White House speech to outline his plans for a
temporary worker program that could legalize millions of undocumented workers.

Columnist Sergio Sarmiento, writing in the Reforma newspaper Thursday, called
Bush's plan "reasonable" and "brave" and said it could benefit both countries.
Armando Esparza Elias, head of a group in Zacatecas state  that advocates for
Mexicans abroad, said in an interview that the plan would "be for the good of
workers who want to follow the American dream, who want a better life, and who
want to do it legally."

But many of those interviewed said they were skeptical of promises from the
United States, which is widely seen here as selfish and arrogant in its dealings
with Mexico.

"I've seen Bush vacillate many times; he'll say one thing and then say something
else," said Juan Manuel Ferrao, 59, an importer who travels regularly to the
United States. "It will be a miracle if this actually happens."

Juan Lopez Garcia, 20, who is studying to be a teacher, also expressed doubt
about U.S. intentions. "You shouldn't believe everything they tell you," he
said. "On the other hand, you can't stop believing."

President Vicente Fox's initial reaction after talking to Bush on the telephone
Wednesday morning was ebullient; at the opening of a school in Mexico City he
said  Bush's plan represented "a clear recognition of the value of these
Mexicans who are working there in the United States."

By later in the day, after Bush's speech, Fox was more guarded and called the
plan "an important first step" but "less than we had hoped." In a speech
Thursday, he sounded more upbeat again, calling the plan "a great step forward."

"It is going to permit millions of Mexicans who are there without documents to
do their work with full legal status, with full labor and human rights, with
full recognition," Fox said, adding that the Bush plan was a response to the
Mexican government's "efforts and work."

Headlines and cartoons in newspapers Thursday ranged from cautious to caustic.

A political cartoon in El Independiente newspaper showed Bush tossing a Frisbee,
meant to represent his immigration plan, marked "Vote for Bush." Fox, depicted
as a mustachioed hound dog with his tongue hanging out, is chasing it.

"The only people who are happy with Bush's plan are people who don't understand
Washington, or those who are naive or highly romantic," said Raymundo Riva
Palacio, editor of El Independiente. "But Fox grabs anything that Bush gives
him."

Many people here said they feared that documenting temporary workers, without
guaranteeing them a track to eventual permanent residence, would result in the
systematic expulsion of millions of Mexican workers in the United States.

"In the end, this may be just a polite way of kicking people out," said Arturo
Hernandez, 32, a Mexican American from New York who was visiting here Thursday.

"After they have exploited them, they will throw them out," said Gerardo Diaz
Rojas, 61, a street vendor.

U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), visiting Mexico on Wednesday,
said he was confident that Bush's plan would pass Congress "because it is a
security issue."

"At a time when everybody in the United States and everybody in Mexico at least
would understand that documentation is important for security, it's hard to say
it should not pass," Frist said.

Frist's comments framing the plan in security terms led the Democratic
Revolutionary Party, or PRD, one of the three main political parties in Mexico,
to issue a statement denouncing  the Bush proposal  as "a distraction to mask
the hegemonic interests of the ultraconservative group installed in the White
House." The statement said that for Fox, the plan was a "new cosmetic victory
designed to make Mexicans forget his long list of unfulfilled promises."

Roberto Madrazo, leader of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI,
offered a tepid response: "We hope that this effort that has been proposed
corresponds to reality and is not simply an electoral strategy."

Researchers Bart Beeson and Gabriela Martinez contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              149 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 10, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigrant Guilty Of Assaulting Md. Child;
Man Was Deported in '98 After First Offense

BYLINE: David Snyder, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 599 words


A Rockville man who was deported to El Salvador in 1998 after serving jail time
for fondling a 10-year-old boy pleaded guilty yesterday to sexually assaulting
another Montgomery County child last year after illegally reentering the United
States.

Federal authorities say Jose Guillermo Alvarado, 33, should not have been back
in the United States last June, when Montgomery police charged him with raping
the 5-year-old son of a Rockville woman from whom he had been renting a room.

Alvarado, a native of El Salvador, pleaded guilty yesterday in Montgomery
Circuit Court to second-degree sex offense and to violating the conditions of
his probation. The maximum possible sentence in his case is 331/2 years in
prison. Judge D. Warren Donohue scheduled sentencing for March 12.

Alvarado has also been indicted on federal charges of returning illegally to the
United States and making false statements on an application for temporary
protected status, according to court documents filed Sept. 29 in U.S. District
Court in Baltimore.

Alvarado is being held without bond in the Montgomery jail. Audrey Creighton,
Alvarado's court-appointed attorney, declined to comment yesterday.

It was not clear yesterday when or how Alvarado applied for temporary protected
status or why he was not detained at that time. Chris Bentley, a spokesman for
the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, declined to comment on Alvarado's
case yesterday, referring queries to Garrison Courtney, a spokesman for  U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Courtney acknowledged that gaps in procedure at the former Immigration and
Naturalization Service could have led to a convicted felon such as Alvarado
being allowed into the country. Courtney said that since the service was split
into three agencies March 1, "a lot of loopholes have been closed."

"Under the INS, there were a lot of loopholes and a lot of things that weren't
always done the best way," he said. "We've really taken a critical eye to what
the INS did or didn't do."

Montgomery State's Attorney Douglas F. Gansler said: "There was clearly a
breakdown in the immigration system if [Alvarado] was convicted, served his
sentence and was properly deported and then was able to reenter the country and
perform the same despicable act, this time on a 5-year-old."

Immigration critics have held up Alvarado's case as an example of the flaws in
the nation's border security and immigration policy.

"With a guy like this that sneaks over the border, the only real chance of him
being apprehended is if we have complete cooperation and sharing of information
. . . between state and local cops and federal immigration officials," said
David Ray, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Police charged Alvarado in November 1996 with child abuse and a sex offense
involving the son of a woman he was dating. He pleaded guilty in January 1997
and served just more than a year in the Montgomery jail before he was turned
over to federal authorities for deportation.

Alvarado reentered the United States in July 1999 -- 16 months after he was
deported, Assistant State's Attorney Donna Fenton said yesterday in court.

Four years later, he resurfaced as a tenant in a Rockville family's basement. He
frequently spent time with the 5-year-old, but the mother did not suspect
anything was wrong until her son began trying to avoid him, police said. Another
renter realized the two had been alone in a dark laundry room, and the mother
called medical authorities, who contacted police.

Staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              150 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 11, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Migrating Toward Trouble

BYLINE: David A. Martin

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 1012 words


This nation's undocumented population presents real human dilemmas that we need
to address. But President Bush's new immigration plan would lead to stunningly
broad changes for our laws and our labor market, without being candid about its
real-world effects and operations -- much less about how to address them. This
lack of seriousness verges on the irresponsible.

Worse, this ill-considered plan will make it hard to find our way back to a
serious effort to craft a sustainable and humane long-term immigration policy.

The Bush proposal offers legal temporary worker status to all undocumented
migrants who can show they are  working here -- maybe 8 million people. The plan
then promises future temporary visas for new foreign employees to fill any job
for which an employer, after undergoing an unspecified "quick and simple"
process, cannot find American workers.

The president says that this will improve security and enforcement, because
workers will come out of the shadows to identify themselves, and law enforcement
can then focus on criminals and terrorists.

A serious plan would have addressed at least the following issues, well before
whetting employers' appetites for such a vast new pool of available workers.
These are not simple adjustments, easily tweaked as Congress debates the
proposals. They present huge questions of policy, resources and sheer
administrative capacity.

Processing. How do the undocumented become documented? Apparently they have to
prove only that they were employed here as of a certain date and remain
employed. The 1986 legalization program triggered tens of thousands of bogus
affidavits attesting to 90 days of past farm work. The same temptations will be
stronger now, because apparently shorter periods of work -- easier to lie about
-- will suffice.

If the idea is that immigration officers will check these filings closely, you
have to wonder: Is the White House oblivious to the deep problems that
bureaucracy already faces?

The immigration services component of the Department of Homeland Security now
receives 7 million applications a year. Bush has promised since 2001 to reduce
the multiyear delays in processing, but the backlog has grown from 3.9 million
to 6.2 million in the past two years. Adding 8 million new applications has to
mean an even slower process for people who have already waited too long.

New workers from other countries. For future admissions, the key is an
employer's inability to find a U.S. worker. But at what wage? All the jobs that
Americans allegedly won't take now were done overwhelmingly by U.S. workers.
Interest dropped because wages declined in real terms, often precisely because
undocumented workers were available. Even if the new plan requires "prevailing
wages" -- and the president made no such promise -- the new system is bound to
retard normal wage growth.

Many employers will be tempted to cut corners on their searches or to find
pretexts for rejecting U.S. applicants. The Labor Department now tries to police
against such violations and against below-standard wages in the far more limited
foreign-worker programs it oversees. Greatly understaffed, it does this badly.
The cheating will get worse once every job in every sector is opened to this
procedure.

Enforcement. The president's speech made a nod toward enforcement, but it
betrays no glimpse of the real challenges here. Temporary workers will be
required to leave at the end of their limited admission period, or if they lose
their jobs. This latter fact gives employers enormous power to silence any
complaints about working conditions. But who is going to check, on either
employee departures or employer misbehavior? Deportations resulting from work
site enforcement dropped from 17,000 in 1997 to fewer than 500 in 2002, and
Labor Department staffing has not grown for years. Nothing portends a real
change here.

The plan's explainers talk as though our simply bringing the current 8 million
out of the shadows will mean we have records of everyone who is here, and --
voila! -- the illegal migration problem is solved. But that pool is not
stagnant, and the Bush plan will ultimately make the problem worse. Migration is
a network phenomenon. People already here provide a link making it easier for
their friends and cousins to come. A bigger base of legal workers, even if
temporary, makes for a wider network.

Also, the incentives to come illegally will grow stronger. How are you going to
be the worker for whom an employer will petition once his U.S. job search comes
up dry? You're not going to make that connection from San Salvador or Monterrey.
All the odds favor sneaking in first and letting the visa catch up later.

Security screening. The delays and backlogs in current immigration processing
have grown in part because since Sept. 11, 2001,  we have imposed new security
screening measures, including checking names against watch lists. After a rocky
start, these new systems are just now beginning to cope with existing demands,
but they aren't ready for an added load, and anyway they are hardly foolproof.

Much of the rhetoric about this program speaks as if undocumented workers and
terrorists are two different species, as easy to distinguish as cattle from
fish.

They aren't. The comforting talk about this plan as a way of improving security
is hollow. Any "quick and simple" admission system will become a target of
opportunity for the entry of terrorists and criminals.

Resources. Finally, since the current immigration staffing can't possibly cope
with these new burdens, are we going to hire thousands of new officers to do the
processing and beef up enforcement? The needed budgetary commitment is nowhere
in sight, and even if it were, overreliance on raw rookies is a recipe for
trouble.

It's hard to imagine a less promising way to fix a system the president calls
broken than by flooding it with these new demands.

The writer, a law professor at the University of Virginia, was general counsel
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1995 to 1998.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              151 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 18, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

CORRECTION

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 72 words


A Jan. 11 Outlook article, "Millions Fingerprinted But Who Is Served?" referred
to the Department of Homeland Security's U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services (USCIS) by its former name, the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The article also said that the Department of Homeland Security should increase
its budget for consular officers, but it has no budget for consular officers,
all of whom work for the State Department.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              152 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 22, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Doubts About the Immigration Plan

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 623 words


For the sake of argument, let's assume that the 8 million to 14 million
individuals who are illegally in this country accept the president's offer
["Bush Proposes Legal Status for Immigrant Labor; Workers Could Stay Six Years
or More," front page, Jan. 8], sign up for his program and return to their home
country in six years. Let's also assume that an unknown number of other workers
enter legally under the program, and they also return to their native country.

During the three to six years that these workers are here, some would have
children who would become American citizens at birth under current law.

I have not seen anything that suggests that citizenship requirements will be
changed, so wouldn't we be exporting thousands of U.S. citizens every year?
These children might  not receive the same quality of education and health care
in other countries that they would receive here.

I also suspect that when many of these children grow old enough to become
eligible to work in this country, they would return with questionable prospects
except to replace their parents in the positions that U.S. citizens don't want.

Forget "No Child Left Behind"; thousands of children would be left behind.

DEBI PERKINS

Alexandria

*

President Bush's "temporary worker" program is clearly packaged to please the
crowd. But so much about it is undefined.

Who will be allowed to come?

Will workers be forced to leave families at home?

Will a guest worker be tied to a particular job? If so, what protections will be
available to prevent exploitation by an unscrupulous employer?

Unless these and many other details are addressed early and fairly, guest
workers could become another permanent cheap labor force without any equity in
this country, just like the illegal immigrants they are supposed to replace.

We must structure immigration reforms that will welcome immigrants and help them
be productive. We must do this without making Americans fearful for their jobs
or resentful of newcomers.

My final concern: Will people be labeled "anti-immigrant" if they have doubts
about the program and oppose it? I hope not, because I'm an immigrant myself.

CHIEN-CHI HUANG

Washington

*

David A. Martin's Jan. 11 Outlook article questioning the value of President
Bush's proposal to offer temporary work status to undocumented workers
["Migrating Toward Trouble"] missed the main problem with the president's
proposal: It would not permit expedited access to the green card.

People who take advantage of the program would probably never achieve permanent
residency or citizenship, important goals for many who have worked here for
several years or more, paid taxes and raised families. Without access to
permanent residency and citizenship, his plan may keep many workers in the
shadows for fear of deportation once their three-year work status ends.

To remedy this for undocumented agricultural workers, the president should
support the Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act of 2003. The
bill would allow temporary worker status for at least 500,000 undocumented
agricultural workers who meet certain conditions. It would permit these workers
to earn permanent resident status by working for at least three more years in
agriculture. They would, of course, have to be free of criminal records and meet
other conditions before they could be granted a green card.

The bill also allows growers who cannot find American workers to have a
streamlined system of recruiting foreign workers.

This bill would overcome the primary limitation in the president's plan: the
lack of opportunity to become a permanent part of American society.

DAVID A. STRAUSS

Executive Director

Association of Farmworker Opportunity Programs

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              153 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 27, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

9/11 Panel Faults U.S. For Letting Hijackers In

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1214 words


The U.S. government fumbled repeated opportunities to stop many of the men
responsible for the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks from entering the country, missing
fraudulent passports and other warning signs that should have attracted greater
scrutiny, according to a preliminary report released yesterday.

The new findings by the independent commission investigating the terrorist
strikes stand in marked contrast to the contentions of many senior U.S.
officials, who for more than two years have portrayed the 19 hijackers as
law-abiding travelers who did little to attract government suspicion and who, in
nearly all cases, entered or resided in the country legally.

Yesterday's report disclosed that as many as eight of the hijackers carried
passports that "showed evidence of fraudulent manipulation," while as many as
five of the passports had "suspicious indicators." The report did not identify
the details missed by authorities.

The report also found that at least six hijackers, including ringleader Mohamed
Atta, violated U.S. immigration laws either while in the United States or while
returning. Five of the hijackers aroused enough suspicion that they were
questioned individually by customs or immigration inspectors but were eventually
allowed to enter the United States. None of the hijackers filled out his visa
application correctly, and three clearly lied on the forms, according to the
report.

"There were many opportunities to stop the 9/11 plot," said commission member
Jamie S. Gorelick, a former Justice Department official in the Clinton
administration.

Several current and former government officials who testified yesterday disputed
such assertions, arguing that little more could have been done to detect the
plotters. "I don't believe that in a visa interview, you would ever uncover a
terrorist," said Mary A. Ryan, former assistant secretary for consular affairs
in the State Department.

In yesterday's report, commission investigators also identified five suspected
al Qaeda associates by name who they believe may have intended to join the plot
but were thwarted. Four were blocked from obtaining visas in a variety of ways
by U.S. consular officials abroad, while a fifth was sent back to the Middle
East by an observant immigration inspector in Orlando.

Jose E. Melendez-Perez, now an inspector with the Department of Homeland
Security, recounted an interview he conducted with a Saudi national, Mohamed al
Qahtani, who investigators now believe was planning to meet Atta at the Orlando
airport on Aug. 4, 2001. Al Qahtani had no return ticket and no hotel
reservations, and he refused to identify a friend who, he said, would provide
him with money and other assistance on his trip.

"The bottom line was, he gave me the creeps," Melendez-Perez said in his
prepared statement, adding that his first impression was that al Qahtani was a
"hit man" because of his hostile and arrogant attitude and his refusal to
disclose his plans. "A 'hit man' doesn't know where he is going because if he is
caught, that way he doesn't have any information to bargain with," he said. "My
wife said I was watching too much movies."

Before departing, al Qahtani turned to Melendez-Perez and said, in English:
"I'll be back."

Melendez-Perez said he was taking a bit of a risk by refusing al Qahtani entry
to the United States because Saudis were generally treated more permissively
than other foreign nationals by U.S. border agents. Al Qahtani -- who would
later be apprehended by U.S. forces in Afghanistan -- was eventually escorted
onto a flight bound for Dubai via London, a decision that was applauded by the
audience and the commission at yesterday's hearing.

"It is extremely possible, and perhaps probable, that Mohamed al Qahtani was to
be the 20th hijacker," said Richard Ben-Veniste, a former Watergate prosecutor
and Democratic member of the commission. "It is entirely plausible to suggest
that your actions . . . may well have contributed to saving the Capitol or the
White House and all the people who were in those buildings."

Ben-Veniste was referring to the plane that crashed in a Pennsylvania field on
the day of the attacks after passengers attempted to wrest control from the four
hijackers aboard. Authorities believe it was headed to Washington, probably
aimed at the Capitol or the White House. It was the only aircraft to be
commandeered by four hijackers instead of five, and authorities have long
debated whether the plan called for a "20th hijacker" to be aboard.

Said Melendez-Perez, a 12-year veteran of the immigration service, "I was just
doing my job."

The commission's findings go further than some previous investigations of this
subject. The FBI and others have said it is not clear whether the men prevented
from entering the country sought to participate directly in the attacks.

Under questioning from commissioners, Melendez-Perez also said that when Atta
attempted to reenter the United States in January 2001, his case raised enough
red flags that he should have been blocked from getting in.

Yesterday's hearing marked a watershed moment for the 10-member bipartisan
panel, known formally as the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the
United States, which has produced little information since it was established by
Congress in late 2002.

The panel's work has been delayed by a series of battles for access to
classified information held by the Bush administration, leading a majority of
commissioners to favor an extension of its May 27 deadline. The White House and
House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) have indicated they would oppose such a
move, and the commission is expected to decide this week whether to press the
fight more publicly.

Unlike a joint inquiry by the House and Senate intelligence committees -- which
detailed shortcomings in the intelligence process before the hijackings -- the
commission is charged with investigating a wide range of topics, including the
immigration and border issues highlighted yesterday.

Among other findings released by the commission's staff:

*  Two of the Saudi hijackers may have obtained their passports with help from
family members who worked in the passport office.

*  Khalid Sheik Mohammed, who has been identified as the mastermind behind the
attacks, obtained a visa to enter the United States on July 23, 2001, using a
Saudi passport and an alias. There is no evidence he used the document, however.

*  In addition to al Qahtani, those identified in the report as having attempted
to enter the United States to participate in the attacks are Ramzi Binalshibh,
who authorities have long said helped coordinate the plot when he could not
secure a visa to participate in it; Moroccan operative and "potential pilot"
Zakariya Essabar; Mohammed's nephew, Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, an alleged financier of
the plot; and Saeed al-Gamdi, who was known by the nickname "Jihad," or holy
war.

A hijacker with a similar name, Saeed Alghamdi, who helped commandeer United
Airlines Flight 93, which crashed in Pennsylvania, was referred to an
immigration inspector in June 2001 because he had a one-way ticket, provided no
address and only had $500 in his possession. But he was able to persuade the
inspector that he was a tourist and was allowed to enter the United States.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              154 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 29, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A30

LENGTH: 509 words


In the largest crackdown of its kind, federal officials said yesterday that they
have broken up a cigarette-smuggling operation in five states.

Officials with the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement said 10 people
have been arrested in Texas, New Mexico, New York, Florida and California.
Portions of a 92-count indictment detailing the alleged scheme were unsealed in
El Paso.

Federal agents have spent more than three years investigating the smuggling
operation, which they said sought to bring 5 million packs of bootleg cigarettes
into the country. Authorities seized 2.5 million packs, estimated to be worth
$20 million.

The indictment alleges that Jorge Abraham, 34, of Sunland Park, N.M.,
masterminded the plot. Distributors in Texas, California and New York bought the
cigarettes and then sold them for a significant profit, according to federal
officials.

TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -- A man who gained national notoriety as a teenager 27 years
ago when his lawyer unsuccessfully argued that "television intoxication" led the
boy to murder a neighbor will be released from prison a year early and deported
to his native Costa Rica. The Florida Parole Commission voted to allow the
release of Ronny Zamora on June 7, instead of next year.

Zamora was 15 at the time of the 1977 murder of Elinor Haggart, 83, at her Miami
Beach home. His sensational trial was one of the first to be televised after
cameras were allowed into Florida courtrooms, and his attorney, Ellis Rubin,
used a "TV defense," arguing that watching violent television programs such as
"Kojak" had prompted Zamora to kill.

*  RALEIGH, N.C. -- Beverly Smith, a black woman who says a community college
instructor suggested she go "back to Africa," has asked for an apology and is
considering a lawsuit against the school. Smith said instructor Joe Maye's
behavior at Surry Community College left her so shaken that she was unable to
bring herself to enroll for more nursing classes. Maye admitted he made the
remarks and resigned.

*  DETROIT -- The FBI agent in charge of the Detroit field office has been
temporarily recalled to headquarters amid an investigation into a
terrorism-related case and the handling of a confidential informant, officials
said. Willie Hulon was replaced for the time being by Michael Wolf, who formerly
headed the FBI office in New Haven, Conn., law enforcement officials said.

*  MIAMI -- Four gay men lost a federal challenge  to the only state law
completely banning homosexuals from adopting children. The U.S. Court of Appeals
for the 11th Circuit ruled against the men, who are foster parents seeking to
adopt the children in their care despite the 1977 law, passed in the heyday of
Anita Bryant's anti-gay campaign. Florida is the only state with a complete ban
on adoption by gays.

*  HUNTSVILLE, Tex. -- Death row inmate Billy Frank Vickers, 58, confessed to
more than a dozen killings just before he was executed Wednesday night, about a
month after his punishment was postponed while courts considered an appeal.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              155 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 2, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

One in Five Area Workers Born Abroad;
Group's Jobless Rate Down Since 2000, Analysis Finds

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1426 words


The region's immigrant labor force is growing rapidly despite the economic
slowdown, according to unpublished government figures showing that one in five
workers in the Baltimore-Washington area, from office cleaners to computer
programmers, was born outside the United States.

Figures from a census survey indicate that immigrants -- especially people who
have arrived in the United States since 2000 -- accounted for most of the recent
growth in the ranks of area jobholders. In 2000, immigrants accounted for 15
percent of working people in the region. By 2003, they accounted for 20 percent.
The figures, analyzed by the Center for Immigration Studies, indicate that the
unemployment rate dipped for immigrants during that period, even as overall
unemployment rose.

"This is the right place to be right now," said Hugo Carballo, a Northern
Virginia construction union official who said he receives 10 to 15 calls a day
from recently arrived immigrants looking for employment. "The pay is not bad,
and there is plenty of work."

The numbers underline the growing role played by immigrants in the economy, but
also raise questions about the impact on native-born workers. That debate flared
nationally last month after President Bush proposed creation of a major
temporary-worker program to accommodate foreign-born labor.

The immigration surge is particularly noticeable in Maryland and Virginia, where
the economy is stronger than it is nationally. A recent report by Northeastern
University's Center for Labor Market Studies said the two states are among 14
that have attracted 80 percent of the nation's new foreign-born workers since
2000.

Immigration hit record levels during the hot job market of the 1990s but now
seems linked less to U.S. economic conditions than to the drawing power of
family networks here and to war, poverty and lack of opportunity elsewhere.

The census figures also show that immigration -- legal and illegal -- has not
slowed despite listless U.S. job growth and tightened border enforcement. Both
the Center for Immigration Studies and the Northeastern University report said
recently arrived foreign-born workers have made up most of the net growth in the
national workforce since 2000.

Although most immigrants are in the United States legally, illegal immigration
is at an all-time high. The Urban Institute estimates that the nation has 9.3
million illegal immigrants, up from 8.5 million in 2000, with perhaps 100,000 to
200,000 in the Washington area. Some experts said that tougher border policing
has discouraged people without legal papers from leaving for short visits
because of fear they won't be able to get back in.

"I would say that for every one person we hire, we have one person [applying]
who did not have the proper work authority," said Steve Steinberg, general
manager of the Hilton Garden Inn in Fairfax County. "There's just a huge group
of people who do not have temporary work visas."

Steinberg said his hotel usually does not have to advertise to find legal
workers for jobs such as entry-level cleaners, who make $8 an hour. In most
cases, "somebody will know somebody -- a neighbor or family member," he said.

CASA of Maryland, a community organization that offers a variety of programs for
immigrants, saw a temporary drop in attendance at its twice-weekly orientation
meetings for new arrivals after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. But
enrollment is back up to the usual 80 to 100 people, director Gustavo Torres
said.

"People mostly come from the same countries in Latin America," he said. "Now I
am seeing a tremendous increase in people from Colombia due to the political and
economic situation. Also a lot of people from Africa -- that didn't happen
before."

Eliazar Villatoro, 31, who lives with his wife and daughter in Silver Spring,
said that life here is not easy but that it is an improvement over his home
country, El Salvador.

"It's better to live right here because right here you get dollars," said
Villatoro, who works as a waiter on weekends and teaches literacy to other
Spanish-speakers on weeknights. For most work, he said, "the minimum payment per
hour is like $6. In my country, you can get, for one hour, 25 cents."

Villatoro and his family moved here last year from Atlanta, which he did not
like because, he said, Hispanic people often are harassed by the police. Of
course, it costs more to live in the United States, he said, but he still is
able to send $600 a month home to El Salvador, where two of his daughters live
with his mother-in-law.

During recent decades, immigrants have reshaped the workforce in industries such
as construction and hotel housekeeping that once were heavily African American.
The 2000 Census showed that nearly half the region's immigrants had come to the
United States in the previous decade, a far higher share than for the country as
a whole.

The foreign-born population in the region also is more diverse than it is
nationally, and better educated. Latin Americans, the largest group regionally
and nationally, account for more than half the nation's immigrants but for less
than 40 percent locally, according to 2000 Census figures.  The area also has a
fast-growing population from Africa, as well as large numbers from Asia and
elsewhere. Although a substantial share of area immigrants do not have a high
school degree, most of the region's foreign-born workers have at least some
college education -- an exception to the national pattern.

"I know a physician from Guatemala who right now is working in construction,"
said Walter Rodriguez, a Uruguayan-born counselor with the Foreign-Born
Information and Referral Network, a nonprofit group based in Columbia. "I know a
lady who is a speech therapist who is working as a waitress.

"People who are willing to do whatever is available will get a job fairly
quickly. People who are picky will have a little trouble getting a job. There
are so many available that employers can fire those people and they very quickly
can get another one."

Although immigrants take a range of jobs, Steven A. Camarota, research director
of the Center for Immigration Studies, said their impact is greater at the
less-skilled end, where they  account for one in four area workers with a high
school degree or less. That may be because less-educated Americans are older,
and many are recently retired. But some immigrants could be displacing U.S.-born
workers, said Camarota, whose organization favors greater limits on immigration.

Economists said competition from immigrants does hurt some U.S.-born workers,
mainly the least skilled. Some labor leaders once pushed this issue, though most
now actively recruit immigrants. In the Washington area, even groups that want
to limit immigration agree that there is little worker-organized opposition to
it.

Nathan Price, who heads an organization of D.C. taxicab drivers, said some
U.S.-born drivers complain to him that immigrants have "tarnished the industry"
by overcharging, refusing to pick up African American customers and other
practices.

"There is a resentment," Price said. "I don't hold it myself. I hold it for
those drivers who come here illegally."

Some union leaders agree that many employers prefer to hire immigrants,
believing they are more willing to work overtime or come to work on short
notice. "There's a real exploitative side to this," said Dennis Dezman,
secretary-treasurer of Laborers Local 11, which represents area construction
workers. "If a person's immigrant status is unclear, you don't want to complain
if you get into an accident . . . something that would drive an American to
worker's compensation or unemployment insurance."

The continuing immigration during hard times has reenergized the debate among
academics and others about the impact not only on U.S. workers, but also on the
nature of work. Does the availability of cheap labor allow an employer to avoid
investing in more-efficient equipment or technology because five men using
shovels, for example, cost the same in expenditures for wages and equipment as
one man with a backhoe? Would some jobs even exist if it were not for
foreign-born workers willing to take them?

"New York yuppies are used to having someone to clean up after them," said
Muzaffar A. Chishti, director of an office of the Migration Policy Institute at
the New York University School of Law, explaining that immigrant laborers have
enabled some services to thrive. "People are used to being driven everywhere.
They want fresh-squeezed orange juice at 4 in the morning."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              156 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 8, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

In Bush's Policies, Business Wins

BYLINE: Thomas B. Edsall, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 914 words


For three years, President Bush has been willing to anger environmentalists,
civil libertarians of the right and left, unions, trial lawyers and conservative
advocates of free markets. But one group that almost always comes out a winner
when Bush sets policy is the business community, from Fortune 500 corporations
to small, family-run companies.

Bush's recent immigration initiative is a prime example. While commentary and
reaction focused largely on how it might affect foreign-born workers, the
unquestioned beneficiaries are U.S. employers. If the proposal becomes law, they
will have a vastly enlarged pool of prospective workers, many willing to perform
the dirtiest and most dangerous tasks for low pay.

The policy's likely impact on other constituent groups -- including some
important to a Republican president -- is far less clear. Social conservatives,
for example, were furious at Bush's plan to make it easier for undocumented
workers to stay in this country. The response from leaders of the nation's most
prominent Hispanic organizations -- a constituency heavily courted by
Republicans and Democrats alike -- ranged from ambivalence to outright
opposition because of the administration's failure to provide a direct avenue to
citizenship.

But a range of employers hungry for low-wage, low-skill workers hailed the
proposal without hesitation. The Essential Worker Immigration Coalition -- an
alliance of associations and lobbies representing nursing homes, hotels, road
and building contractors, restaurants,  landscape companies and meatpackers --
praised the Bush initiative.

"The inability of employers to hire enough U.S. workers will be alleviated
through his proposal of allowing businesses to utilize temporary workers from
abroad," the group said.

The immigration proposal fits a broader pattern encompassing Bush's tax
legislation, regulatory decisions, labor policies and economic strategies.

"Since 1932, we have not had a president who has been more closely allied with
business and more sympathetic to large and powerful corporations," said Columbia
University historian Alan Brinkley, a specialist in the American presidency.

"It's hard to think of anyone [in the 20th century] who has been more connected
to the corporate world than maybe Herbert Hoover" in the 20th and 21st
centuries, said Robert Dallek, professor emeritus  at Boston University and a
prominent presidential biographer.

The ties between the Bush administration and U.S. businesses are further
cemented by campaign donations from business owners and executives. Of the 391
"Pioneers" and "Rangers" who have raised $100,000 or $200,000 respectively for
Bush's reelection bid, 70 are from the finance industry, 27 from the energy
industry, 12 from insurance, 25 from the communications industry and 16 from the
transportation industry. Seventy are corporate lawyers and lobbyists.

Another 94 of the Pioneers and Rangers are from industries actively supporting
the administration's immigration proposal, including real estate developers,
food service, the health care industry and the commercial construction sector.

The trade associations in the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition -- not
counting their corporate members or the executives of those corporations -- are
themselves major political players. In 2000-2002, these business associations
and their political action committees gave $5.8 million to candidates and
parties, 71 percent of it to the GOP.

In many areas, the Bush administration is more in sync with corporate America
than were the Clinton administration and earlier Democratic presidencies. In
environmental regulation, for instance, Bush appointees have reduced the
obligations of power plants to upgrade pollution controls when expanding or
upgrading their facilities. The administration has backed industry-supported
rules governing emissions from coal-fired utility plants despite objections from
consumer, health and environmental groups.

When the White House set forth a six-point agenda to restore the economy late
last year, many items matched goals expressed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
Both called for: limits on corporate liability (sometimes known as "tort
reform");  making permanent a series of tax cuts now scheduled to expire in the
years ahead; new tax breaks for energy producers; new free-trade agreements; and
government subsidies of employer health care costs.

On "the major areas of concern, I don't think there is much separation at all,"
said R. Bruce Josten,  executive  vice  president for government affairs of the
Chamber of Commerce. "Some shading, but, largely speaking, we are on the same
page."

The president and the Chamber of Commerce are in harmony on several issues as
well, including pay regulations that could exclude thousands of workers from
overtime benefits, and Medicare legislation backed by the pharmaceutical and
health industries.

One of the administration's most significant domestic achievements -- enactment
of three tax cuts -- was boosted by massive lobbying efforts from business
coalitions that overcame alliances of labor, civil rights, women's groups and
other liberal interest groups.

"The Bush administration made tax reduction the centerpiece of its economic
policy -- three major tax cuts amounting to $1.7 trillion in relief. The chamber
helped lead the fight for this tax relief," said Thomas J. Donohue,  president
and CEO of the Chamber of Commerce, in his "State of American Business 2004."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              157 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 11, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Long, Nervous Green Card Wait;
Backlog at Federal Agency Complicates Lives of Immigrants

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1459 words


Yonas Haile is an American boy in every aspect but the one that counts. The
gangly, 14-year-old student has grown up in Franconia playing basketball, tuning
in to MTV and developing a taste for fried chicken. His father is a U.S.
citizen, as are his three sisters.

But the Ethiopian-born teenager has no legal status, despite having submitted a
voluminous application to become a permanent U.S. resident five years ago.

"We are very much worried," said his father, Aweke Haile, a Brooks Brothers
salesman. Before long, he said, his son will want to get a driver's license,
work and go to college -- but he lacks legal documents.

Yonas is one of millions of foreigners affected by a ballooning backlog in
applications at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which has been
struggling to incorporate a new system of anti-terrorism checks.

Even as President Bush presses for a giant new program for foreign workers, the
current system is overwhelmed, according to immigration lawyers and workers. The
backlog for such benefits as citizenship and green cards -- which allow
foreigners to live and work in the United States indefinitely -- has grown about
60 percent in the past three years, to more than 6 million applications,
according to a new GAO report.

Some question whether the immigration service can handle a sweeping new program.

"Over the last six to 12 months, we've crossed the line into crisis
proportions," said Crystal Williams of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association. "I've never seen backlogs to this extent."

Bush took office vowing to have every immigration application processed within
six months of submission. And in fact, the immigration agency has spent hundreds
of millions of dollars in an effort to reduce the delays. Nonetheless,
processing time for many applications has grown -- in some cases to more than
four years.

The main reason is the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The president's plan
to slash the backlog "was just thrown out the door" as officials scrambled to
increase security, said Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the immigration service,
part of the Department of Homeland Security. Officials frantically ran extra
checks on 3.2 million existing petitions, he said.

The immigration service then ordered that each new applicant be run twice
through a database of lawbreakers, alleged terrorists and other potential
undesirables, Knocke said. About 7 percent of the names on applications in the
last fiscal year got "hits" requiring further investigation, and 2.3 percent
were confirmed to be the people in the database, although the percentage with
alleged ties to terrorism was "infinitesimal," he said.

"We obviously aren't happy about the backlog. But we aren't making any
apologies. The commitment was, and continues to be, national security," Knocke
said. He added that his agency has addressed those concerns sufficiently and is
refocusing on cutting the backlog. In recent days, it has announced an increase
in fees for immigration applications and requested a 60 percent increase in
federal funds to attack the pile of petitions.

But immigration lawyers say the new security system continues to be unwieldy and
slow. In addition, immigration officials are devoting extra scrutiny to the
documents submitted with applications, for fear of inadvertently aiding a
terrorist.

"What our members have seen is a tremendous spike in requests for additional
information on the applications," said Williams, who added that much of it was
redundant or unnecessary.

Mary Lynch, vice president of AFGE Local 2076, the union at the Vermont
immigration processing center, which handles applications for a broad area
including Washington, said staffing problems have added to the delays. The
center is trying to add employees, but it often takes a year to get security
clearances, she said.

"We don't have enough staff on board to do anything but keep our heads above
water right now," she said. She added that security checks on applicants have
resulted in a decline of about 50 percent in productivity.

The bureaucratic snarls can have painful consequences for immigrants, some of
whom are in the United States and others abroad. Many already here are unable to
leave the country while their documents are being processed. Young people might
not be able to get into college without legal papers. In the worst cases, people
can lose their jobs or be deported as they wait for their green cards to come
through.

Yonas has been lucky. He was placed in deportation proceedings years ago, but
immigration officials have allowed him to stay because of his family situation.

"Still, we are nervous," said his father, a former businessman in Ethiopia, who
accompanied his son to an interview in his lawyer's office. "There is no freedom
unless you have the green card."

Like many immigrants, Yonas followed a long and tortuous path to residency. He
arrived in 1989 in the arms of his mother, who sought asylum from Ethiopia's
socialist government. She was denied, but because her older daughter was an
American citizen, she was given permanent residency.

Yonas's father, who also got a green card, sponsored the boy in April 1999 for
permanent residency, the first step toward citizenship. At the time, authorities
said the application could take 21/2 years to process.

Nearly five years later, Yonas is still waiting.

In the past year, the average processing time for people who are sponsoring
family members has doubled, to 51 months, according to the GAO report. Officials
said that time period reflects the new security measures, some of which were
implemented fully only recently.

The teenager's attorney, Alberto Benitez, argues that his client shouldn't have
to wait so long. Because his father became a citizen in August, Yonas should be
given higher priority, as normally happens with the children of Americans, the
lawyer said.

"He's a 14-year-old boy. There's no reason for this to be delayed," said
Benitez, who heads the immigration clinic run by George Washington University.
But officials at the Vermont processing center have argued that it's too late to
change the boy's petition, Benitez said.

Immigration officials say they don't bear all the blame for the glacial pace of
processing. Knocke said about 500,000 applications have been slowed because
immigrants were late in providing documents or failed tests and had to retake
them. In addition to the processing delays, some foreigners must wait for years
for their green cards because of annual caps set by Congress on how many
immigrants each country can send.

But the immigration system is straining. It will have difficulty handling Bush's
proposed new program without an infusion of personnel, according to immigration
workers and lawyers. Administration officials have said the estimated 8 million
illegal immigrants in the country could apply for temporary-worker visas under
Bush's plan, which also would be open to foreigners coming to fill U.S. jobs.
Some of those workers eventually could apply for green cards.

Lynch's union estimates that, with current staffing levels, it would take 10
years just to do the security checks on 8 million applicants. "Unless we have a
better program for allocation of resources . . . it will sink us," she declared.

Knocke said the program would need adequate staffing. "That would have to be
something that Congress takes into consideration" if it approves the new
immigration plan, he said.

Even as the new program is debated, the backlog feeds on itself. Many immigrants
awaiting green cards must apply annually for documents to work or to travel
outside the country, increasing paperwork choking the system.

The Rev. Christopher Halliday is one of those caught in the paper chase.

The Irish minister arrived at St. George's Episcopal Church in the Southern
Maryland town of Valley Lee four years ago with a temporary religious worker's
visa. He was promptly sponsored by the church, his employer, for permanent
residence.

While waiting for his green card, Halliday has been able to get continued work
authorization and annual permits to leave the country. But the latest travel
permit for which he applied in October hasn't arrived.

"We can't move," he said, explaining that his old permit expired in January. He
worries about not being able to visit his family in Ireland, including his
84-year-old mother-in-law and his brother-in-law, who had a stroke.

Halliday was dumbfounded when he learned recently why his travel papers were
held up: The Vermont processing center has run low on the counterfeit-proof
paper used for the documents.

"If this was somewhere in the middle of nowhere in the world, you might just
about accept that was possible," he fumed. "But this is America."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              158 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 11, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A Long, Nervous Wait;
Backlog at U.S. Agency Complicates Immigrants' Lives

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1459 words


Yonas Haile is an American boy in every aspect but the one that counts. The
gangly, 14-year-old student has grown up in Franconia playing basketball, tuning
in to MTV and developing a taste for fried chicken. His father is a U.S.
citizen, as are his three sisters.

But the Ethiopian-born teenager has no legal status, despite having submitted a
voluminous application to become a permanent U.S. resident five years ago.

"We are very much worried," said his father, Aweke Haile, a Brooks Brothers
salesman. Before long, he said, his son will want to get a driver's license,
work and go to college -- but he lacks legal documents.

Yonas is one of millions of foreigners affected by a ballooning backlog in
applications at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which has been
struggling to incorporate a new system of anti-terrorism checks.

Even as President Bush presses for a giant new program for foreign workers, the
current system is overwhelmed, according to immigration lawyers and workers. The
backlog for such benefits as citizenship and green cards -- which allow
foreigners to live and work in the United States indefinitely -- has grown about
60 percent in the past three years, to more than 6 million applications,
according to a new GAO report.

Some question whether the immigration service can handle a sweeping new program.

"Over the last six to 12 months, we've crossed the line into crisis
proportions," said Crystal Williams of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association. "I've never seen backlogs to this extent."

Bush took office vowing to have every immigration application processed within
six months of submission. And in fact, the immigration agency has spent hundreds
of millions of dollars in an effort to reduce the delays. Nonetheless,
processing time for many applications has grown -- in some cases to more than
four years.

The main reason is the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The president's plan
to slash the backlog "was just thrown out the door" as officials scrambled to
increase security, said Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the immigration service,
part of the Department of Homeland Security. Officials frantically ran extra
checks on 3.2 million existing petitions, he said.

The immigration service then ordered that each new applicant be run twice
through a database of lawbreakers, alleged terrorists and other potential
undesirables, Knocke said. About 7 percent of the names on applications in the
last fiscal year got "hits" requiring further investigation, and 2.3 percent
were confirmed to be the people in the database, although the percentage with
alleged ties to terrorism was "infinitesimal," he said.

"We obviously aren't happy about the backlog. But we aren't making any
apologies. The commitment was, and continues to be, national security," Knocke
said. He added that his agency has addressed those concerns sufficiently and is
refocusing on cutting the backlog. In recent days, it has announced an increase
in fees for immigration applications and requested a 60 percent increase in
federal funds to attack the pile of petitions.

But immigration lawyers say the new security system continues to be unwieldy and
slow. In addition, immigration officials are devoting extra scrutiny to the
documents submitted with applications, for fear of inadvertently aiding a
terrorist.

"What our members have seen is a tremendous spike in requests for additional
information on the applications," said Williams, who added that much of it was
redundant or unnecessary.

Mary Lynch, vice president of AFGE Local 2076, the union at the Vermont
immigration processing center, which handles applications for a broad area
including Washington, said staffing problems have added to the delays. The
center is trying to add employees, but it often takes a year to get security
clearances, she said.

"We don't have enough staff on board to do anything but keep our heads above
water right now," she said. She added that security checks on applicants have
resulted in a decline of about 50 percent in productivity.

The bureaucratic snarls can have painful consequences for immigrants, some of
whom are in the United States and others abroad. Many already here are unable to
leave the country while their documents are being processed. Young people might
not be able to get into college without legal papers. In the worst cases, people
can lose their jobs or be deported as they wait for their green cards to come
through.

Yonas has been lucky. He was placed in deportation proceedings years ago, but
immigration officials have allowed him to stay because of his family situation.

"Still, we are nervous," said his father, a former businessman in Ethiopia, who
accompanied his son to an interview in his lawyer's office. "There is no freedom
unless you have the green card."

Like many immigrants, Yonas followed a long and tortuous path to residency. He
arrived in 1989 in the arms of his mother, who sought asylum from Ethiopia's
socialist government. She was denied, but because her older daughter was an
American citizen, she was given permanent residency.

Yonas's father, who also got a green card, sponsored the boy in April 1999 for
permanent residency, the first step toward citizenship. At the time, authorities
said the application could take 21/2 years to process.

Nearly five years later, Yonas is still waiting.

In the past year, the average processing time for people who are sponsoring
family members has doubled, to 51 months, according to the GAO report. Officials
said that time period reflects the new security measures, some of which were
implemented fully only recently.

The teenager's attorney, Alberto Benitez, argues that his client shouldn't have
to wait so long. Because his father became a citizen in August, Yonas should be
given higher priority, as normally happens with the children of Americans, the
lawyer said.

"He's a 14-year-old boy. There's no reason for this to be delayed," said
Benitez, who heads the immigration clinic run by George Washington University.
But officials at the Vermont processing center have argued that it's too late to
change the boy's petition, Benitez said.

Immigration officials say they don't bear all the blame for the glacial pace of
processing. Knocke said about 500,000 applications have been slowed because
immigrants were late in providing documents or failed tests and had to retake
them. In addition to the processing delays, some foreigners must wait for years
for their green cards because of annual caps set by Congress on how many
immigrants each country can send.

But the immigration system is straining. It will have difficulty handling Bush's
proposed new program without an infusion of personnel, according to immigration
workers and lawyers. Administration officials have said the estimated 8 million
illegal immigrants in the country could apply for temporary-worker visas under
Bush's plan, which also would be open to foreigners coming to fill U.S. jobs.
Some of those workers eventually could apply for green cards.

Lynch's union estimates that, with current staffing levels, it would take 10
years just to do the security checks on 8 million applicants. "Unless we have a
better program for allocation of resources . . . it will sink us," she declared.

Knocke said the program would need adequate staffing. "That would have to be
something that Congress takes into consideration" if it approves the new
immigration plan, he said.

Even as the new program is debated, the backlog feeds on itself. Many immigrants
awaiting green cards must apply annually for documents to work or to travel
outside the country, increasing paperwork choking the system.

The Rev. Christopher Halliday is one of those caught in the paper chase. The
Irish minister arrived at St. George's Episcopal Church in the Southern Maryland
town of Valley Lee four years ago with a temporary religious worker's visa. He
was promptly sponsored by the church, his employer, for permanent residence.

While waiting for his green card, Halliday has been able to get continued work
authorization and annual permits to leave the country. But the latest travel
permit for which he applied in October hasn't arrived.

"We can't move," he said, explaining that his old permit expired in January. He
worries about not being able to visit his family in Ireland, including his
84-year-old mother-in-law and his brother-in-law, who had a stroke.

Halliday was dumbfounded when he learned recently why his travel papers were
held up: The Vermont processing center has run low on the counterfeit-proof
paper used for the documents.

"If this was somewhere in the middle of nowhere in the world, you might just
about accept that was possible," he fumed. "But this is America."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              159 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 11, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Teen on Hold for Green Card;
Backlog at Federal Agency Complicates Lives of Immigrants

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1464 words


Yonas Haile is an American boy in every aspect but the one that counts. The
gangly, 14-year-old student has grown up in Franconia playing basketball, tuning
in to MTV and developing a taste for fried chicken. His father is a U.S.
citizen, as are his three sisters.

But the Ethiopian-born teenager has no legal status, despite having submitted a
voluminous application to become a permanent U.S. resident five years ago.

"We are very much worried," said his father, Aweke Haile, a Brooks Brothers
salesman. Before long, he said, his son will want to get a driver's license,
work and go to college -- but he lacks legal documents.

Yonas is one of millions of foreigners affected by a ballooning backlog in
applications at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which has been
struggling to incorporate a new system of anti-terrorism checks.

Even as President Bush presses for a giant new program for foreign workers, the
current system is overwhelmed, according to immigration lawyers and workers. The
backlog for such benefits as citizenship and green cards -- which allow
foreigners to live and work in the United States indefinitely -- has grown about
60 percent in the past three years, to more than 6 million applications,
according to a new GAO report.

Some question whether the immigration service can handle a sweeping new program.

"Over the last six to 12 months, we've crossed the line into crisis
proportions," said Crystal Williams of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association. "I've never seen backlogs to this extent."

Bush took office vowing to have every immigration application processed within
six months of submission. And in fact, the immigration agency has spent hundreds
of millions of dollars in an effort to reduce the delays. Nonetheless,
processing time for many applications has grown -- in some cases to more than
four years.

The main reason is the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks. The president's plan to
slash the backlog "was just thrown out the door" as officials scrambled to
increase security, said Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the immigration service,
part of the Department of Homeland Security. Officials frantically ran extra
checks on 3.2 million existing petitions, he said.

The immigration service then ordered that each new applicant be run twice
through a database of lawbreakers, alleged terrorists and other potential
undesirables, Knocke said. Of the applications received in the last fiscal year,
about 7 percent of the names got "hits," requiring further investigation, and
2.3 percent were confirmed to be the people in the database, although the
percentage with alleged ties to terrorism was "infinitesimal," he said.

"We obviously aren't happy about the backlog. But we aren't making any
apologies. The commitment was, and continues to be, national security," Knocke
said. He added that his agency has addressed those concerns sufficiently and is
refocusing on cutting the backlog. In recent days, it has announced an increase
in fees for immigration applications and requested a 60 percent increase in
federal funds to attack the pile of petitions.

But immigration lawyers say the new security system continues to be unwieldy and
slow. In addition, immigration officials are devoting extra scrutiny to the
documents submitted with applications, for fear of inadvertently aiding a
terrorist.

"What our members have seen is a tremendous spike in requests for additional
information on the applications," said Williams, who added that much of it was
redundant or unnecessary.

Mary Lynch, vice president of AFGE Local 2076, the union at the Vermont
immigration processing center, which handles applications for a broad area
including Washington, said staffing problems have added to the delays. The
center is trying to add employees, but it often takes a year to get security
clearances, she said.

"We don't have enough staff on board to do anything but keep our heads above
water right now," she said. She added that security checks on applicants have
resulted in a decline of about 50 percent in productivity.

The bureaucratic snarls can have painful consequences for immigrants, some of
whom are in the United States and others abroad. Many already here are unable to
leave the country while their documents are being processed. Young people might
not be able to get into college without legal papers. In the worst cases, people
can lose their jobs or be deported as they wait for their green cards to come
through.

Yonas has been lucky. He was placed in deportation proceedings years ago, but
immigration officials have allowed him to stay because of his family situation.

"Still, we are nervous," said his father, a former businessman in Ethiopia, who
accompanied his son to an interview in his lawyer's office. "There is no freedom
unless you have the green card."

Like many immigrants, Yonas followed a long and tortuous path to residency. He
arrived in 1989 in the arms of his mother, who sought asylum from Ethiopia's
socialist government. She was denied, but because her older daughter was an
American citizen, she was given permanent residency.

Yonas's father, who also got a green card, sponsored the boy in April 1999 for
permanent residency, the first step toward citizenship. At the time, authorities
said the application could take up to 21/2 years to process.

Nearly five years later, Yonas is still waiting.

In the past year, the average processing time for people who are sponsoring
family members has doubled, to 51 months, according to the GAO report. Officials
said that time period reflects the new security measures, some of which were
implemented fully only recently.

The teenager's attorney, Alberto Benitez, argues that his client shouldn't have
to wait so long. Because his father became a citizen in August, Yonas should be
given higher priority, as normally happens with the children of Americans, the
lawyer said.

"He's a 14-year-old boy. There's no reason for this to be delayed," said
Benitez, who heads the immigration clinic run by George Washington University.
But officials at the Vermont processing center have argued that it's too late to
change the boy's petition, Benitez said.

Immigration officials say they don't bear all the blame for the glacial pace of
processing. Knocke said about 500,000 applications have been slowed because
immigrants were late in providing documents or failed tests and had to re-take
them. In addition to the processing delays, some foreigners must wait for years
for their green cards because of annual caps set by Congress on how many
immigrants each country can send.

But the immigration system is clearly straining. It will have difficulty
handling Bush's proposed new program without an infusion of personnel, according
to immigration workers and lawyers. Administration officials have said the
estimated 8 million illegal immigrants in the country could apply for
temporary-worker visas under Bush's plan, which also would be open to foreigners
coming to fill U.S. jobs. Some of those workers eventually could apply for green
cards.

Lynch's union estimates that, with current staffing levels, it would take 10
years just to do the security checks on 8 million applicants. "Unless we have a
better program for allocation of resources . . . it will sink us," she declared.

Knocke said the program would need adequate staffing. "That would have to be
something that Congress takes into consideration" if it approves the new
immigration plan, he said.

Even as the new program is debated, the backlog feeds on itself. Many immigrants
awaiting green cards must apply annually for documents to work or to travel
outside the country, increasing paperwork choking the system.

The Rev. Christopher Halliday is one of those caught in the paper chase. The
Irish minister arrived at St. George's Episcopal Church in the Southern Maryland
town of Valley Lee four years ago with a temporary religious worker's visa. He
was promptly sponsored by the church, his employer, for permanent residence.

While waiting for his green card, Halliday has been able to get continued work
authorization and annual permits to leave the country. But the latest travel
permit for which he applied in October hasn't arrived.

"We can't move," he said, explaining that his old permit expired in January. He
worries about not being able to visit his family in Ireland, including his
84-year-old mother-in-law and his brother-in-law, who had a stroke.

Halliday was dumbfounded when he learned recently why his travel papers were
held up: The Vermont processing center has run low on the counterfeit-proof
paper used for the documents.

"If this was somewhere in the middle of nowhere in the world, you might just
about accept that was possible," he fumed. "But this is America."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              160 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 14, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Borders Without Logic

SECTION: Editorial; A28

LENGTH: 367 words


Returning to the United States, where I have lived for 14 years, from a recent
business trip,  I was stopped by immigration officials in Los Angeles and told
that I needed to be fingerprinted and photographed. When I objected and pointed
out that, according to the Department of Homeland Security, I was exempted from
so doing on two accounts -- I am an Australian and a G4 visa holder -- I was
told that I had to do it anyway. I reluctantly obliged.

One strength of America is its rule-based systems of governance, which minimize
abuses and which establish systems and frameworks within which we all expect to
operate.

Working in development, I see the down side of not having operating rule-based
systems. Almost every day in the Asian nations in which I work, I see government
functionaries bending the rules   for their own corrupt purposes, to peddle
influence or simply to exert power over someone  who happens to be in a weaker
position. I felt exactly like a target of the last, coming "back home" to the
United States.

As a national of a country whose European settlement began as a penal colony, I
am sadly aware that my own nation treated everyone who came to its shores as
criminals. I am happy to report that Australia gave up treating all foreigners
that way  centuries ago.

SIMON BELL

Arlington

*

Ibrahim Ferrer, of Buena Vista Social Club fame, and other Cuban musicians were
denied visas to attend the Grammy Awards -- despite the fact that they had been
nominated [Style, Feb. 6]. The reason given was that their visit was
"detrimental to the interests of the United States."

Not so long ago these fine musicians played to a packed house at Constitution
Hall. The elderly pianist had to be helped onto the stage, but at the piano his
fingers flew, producing a cascade of incredible music. Mr. Ferrer's voice
soared. The conclusion of this vibrant and uplifting concert brought the crowd
to its feet, cheering, clapping and demanding encore after encore.

I am outraged and sad that Americans are deprived of such inspiring performers,
especially at this time when we need inspiration and beauty so desperately.

Will our idiotic Cuba policy never end?

HARRIET SUMERWELL

Washington

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              161 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 19, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Bills Could Fuel Intolerance, Opponents Say

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 610 words


Montgomery County Executive Douglas M. Duncan (D) and other local officials came
to Annapolis yesterday to protest nine bills they consider anti-immigrant,
including one that would outlaw Montgomery's acceptance of consular
identification cards from Mexico and Guatemala as proof of identity.

Other measures would require local police to detain suspected illegal immigrants
and to suspend the driver's license of anyone who knowingly permitted an illegal
immigrant to use his or her vehicle.

Officials and immigrant advocates predicted that the bills would be voted down
in committee. What prompted them to speak out, they said, was concern that,
taken as a package, the proposals created an atmosphere of intolerance. Such an
environment could make immigrants wary of law enforcement and health care
agencies, endangering all state residents in the process, they said.

"These bills are mean-spirited and misguided," Duncan said at a news conference
before two House committee hearings on some of the measures. "[They] will
destroy that cooperative spirit and sense of trust we have worked so hard to
create."

Duncan was joined by more than a dozen speakers, including state delegates,
immigration lawyers, advocates for battered women, labor leaders and a
Guatemalan who recently served with the U.S. Army in Iraq. All are members of a
coalition calling itself "The Friends of New Marylanders" that has formed to
fight the bills. Prince George's County State's Attorney Glenn F. Ivey and
Montgomery County Council member Tom Perez (D-Silver Spring) also testified
against the measures yesterday.

The bills they oppose include one that would codify the state's practice of
barring most illegal immigrants from obtaining a driver's license, another that
would require people to prove citizenship upon registering to vote, and two that
would set up task forces to study how much illegal immigration costs the state
and the health care system.

Sponsors of the bills said that they are necessary to ensure that Maryland does
not subvert federal immigration laws and provide opportunities for prospective
terrorists.

Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County) said that Montgomery county has
created "a quasi-legal status for Mexican [and Guatemalan] illegals" with its
decision last year to accept consular identification cards. The cards are issued
to nationals of those countries regardless of their U.S. immigration status and
can be used as identification for police or to rent apartments and open bank
accounts.

McDonough and others testifying in a hearing before the House Health and
Government Operations Committee yesterday also complained that the Mexican
government does not take sufficient care to authenticate the documents of
citizens applying for consular identification cards.

The consular ID "is becoming a shield that hides criminal activity for two
reasons," McDonough said. "First, the holder's identity was not verified when
the card was issued, and second, police in jurisdictions that accept the
matricula are less likely to run background checks on card holders picked up for
minor infractions."

Several speakers echoed that view, including a survivor of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attack on the Pentagon. But those testifying in support of the bills
before the Government Operations Committee and the House Judiciary Committee
were outnumbered by a long list of speakers in opposition.

There also were busloads of mostly Latino immigrant spectators carrying signs
that said, "We are a nation of immigrants." The turnout was so large at the
Judiciary Committee hearing that state police turned people away at the hearing
room doors.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              162 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 24, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Court Denies Review of Post-9/11 Secrecy;
But Justices Will Hear Two Cases on Rules for Deporting Convicted Immigrants

BYLINE: Charles Lane, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 684 words


The Supreme Court said yesterday that it will not hear a Miami man's case
against the unusual secrecy that enveloped the proceedings against him in lower
federal courts, ending the court's involvement in one of the murkier legal
stories to emerge from the Bush administration's investigation of the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks.

Mohamed Kamel Bellahouel, 34, an Algerian immigrant, was detained on a visa
violation in October 2001, then turned over to the FBI as a material witness
after it developed that he had waited on a table occupied by some of the Sept.
11 hijackers at a Middle Eastern restaurant in the Miami area.

He was released on bond in March 2002 after testifying before a grand jury, but
the government still sought to deport him -- and got both a federal  district
court in Florida and the Atlanta-based federal appeals court that heard
Bellahouel's constitutional challenge to the deportation to agree  they would
not publicly acknowledge that the matter had even been before them.

Bellahouel had asked the Supreme Court to rule that the official blackout over
his case violated the public's First Amendment right of access to court
proceedings. Courts may not conduct proceedings in secret without  providing a
public explanation for doing so, Bellahouel's lawyers argued. His appeal was
supported by the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, but the court
denied the organization's motion to join in the case.

Initially, U.S. Solicitor General Theodore B. Olson brushed off the case,
declining the opportunity to respond to Bellahouel's petition for review. But in
a sign  the court did not regard the matter as routine, the justices asked him
in November to reply. Olson's eventual response was filed under seal, as was the
response from Bellahouel's lawyers.

Both Bellahouel's name and many of the facts of his case eventually leaked and
were reported in Florida newspapers, thanks in part to a clerical error at the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit that left some of the facts on the
Internet briefly.

Separately, the court overrode objections from the Bush administration and
announced that it would hear two cases in which immigrants are fighting federal
attempts to deport them to violent and chaotic countries.

In the first case, Jama v. INS, No. 03-674, a 24-year-old Somali refugee named
Keyse G. Jama argues that he should be allowed to stay in the United States
because the government may not deport him to Somalia unless that country's
government agrees to accept him -- and Somalia has no functioning government.

The government seeks to deport Jama as an "aggravated felon" because he was
convicted of assault in Minnesota in 1999. According to the Bush
administration's Supreme Court brief, immigration law clearly provides for
deportations without the permission of the receiving country's government. A
victory for Jama, the administration argues, would prevent the deportation of
"thousands" of Somalis in the United States who have been ordered out of the
country or who entered illegally.

But Jama's lawyers argue that the government is essentially seeking to dump him
in a lawless country where he would be subject to human rights abuses at the
hands of contending warlords.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 8th Circuit, based in St. Louis, ruled in the
government's favor in May. But the San Francisco-based U.S. Court of Appeals for
the 9th Circuit has since reached an opposite conclusion in a different case,
setting up a conflict that the Supreme Court must settle.

In the second case, the justices agreed to decide whether drunk driving that
injures another person qualifies as a "crime of violence" for which an immigrant
can be deported.

The 11th Circuit ruled that Josue Leocal, a permanent resident from Haiti, must
be sent back to that Caribbean country because of an October 2000 conviction in
Florida for "driving under the influence causing serious bodily injury to
another."

The case is Leocal v. Ashcroft, No. 03-583. Oral arguments in the two
immigration matters will take place next fall; decisions are likely by July
2005.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              163 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 28, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Something Does Not Compute

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 472 words


The Feb. 22 editorial "Cap on Hiring" is a betrayal of every U.S. citizen who
paid for a computer science degree.

In the early 1980s the information technology industry realized it could get
cheaper labor if it offered green cards as part pay to low-wage Asian
immigrants.

When Bank of America replaced its U.S. citizens with immigrants, it replaced the
kind of senior engineers a bank needs, with engineers labeled as "entry level."
Those engineers and hundreds of thousands of other replacements did not get
wages "as much or higher than their associates," as you claim is the law;  they
got half as much, in a switch that any grade school student could figure out.

If, as the law allows, senior programmers can be replaced by "entry level"
immigrants making half as much, and your paper is satisfied, then you are simply
an enemy of every middle-class wage earner. When Tom Davis proposed this
legislation, he said, "This is not a popular bill with the public. It's popular
with the CEOs. . . . This is a very important issue for the high-tech executives
who give the money." He could have added, "and to the anti-labor press."

-- Harrison Picot

Haymarket

*

As an executive in the software industry, I was stunned by the naiveté of your
Feb. 22 editorial. The H-1B visa is a widely abused program, as anyone who
recruits technology workers knows.

I receive frequent calls from "staff augmentation" firms made up entirely of
H-1B visa holders. These firms openly tout that their personnel make less than
American workers. Direct hiring of H-1B workers is also popular as they are easy
to exploit.

When a job loss can lead to deportation, a worker is much less likely to make
waves. Many companies have "H-1B ghettos," where employees are expected to put
in 100-hour weeks to keep their jobs.

Certainly there is enduring demand for H-1B visas. But much of this demand comes
from the desire to pay less for exploitable workers, not from a shortage of
American workers.

-- James Seidman

Naperville, Ill.

*

Despite your editorial, we should put a cap on H-1B visas.

With almost 300  million  citizens, we can't find enough American students to
major in math, science and computer science and to go to graduate school in
these subjects with the object of getting a job? Ridiculous.

U.S. graduate school administrators favor foreigners for one reason: They bring
in more money to these universities than U.S. citizens do. The latter, in fact,
are advised not to get advanced degrees in these subjects, because U.S.
employers typically look for the cheapest labor available -- whether it is stoop
labor in the fields or professors at their schools.

Having been a science graduate student myself, I can assure you that the talent
exists among U.S. students and so does the interest in these subjects.

-- Barbara McEwan

Forest, Va.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              164 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 4, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Moving Forward, Giving Back;
U.S. Immigrants Become Homeland Philanthropists

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1303 words


Whatever money he could spare from his earnings as a janitor, Ca Van Tran would
roll into thin sticks, hide in tubes of toothpaste and mail to his parents in
Vietnam. His methods were rudimentary, but they helped him fulfill a duty many
immigrants meet: supporting the family they left behind.

Nearly 30 years later, the onetime war refugee has become a prosperous
restaurant owner with a five-acre estate in Great Falls. And he's sending back
money in a far different way.

Tran founded Vietnam Assistance for the Handicapped, a registered U.S. charity
that raised $1.7 million last year for wheelchairs, artificial limbs and job
training for land-mine victims in his homeland. After his trips back to Vietnam,
he realized that it was no longer enough to help just his family.

In Vietnam, "you don't have a tradition of charity for the masses," said Tran,
53, whose office is decorated with a large photo of his grinning children next
to one of a young beggar in his former country. "There's such a pressing need
there. These are people who don't have anything. We can't even call them poor."

A generation of maturing immigrants is graduating from supporting family members
to financing large philanthropic initiatives that fuel development and social
change. The economies of Third World countries have long been propped up by
small-dollar transfers that the World Bank estimates add up to more than $70
billion a year globally.

Now, however, immigrant organizations are funding programs such as AIDS
education in Brazil, small business grants for women in India and teacher
training in the Philippines.

"What we have today in the way of immigration, we didn't have 15 to 20 years
ago," said Rob Buchanan, director of international programs for the Council on
Foundations, a D.C.-based group of philanthropic organizations. "The communities
are changing. . . . Many are doing well, and these folks are beginning to think
about their legacy. They want to do something for their communities."

Increasingly, the power of transnational philanthropy is being recognized by
governments. When President Bill Clinton asked India's prime minister what help
he could provide after a devastating earthquake in 2001, the Indian leader had
this request: Tap into the wealth of Indian Americans. Shortly afterward, the
American India Foundation was formed in Silicon Valley and in its first year
raised $7.5 million.

Tran's foundation in McLean began in 1991 with a little over $10,000 and shipped
wheelchairs and prosthetics overseas. Today, the group has its own factories in
Vietnam to manufacture the items -- and give jobs to the disabled.

Many contributors are Vietnamese Americans, who, like Tran, have put aside their
antipathy for the communist government for charity's sake. Other supporters
include U.S. veterans groups and politicians such as Sen. Patrick J. Leahy
(D-Vt.) and Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.).

Tran -- who said he was taken into custody in Vietnam and questioned by
suspicious government officials during one of his first trips to deliver
wheelchairs -- now meets regularly with top ministers to brainstorm on how to
improve life for the disabled.

Bach Ngoc Chien, press attache for the Embassy of Vietnam in Washington, said,
"Of course, it's the main responsibility of the government to take care of its
people, but we encourage the contributions of individuals and organizations."

Latin American immigrants often form "hometown clubs" that raise money for a
cause in the old country, but the organizations typically are not as formally
structured and do not apply for tax-exempt status. That stage is expected to be
reached eventually as their projects -- and the immigrants' income -- grow.

Some academics say, however, that too much emphasis on overseas giving can
dilute the loyalty the immigrants have to the United States.

"It reflects a commitment of elsewhere, rather than here," said Stanley Renshon,
a political science professor at the City University of New York who is writing
a book, "The Fifty Percent American." "It's not good for a democracy that
depends on the connection of its people to its government," he said.

In some cases, the immigrant charities, particularly those aimed at Middle
Eastern countries, have been linked to terrorist groups and have been
investigated by the FBI.

Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, U.S. officials have frozen more than $136
million in assets of Muslim charities, effectively shuttering several groups.
Last month, the FBI said it was investigating a terrorist group's alleged ties
to a recent D.C. event billed as a fundraiser for Iranian earthquake victims
that drew nearly 3,000 participants, including a Pentagon official who gave a
speech. The event's primary organizer, the Iranian American Community of
Northern Virginia, said the terrorist allegations are unfounded.

The fundraiser took place a few weeks after the U.S. government made a
three-month special exception to its economic sanctions against Iran so
charities could raise money for earthquake victims. Under the sanctions, no
money could be sent to Iran, only books and medical supplies.

Many immigrants say that scrutiny is welcomed but that scandal in one
organization should not taint other charities or bring prejudice against a
particular group.

Sussan Tahmasebi, director of the Rockville office of the London-based Science
and Arts Foundation, which focuses on education in Iran, said opening the doors
to overseas charity helps fight rather than foster terrorism.

She said the foundation has paid for Iranian teachers and students to attend
international educational competitions -- their first trips outside Iran. A few
Iranian American college students, sponsored by the foundation, have traveled to
Iran to teach English.

Recently, the Rockville office raised $20,000 for earthquake victims. If the
restrictions on charity to Iran were lifted permanently, far more could be done,
she said.

"Expatriates can work as a bridge of understanding between their two cultures,"
Tahmasebi said. "The increased interaction brings a level of democracy and
education."

Farrah Javid, a board member of Children of Persia, based in suburban Maryland,
said groups like hers are taking their cues from U.S. culture.

"You see people from America doing charity work in other countries," said Javid,
a Gaithersburg fashion consultant who, like many Iranian Americans, immigrated
soon after the Islamic revolution in 1979. "I sometimes think we're doing this
as Americans rather than as Iranians."

Some immigrants say that building a better standard of living in their homelands
will mean others won't leave -- or turn to terrorism.

Angel de Dios, a chemistry professor at Georgetown University, emigrated from
the Philippines in 1987 in search of a better education and job opportunities.
During his first years in this country, he sent money home to pay his siblings'
school fees.

Then, last year, he spent $15,000 to create a public computer lab in his
mother's home town. "I wanted my donation to go a long way," said de Dios, who
funneled his donation through a San Francisco-based organization called
Give2Asia. "I just didn't want to give them money; I wanted them to be able to
help themselves."

Tran's goal is to make it possible for more social changes to come from inside
Vietnam. In the past few years, his group has held conferences in Vietnam to
promote rights for the disabled, and support groups have been formed for
disabled veterans.

Tran said he keeps in touch with one of the first people he helped, a former
paratrooper who had lost both legs during the war and was forced to beg for
food. The man, who received a wheelchair from Tran's group, now works at an ice
factory.

Perhaps one day, Tran mused, the man's children or grandchildren will become
philanthropists.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              165 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 8, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Deadly Incompatibility

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 561 words


IN 2000 THE JUSTICE Department's inspector general issued a report detailing the
disturbing case of Rafael Resendez-Ramirez. Mr. Resendez-Ramirez had been
arrested while crossing the Mexican border illegally, and the Border Patrol --
unaware that he was wanted for murder -- had returned him to Mexico. He
subsequently sneaked over again and killed several more people before being
caught. A large part of the problem, the report concluded, was that the
fingerprint database of the Immigration and Naturalization Service was not fully
linked to the FBI's, so when the Border Patrol checked the prints of Mr.
Resendez-Ramirez, the system didn't flag him as a wanted man.

Last week Inspector General Glenn A. Fine issued a report detailing a
disturbingly similar case. In 2002 Victor Batres illegally crossed the border
twice; both times he was caught, and both times he was returned. When he crossed
a third time, however, he made it to Oregon -- where he raped two nuns and
killed one of them. Once again, the inspector general places much of the blame
on the lack of integration between the two fingerprint databases. Border Patrol
agents didn't know that Mr. Batres had a long criminal record in this country;
otherwise he would never have been released.

Both the FBI and what is now the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement
in the Department of Homeland Security  have long recognized the need to make
these two databases interoperable. Yet that has not happened. The immigration
database identifies recidivist border crossers for Border Patrol officers, and
it has some criminal information too. But without access to the FBI's system,
which links people's full criminal histories to their fingerprints, agents can't
know quickly whether they have detained a convicted felon.

The problem is huge. Starting in 2001, the report says, the INS added to its
database a subset of material from the FBI's system: 152,000 pending "wants and
warrants." The idea was that while the Border Patrol still wouldn't know if a
detainee had a criminal past, it could find out if he was a wanted man like Mr.
Resendez-Ramirez. Over the next six months, immigration authorities picked up
4,820 wanted aliens, 50 of whom were wanted for murder. During the same period,
authorities also added 179,500 criminal histories to the system for aliens from
countries regarded as a threat to the United States. Fully 3,440 of these people
have been apprehended. The Justice Department estimated in one study that
136,000 of the 1.6 million illegal aliens caught crossing the border and
permitted to return each year would be detained if their full criminal histories
were checked.

Yet no one seems to be in any hurry to fix this dangerous problem. Mr. Fine
acknowledged that "some progress has been made" but said that "the integration
process continues to proceed slowly"; so far, only 12 percent of ports of entry
and 20 percent of Border Patrol sites have access to an even minimally
integrated system. Full integration, Mr. Fine says, "is at least four years
away." This is unacceptable. At a recent congressional hearing, Homeland
Security chief Tom Ridge committed himself to fixing the problem and assured
members that "it will not take us the four years to hook it up." Congress needs
to keep watch, so that innocents don't keep dying because of bad database
management.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              166 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 9, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hey, Professor, Assimilate This

BYLINE: Peter Carlson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C01

LENGTH: 1011 words


Look  out, folks! Samuel P. Huntington has kicked up a major cultural firestorm
and unpleasant things could start flying at any moment.

Writing in the March-April issue of Foreign Policy magazine, Huntington -- the
noted author, scholar and chairman of Harvard University's Academy for
International and Area Studies -- has identified a "major potential threat" to
this great nation's "cultural and political integrity."

The threat is: Mexicans. Other Hispanics, too, but mostly Mexicans.

They're overrunning the country, they're multiplying like bunnies, Huntington
says, and they threaten our "Anglo-Protestant culture."

"The single most immediate and most serious challenge to America's traditional
identity," Huntington writes, "comes from the immense and continuing immigration
from Latin America, especially Mexico, and the fertility rates of these
immigrants."

The problem with Hispanics, Huntington says, is that unlike earlier immigrants,
they won't assimilate because they're "comfortable with their own culture and
often contemptuous of American culture." The result, he says, will be a
polarized America composed of "two peoples with two cultures."

As you might expect, angry Hispanics and liberals have attacked Huntington as
xenophobic or bigoted or un-American. Not me. As a proud, native-born American
patriot, I understand that the professor's views come from a long line of
"Anglo-Protestant" thought:

Back in colonial days, Benjamin Franklin denounced German immigrants as
"generally the most stupid of their nation" and grumbled that "few of their
children know English."

In 1855, Massachusetts Gov. Henry J. Gardner denounced the Irish immigrants then
swarming into his state as a "horde of foreign barbarians."

In 1906, H.G. Wells, the British novelist and futurist, warned that the influx
of Jews, Italians and Eastern Europeans threatened a "huge dilution of the
American people with profoundly ignorant foreign peasants."

As it turned out, all those distinguished gentlemen were wrong. The Germans,
Irish, Jews, Italians and Eastern Europeans have assimilated into America's
melting pot. So did the Chinese and Japanese, who were so hated by
Anglo-Protestants (among others) that they were barred from the United States
for decades.

But just because opponents of immigration were wrong decades ago doesn't mean
that Huntington is wrong now. So let's take a calm, dispassionate look at his
reasons for believing that "the assimilation successes of the past are unlikely
to be duplicated with the contemporary flood of immigrants from Latin America."

First, Huntington says, it's too easy for them to get here. Earlier immigrants
had to cross "several thousand miles of ocean" but Mexicans and Cubans are right
nearby. He's right about that. All Cubans have to do to get here is sneak past
Castro's goons, hop on some leaky old boat and drift across shark-infested
waters. Illegal Mexican immigrants have it even easier. All they have to do is
swim the Rio Grande or hike across the Arizona desert while dodging the Border
Patrol. Piece of cake.

Second, they won't assimilate. Hispanics stick to their own kind, Huntington
says, clustering in places like Miami and Southern California, where they find
lots of their compatriots. This is true, too -- and downright un-American. Why
can't they expand their horizons and move into Chinatown or Little Italy? As we
all know, Huntington's beloved Anglo-Protestants were always eager to share
their neighborhoods (and their country clubs) with folks of other colors and
creeds. In fact, before the Civil War, many Anglo-Protestants were so eager to
meet folks from other cultures that they actually purchased them. That's an act
of brotherhood that today's Mexican immigrants just can't match.

Third, Hispanics speak Spanish. Huntington finds this very upsetting. He
acknowledges that "more than 90 percent" of second-generation Mexican Americans
speak fluent English. But they also speak Spanish, he says, and they fail to
"look down on and reject their ancestral language." In fact, he notes with
alarm, "many second- or third-generation Mexican-Americans who were brought up
speaking only English have learned Spanish as adults."

Good Lord! Third-generation Americans voluntarily learning a foreign language!
Now that is truly un-American.

Forgive my sarcasm, but I just can't buy Huntington's absurd argument that
Hispanics are incapable of assimilation. In fact, I'm absolutely certain that
Huntington will be proved wrong. Here's how it will happen:

A crisis somewhere will send a new flood of immigrants to America -- Uzbeks or
Zulus or Tajiks. At that point, some fully assimilated Hispanic politician or
pundit or Harvard professor will denounce these newcomers, citing their
ignorance, their barbaric customs, their willingness to work for peanuts and
their congenital inability to assimilate.

At that moment, Prof. Huntington will find his Hispanic soul brother at last.

The director of the cadaver program at the UCLA medical school was arrested
Saturday for allegedly stealing corpses and selling them piece by piece to
research labs.

That's shocking -- unless you've read the March issue of Harper's, which
contains "The Resurrection Men," Annie Cheney's eye-opening exposé of what she
calls "the cadaver trade."

"Like stolen cars and personal computers, cadavers are worth more in pieces than
they are intact," Cheney writes in this astonishing article, which is definitely
not for the squeamish. "A good technician can strip a human body in a little
less than an hour and sell the parts to university researchers and surgical
equipment companies for close to $10,000."

Cheney reports what happens to these hacked-up corpses and it isn't pretty. In
deference to readers who might be eating breakfast right now, I won't go into
the gory details, such as the story of the dripping FedEx packages.

I'll just say this: If you have a strong stomach and a macabre mind, you'll love
this story. More than any article on newsstands today, it'll give you a reason
to go on living.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              167 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 14, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Iraq-Iran Border to Be Tightened in Bid to Stem Attacks

BYLINE: Rajiv Chandrasekaran and Karl Vick, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A26

LENGTH: 1071 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD March 13


The occupation authority plans to close all but three official crossing points
along Iraq's border with Iran, double the number of border guards and set up a
computerized immigration tracking system in an effort to stem infiltration of
foreign fighters, U.S. officials said Saturday.

The officials said the enhanced security measures were prompted by recent terror
attacks, including suicide bombings in Baghdad and Karbala earlier this month
that killed more than 180 people commemorating a Shiite Muslim holy day.
Although U.S. military officials said they have not identified the culprits,
many Iraqi political and religious leaders have attributed those attacks to
foreigners.

The issue of foreign infiltration has become a rallying point for many Iraqis,
particularly Shiite leaders, who regard the lack of aggressive border controls
as a chief cause of the violence that has wracked this nation for months.
Several senior religious leaders, including the country's top Shiite cleric,
issued edicts this week sharply criticizing the occupation authority for not
doing enough to protect Iraq's borders.

The new policies appeared to be a response to that criticism.

"Foreign terrorists are present in Iraq," L. Paul Bremer, the country's U.S.
administrator, said in a statement. "The numbers are not known with precision,
but recent attacks and their continuing presence underscores the importance of
improving security at Iraq's borders."

Starting next Saturday, the occupation authority will close 16 of the 19 points
of entry along Iraq's nearly 900-mile frontier with Iran, said Daniel Senor, a
spokesman for Bremer. Visitors at the three open border posts will have to apply
for an entry permit and provide personal information that will be logged into a
computer tracking system.

Bremer said in his statement that the number of law enforcement personnel
patrolling Iraq's borders would be doubled from the current 8,000.

He called the new policies "the first stage in a multistage effort." Senor said
the occupation authority was also considering closing some frontier crossings
with Syria, which has been accused by U.S. officials of not doing enough to
clamp down on cross-border infiltration.

"It's important to send a very clear signal to governments of countries that
border Iraq that enough is enough, that they need to do more to stem the flow of
foreign fighters coming across their borders," Senor said.

It is not clear, however, that closing official entrances will staunch the
influx of fighters. Military officials believe many of them cross at remote
points along Iraq's vast, desolate frontier.

Military commanders also question the extent to which foreigners are responsible
for the violence in Iraq. The commanders estimate that several hundred foreign
fighters have entered Iraq since the fall and may be helping to instigate
attacks, but they  believe the vast majority of insurgents striking U.S. and
Iraqi security forces are Iraqis. Of the more than 10,000 people detained by the
military for security violations, fewer than 150 held foreign passports, said
Brig. Gen. Mark Kimmitt, the chief military spokesman in Baghdad.

Kimmitt also sought to play down suggestions made by Iraqi leaders that Iranians
were responsible for the bombings on the Shiite holy day. "We have no evidence
at this point, no intelligence at this point, that links the bombings in Karbala
and Baghdad to any Iranians we have in custody," he said.

Elsewhere in Iraq, attacks continued against U.S. forces and Iraqis deemed
sympathetic to the occupation. In Tikrit, the home town of former president
Saddam Hussein, two American soldiers were killed and three were wounded in a
roadside bombing early Saturday. The soldiers were the first casualties suffered
by the 1st Infantry Division's 1st Battalion, which took over control of Tikrit
on Saturday.

In Baghdad, a midafternoon explosion killed a relative of a prominent Shiite
politician. Haider Qazweni, a middle-aged merchant, was killed by powerful
explosives tossed into his clothing shop after he returned from prayers. Qazweni
was married to the sister of Ibrahim Jafari, the leader of the Dawa party and a
member of the country's Governing Council.

A witness described the assassin as a short man with thick glasses and a light
beard. "He was carrying a handbag, folded into a newspaper. It was thick,"
recounted Said Hamza, who was in the shop next door. He said the man hurried out
of Qazweni's shop and climbed into a white Volkswagen Passat, in which a driver
was waiting.

"The next thing I knew there was a huge explosion," said Hamza, 27. He said both
men appeared to be Iraqi, and people milling about at the scene repeated
accounts by other area residents who said that the man, who had been asking for
Qazweni, spoke with an Iraqi accent.

In Karbala, meanwhile, an Iraqi police official who spoke on condition of
anonymity said that the four suspects detained in the Tuesday killings of two
Americans  and their Iraqi translator were police officers based there. The
Americans were working for the occupation authority.

In a telephone interview, Shakir Jaber Abdul-Hussein, the father of one of the
suspects, maintained his son's innocence. Abdul-Hussein said his son, Mahmoud
Shakir Jaber Abdul-Hussein, joined the police force less than a year ago and was
assigned to a new anti-drug unit after completing a three-week training course.

The father also said that 23 of his relatives were executed during Hussein's
rule and that his son would have no reason to oppose the occupation. "We are
grateful for the Americans who have helped us to get rid of the old regime,"
Abdul-Hussein said.

U.S. officials have called the three killings, the first involving American
civilians working for the occupation authority, a "targeted act of terrorism."
The FBI and the Iraqi police are investigating the crimes.

Separately, Senor said Robert Blackwill of the National Security Council staff
had arrived in Iraq for consultations with Bremer and members of the Governing
Council. Although Senor described Blackwill's scheduled discussions as routine,
other U.S. officials have said he is trying to get Iraqi political leaders to
agree on the shape of the caretaker government that will assume control of the
country after the occupation authority hands over sovereignty on June 30.

Correspondent Sewell Chan in Karbala contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              168 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 14, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Cruising With a Green Card

BYLINE: Carol Sottili, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Travel; P03

LENGTH: 562 words


Q We are planning a cruise from San Juan, Puerto Rico, to islands in the
southern Caribbean. What is the visa/passport requirement for green card holders
while visiting the islands? What is the requirement if we want to stay in Puerto
Rico for four or five days?

Daya Gilra

Lanham

A You should have no trouble visiting Puerto Rico or doing shore excursions on
foreign islands. "A permanent resident of the United States can travel freely
outside of the United States," according to documents from the U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services, a branch of the federal Department of Homeland
Security. "A passport from the country of citizenship is normally all that is
needed. To reenter the United States, a permanent resident normally needs to
present the green card for readmission." Details: 800-375-5283, www.uscis.gov.

In Puerto Rico, "resident aliens residing in the United States traveling to the
Commonwealth are required to have a valid passport and an appropriate U.S. visa,
if required by the U.S. State Department," according to the Puerto Rico Federal
Affairs Administration (202-778-0710, www.prfaa.com). U.S. citizens do not need
passports but should carry ID when traveling to Puerto Rico.

The situation would get stickier if you were traveling for any length of time to
a foreign country -- you might then need to get a reentry permit and, if you
stay outside the United States for months at a time, your status could be
revoked. But a normal vacation period should pose no problems as long as your
documents are in order.

My wife and I plan to spend a week in Quebec City. I'd like some advice on
whether it's better to take a car or train, sites to see (we enjoy scenic beauty
and quiet locales) and places to stay.

T. Scott

Oak Hill, Va.

Flying is easiest, but driving is much simpler than taking the train. By rail,
you'd have to first take an early-morning train to New York and then the 8:15
a.m. Adirondack train, which arrives in Montreal at 6:30 p.m. An overnight stay
there is necessary because the last train leaves for Quebec City at 6:45 p.m., a
too-tight connection. The drive to Quebec will take about 11 1/2 hours; you can
break it up by staying in Upstate New York.

Quebec City has a well- organized tourism bureau, which you should contact for
hotels and sightseeing opportunities. Details: 418-641-6654,
www.quebecregion.com. A hotel that caught my eye is Hotel Chateau Bellevue
(800-463-2617, www.old-quebec.com) in Old Quebec, with rooms starting at about
$120 a night in summer. Visit the historic Ile d'Orleans and the scenic
Jacques-Cartier Valley for day trips.

Mary Ann Tourault of Silver Spring recommends a B&B near Blois, southwest of
Paris, as another good place to stay while driving through France (Travel Q&A,
Jan. 25). Le Saint Michel in the village of Les Montils, a two-hour drive from
Paris, is near many of the historic chateaux in the Loire Valley, Tourault said
in an e-mail. "Easy environment as one of the owners went to school in the
United States," Tourault writes. "Even meals can be provided when requested."
The inn, built in the mid-1800s, has rooms for two starting at about $93 a
night. Info: 011-33-2-54-44-12-84, www.lestmichel.com.

Send queries by e-mail (travelqa@washpost.com), fax (202-912-3609) or U.S. mail
(Travel Q&A, Washington Post Travel Section, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington D.C.
20071).

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              169 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 15, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Assimilate That

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 327 words


Peter Carlson's rant ["Hey Professor, Assimilate This!" Style, March 9]
illustrated the raw emotion and innumeracy that unfortunately characterize the
pro-immigration argument.

In dismissing Samuel Huntington's concerns about mass Mexican immigration, Mr.
Carlson argued that today's Mexicans will assimilate as did the Italians, Irish
and Germans before them. But this is not his grandfather's immigration. That
generation of Great Wave immigrants and their descendants had half a century to
assimilate after passage of legislation in 1924 slowed immigration to a trickle.
And their arrival preceded the welfare state reforms of the New Deal and Great
Society. As Milton Friedman has cautioned and any Californian will confirm, one
cannot simultaneously have  a welfare state and mass immigration.

Mr. Carlson sarcastically supposes that an assimilated Latino may come to share
Mr. Huntington's concerns one day. In fact, many do right now.

Mr. Carlson might familiarize himself with the work of Cuban-born Harvard
economist George Borjas. But let him be forewarned, such reading will require
the ability to interpret hard data.

Mr. Huntington's data show that Mexicans represent an overwhelming majority of
today's foreign-born -- nearly six times the number of any of the next most
numerous nationalities. This inevitably has  political consequences; already,
Maryland's primary ballots are printed in  English and Spanish. Why only
Spanish?

Because numbers speak.

ROBERT GRESH

Silver Spring

*

As a Mexican immigrant who has lived legally in this country for more than 10
years, speaks fluent English and has embraced American ideals and institutions,
I am offended by the tone and spirit of Samuel Huntington's article in Foreign
Policy magazine.

Peter Carlson brilliantly rebuked the professor's xenophobic and racist
arguments. The writer's sarcastic response is the most intelligent way to put a
bigot in his place.

ENRIQUE SANCHEZ-ARMASS

Alexandria

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              170 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 22, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Issue Sparks Battle at Sierra Club;
Groups Vie to Reshape Nonprofit's Board

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 1015 words


The Southern Poverty Law Center is known for fighting hate groups but is not
usually a player in environmental politics. Neither is the neo-Nazi group White
Politics Inc. But in the Sierra Club's current board elections, they are just
two of a potpourri of groups seeking to influence the outcome of a contest that
could radically reshape the  112-year-old  organization.

On one level, the battle for control of the Sierra Club board is a dispute over
the impact on ecological concerns of population pressures fueled by immigration.
More broadly, however, it is a tale of how the organization, buoyed by a rich
treasury and a savvy grass-roots outreach effort, has become enmeshed in a
bitter fight over how to best leverage the nonprofit's influence in national
politics.

The stakes are high: Bolstered by anonymous gifts totaling more than $100
million, the group founded by John Muir, himself an immigrant from Scotland, now
boasts an annual budget of $83 million and a membership of 750,000.

"The Sierra Club is the most prominent and influential group in America in terms
of environmentalism," said Mark Potok, editor of the Southern Poverty Law
Center's Intelligence Report, who said the  center got involved because it
discovered hate groups were urging followers to vote in the board election.
"That's why it's seen as a prize. The aim is to hijack the credibility, the
reputation, the membership and the finances of a very important political
player."

Other environmental groups attest to the Sierra Club's influence. "They have
tremendous clout, and they're hugely important allies in our environmental
battles," said Greg Wetstone, director of advocacy for the Natural Resources
Defense Council.

Potok is just one of many activists weighing in on the election, which is taking
place by mail over the next month. The controversy centers on three insurgent
candidates, including former Colorado governor Richard Lamm (D),  who are intent
on curbing immigration to the  United States in the name of environmentalism.

"I feel very strongly population and immigration is an environmental issue,"
Lamm said in an interview. "Sierra Club has avoided this issue for too long."

The battle has spawned at least three lawsuits, a flurry of mailings to members,
as well as two outside groups devoted solely to shaping the future of the Sierra
Club. The battle intensified last week when the Internet-based liberal advocacy
group MoveOn.org urged its members to help defeat the three insurgent
candidates, triggering the latest in a series of complaints from both sides
about the involvement of outside groups.

"I'm outraged that MoveOn.org would get involved in the Sierra Club elections
and others are as well," said Marcia Hanscom, who is allied with the
anti-immigration cohort.

The Sierra Club has confronted the immigration question before: In 1998, members
voted 60 to 40 to remain neutral on the issue. In 2001, they rejected a proposal
to promote "regional and national population stabilization" as part of the
club's agenda.

One of the new groups, Groundswell Sierra, represents members of the club's old
guard bitterly opposed to the anti-immigration drive. Immigration opponents
"have a right to express their views and try and win like everybody else," said
Groundswell's campaign manager, Clayton Daughenbaugh. "What they don't have a
right to do is to bring in candidates with no experience in the Sierra Club as
part of an effort to overthrow a membership-voted position."

In a private talk to the board of directors in late February, the club's
executive director, Carl Pope, described the anti-immigrant advocates as "a
virus" that threatened to infect the organization.

"It's hate," Pope said, according to a transcript of his speech. "It was a very
sad moment for me when I had to recognize that hate wasn't just something out
there in American society that the Sierra Club had to fight, but that hate had
gotten dangerously close to the club itself."

The anti-immigration candidates accuse Pope of using smear tactics to damage
their candidacies. They sued Pope along with board President Larry Fahn and the
club for unfair election practices in February; they later dropped the suit, but
the defendants countersued to recover their attorney's  fees. That case is still
pending.

Frank Morris, the former executive director of the Congressional Black Caucus
Foundation, who with entomologist David Pimentel of Cornell University is on the
insurgents' ticket with Lamm, said he suspects a group of anonymous donors who
gave more than $100 million in 2001 and 2002  is behind the countersuit.

"We've never been able to figure out the intensity of the attack," Morris said.
"The issue might be those who had given large donations want to control the
agenda of the Sierra Club."

Fahn and Pope deny that claim and note that the money went to the Sierra Club
Foundation, an affiliated but independent entity that makes grants of  about $15
million a year for club projects. John DeCock, who heads the foundation, said he
has never discussed immigration with the dozen anonymous donors who made the
gifts.

For an election in which candidates cannot spend more than $2,000 each, the
costs are spiraling. Daughenbaugh said his group spent more than $100,000 on a
mailing urging members to reject Lamm and his allies.

Rep. Hilda L. Solis (D-Calif.) said in an interview that "the credibility in
terms of the Latino community is going to be lost. This is very disturbing."

The outcome of the election remains in doubt: Ballots went out to members at the
beginning of the month, and it is unclear how many will vote. In the past,
about 10 percent have cast ballots, but the controversy swirling around this
year's election makes it likely that more will take part.

Meanwhile, many Sierra Club stalwarts worry the battle will undermine the
group's effectiveness on its core issues.

"This whole episode is a regrettable distraction from our mission to educate the
public as to how the Bush-Cheney administration has been dismantling 40 years of
environmental progress," Fahn said.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              171 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 23, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

12 Sex Offenders Face Deportation;
Review of Va. Criminal Registry Targets Foreign-Born

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 606 words


A dozen men convicted of sex crimes against children were arrested in the
Washington area last week and targeted for deportation under a new national
program aimed at foreign-born sex offenders, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials said yesterday.

The men were rounded up after federal agents launched a review of the 11,000
people registered as convicted sex offenders in Virginia. The agents were
looking for those who had committed crimes specifically against children and
were not U.S. citizens and therefore eligible for deportation, according to
Kevin Delli-Colli, acting special agent in charge of the Washington Immigration
and Customs office.

The 12 arrests, along with seven in the Richmond and Tidewater areas, were part
of a program called "Operation Predator."

The program culls through sex-offender registries to find possible deportees and
has arrested about 2,180 foreign-born child sex offenders nationally since July,
said Frank Figueroa, the program's national coordinator. Nationwide, there are
about 304,000 people listed on sex-offender registries, Figueroa said.

Of the 19 arrested, eight were found in Northern Virginia and four in the
District, Delli-Colli said. Immigration and Customs officials, members of a new,
combined agency under the Department of Homeland Security, declined to release
the names of those arrested or their convictions yesterday. The 19 detainees
came from 15 countries.

People who are not born in the United States but obtain a green card, which
grants legal residency, can be deported if they are convicted of an aggravated
felony. Those who become U.S. citizens cannot be deported.

Delli-Colli said the program was created to protect children from people who
might become Internet child pornographers, child sex traffickers or simply
repeat offenders. "Through Operation Predator," he said, "we are systematically
identifying and apprehending those who pose threats to our children."

All 50 states have mandatory sex-offender registries, which require convicted
sex offenders to provide their home address to state police in the state where
they live, regardless of where they were convicted. The registries often are
called "Megan's List," in memory of 7-year-old Megan Kanka, who was murdered by
a convicted sex offender in 1994. Her death led to federal legislation requiring
states to maintain the registries.

In many cases, when sex offenders are foreign-born and eligible for deportation,
local authorities notify Immigration and Customs. The offenders are held until
after they have served jail or prison time.

Delli-Colli said hundreds of the foreign-born offenders uncovered during the
recent Virginia search were in the deportation system.

Using the federal Cyber Crimes Center in Fairfax, an arm of the new combined
immigration agency, along with resources of the Virginia State Police, teams of
immigration agents and state troopers found 19 child sex offenders on Virginia's
registry who were eligible for deportation. Four were in the country illegally,
making them eligible for immediate deportation without a hearing, Delli-Colli
said.

The other 15 offenders had legal resident status, but the severity of their
crimes made them candidates for deportation. They will face deportation
proceedings and are being held without bond.

Delli-Colli said he did not know why the 19 offenders hadn't already been
referred to immigration officials for possible deportation. In some instances,
the offenders might have been released from custody before they could be
detained, officials said.

The convictions of those arrested last week dated from the mid-1990s to 2001.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              172 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 23, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Sex Abusers of Children Are Facing Deportation;
Agents Target Foreign-Born Criminals

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 606 words


A dozen men convicted of sex crimes against children were arrested in the
Washington area last week and targeted for deportation under a new national
program aimed at foreign-born sex offenders, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials said yesterday.

The men were rounded up after federal agents launched a review of the 11,000
people registered as convicted sex offenders in Virginia. The agents were
looking for those who had committed crimes specifically against children and
were not U.S. citizens and therefore eligible for deportation, according to
Kevin Delli-Colli, acting special agent in charge of the Washington Immigration
and Customs office.

The 12 arrests, along with seven in the Richmond and Tidewater areas, were part
of a program called "Operation Predator."

The program culls through sex-offender registries to find possible deportees and
has arrested about 2,180 foreign-born child sex offenders nationally since July,
said Frank Figueroa, the program's national coordinator. Nationwide, there are
about 304,000 people listed on sex-offender registries, Figueroa said.

Of the 19 arrested, eight were found in Northern Virginia and four in the
District, Delli-Colli said. Immigration and Customs officials, members of a new,
combined agency under the Department of Homeland Security, declined to release
the names of those arrested or their convictions yesterday. The 19 detainees
came from 15 countries.

People who are not born in the United States but obtain a green card, which
grants legal residency, can be deported if they are convicted of an aggravated
felony. Those who become U.S. citizens cannot be deported.

Delli-Colli said the program was created to protect children from people who
might become Internet child pornographers, child sex traffickers or simply
repeat offenders. "Through Operation Predator," he said, "we are systematically
identifying and apprehending those who pose threats to our children."

All 50 states have mandatory sex-offender registries, which require convicted
sex offenders to provide their home address to state police in the state where
they live, regardless of where they were convicted. The registries often are
called "Megan's List," in memory of 7-year-old Megan Kanka, who was murdered by
a convicted sex offender in 1994. Her death led to federal legislation requiring
states to maintain the registries.

In many cases, when sex offenders are foreign-born and eligible for deportation,
local authorities notify Immigration and Customs. The offenders are held until
after they have served jail or prison time.

Delli-Colli said hundreds of the foreign-born offenders uncovered during the
recent Virginia search were in the deportation system.

Using the federal Cyber Crimes Center in Fairfax, an arm of the new combined
immigration agency, along with resources of the Virginia State Police, teams of
immigration agents and state troopers found 19 child sex offenders on Virginia's
registry who were eligible for deportation. Four were in the country illegally,
making them eligible for immediate deportation without a hearing, Delli-Colli
said.

The other 15 offenders had legal resident status, but the severity of their
crimes made them candidates for deportation. They will face deportation
proceedings and are being held without bond.

Delli-Colli said he did not know why the 19 offenders hadn't already been
referred to immigration officials for possible deportation. In some instances,
the offenders might have been released from custody before they could be
detained, officials said.

The convictions of those arrested last week dated from the mid-1990s to 2001.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              173 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 25, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Incident Shoves Impallaria Into Spotlight

BYLINE: Tim Craig and Lori Montgomery, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Prince George's Extra; T17 , Maryland Notebook

LENGTH: 551 words


Del. Richard K. Impallaria (R) says that his well-publicized confrontation last
week with several lobbyists for immigrants' concerns was a boost for his
political career. Well, in his conservative, eastern Baltimore County district,
at least.

"They love us. They are telling us to keep up the good work," Impallaria said,
adding that he has received dozens of e-mails in the past week. "The biggest
thing I hear is we have too many politically correct lawmakers and not enough
politically courageous ones."

Impallaria and Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County) confronted four
lobbyists for immigrants' issues last week after a House of Delegates hearing on
a bill to study the fiscal impact of illegal immigration.

The delegates said the advocates referred to them as "racists" during testimony
on the measure.

After following them into the hallway of the Lowe House Office Building,
Impallaria asked a Hispanic advocate whether she was an illegal immigrant. The
lobbyist, Natali Fani of Casa De Maryland, refused to answer.

Jamie Kendrick, executive director of the Service Employees International Union
Maryland-D.C. state council, then came to Fani's defense, and McDonough shoved
him. Kendrick said McDonough attacked him. McDonough said he was just defending
himself from the union leader.

An Anne Arundel County District Court judge is looking into the matter to
determine whether a criminal investigation should be launched. The House Ethics
Committee could also launch an investigation.

Impallaria is not worried. He said constituents have showered him with praise
since the incident.

Impallaria and McDonough represent the 7th Legislative District, which includes
the blue-collar communities of Middle River, Joppa and Perry Hall. Those voters
support attempts to crack down on illegal immigration, Impallaria said.

Several constituents started a legal defense fund for the two delegates, who are
leaders in efforts to limit illegal immigration. Impallaria quashed the idea
before any money was raised because he said it violated campaign finance laws
that prohibit delegates and senators from raising money while the General
Assembly is in session.

"We had to step in and tell them to stop," Impallaria said, adding that he will
hold a news conference this week to discuss the scuffle.

Although Impallaria relishes the attention, McDonough is a bit nervous. "It
scared me to death," McDonough said after reading a newspaper account of the
incident. "I'll never punch another lobbyist again."

The House of Delegates last week unanimously approved Republican Gov. Robert L.
Ehrlich Jr.'s proposal to toughen state ethics laws so that lobbyists barred
from the State House can't automatically keep lobbying while their case is on
appeal.

But the House made one change to the legislation. Del. John S. Arnick
(D-Baltimore County) added an amendment that would prevent the tougher law from
being applied to any ethical infraction that occurs before the act's effective
date of Oct. 1.

Arnick said the amendment would have no practical effect. He said he offered it
"because it was requested by somebody," although he couldn't remember who.

A lobbyist, perhaps? Maybe somebody who's under investigation by the State
Ethics Commission?

"It's a good guess," Arnick said. "But I don't know."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              174 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 28, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Confrontation Shoves House's Impallaria Into the Spotlight

BYLINE: Tim Craig and Lori Montgomery, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Southern Maryland Extra; T06

LENGTH: 725 words


Del. Richard K. Impallaria (R) says that his well-publicized confrontation March
18 with several lobbyists for immigrants' concerns was a boost for his political
career. Well, in his conservative, eastern Baltimore County district, at least.

"They love us. They are telling us to keep up the good work," Impallaria said,
adding that he has received dozens of e-mails in the past week. "The biggest
thing I hear is we have too many politically correct lawmakers and not enough
politically courageous ones."

Impallaria and Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County) confronted four
lobbyists for immigrants' issues after a House of Delegates hearing on a bill to
study the fiscal impact of illegal immigration.

The delegates said the advocates referred to them as "racists" during testimony
on the measure.

After following the lobbyists into the hallway of the Lowe House Office
Building, Impallaria asked a Hispanic advocate whether she was an illegal
immigrant. The lobbyist, Natali Fani of Casa De Maryland, refused to answer.

Jamie Kendrick, executive director of the Service Employees International Union
Maryland-D.C. state council, then came to Fani's defense, and McDonough shoved
him. Kendrick said McDonough attacked him. McDonough said he was just defending
himself from the union leader.

An Anne Arundel County District Court judge is looking into the matter to
determine whether a criminal investigation should be launched. The House Ethics
Committee could also launch an investigation.

Impallaria is not worried. He said constituents have showered him with praise
since the incident.

Impallaria and McDonough represent the 7th District, which includes the
blue-collar communities of Middle River, Joppa and Perry Hall. Voters there
support attempts to crack down on illegal immigration, Impallaria said.

Several constituents started a legal defense fund for the two delegates, who are
leaders in efforts to limit illegal immigration. Impallaria quashed the idea
before any money was raised because he said it violated campaign finance laws
that prohibit delegates and senators from raising money while the General
Assembly is in session.

"We had to step in and tell them to stop," Impallaria said.

Although Impallaria relishes the attention, McDonough is a bit nervous. "It
scared me to death," McDonough said after reading a newspaper account of the
incident. "I'll never punch another lobbyist again."

The House of Delegates  has unanimously approved Republican Gov. Robert L.
Ehrlich Jr.'s proposal to toughen state ethics laws so that lobbyists barred
from the State House can't automatically keep lobbying while their cases are on
appeal.

But the House made one change to the legislation. Del. John S. Arnick
(D-Baltimore County) added an amendment that would prevent the tougher law from
being applied to any ethical infraction that occurs before the act's effective
date of Oct. 1.

Arnick said the amendment would have no practical effect. He said he offered it
"because it was requested by somebody," although he couldn't remember who.

A lobbyist, perhaps? Maybe somebody who's under investigation by the State
Ethics Commission?

"It's a good guess," Arnick said. "But I don't know."

Posters went up around the State House complex recently advertising the annual
legislative follies, an often painfully juvenile collection of skits and musical
numbers written and performed by state legislators.

This year's theme is a "The Lord of the Rings" spoof called "Lord of the
Ka-Chings." It features "Frodo Ehrlich and his faithful companion Lt. Hobbit
'Samwise' Steele as they fight the odds to get the Ka-Ching bill" through the
General Assembly.

The color poster is illustrated by a photo of Ehrlich's face superimposed on the
hairy head of a hobbit -- making clear why the governor disdains sideburns. The
governor is holding a golden coin in place of the original movie's golden ring.

In addition to Ehrlich and Lt. Gov. Michael S. Steele, other cast members
include House Speaker Michael E. Busch (D-Anne Arundel) "as evil Lord Sauron"
and Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller Jr. (D-Calvert) as "Gandalf the Grey,
Gandalf the Red and Gandalf the Blond," a sly reference to Miller's
ever-changing hair color.

The show starts at 8 p.m. Wednesday at St. John's Key Auditorium. Tickets,
available from lawmakers, are $10.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              175 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 29, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Anti-Terrorism Tactic: Immigration

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 2260 words


Majed Hajbeh was in his stocking feet when the war on terrorism came calling. It
was a rare morning off for the engineering technician, a lazy Thursday in a
suburban Virginia neighborhood of red-brick townhouses and gently flowering
Bradford pear trees. And then came the rap on the door.

Agents from the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security were on the stoop of
the Woodbridge home. Hajbeh, 41, black-eyed and bearded, agreed to let them
search it. Several hours later, they drove off clutching a sheaf of documents
related to his immigration in 1992.

Today, nearly 10 months after that raid, Hajbeh sits in an orange jumpsuit in
Piedmont Regional Jail near Lynchburg. He is facing a routine immigration
charge: falsely portraying himself as a single man in order to qualify for legal
U.S. residency. But if he is sent back to his native Jordan, he faces a life
sentence.

And that is precisely why U.S. authorities are so eager to get rid of him.
According to court testimony, the agents drove to Hajbeh's townhouse June 9
after making an alarming discovery: He had been convicted in 1999 for a series
of bomb attacks in Jordan.

Hajbeh's case offers a glimpse at a new legal offensive playing out in the wake
of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Homeland Security officials say they
are checking immigration records of hundreds of U.S. residents suspected of ties
to terrorism, looking for violations in order to jail and potentially deport
them.

Officials argue that with the United States facing grave peril, they must do
everything they can to ferret out potential terrorists. But building terrorism
cases can be dauntingly complex, so in many cases authorities are turning to
evidence of other, lesser offenses.

Hajbeh's supporters, including local Muslims and a civic group in Prince William
County, protest that this tactic is abusive. They say that the Jordanian bombing
case is full of holes and that it is unfair to separate a man from his wife and
seven children for 10 months because of a minor immigration charge.

Denyse Sabagh, one of Hajbeh's attorneys, complained that authorities are using
terrorism allegations to target immigrants, even though they are never charged
with terrorism.

"Just because there's some sort of hint there could be something there, they
just want them out," she said.

Michael J. Garcia, who oversees immigration and customs enforcement at Homeland
Security, acknowledged that immigration charges are being used in a more
systematic way than ever against potential terrorists. He defended the move,
saying the government must use all legal tools to preempt attacks.

"We are looking to use them broadly to shut down those vulnerabilities before
they become acute," he said. "Before they become the attack that kills a
thousand people."

The chains on Hajbeh's feet clinked as he stood up. The judge had just recessed
the bond hearing in the tiny immigration courtroom, located in an obscure corner
of an office tower above the Ballston Metro station in Arlington.

"I came to America 'cause it's freedom. And they catch me for nothing," Hajbeh
bitterly told a reporter. "There is nobody killed, and they tried to make me a
terrorist."

Authorities believe there is plenty of reason to be worried about him. Five
years ago, he was convicted in absentia by a Jordanian military court in a
series of 1998 bomb blasts in Amman. The homemade explosives, planted late at
night, damaged an American school, a five-star hotel and the cars of two former
government officials. No one was injured.

But that wasn't all. One of Hajbeh's co-defendants was Abu Qatada, known in
Jordan as an Islamic preacher who had sought asylum in London. U.S. authorities
believe he is something else: an agent for Osama bin Laden.

The government's concerns emerged as the bond hearing proceeded in November.
Luis Paoli, an attorney for Homeland Security, said in court papers that
evidence in the Jordanian case showed that Hajbeh organized a small Islamic
anti-government group, Reform and Challenge, during two visits home in 1994-95
and in 1996. Hajbeh instructed members to contribute money for bomb materials,
according to the case. After Hajbeh returned to the United States, he stayed in
touch, approving the group's planned attacks in 1998, according to Paoli, citing
the Jordanian information.

"A person who has done this in the past . . . is capable of doing it again," he
declared in the packed courtroom.

The judge asked why U.S. prosecutors hadn't charged Hajbeh with terrorism.
"There's some classified information. There are some other factors. We can go
ahead and lodge a charge, if that's the problem," Paoli replied.

Sabagh, the defense attorney, jumped in. "This case has been going on since
June," she said, adding that if the government had enough evidence to support a
terrorism charge, it should file it.

Hajbeh and his supporters gave the judge a dramatically different version of
events. Sabagh pointed out that the 1999 terrorism verdicts in Jordan were later
overturned. "The charges are gone," she said. Hajbeh's sentence remained only
because he didn't show up for his appeal, as required under Jordanian law, she
said.

Hajbeh testified that he had no role in Reform and Challenge, although he knew
some of the defendants. His visits to Jordan were for family reasons, he said.
At the time of the bombings, he was living in Tennessee, working 70 to 80 hours
a week in a shampoo factory and a Whirlpool air-conditioning plant. He moved to
Virginia three years ago.

Witness after witness took the stand, testifying that Hajbeh had lived quietly
and devoutly in the United States. He was so gentle he wouldn't even step on a
roach, said one friend. He forbade his children to retaliate against bullies,
said another. Essam Mesiry, his boss at EMSI Engineering in Manassas, recalled
when a client punched Hajbeh during a disagreement over results of a soil test.

"Majed never fought back," he said.

The alleged al Qaeda connection did not come up at the hearing. According to
Jordanian court papers, the London-based terrorism suspect, Abu Qatada, got in
touch with Reform and Challenge after Hajbeh had moved back to the United
States. Hajbeh's wife and one of his attorneys said in interviews that he does
not know Abu Qatada.

The immigration judge, Wayne Iskra, granted Hajbeh bond. He noted, among other
reasons, the acquittals in Jordan and claims by several of those defendants that
they made false confessions because they had been tortured.

The Homeland Security attorney appealed, blocking Hajbeh's release. Four months
later, that appeal is still pending.

Again and again, Najwa Hajbeh has decorated the rented townhouse for her
husband's return. Last month, she repeated the ritual, looping red-and-white
crepe paper from the living room ceiling and taping up balloons.
"Congratulations!" says a sign taped to the wall.

Hajbeh, 34, a softly rounded woman with big brown eyes and tentative English,
still is puzzled by the twists and turns of her husband's case. First, he was
charged with immigration fraud in U.S. criminal court in Alexandria, and found
not guilty. Up went the crepe-paper banners.

But Hajbeh's case passed to immigration court, a separate system, and he
continued his peripatetic journey through Virginia's prison system. Since his
arrest, he has been shuttled among six jails, his husky frame becoming steadily
leaner.

"I think, here is law in United States," said Hajbeh, in a maroon velvet robe,
breast-feeding her 1-year-old in the bright living room. "What is this law?"

Her husband is the calm one, the student of the Koran who urges his family to
remember how the prophets suffered. Najwa is the one sprouting white hairs: She
is having to feed seven children without her husband's $11.25-an-hour salary,
and she is begging friends to lend her money and take her to the jail, because
she doesn't drive.

For a highly traditional Middle Eastern woman, it is not easy to speak to a
public gathering of men and women. But in July, Hajbeh told her story to a local
group, Unity in the Community, which fights racism and anti-Semitism. Its
members began attending Hajbeh's hearings.

"The more we heard, the more it became clear the government has not put forth
evidence for why this man should continue to be incarcerated," said Sandra Fox
of Manassas, a math tutor. "I am distressed and appalled at the way our
government is behaving."

Hundreds of Arab and South Asian men were arrested and removed from the United
States shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks, mostly because they had overstayed
their temporary visas. Many were caught up in the terrorism investigation by
accident.

The current actions are more targeted. Homeland Security officials say they are
looking for immigration violations that would allow them to jail and eventually
deport legal residents believed to have ties to terrorism. They also are trying
to revoke the U.S. citizenship of a handful of suspects, alleging that they lied
on their applications -- a rare procedure that has been used mostly against
former Nazis.

Prosecutors sometimes turn to immigration rather than terrorism charges when
classified documents are involved. They often can't reveal such information
because it would expose sources or tip off others under investigation, law
enforcement analysts say.

"You may know something and know it 100 percent . . . but you may not be able to
use it [in court]. That happens all the time," said Matthew Levitt, a former FBI
counter-terrorism analyst who is now at the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy.

It is not clear what is in the government's classified information on Hajbeh. In
general, it can include such things as telephone intercepts, reports from
informants and documents from foreign intelligence services.

Government officials emphasize that there is nothing wrong with prosecuting
suspects on immigration charges instead of terrorism accusations. In fact, they
say, it is their duty to pursue any kind of wrongdoing. "What's frustrating
sometimes is the sense [among critics] that . . . it's an okay thing to violate
immigration law," said Garcia, the Homeland Security official.

Civil liberties activists counter that the government is using immigration law
because it is easy to find a violation in the often-byzantine regulations. And
immigration proceedings offer fewer protections than criminal courts. For
example, defendants don't have the right to a court-appointed attorney.

David Cole, author of "Enemy Aliens," a work critical of the Bush
administration's anti-terrorism effort, said the Hajbeh case seems a perfect
example of selective enforcement.

His marriage and divorce "would never even raise an eyebrow" if not for the
anti-terrorism campaign, said Cole, a law professor at Georgetown University.
The immigration charge, he added, "becomes a pretext for targeting people who
the government has some suspicion about, whether that's warranted or not."

Prosecutors said they don't think the charges against Hajbeh have been pretexts.
They have emphasized that his immigration applications listed him as a single,
never-married man at times when he either had a wife or was divorced.

Hajbeh's marital status might seem arcane, but it matters legally. He was
sponsored for immigration by his mother, who had a green card, allowing her to
live permanently in the United States. But under the complex web of immigration
rules, she was entitled to bring with her only her unwed children.

Hajbeh married Najwa in 1988, a few years after his mother first sought to have
him join her. He divorced Najwa in 1992, shortly before he immigrated, and
remarried her a year later.

Danny Onorato, Hajbeh's attorney in the criminal case in Alexandria, said that
Hajbeh was simply a man who made mistakes because of his poor English in the
early 1990s. "For him to be confused and inadvertently fill things out a certain
way, there was an explanation for that," Onorato said in an interview.

Those arguments played out again in immigration court in Arlington, with the
trial finally drawing to a close Feb. 3. The courtroom filled with Hajbeh's wife
and children, his friends from the mosque, the activists from Unity in the
Community. They hushed as the judge began speaking.

"I have found . . . the government has not met the burden of proof" on the fraud
charge, Iskra declared. However, he added, Hajbeh's immigration documents were
invalid, because they were intended for an applicant who was single.

Hajbeh, in other words, had no legal right to be in the United States.

The Jordanian is now facing the final round of his legal battle. He is asking
the judge to waive deportation, saying it would cause hardship to his family and
expose him to torture back home. The hearing is set for late April.

If he is deported to Jordan, Hajbeh could spend the rest of his days in prison,
under the sentence he and other defendants received in 1999.

Or maybe not.

Consider what has happened to Hajbeh's co-defendants in Jordan. Their first
conviction was thrown out by a civilian appeals court. Then they were again
convicted by the military court. Then acquitted. Then convicted. Back and forth
the case went, with the appeals court citing both procedural problems and
insufficient evidence, according to Musleh Farah, a defense attorney.

The latest verdict came in December. For the fourth time, the Jordanian military
court found the alleged terrorists guilty, but handed out sentences of five
years or less, which equaled time served. The men are now free.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              176 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 7, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Homeland Security Denied Author Entry;
Briton's Visit Allowed Only After Appeals

BYLINE: Blaine Harden, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 494 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE April 6


For 36 hours last week, the Department of Homeland Security prevented Ian
McEwan, an eminent British author, from entering the United States on grounds he
did not have the proper visa to give lectures.

McEwan was admitted only after the intervention of the State Department, appeals
from the British government and scores of complaints from three West Coast
groups that had booked speaking engagements.

But his passport was stamped "Refused Admittance," and McEwan will no longer be
allowed into the United States under a visa waiver that has long been granted to
citizens of the United Kingdom and 26 other Western countries.

Without formally apologizing to McEwan or admitting that it had made a mistake,
the Department of Homeland Security conceded Tuesday that it may not have
handled his case properly.

"We really do feel bad about it," said Danielle Sheahan, a spokeswoman. "When we
have customs inspectors who have a short time to make decisions, it is very
complex. We do want to look into this further."

She said the department was "checking to see if there is anything we can do for
him."

Experts on immigration law have raised questions about whether the department
ignored its own regulations in denying McEwan entry into the United States.

"McEwan's activities are and always have been permissible under the immigration
statute and regulations," according to Daniel Kowalski, a lawyer who edits
Bender's Immigration Bulletin, a technical journal for immigration lawyers.

McEwan tried to enter the country last Tuesday under a visa waiver, as he has
done many times for trips during which he has given paid lectures. But he
aroused suspicion among customs officers when he said he would get $5,000 for
each of three lectures.

Immigration law, however, mentions no dollar limit on honoraria that foreign
lecturers can receive for occasional speeches in the United States before
academic or nonprofit groups.

A proposed regulation -- published in the Federal Register but not promulgated
as law -- specifically states that "an honorarium may be of any dollar amount
with no minimum and no maximum dollar amount required."

An advisory sent in 1999 from headquarters in Washington to customs officers in
the field instructs them to allow people such as McEwan -- foreigners who
receive honoraria and expenses for speaking to universities or nonprofit groups
-- to enter "with no new restrictions or new documentary requirements."

McEwan addressed nonprofit arts groups in Seattle and Portland, Ore., as well as
at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. The writer is still
visiting California, where he said he will teach for a few days and hike in
Yosemite National Park.

Kowalski said McEwan's troubles are unusual only because he is well-known and
has powerful friends who helped him defeat an "undertrained, uninformed and
overworked" bureaucracy.

"Imagine what happens to thousands of visitors who don't have these
connections?" he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              177 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 8, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

A Bridge Between Immigrants, County;
Gilchrist Center Helps With Newcomers' Needs, Adjustment to America

BYLINE: Cameron W. Barr, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T18

LENGTH: 1167 words


"When you're a refugee, you think America is great," says Leopold Mbala, a
Silver Spring resident of Congolese descent who works frequently with
immigrants. "But there isn't really an education of what America is."

More than two years ago, Montgomery County opened a facility where new arrivals
could begin that education -- a nightclub-turned-Ellis Island nestled among
taverns and pupuserias along a side street in Wheaton. The Charles W. Gilchrist
Center for Cultural Diversity now addresses the needs of more than 1,500 clients
a month.

It has helped people from more than 60 countries. They attend citizenship
classes, study English, seek pro bono help from professionals and, one evening a
week, play the ancient Asian strategy game of go.

The center, named for a former county executive who later joined the priesthood,
is another reminder that many parts of Montgomery County are much more city than
suburb. Immigrants and refugees land in Rockville, Silver Spring and elsewhere
directly from abroad; at least one out of every five people living in the county
was born outside the United States.

"I'm very pleased," says County Executive Douglas M. Duncan, who turned a
long-standing idea for an immigrant welcome center into reality. "It's been so
successful," he adds, that the county set up a satellite office at the Upcounty
Regional Services Center in Germantown late last month.

The Wheaton center opened its doors for business a day after the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks in New York and Washington. For Mbala, that coincidence has made the
work of the Gilchrist Center's staff even more urgent. "After 9/11 you see that
one thing we have to invest in is education or in resources that demonstrate the
positive American value[s]," he says. "The center gives a place to do that."

The key value, he says, "is that we're always willing to help people if people
want to help themselves." And that everyone can feel free to speak. "Not
necessarily that everyone will agree with you," Mbala cautions, "but at least
you will be heard." Mbala's organization, the Congolese-American Council for
Peace and Development, uses the center to hold meetings.

Much of the center's work involves making a connection between newcomers in need
of assistance and those who want to help them. "Eighty-five percent of what we
do, we couldn't do without volunteers," says Gilchrist director Alexandra C.
Teaff, who grew up in Venezuela as the daughter of an expatriate banker and who
took time out from her career in county government to serve in the Peace Corps
in the late 1990s.

When Cesar and Nelly Libanati saw Teaff discuss the center on a Spanish-language
television talk show,  they decided to volunteer. The Wheaton residents -- Cesar
is a retired doctor, Nelly a retired chemical engineer -- serve as interpreters
for clients who attend seminars and clinics organized by the center's staff.
"They do a very, very wonderful job of helping people that really need to be
involved in the community," Nelly Libanati says.

Jean Lacey, a retired registered nurse who lives in Brookeville, offered her
help as an English tutor right after the center opened in 2001. She was
introduced to Ahmad Shirazi, who immigrated to the U.S. from Iran four years
ago. Lacey and Shirazi still meet at the center every week. "The class is very
good and very important for me because I can't speak good English," says
Shirazi, 62, who lives in Wheaton and works in a frame shop.

Teaff and the center's part-time program specialist, Sharon A. Knapik, have
found someone to develop "Everyday English," a course geared to immigrants;
arranged for lawyers, tax preparers and a housing inspector to offer free help
sessions; and  persuaded computer specialists to begin to assemble a
comprehensive database of government and nonprofit services available in the
county.

Marshaling these volunteers has won the center two awards from the National
Association of Counties, along with another NaCo award for the overall program.

"What we want to have is a pro bono immigration clinic," Knapik says. "We could
do it weekly, and we would have a stampede."

Unlike a county recreation center, the Gilchrist Center includes several
intimate consultation rooms because some of the issues clients want to discuss
are private. Teaff's job, she says, is part administrator and part counselor.
Sometimes "clients have come very close to deportation, and we have to step in
and try to find them pro bono legal counsel," she says. "In that situation,
people don't have a lot of time."

Kwame Brobbey-Mensah, a computer-security consultant who immigrated to the
United States from Ghana two decades ago, was walking by the center when "my
curiosity sent me in there," he says. He offered to volunteer and in August 2002
found himself teaching a class. "It's so interesting," he says. "Many of the
people who come to the classes have never touched a computer mouse before."

His computer classes have been filled with Ethiopians, Haitians, Kenyans,
Salvadorans and occasionally people who are already Americans. They learn fast.
"Some of my students have sent me e-mails, which is very impressive," he says.

The center's budget has stayed roughly flat, rising only slightly from the
original funding of $313,000 to next year's proposed appropriation of $331,000.
While the demand for the center has grown since its inception, its staffing has
shrunk from  31/2 staffers to 11/2 because one went on leave and another moved
to another facility. Rita Howard, a division chief in the county's recreation
department, which oversees Gilchrist, says the full staffing effectively will be
restored July 1.

The county plans to expand the program upcounty without increasing the center's
budget. A few weeks ago, the satellite office began offering English as a Second
Language classes.

"What we're seeing happening is just . . . this tremendous blending of cultures
at the Gilchrist Center," Duncan says, "where it helps spread tolerance, helps
spread understanding of other cultures."

It also provides a much-needed facility for small groups dealing with
immigrants' issues that don't have buildings or the funds to rent them.

Jeredine Williams, executive director of Migrant and Refugee Cultural Support, a
Silver Spring nonprofit group that helps victims of domestic violence, says the
Gilchrist Center "is building bridges between the immigrant community and the
rest of Montgomery County."

Her  group has hosted several meetings at the center. "It's a very useful
building," she says. And if the Gilchrist Center didn't exist? "Then we'll meet
under a tree," Williams says.

The Gilchrist Center for Cultural Diversity, 11319 Elkin St. in Wheaton, is open
from 9 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Tuesday-Thursday and from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Fridays
and Saturdays. Call 240-777-4940 for more information.

The satellite office is in the Upcounty Regional Services Center, 12900
Middlebrook Rd., Germantown. It is open Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 9
a.m. to noon.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              178 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 13, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Unable To Marry, Unable To Stay;
Exposing the Plight Of Gay Binationals

BYLINE: Evelyn Nieves, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A17

LENGTH: 904 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Leslie Bulbuk and Marta Donayre fell hard for each other, the way people do when
they meet "the One." Within months, they knew that if they could, they would get
married, file joint income taxes, name the other as next of kin.

But the couple had a problem beyond being lesbians in a country where
same-gender marriages are not legal. Donayre, a public relations executive, was
here from Brazil on a work visa. Then she was laid off -- jeopardizing her
status in this country.

Had Bulbuk and Donayre been a heterosexual couple facing the same dilemma, they
could have easily resolved it: The federal government allows a permanent U.S.
resident in a committed heterosexual relationship with someone from another
country to marry that person and sponsor his or her  residency. In 2002, the
latest year for which figures are available, nearly 300,000 immigrants who
entered the United States were foreign brides or grooms.

But unlike immigration authorities in 16 other countries -- including, most
recently, Brazil -- the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services does not grant
gay couples the same immigration benefits available to heterosexuals.

Although Massachusetts will begin granting marriage licenses to gay couples next
month, binational same-sex couples who flock to the state to marry will face the
same problem they do now with immigration authorities. The federal government
regulates immigration, and the federal Defense of Marriage Act of 1996 defines
marriage as between a man and a woman.

Bulbuk and Donayre were facing hard choices. Once Donayre's visa expired, they
could commute between countries, leave the United States or live together here
illegally. "Marta called me up and said, 'You'd better find yourself a new,
American girlfriend,' " Bulbuk recalled.

Instead, after nearly two years of legal limbo in which they began the process
of moving to Canada, Bulbuk and Donayre found another way out. Donayre was able
to prove she fled Brazil because of persecution based on her sexual orientation,
and she was granted asylum.

But they are among the rare couples whose stories have a happy ending. The
dilemma of gay binational couples has received scant attention compared with
that of gay couples who simply want to marry, but the issue is neither new nor
small. Although no one is sure just how many couples face this problem, the
files of organizations that track gay binational couples, such as Immigration
Equality in New York and the San Francisco-based National Center for Lesbian
Rights, are full of cases in which couples are forced to leave the country or
separate.

Bulbuk and Donayre founded Love Sees No Borders (www.loveseesnoborders.org) in
2001 to raise awareness of  gay binational couples. They note on their Web site
that their group is not a political organization. "We do not mobilize people
into activism nor do we collect funds for such efforts in the United States,"
the site says.

But they see new hope for their cause in the move among many politicians,
including Sen. John F. Kerry (D-Mass.), to support civil unions that would
bestow federal benefits to gay couples.

In February 2000, Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) introduced the Permanent Partners
Immigration Act, which would grant gay couples the same right as heterosexual
couples to sponsor the residency of their permanent partners. The impetus for
the bill, which has 120 co-sponsors and is seeking more, was "simply the need to
right a cruel law that keeps loving, committed partners apart," Nadler said in a
recent interview.

Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) introduced a companion bill last year. But neither
bill, which conservative foes view as a step toward legalizing gay marriage, has
been granted a vote.

"It's a very simple bill which adds the words 'permanent partner' to the
immigration law on spouses," Nadler said. "But the Republicans won't hear of it.
There's no doubt if we had a Democratic House, we'd get a vote on it."

Nadler's bill has been vociferously opposed by conservative religious
organizations such as the Traditional Values Coalition, which considers the bill
a backdoor way to legalize gay marriage, and the Culture and Family Institute,
which has said it would make the United States a magnet for gays.

The bill has also been criticized by the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a Washington-based group that opposes illegal immigration. That group
argues that the bill would worsen marriage fraud, already a popular shortcut for
illegal immigrants to gain permanent status in this country.

Bulbuk, 41, a senior field representative for California state Assemblywoman
Sally Lieber (D), and Donayre, 34, who has been working for the National Center
for Lesbian Rights, say they know of scores of couples who have left this
country to be together. They know of others in which  foreign partners were
refused a visa into this country because immigration officials suspected  they
were coming here to be with a partner.

Bulbuk said she and Donayre are not surprised that the immigration problems of
gay binational couples are little known -- especially, she said, when most
Americans are unaware that the federal government, as recently as 1990,
routinely denied gay people entry into this country.

"But the more people are aware of this issue," Bulbuk said, "the more who say
this is a human rights issue that would give couples in love the opportunity to
be together."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              179 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 14, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

New Rules Shorten Holding Time for Detained Immigrants

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A17

LENGTH: 517 words


The Department of Homeland Security announced new rules yesterday designed to
prevent a recurrence of the lengthy detention of hundreds of foreign nationals,
many of whom were prevented from making telephone calls or contacting lawyers
for months after they were jailed in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

The guidelines, made public yesterday by Asa Hutchinson, the department's
undersecretary for border and transportation security, were welcomed by civil
rights groups that had bitterly denounced the detention of 762 immigration
violators after the attacks, based on sometimes ill-founded FBI suspicions that
they had links to terrorism.

The new rules are a response to a highly critical 198-page report last June by
Glenn A. Fine, the Justice Department's inspector general. It concluded that in
the chaotic aftermath of the terrorist strikes on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon, hundreds of Arab and South Asian men who had committed sometimes minor
immigration violations languished in jail without timely review by U.S.
officials. Guards mistreated some of them.

The average detention lasted three months, and the longest was 10 months before
the immigrants were cleared of terrorism ties and released from jail.

The old rules called for a hearing to be held or a detainee released on bond
within 48 hours of  arrest, unless the FBI asserted a national security
emergency and invoked an exception. To declare an exception, the new homeland
security rules require high-ranking FBI officials -- a special agent in charge
or above -- to formally sign off on the detention.

The new rules are "a very significant correction," said Hutchinson, who noted
that they could come into play if terrorists attack the United States again.

In addition, the new rules require officials of the Homeland Security Department
or its component agencies, such as the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE), to formally review FBI requests for detention.

"ICE personnel and attorneys are directed to independently review the individual
circumstances of each case in which the FBI requests detention," the new rules
state. "ICE attorneys are officers of the court and must have confidence in the
representations made to the court."

Hutchinson told reporters yesterday: "This brings greater checks and balances,
and greater clarity in the decision-making process."

The Homeland Security Department, which for the past year has housed the former
Customs Service and Immigration and Naturalization Service, is the agency whose
lawyers advocate the release or detention of immigrants before immigration
judges, sometimes based on FBI information.

Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union,
said his organization welcomes "the decision by the Department of Homeland
Security to reform policies that did so much harm."

The homeland security guidelines do not address the conditions at holding
facilities for immigrants, some run by the Justice Department, where Fine said
prison guards engaged in "a pattern of physical and verbal abuse" against some
detainees.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              180 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 14, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Unseen Fallout of a Guilty Plea;
Deportation Possible For Korean Woman Who Stole Money

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1389 words


Most days and nights, Mi-Choong O'Brien, a Korean immigrant facing deportation
for embezzling from her employer, sits in her jail cell and replays an edited
version of her life. Different choices, different outcome.

If she could do it again, she would apply for U.S. citizenship soon after
arriving in this country with her American husband. She would talk to him about
her money trouble instead of helping herself from the cash register of the
Herndon restaurant where she was a waitress. When caught, she would find a
private lawyer instead of accepting the services of the Fairfax County public
defender. She would ask her attorney how a guilty plea would affect her
immigration status.

But at the end of her dreaming and regretting, Mi-Choong O'Brien, 50, remains
where she started, at the Hampton Roads Regional Jail in Portsmouth, Va. For her
crime -- she says she took $70, the restaurant says it was at least $11,000, and
her plea agreement states $3,000 -- she was sentenced to three years, all but a
month suspended. Now she is being detained under a 1996 immigration law that
allows the United States to deport noncitizens with criminal convictions and
sentences of a year or more.

For the first several years, nonviolent felons were less likely to be deported
because their cases were not fully tracked by computer and enforcement was less
aggressive. But since the Department of Homeland Security absorbed the functions
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service more than a year ago, government
officials say they are obligated to pursue those cases, including O'Brien's.

"After the INS was abolished, enforcement has changed in general," said Garrison
Courtney, a spokesman for Homeland Security's immigration and customs
enforcement arm. "We do practice compassion and humanitarian concern, but we
don't have a lot of leeway here."

Still, immigrant advocates and politicians say that O'Brien is an example of the
wrong person targeted by jittery government agencies in a post-Sept. 11 world.

"A lot of these cases involve a lot more crime," said Scot Christenson, a
spokesman for the Washington-based Catholic Legal Immigration Network. "Here,
the punishment does not fit the crime."

Mi-Choong O'Brien has lived in the United States for more than two decades. She
met her husband, Joseph, a native Washingtonian, in the 1970s while he was
serving in the Peace Corps in South Korea, and they married in 1979. They have
three Korean-born children, who took their father's U.S. citizenship, and they
are the adoptive parents of a fourth child, Mi-Choong O'Brien's Korean-born
nephew, who holds a U.S. green card. The family moved to the United States in
the 1980s and eventually bought a townhouse in Centreville, filling it with
Asian art and family photos.

Joseph O'Brien, 54, has spent most of the past few years overseas, giving
humanitarian assistance to developing nations with the International Partnership
for Human Development, a nonprofit company based in Purcellville, and making
about $60,000 a year.

It was during one of his assignments in the Eastern European nation of Moldova
that Mi-Choong O'Brien began to take money from Hama Sushi, a popular Japanese
restaurant in Herndon. She said she had worked there for about a year, making
about $2,500 a month in wages and tips and constantly arguing with her employers
over her share of the tips, which waitresses turned in after each shift.

In June 2002, she said, she had a daughter in college, two sons in D.C. Catholic
schools and a stack of unpaid bills she didn't discuss with her husband, fearing
that he might quit his job to come home and lose their only income. She said she
stole money by voiding sales and pocketing the cash.

"My husband made money and I made money, but we never had enough," she said in a
phone interview. "I lost my control."

Restaurant owner Young Son would not comment on the case.

Mi-Choong O'Brien said managers noticed the repeated voids and called police,
who arrested her at the restaurant in July 2002. She did not tell her husband or
her family. In December, while her husband was doing relief work in Kenya, she
took a public defender's advice, pleaded guilty and was told she would have to
serve only a month of her sentence, she said.

Just before spring break the next year, her youngest son, Terry, now 16,
remembers his mother telling him that she would be going to jail. She said she
had gotten into a dispute with her employers, and he asked no questions.

"I was scared for her," Terry said, recalling that she told him and brother
Joey, " 'If Dad calls, don't say anything.' "

Mi-Choong O'Brien said she asked her daughter, Siobhan, who lives in New York,
and a friend to check on her sons, who were home alone, while she went to the
Fairfax County jail in March 2003. By then, her husband was in Tanzania.

Joseph O'Brien said his checks were sent directly to his wife; he said he did
not keep track of their finances from overseas and called home infrequently. By
the time he returned in June 2003 for Joey's graduation, his wife was home and
thought she would never have to tell him how much trouble she had been in.

But in early January, her probation officer called her in. When she arrived,
immigration officials were waiting. Joseph, still home for the Christmas
holiday, received a tearful phone call -- the first he had heard of her
conviction, he said. Now he is allowed to visit her twice a week in the
Portsmouth jail.

"When I look back on this with hindsight," he said recently, "it looks like I am
so naive."

Kelly Bennett, the former assistant public defender who represented Mi-Choong
O'Brien, did not return calls for comment. Vanessa M. Antoun, who has been the
public defender for less than a year, said she cannot comment on the case, but
she said the county has been educating lawyers about the 1996 law since Homeland
Security took over the INS.

"We're not trained as immigration lawyers. We're criminal defense attorneys,"
she said. "In the past, clients may have been convicted and not deported, and so
they had some sense of security. . . . It's much more serious now."

Joseph O'Brien has resigned his job and spends much of his time contacting
politicians, reporters and immigrant advocates for help.

In a letter to Homeland Security officials on his behalf, Rep. Frank R. Wolf
(R-Va.) asked the agency to consider the U.S. citizens being affected. "Mrs.
O'Brien's deportation would forever destroy this family," Wolf wrote. "Mrs.
O'Brien will be sent to a country where she has no one to support her."

Mi-Choong O'Brien said she intended to apply for U.S. citizenship after
receiving her green card in 1985 but never got around to it. "This is my
husband's country. This is my children's country," she said. "I thought this was
my country, too, until this happened to me."

Homeland Security's Courtney said that he is sympathetic but that the O'Briens'
appeals will have to be heard by appropriate authorities -- a panel of judges
with the Board of Immigration Appeals under the Justice Department. "It's
something that's going to have to be worked out in the court system, no matter
if she's a nice person, if she has kids," Courtney said.

Before 1996, an immigration judge might have considered Wolf's request to take
her family situation into account. But the law no longer allows judges to weigh
the effects of deportation on a family or an individual. Immigration advocates
say the law and a more aggressive enforcement agency mean that more nonviolent
offenders -- even those convicted of serious traffic offenses -- will be
deported.

Joseph O'Brien has hired a D.C. immigration lawyer, Jim Tom Haynes, to pursue
his wife's case. Haynes argues that she did not commit an aggravated felony,
having stolen less than $10,000, and that the government is treating her crime
as theft, more serious than the original embezzlement charge.

"We're talking about a very draconian set of laws," said Haynes, who has been in
practice for 30 years. "It hasn't nabbed any terrorists, but it has put
thousands of immigrants through unbelievably bad situations."

Like his client, Haynes also plays the "if only" game as they wait -- several
months, he estimates -- for the judges to respond to his appeal.

"Her first mistake," he said, "was not ever applying for U.S. citizenship."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              181 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 14, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A Guilty Plea's Fallout;
Va. Woman's Theft May Lead to Deportation

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1389 words


Most days and nights, Mi-Choong O'Brien, a Korean immigrant facing deportation
for embezzling from her employer, sits in her jail cell and replays an edited
version of her life. Different choices, different outcome.

If she could do it again, she would apply for U.S. citizenship soon after
arriving in this country with her American husband. She would talk to him about
her money trouble instead of helping herself from the cash register of the
Herndon restaurant where she was a waitress. When caught, she would find a
private lawyer instead of accepting the services of the Fairfax County public
defender. She would ask her attorney how a guilty plea would affect her
immigration status.

But at the end of her dreaming and regretting, Mi-Choong O'Brien, 50, remains
where she started, at the Hampton Roads Regional Jail in Portsmouth, Va. For her
crime -- she says she took $70, the restaurant says it was at least $11,000, and
her plea agreement states $3,000 -- she was sentenced to three years, all but a
month suspended. Now she is being detained under a 1996 immigration law that
allows the United States to deport noncitizens with criminal convictions and
sentences of a year or more.

For the first several years, nonviolent felons were less likely to be deported
because their cases were not fully tracked by computer and enforcement was less
aggressive. But since the Department of Homeland Security absorbed the functions
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service more than a year ago, government
officials say they are obligated to pursue those cases, including O'Brien's.

"After the INS was abolished, enforcement has changed in general," said Garrison
Courtney, a spokesman for Homeland Security's immigration and customs
enforcement arm. "We do practice compassion and humanitarian concern, but we
don't have a lot of leeway here."

Still, immigrant advocates and politicians say that O'Brien is an example of the
wrong person targeted by jittery government agencies in a post-Sept. 11 world.

"A lot of these cases involve a lot more crime," said Scot Christenson, a
spokesman for the Washington-based Catholic Legal Immigration Network. "Here,
the punishment does not fit the crime."

Mi-Choong O'Brien has lived in the United States for more than two decades. She
met her husband, Joseph, a native Washingtonian, in the 1970s while he was
serving in the Peace Corps in South Korea, and they married in 1979. They have
three Korean-born children, who took their father's U.S. citizenship, and they
are the adoptive parents of a fourth child, Mi-Choong O'Brien's Korean-born
nephew, who holds a U.S. green card. The family moved to the United States in
the 1980s and eventually bought a townhouse in Centreville, filling it with
Asian art and family photos.

Joseph O'Brien, 54, has spent most of the past few years overseas, giving
humanitarian assistance to developing nations with the International Partnership
for Human Development, a nonprofit company based in Purcellville, and making
about $60,000 a year.

It was during one of his assignments in the Eastern European nation of Moldova
that Mi-Choong O'Brien began to take money from Hama Sushi, a popular Japanese
restaurant in Herndon. She said she had worked there for about a year, making
about $2,500 a month in wages and tips and constantly arguing with her employers
over her share of the tips, which waitresses turned in after each shift.

In June 2002, she said, she had a daughter in college, two sons in D.C. Catholic
schools and a stack of unpaid bills she didn't discuss with her husband, fearing
that he might quit his job to come home and lose their only income. She said she
stole money by voiding sales and pocketing the cash.

"My husband made money and I made money, but we never had enough," she said in a
phone interview. "I lost my control."

Restaurant owner Young Son would not comment on the case.

Mi-Choong O'Brien said managers noticed the repeated voids and called police,
who arrested her at the restaurant in July 2002. She did not tell her husband or
her family. In December, while her husband was doing relief work in Kenya, she
took a public defender's advice, pleaded guilty and was told she would have to
serve only a month of her sentence, she said.

Just before spring break the next year, her youngest son, Terry, now 16,
remembers his mother telling him that she would be going to jail. She said she
had gotten into a dispute with her employers, and he asked no questions.

"I was scared for her," Terry said, recalling that she told him and brother
Joey, " 'If Dad calls, don't say anything.' "

Mi-Choong O'Brien said she asked her daughter, Siobhan, who lives in New York,
and a friend to check on her sons, who were home alone, while she went to the
Fairfax County jail in March 2003. By then, her husband was in Tanzania.

Joseph O'Brien said his checks were sent directly to his wife; he said he did
not keep track of their finances from overseas and called home infrequently. By
the time he returned in June 2003 for Joey's graduation, his wife was home and
thought she would never have to tell him how much trouble she had been in.

But in early January, her probation officer called her in. When she arrived,
immigration officials were waiting. Joseph, still home for the Christmas
holiday, received a tearful phone call -- the first he had heard of her
conviction, he said. Now he is allowed to visit her twice a week in the
Portsmouth jail.

"When I look back on this with hindsight," he said recently, "it looks like I am
so naive."

Kelly Bennett, the former assistant public defender who represented Mi-Choong
O'Brien, did not return calls for comment. Vanessa M. Antoun, who has been the
public defender for less than a year, said she cannot comment on the case, but
she said the county has been educating lawyers about the 1996 law since Homeland
Security took over the INS.

"We're not trained as immigration lawyers. We're criminal defense attorneys,"
she said. "In the past, clients may have been convicted and not deported, and so
they had some sense of security. . . . It's much more serious now."

Joseph O'Brien has resigned his job and spends much of his time contacting
politicians, reporters and immigrant advocates for help.

In a letter to Homeland Security officials on his behalf, Rep. Frank R. Wolf
(R-Va.) asked the agency to consider the U.S. citizens being affected. "Mrs.
O'Brien's deportation would forever destroy this family," Wolf wrote. "Mrs.
O'Brien will be sent to a country where she has no one to support her."

Mi-Choong O'Brien said she intended to apply for U.S. citizenship after
receiving her green card in 1985 but never got around to it. "This is my
husband's country. This is my children's country," she said. "I thought this was
my country, too, until this happened to me."

Homeland Security's Courtney said that he is sympathetic but that the O'Briens'
appeals will have to be heard by appropriate authorities -- a panel of judges
with the Board of Immigration Appeals under the Justice Department. "It's
something that's going to have to be worked out in the court system, no matter
if she's a nice person, if she has kids," Courtney said.

Before 1996, an immigration judge might have considered Wolf's request to take
her family situation into account. But the law no longer allows judges to weigh
the effects of deportation on a family or an individual. Immigration advocates
say the law and a more aggressive enforcement agency mean that more nonviolent
offenders -- even those convicted of serious traffic offenses -- will be
deported.

Joseph O'Brien has hired a D.C. immigration lawyer, Jim Tom Haynes, to pursue
his wife's case. Haynes argues that she did not commit an aggravated felony,
having stolen less than $10,000, and that the government is treating her crime
as theft, more serious than the original embezzlement charge.

"We're talking about a very draconian set of laws," said Haynes, who has been in
practice for 30 years. "It hasn't nabbed any terrorists, but it has put
thousands of immigrants through unbelievably bad situations."

Like his client, Haynes also plays the "if only" game as they wait -- several
months, he estimates -- for the judges to respond to his appeal.

"Her first mistake," he said, "was not ever applying for U.S. citizenship."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              182 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 15, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Would-Be Citizens Learn to Sweat the Details;
As Applications Rise, Classes Help Many Immigrants

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. Extra; T10

LENGTH: 1096 words


They had boned up on the Bill of Rights and the Supreme Court. They knew about
George W. Bush and William H. Rehnquist. But the vice president of the United
States? The five immigrants huddled in a church basement in Columbia Heights
looked at their teacher, stumped.

"Dick?" one Salvadoran woman finally offered. "Chah-nee?"

Such are the hurdles on the road to citizenship: learning American history, the
political system and the names of U.S. leaders, even those in undisclosed
locations.

The group's Tuesday night class is an example of several programs that assist
local immigrants in becoming citizens. With the District's foreign-born
population rising 25 percent in the 1990s, to more than 73,000 people, immigrant
groups are trying to help a growing pool of residents integrate into American
life.

"As the numbers grow, there are more individuals eligible" to naturalize, said
Yvette Iraheta of Carecen, the immigrant-services group that offers the Tuesday
night class.

But her agency wants to do more than just help immigrants pass their citizenship
exams. "We are making an effort to ensure students not only study history and
government structure, but wind up with an understanding of what it is to be
civically active," she said.

Only 39.4  percent of all foreign-born residents in the region have become
citizens, which is a lower percentage than in New York (44.5 percent) but
roughly the same  as in Los Angeles and Chicago, said Audrey Singer, a
demographer at the Brookings Institution.

"Probably more so than the average metropolitan area, we have people who aren't
on the path to citizenship," said Singer.

That's due to the nature of Washington's foreign-born population. It includes
many people on non-immigrant visas -- from students to employees at
international institutions like the World Bank, as well as numerous Central
Americans who hold temporary work permits that don't qualify them to apply for
citizenship. And a sizable number  are here illegally.

But even some people who are eligible to seek citizenship don't do so, because
of problems ranging from poor English to a heavy workload.

"The older people, they have a tough time," said Hien Vu of the Vietnamese
American Community Service Center, which offers citizenship classes on Thursday
mornings at the Josephine Butler Parks Center near Meridian Hill Park. "They
have to concentrate on finding a job and surviving. So they go to work instead
of trying to go to school."

Immigrants can apply for citizenship after living in the United States as legal
permanent residents for a certain period, typically five years. They must pass
an English exam, answer questions about U.S. government and history, show good
moral character and undergo a security check.

Carecen has one of the biggest programs in the District to help students pass
the citizenship exam. It has expanded from about 60 students in 2001 to more
than 200, divided into classes held on Tuesdays and Saturdays. The organization,
which mainly works with Latin American immigrants, is planning to turn a small
building into a "citizenship school."

At the recent Tuesday class, teacher Fernando Garcia grilled his students --
four Salvadorans and a Mexican -- around a brown table in the basement offices
of Carecen on Columbia Road NW.

"Who discovered America?" asked Garcia, himself a naturalized U.S. citizen from
Guatemala.

"Cristobal Colon?" ventured Yasmin Romero, 39, a journalist from El Salvador.

"Yes, but in English," Garcia said.

"Christopher Columbus," replied Linda Mendoza, 25, also from El Salvador, who
works at a McDonald's.

"What year?" demanded Garcia.

"1472. I remember it as 1472," said Romero.

"No," Garcia corrected. "Columbus discovered America in 1492."

The students in the class had different reasons for pursuing American
citizenship. Marina Sorto, 45, a hotel housekeeper who lives in Hyattsville,
wanted to sponsor her mother to immigrate. "She's all alone" in El Salvador,
Sorto said.

Romero, who lives in Mount Pleasant, was eager to participate in U.S. elections.

"We can make the difference for the other Latinos, those who don't have the
vote," she said.

The next morning, another citizenship class was under way across town, at the
Chinatown Service Center. The teacher, Young Hun Woo, combined an English class
with information on how to apply for citizenship.

"Given name means first name," Woo explained, guiding the nine students through
the citizenship application.

"First name," repeated Yan Xiao Lin, 32, a Chinatown resident, filling in the
space with a pencil. A full-time mother of an infant daughter, Lin arrived in
the country in 2001 and can't apply for citizenship for two more years. But she
is already preparing.

"Once you're in the United States, naturally you want to be part of the
country," she explained through a translator.

Asians have among the highest rates of naturalization of all immigrants. Latin
American immigrants are less likely to become citizens because, analysts say,
they have strong ties to their homelands and lower average education levels.

Many of the citizenship classes focus on those struggling to master written and
spoken English. Ana Maria Nuevo, of the Carlos Rosario International Public
Charter School, oversees a program for about a half-dozen students each
semester. They have included many Central Americans, but also Mexicans, Africans
and Vietnamese.

"Our students have maybe a sixth-grade education," and some haven't been in a
classroom for 20 years, Nuevo said.

Despite the difficulties of obtaining citizenship, there has been a jump in
applicants in recent years. The number of petitions filed nationally rose from
460,916 in fiscal  2000 to 700,649 in 2002, according to the most recent
statistics from the Department of Homeland Security. Among the factors behind
the increase: More countries now allow people to hold dual nationality, and the
U.S. government has cut back on benefits for noncitizens.

Jose Ocon, 50, a student in the Carecen class, said his road to citizenship  has
been particularly long. Like many Salvadoran immigrants, the busboy spent a
decade with a temporary work permit before he was finally able to become a legal
permanent resident.

These days, the Hyattsville resident totes his citizenship textbook to the
restaurant where he works, studying on his breaks. He is the star student in the
Carecen class, the one who can readily identify Patrick Henry, Abraham Lincoln
and even Supreme Court Chief Justice Rehnquist.

"People tell me I'm going to know more than the Americans," he said proudly.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              183 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 15, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Making Journalists Unwelcome

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 238 words


The April 2 news story about the immigration travails of Ian McEwan, "British
Author's Visa Ordeal Is One for the Books," embodied everything that is scary
about the government's treatment of foreign journalists.

The article quoted Department of Homeland Security spokesman Jim Michie as
saying, "[Mr.

] McEwan was inadmissible because he did not have a B-1 visa, for business
purposes, or an O visa, which is specifically for journalists."

Mr. Michie was in error. The O visa confers nonimmigrant status on "Aliens of
Extraordinary Ability," usually in the fields of art, science, literature or
athletics. It is the I visa that specifically applies to journalists, allowing
representatives of foreign media and their families to enter the country on a
temporary basis.

It is bad enough that journalists recently were told that they are one class of
foreigner specifically exempted from the right to enter the country under the
visa-waiver program. Instead, they must apply for an I visa, which smacks of the
licensing of journalists in clear violation of almost every international human
rights document protecting the rights to freedom of speech and freedom of the
press, not to mention the First Amendment of the Constitution.

But if that requirement must be enforced, at least the government can give
journalists a fighting chance to play by the rules by starting them in the right
direction.

KEVIN M. GOLDBERG

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              184 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 18, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

I Want to Live The American Dream

SECTION: Editorial; B08

LENGTH: 571 words


Thousands of students in Maryland, the District and Virginia will graduate from
high school in June. Many will be accomplished athletes or scholars. But for
many, higher education will be a dream denied because they are not legal
residents of the United States.

I came to this country from Guatemala 14 years ago along with my mom, dad and
sister. I have never been back. Everything I know -- all of my friends, my roots
-- is American. But while other teenagers worry about which college to attend, I
worry about being deported.

I worked hard in school to win the AP Scholar award, and I gained early
admittance to a university in the District. But I will have to forgo this
wonderful opportunity because I am an illegal immigrant. I can't legally work to
raise the money to pay my tuition, and I am ineligible for bank loans. Even if I
became a doctor, I could not serve in Columbia Heights or other poor Latino
areas in which medical professionals are scarce. Much as I would like to give
back to my adopted homeland, I would not be allowed to do so.

One of the most devastating results  of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks was the
phobia that they created about immigrants. As a result of that day  of
terrorism, some Americans have forgotten that they too are the descendants of
immigrants.

The United States was built on the idea that everyone has something to bring to
the mix. Although I was not born in this country, like my neighbors, I long to
live the American dream. Instead, I and thousands of kids like me find barriers
at each step of the way because we are here illegally. Despite the state taxes
our families pay, Maryland, the District and Virginia deny us in-state tuition
rates.(Maryland voted down a bill recently after strong opposition from Gov.
Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. to in-state tuition for illegal immigrants.)

Some of the most rapidly growing populations of young people from the Caribbean,
Africa, Latin America and Europe live in the metropolitan region, including in
areas that had never been  immigrant centers until now, such as Anne Arundel
County and the Eastern Shore. Local and state leaders must speak for these
neglected constituents. One step would be for Maryland, the District and
Virginia to allow illegal immigrants to attend state colleges at the same
tuition rate as other in-state students.

But the problem of legalization itself must be addressed through passage of
federal legislation known as the Dream Act. This law  would provide illegal
immigrants who came to the United States at age 16 or younger, who have lived
here for at least five years and who have earned high school diplomas with a
pathway to becoming legal permanent residents of the United States.

On Tuesday  I and hundreds of other high school students will gather for a mock
graduation ceremony on Capitol Hill. We will voice our desire for Congress to
pass the Dream Act. We also will deliver 65,000 petitions to President Bush,
each representing one of the high school students graduating this year who faces
these unfortunate barriers.

Education is a basic right in the United States. The Dream Act will reinforce
the vision that always has been America: That of a country in which success
depends on merit, not on economic privilege, race or place of birth.

-- Josue Torres

17, is a volunteer in an immigrant nonprofit organization in Silver Spring and a
member of Center for Community Change Real Voices.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              185 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 21, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Apologizes to British Writer Denied Entry

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 214 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE April 20


The Department of Homeland Security has apologized to Ian McEwan, the British
writer, for delaying his entry into Seattle last month.

McEwan was kept out of the country for 36 hours and his passport was stamped
"Refused Admittance" after U.S. customs inspectors in Vancouver, British
Columbia, determined that he did not have a proper visa to travel here and to
two other cities to deliver paid lectures.

The letter of apology, received last week by McEwan's immigration lawyer in
Portland, Ore., said that the customs officials have "concluded that your
refusal was processed in error."

"Please accept my apologies for any inconvenience and delay the refusal process
caused you," wrote William S. Heffelfinger  III, deputy assistant commissioner
for field operations in the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection.

McEwan attempted to come into the country under a visa waiver normally granted
to British citizens but aroused suspicion when he said he would be paid $15,000
for his three lectures. Before he was allowed into Seattle, he needed the help
of the State Department and two members of Congress.

The letter of apology said border inspectors failed to follow immigration rules,
which allow foreigners to accept lecture honorariums and set no dollar limits.

--  Blaine Harden

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              186 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 24, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Lawyer Pleads Guilty in Scheme to Obtain U.S. Visas

BYLINE: Henri E. Cauvin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 503 words


A local lawyer who built a practice helping immigrants stay in the United States
pleaded guilty yesterday to filing more than 200 fraudulent applications in a
scheme to secure visas for people who were not necessarily entitled to them.

Mohamed Alamgir, who worked out of an office at 1010 Vermont Ave. NW, took in at
least $2 million in illegal proceeds over a seven-year period that ended last
summer, prosecutors said.

Charged with immigration fraud, money laundering and conspiracy, he pleaded
guilty in U.S. District Court to 164 counts. Judge Emmet G. Sullivan ordered
Alamgir jailed immediately.

Under sentencing guidelines, Alamgir, 47, is likely to spend several years in
prison and to forfeit $2 million in assets. But with each count carrying a
substantial maximum penalty, he could face even more time behind bars when
Sullivan sentences him this year.

Alamgir spoke in a soft, accented voice, expressing remorse after the judge
peppered him with questions.

"I feel sorry, so I want to plead," he said. "I want to plead guilty because I'm
guilty of certain crimes."

Alamgir was born in Bangladesh and is a naturalized U.S. citizen. Much of his
practice involved people from his native land, many of them seeking a way to
settle in the United States, prosecutors said.

An employer can apply to the Labor Department for a certification that will aid
a prospective employee in obtaining a visa, and it was this routine application
process that Alamgir repeatedly manipulated, prosecutors said.

Assistant U.S. Attorneys Wendy L. Wysong and Linda Otani McKinney outlined the
methods and scope of the scheme in court yesterday and in legal papers.

In a number of instances, Alamgir paid employers to file bogus applications for
people who would never work for them, according to prosecutors. Other times, he
forged an employer's signature on the application. And still other times, he
filed applications full of fictitious information for people who did not exist.

The scam resulted in hundreds of fraudulent applications and hundreds of
thousands of dollars changing hands, prosecutors said. Alamgir went to great
lengths to conceal the flow of money to and from him, prosecutors said. Instead
of depositing receipts in his own bank accounts, he frequently used the accounts
of associates.

One of the accounts, at a World Bank credit union, attracted the attention of
federal investigators, who have been increasingly aggressive since the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks in searching out suspicious financial transactions.

The case began as a money-laundering investigation but quickly widened. Labor
Department investigators, meanwhile, had noticed an unusual increase in the
number of applications filed by certain employers. Investigators from the FBI,
Internal Revenue Service and the Labor Department inspector general's office
began piecing together the scheme late last summer and soon began talking to
Alamgir. In February, he agreed to plead guilty, and the investigation is
continuing, prosecutors said.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              187 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 26, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Protecting the Parks Along the Border;
Plans to Stop Smuggling Of Drugs, Immigrants May Trample Lands

BYLINE: Ryan Slattery, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A Section; A21

LENGTH: 1075 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


The government's most ambitious plan yet to seal the Arizona-Mexico border is
drawing criticism from environmentalists who say granting the U.S. Border Patrol
greater access to federally protected lands will only trample the landscape and
do nothing to solve immigrant and drug smuggling in the region.

The portion of the plan at the center of the controversy is the Border Patrol's
request to use off-road motorcycles and all-terrain vehicles on known smuggling
routes and footpaths within designated wilderness corridors. Arizona shares more
than 300  miles of border with Mexico, and much of it is federal land that
protects fragile ecosystems and provides habitat for endangered species such as
the Sonoran pronghorn, a type of antelope.

Thousands of miles of illegal roads already crisscross the Arizona desert, and
environmentalists and land managers fear unfettered law enforcement access will
spider web across the preserves.

"This is an over-the-top approach," said Daniel Patterson, a desert ecologist
with the Tucson-based Center for Biological Diversity. "These areas do not
recover quickly."

Roger Maier, a U.S. Customs and Border Protection spokesman, points out that
illegal traffic in these areas is already ruining the parklands. Immigrants and
smugglers abandon vehicles, leave behind mounds of trash and crush plant life.
He says enforcement will cut down on those destructive behaviors by keeping the
illegal element out of these areas.

"Certainly, we recognize the need to do everything possible to maintain the
integrity of the park in its natural state, while also having to address the
issue of the illegal activity occurring there," Maier said.

The criticism comes despite record numbers of apprehensions and three large drug
busts at the Nogales port of entry within the past month that, Border Patrol
officials say, proves the efforts are paying off. On April 14, border officers
at a cargo facility seized 2,140 pounds of marijuana worth an estimated $2.1
million. In two previous busts in March, officers seized a total of 4,291 pounds
of marijuana.

The new measures, called the Arizona Border Control (ABC) Initiative, were
announced March 16 by Asa Hutchinson, undersecretary for border and
transportation security in the Department of Homeland Security, who noted that
40 percent of illegal immigrants entering the United States cross the Arizona
border.

At the announcement of the ABC Initiative, Interior Deputy Assistant Secretary
Larry Parkinson said, "The best thing you can do for the environment is to have
control of the border."

Crackdowns at urban ports in California and Texas have pushed undocumented
workers and drug smugglers into the most remote areas of the Arizona desert.
Since the beginning of the year, the Border Patrol's Tucson sector has seen a 50
percent increase in the number of illegal immigrants captured over the same
period a year ago, a figure some attribute to increased patrols. And a spillover
is being felt in New Mexico, with agents at the Lordsburg crossing reporting an
80 percent increase in apprehensions.

Under the ABC Initiative, 260 additional agents are being deployed in the Tucson
sector, for a total of about 2,000 agents. Unmanned aerial vehicles will begin
operation in June, and electronic ground sensors, remote video cameras and  more
aircraft are being added. The $10 million initiative has been funded through the
end of September.

"This is a full-court press, as far as Homeland Security goes," Maier said.
"It's already generating a lot of results. We're getting feedback from Mexico
that the word is that it has already tightened up here. Maybe they'll think
twice and not even come."

The ABC Initiative came as a surprise to many. Environmentalist charge that the
Department of Homeland Security did not do environmental studies that are
required when increased activities are being proposed on public lands.

"This came under the cover of darkness," said Jenny Neeley of Defenders of
Wildlife.

But Maier said, "The parties were brought in as early as possible."

Stuck in the middle of the debate are federal land managers such as Roger
DiRosa, who oversees the 860,000-acre Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, 93
percent of which is designated wilderness, near Ajo, Ariz. DiRosa was hired to
protect the natural resources within a refuge that shares 56 miles of the border
with Mexico, and his job has become a balancing act with the focus shifted to
combating criminal activities. And with only three full-time enforcement
officers in the refuge, DiRosa is dependent on Border Control agents. He only
wishes the agency would better express its needs for access to remote areas of
the refuge.

"Don't give us a blanket approach, be specific," said DiRosa, who said that
public land mangers were also surprised by the Border Patrol plans.

DiRosa says Border Patrol officials have since entered into consultations with
the refuge staff about its planned activities in Cabeza Prieta and how to
minimize any damage. He said he hopes they'll consider using horses where
possible instead of motorized vehicles and implement more quickly plans for
high-tech monitoring systems that would also reduce the impact on the
environment. Refuge and Border Patrol officials are also looking into the
possibility of using some of the illegal roads for the agents' motorized
vehicles and of locating field sites in less environmentally sensitive areas.

Officials at Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument have taken measures into their
own hands after the August 2002 murder of Ranger Kris Eggle by Mexican drug
traffickers. They have hired more law enforcement officers and are replacing a
flimsy barbed-wire fence with a five-foot-high vehicle barrier constructed of
railroad ties. The fence, five miles of which is complete, will eventually run
the entire 31-mile length of the park's border.

"It's a start, but it's certainly not enough," Bonnie Eggle, Kris's mother, said
recently in Las Vegas where she attended a meeting of Secured Borders USA, a
Nevada-based group calling for the militarization of the U.S. border.

But DiRosa, whose refuge borders Organ Pipe, worries that without his own fence,
he will inherit the Organ Pipe's illegal immigration problems.

"It's going to drive more traffic our way," DiRosa said with a sigh. He added,
"The solution [to illegal immigration] is not on the Mexican border. It's in
Washington, D.C., and Mexico City."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              188 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 1, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A22

LENGTH: 475 words


SKOPJE, Macedonia -- Macedonian police gunned down seven innocent immigrants in
an ambush two years ago and claimed the immigrants were terrorists to show that
the police were participating in the U.S.-led campaign against terrorism,
authorities said Friday.

Mirjana Konteska, a spokeswoman for the police, said  three former police
commanders, two special police officers and a businessman have been charged
with murder. If convicted, they could be sentenced to  life in prison.

"That was an act of a sick mind," Konteska said in discussing the findings of a
two-year investigation. "They . . . ordered the brutal murder of the seven
Pakistani men."

She described a meticulous plan to promote Macedonia as a player in the fight
against global terrorism that involved smuggling the Pakistanis into Macedonia
from Bulgaria, housing them and then  gunning them down.

The  action was carried out in March 2002 by special Macedonian police who
claimed to have eliminated a terrorist group allegedly plotting to attack
embassies and other foreign representatives in Macedonia. Konteska said  the
Pakistanis  were  illegal immigrants who were lured into Macedonia by promises
that they would be transferred to Western Europe.

EUROPE

*  STRASBOURG, France -- Vandals desecrated 127 graves with Nazi swastikas and
anti-Semitic slogans in a Jewish cemetery near the German  border, officials
said.

President Jacques Chirac pledged tough penalties for those behind what he called
"horrific and intolerable" acts, which come as a political battle between the
French left and right heightens over their records in combating anti-Semitism.

*  ROME -- A  court acquitted two former generals and dismissed charges against
two others in connection with a mysterious 1980 plane explosion that  killed 81
people.

The eagerly expected rulings at the end of a 31/2-year trial meant the cause of
the crash, which has divided Italians for nearly a quarter of a century, may
never be known.

Various investigations have failed to determine whether the plane, a DC-9 of the
now-defunct domestic airline Itavia, was blown up by a bomb or a missile. The
possibility of a structural problem in the plane has been largely discounted.

AFRICA

*  CONAKRY, Guinea -- The prime minister of Guinea resigned after little more
than two months in the post, saying it had been impossible to implement reforms
to improve living standards in the West African country.

Francois Fall, a former foreign minister who became prime minister on Feb. 23,
said recent police action against the opposition had also complicated his task
of repairing strained relations with international financial donors. Police have
accused an opposition party of plotting to overthrow the authoritarian
president, Gen. Lansana Conte, who seized power in a 1984 military coup.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              189 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 6, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

In Herndon, a Vote About Change;
Results in Mayor's Race Demonstrate Divide Over Immigration

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 784 words


On the surface, Michael O'Reilly's election as the new mayor of Herndon this
week was a victory for civic leaders and residents who welcome the town's
increasing diversity and burgeoning immigration population.

But the results -- in a race that drew one of the biggest election turnouts in
years -- also showed a town deeply divided over immigration issues. Just over
half the 2,050 votes cast went to O'Reilly's two opponents, who had pledged to
stop immigrants from illegally crowding homes and promised to shut down a day
laborer pickup site downtown that many residents consider an eyesore.

In many ways, the town is a microcosm of the struggles elsewhere in the region
and across the country where immigration is spawning new racial frontiers.
Herndon has become known as such a dramatic example of how the issue plays out
that the town has been incorporated into undergraduate courses on race relations
at Catholic University.

"Immigration has been an issue," O'Reilly said. "We are at 26 percent Latino,
and there has been a bit of a negative response to that. . . . One of the things
I've consistently said is, we need to reach out to everyone who comes to town
and help convince them that we do have a wonderful community."

In tightknit Herndon, the tension over the last decade's seismic demographic
changes is felt more sharply than in adjacent Fairfax County. Once a farming
hamlet, Herndon now has the highest proportion of foreign-born people of any
municipality in the Washington area -- 38 percent of its 22,000 residents,
according to the 2000 Census. Its Latino population alone grew 264 percent
during the 1990s, while the proportion of white residents dropped from 78
percent to 58 percent.

O'Reilly, a 51-year-old lawyer, has often pushed for inclusive policies as a
member of the Town Council. He will be helped by the election of the town's
first African American council member, Darryl C. Smith, 54, a popular police
captain who received more votes than any other candidate, including O'Reilly.

In many ways, Smith's life embodies the town's racial history.

He was born during segregation in a house across the street from an elementary
school that eventually became the headquarters of the town's police department.
In 1973, he became Herndon's first black police officer and within several years
had to deal with a race riot between blacks and whites that shut down the high
school.

Herndon's large stock of affordable housing drew many African Americans to town
back then, Smith has said. And during the past 15 years, those same homes have
drawn immigrants. Smith, who often tutors minority students at the town's
community center, says the town's transformation has been positive.

Smith did not respond to messages left on his phone yesterday, but a year ago in
an interview, he said, "There are a lot of good people coming into Herndon.
There are some young people who get in trouble, but that's going to happen no
matter what color or race you are. The majority of the people are good people .
. . and they are just looking to find work to support their families."

Still, O'Reilly and Smith will have to deal with a sentiment common to many town
residents -- that Herndon is not doing enough about crowded homes and the
downtown day laborer site where dozens of men wait every day to get temporary
construction or landscaping jobs.

Judy Smith, 58, said that's partly why she voted for mayoral candidate Connie
Haines Hutchinson. While Smith said the day laborer site does not bother her
personally, she "thinks it is a problem and . . . I'd like to see the [Town
Council] move it to another site that's good for [the laborers]."

Robin Carroll, 47, said she cast her ballot for William B. Tirrell Sr., who has
called the day laborer site "an unsanctioned temp agency." Carroll said she
wants the town to be careful about how it spends tax dollars on the issue and
hopes faith-based organizations would provide English classes for the new
arrivals.

O'Reilly said he will reach across the town's divide. But he preached patience.
He said the crowding issue is mainly caused by the lack of affordable housing, a
complicated and widespread problem throughout the region. He added that while
shutting down the day laborer site sounds simple enough, it could lead to other
problems and might even violate the constitutional right to assemble.

"If we shut it down, I'm pretty certain it would pop up in other places. We are
not solving any problems by backing up a truck and arresting people," he said.

"I know there are issues that the town has to deal with," he added, "but I would
venture that any other community would gladly swap the problems they have with
what we've got."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              190 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 6, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

In Herndon, a Vote Right Down the Divide;
Results in Mayor's Race Demonstrate Difference of Opinion on Immigration

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 781 words


On the surface, Michael O'Reilly's election as the new mayor of Herndon this
week was a victory for civic leaders and residents who welcome the town's
increasing diversity and burgeoning immigration population.

But the results -- in an election that drew one of the biggest turnouts in years
-- also showed a town deeply divided over immigration issues. Just over half the
2,050 votes cast went to O'Reilly's two opponents, who had pledged to stop
immigrants from illegally crowding homes and promised to shut down a day laborer
pickup site downtown that many residents consider an eyesore.

In many ways, the town is a microcosm of the struggles elsewhere in the region
and across the country where immigration is spawning new racial frontiers.
Herndon has become known as such a dramatic example of how the issue plays out
that the town has been incorporated into undergraduate courses on race relations
at Catholic University.

"Immigration has been an issue," O'Reilly said. "We are at 26 percent Latino,
and there has been a bit of a negative response to that. . . . One of the things
I've consistently said is, we need to reach out to everyone who comes to town
and help convince them that we do have a wonderful community."

In tightknit Herndon, the tension over the last decade's seismic demographic
changes is felt more sharply than in adjacent Fairfax County. Once a farming
hamlet, Herndon now has the highest proportion of foreign-born people of any
municipality in the Washington area -- 38 percent of its 22,000 residents,
according to the 2000 Census. Its Latino population alone grew 264 percent
during the 1990s, while the proportion of white residents dropped from 78
percent to 58 percent.

O'Reilly, a 51-year-old lawyer, has often pushed for inclusive policies as a
member of the Town Council. He will be helped by the election of the town's
first African American council member, Darryl C. Smith, 54, a popular police
captain who received more votes than any other candidate, including O'Reilly.

In many ways, Smith's life embodies the town's racial history.

He was born during segregation in a house across the street from an elementary
school that eventually became the headquarters of the town's police department.
In 1973, he became Herndon's first black police officer and within several years
had to deal with a race riot between blacks and whites that shut down the high
school.

Herndon's large stock of affordable housing drew many African Americans to town
back then, Smith has said. And during the past 15 years, those same homes have
drawn immigrants. Smith, who often tutors minority students at the town's
community center, says the town's transformation has been positive.

Smith did not respond to messages left on his phone yesterday, but a year ago in
an interview, he said: "There are a lot of good people coming into Herndon.
There are some young people who get in trouble, but that's going to happen no
matter what color or race you are. The majority of the people are good people .
. . and they are just looking to find work to support their families."

Still, O'Reilly and Smith will have to deal with a sentiment common to many town
residents -- that Herndon is not doing enough about crowded homes and the
downtown day laborer site where dozens of men wait every day to get temporary
construction or landscaping jobs.

Judy Smith, 58, said that's partly why she voted for mayoral candidate Connie
Haines Hutchinson. Though Smith said the day laborer site does not bother her
personally, she "thinks it is a problem and . . . I'd like to see the [Town
Council] move it to another site that's good for [the laborers]."

Robin Carroll, 47, said she cast her ballot for William B. Tirrell Sr., who has
called the day laborer site "an unsanctioned temp agency." Carroll said she
wants the town to be careful about how it spends tax dollars on the issue and
hopes faith-based organizations would provide English classes for the new
arrivals.

O'Reilly said he will reach across the town's divide. But he preached patience.
He said the crowding issue is mainly caused by the lack of affordable housing, a
complicated and widespread problem in the region. He added that while shutting
down the day laborer site sounds simple enough, it could lead to other problems
and might violate the constitutional right to assemble.

"If we shut it down, I'm pretty certain it would pop up in other places. We are
not solving any problems by backing up a truck and arresting people," he said.

"I know there are issues that the town has to deal with," he added, "but I would
venture that any other community would gladly swap the problems they have with
what we've got."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              191 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 8, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Prayers in Pr. George's Take On a New Dialect;
Immigrants' Churches Thrive as Others Languish

BYLINE: Hamil R. Harris and Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1286 words


Worship services on a recent Sunday at Hyattsville Presbyterian Church began
with Hymn No. 205, "Come, Ye Faithful, Raise the Strain." In her ringing
soprano, Rita Clowes sang to a sea of empty pews:

"God has brought his people forth into joy from sadness.

Now rejoice Jerusalem and with true affection."

It was a challenge, she said later, to get through the song without becoming
disheartened. She is one of just seven remaining choir members. At 74, Clowes
not only sings, but also sets out the Communion ware and serves as church elder,
cook, play director and Girl Scout troop leader.

These are the last, bittersweet days of Hyattsville Presbyterian. After 300
years -- through the American Revolution, the Civil War, the Depression and
white flight -- Clowes and the other elders will formally dissolve the
congregation. On June 6, they will hand over the building to Umoja International
Community Church, a large, thriving African Presbyterian congregation that
conducts its main weekly service in Swahili.

The old church is yielding to the new demographics of Prince George's County and
the Washington region, now a major U.S. destination for African immigrants.
About 100,000 -- from Somalia, Ethiopia, Congo and other countries -- live in
the area, representing about 10 percent of the total population of Africans in
the United States. Scholars estimate that half are Christians and the rest are
Muslims or practice indigenous African religions.

Hyattsville Presbyterian's virtually all-white membership, once 500 strong, is
down to less than 40. "We tried very hard to keep the church going, but now the
time has come for us to turn this church over to another group who will carry on
where we left off," Clowes said.

"Why are we closing?" asked the Rev. George E. Taylor, 64, the church's pastor
for five years, who plans to retire. "We no longer have the membership, the
funds or the energy to keep this institution moving."

The dissolution of Hyattsville Presbyterian is part of the challenge facing
mainline congregations across the country.

While older members are dying off, younger parishioners have been drawn to more
conservative evangelical churches or have quit attending altogether. Immigrants
are seeking out services in their own language and culture.

Three years ago, Chesterbrook Presbyterian Church in McLean decided to dissolve
and turn its building and part of its land over to a Taiwanese Presbyterian
church. In 2002, the historic Second Presbyterian Church in Alexandria, founded
in 1817 by friends of George Washington and once considered the church of the
city's Protestant establishment, shut its doors because its worship service was
attracting only about 20 elderly members. A 300-member Ethiopian Orthodox
congregation rented the space.

A national survey conducted every 10 years by the Glenmary Research Center in
Nashville shows that membership of mainline Protestant denominations is
dwindling. The most recent study, in 2000, found that Catholic, Mormon and
evangelical denominations and other conservative faiths were among the fastest
growing in the Washington region and nationwide, with double-digit growth.

The Presbyterian Church (USA), with a membership of about 2.5 million, says it
has been losing about 30,000 members a year.

To stem the losses, Protestant churches, including the Presbyterians, have
launched outreach campaigns directed at immigrants. National Presbyterian
leaders want to increase minority membership to 10 percent by 2005 and 20
percent by 2020. The Presbyterian Church is now about 93 percent white, 3
percent black, 2.6 percent Asian and 1.2 percent Hispanic.

Race and ethnicity have shaped the history of many U.S. churches. Discrimination
drove blacks from the Methodist Church in the 18th and 19th centuries to form
their own denominations, including the African Methodist Episcopal Church. Until
the 1960s, the Southern Baptist Convention, the nation's biggest Protestant
denomination, excluded black congregants. In the 1970s, court-ordered busing and
fair housing laws integrated such communities as those inside the Capital
Beltway, and many white families moved into the outer suburbs. Churches like
Hyattsville Presbyterian hung on but have struggled with declining membership.

The Rev. William C. Teng, pastor of Heritage Presbyterian Church of Alexandria
and moderator of about 120 Presbyterian congregations in the District, Maryland
and Northern Virginia, said  race is not the most significant barrier to
diversifying the church with the new immigrant population.

"It is really language. As first-generation immigrants become more integrated in
American society, the language issue will not be as pronounced," said Teng,
himself representative of the demographic changes in the American Protestant
church. A Chinese American born and raised in Hong Kong, he is a
fourth-generation Presbyterian minister whose family was converted by
missionaries.

Overall, the region includes nine Korean Presbyterian churches, two Taiwanese
and one Ghanaian, all worshiping in their native languages. Nine smaller
immigrant congregations -- all either African or Asian -- are not yet chartered
churches but have expressed a desire to join the Presbyterian Church (USA),
according to the Rev. Carla Gorrell, interim associate general presbyter.

There are also 12 churches that are considered multicultural, which many church
leaders have defined as a congregation in which 20 percent of the members come
from a different culture than the majority of the church. (Experts say it takes
at least 20 percent cultural diversity to have a potential impact on the worship
and governance of a congregation.) These 12 churches have immigrant members who
chose to join an English-speaking church with a U.S.-born pastor. One example is
Silver Spring Presbyterian Church, where about 70 percent of the congregants are
African immigrants, primarily from Cameroon, where one of the official languages
is English.

Hyattsville Presbyterian's history stretches back to 1704, when Col. Ninian
Beall, a Scottish immigrant farmer, donated half an acre in Upper Marlboro to
the Rev. Nathaniel Taylor and the church's trustees. The congregation moved to
Bladensburg in 1742 and spent more than 130 years there before moving to
Hyattsville.

Its latest sanctuary, built on Nicholson Lane in 1959, is an imposing two
stories of modernist glass and steel, a relic of what Taylor calls "the
triumphal period in the Protestant movement." But white flight left mounting
bills and dwindling sums in the collection plate.

Immigration over the past decade has brought more change, as the Washington
region has become a major hub for African-born people. The Rev. David Gitome,
Umoja's Kenyan pastor, said that he wants to reach out beyond Africans as well
and has been meeting with church leaders from Burma and Indonesia.

"We want the world to know what we are doing," Gitome said. "The vision that I
have is to reach as many immigrants as possible. We are not just going to have a
Swahili-speaking community."

" 'Umoja' means unity," Gitome said. "John 17:23 says that I pray that they be
one. The baton that we are holding is the light of Jesus Christ, and that baton
has never fallen down in 300 years. They are not handing over the church to
whites, but to Africans. This has broken down a barrier. It sends a message of
unity to everybody."

The last members of Hyattsville Presbyterian will celebrate the 300th
anniversary May 15 with a final meal together at the church.

Gitome, who plans to attend with his wife, said the old parishioners would be
welcome to stay with the new congregation. The 10:30 service will be in Swahili,
but the 9:30 will be in English.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              192 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 12, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Hardship Cited in Law for Va. License;
Some Say Immigrants Are Vulnerable to Scams for Fake ID

BYLINE: Elaine Rivera, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 952 words


Mario Flores, a Bolivian native, waited about a half-hour with nearly 40 other
Latino immigrants for his turn to speak to a representative of the Virginia
Department of Motor Vehicles.

The issue, he explained, is a new state law that requires motorists to prove
they are in the United States legally to get a driver's license.

He described how friends are turned away from the DMV because they don't have
the necessary documents. "What are they supposed to do?" he implored.

Leni Gonzalez, a Northern Virginia outreach coordinator with the DMV, said she
was sympathetic. But her answer was firm.

"We understand the dilemma," Gonzalez said. "But this is the law, and it is very
strict. There are no exceptions."

Police and state officials say the  law, which took effect Jan. 1, has made
undocumented immigrants vulnerable to a growing number of scams that prey on
their desperation. Many stand to lose their jobs if they can't drive. So they
end up paying hundreds or thousands of dollars -- often unwittingly --  for fake
driver's licenses or traveling to states with less restrictive laws.

State officials announced yesterday that they had invalidated more than 1,000
licenses belonging to people who had bought them illegally from two motor
vehicle clerks at the DMV's Tysons Corner branch over the past several years.
The clerks were convicted in federal court last year of selling licenses to
drivers who could not provide proper paperwork.

Spotsylvania authorities also recently obtained indictments against two people
as part of a forgery ring in which false documents were being sold to immigrants
needing the papers for valid driver's licenses, according to the commonwealth
attorney's office there. Ran Kim, 38, and Yong Nan Lee, 30, both of Annandale,
were indicted last month on charges of forgery, said Commonwealth's Attorney
William F. Neely. Neely said Kim had provided Lee with forged documents so Lee
could drive.

The new law came about when it was learned that seven of the 19 hijackers on
Sept. 11, 2001, carried Virginia licenses or identification cards, causing the
state to tighten restrictions twice. Virginia now is one of 25 states that
mandate that applicants show proof of legal residence before obtaining a
driver's license. That proof can be a passport, birth certificate or other
document that indicates legal status, said Pam Goheen, the Virginia DMV
spokeswoman.

Maryland does not require proof of legal residence but asks immigrants for
documents "that lend [themselves] to proving your legal admission to the
country," such as a visa or green card, said Buel C. Young, a spokesman for the
Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration. However, he said, the Maryland General
Assembly established a task force last year to consider other options, including
whether to introduce stricter requirements.

In the District, there is no legal presence mandate, but immigrants must show
their status with a document such as a Social Security card, along with proof of
residency, said Anne Witt, director of the D.C. Department of Motor Vehicles.

Caught in the middle in Virginia are thousands of undocumented immigrants who
have been working in the United States for years, often paying taxes, and who
now stand to lose those jobs because they can't drive to work.

"The law has completely changed their lives," said Connie Freeman with Arlington
County's Buckingham Community Outreach Center, one of the sponsors of the
seminar attended by Flores.

While activists argue that the new law has made it difficult for undocumented
residents, state Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) said those immigrants already
are breaking the law if they are in the country  without the proper documents.
"They shouldn't be rewarded by getting a Virginia driver's license," said Albo,
who sponsored the state's  license bill in the House. "A license is a passport
to do almost anything."

But without it, immigrants say, they are paralyzed.

"There are many of us with this problem," said one 37-year-old Bolivian
immigrant who spoke on condition of anonymity because she was in the United
States illegally. "Without an ID, you can't do anything -- you can't find work,
you can't open a bank account."

With an estimated 6 million to 8 million undocumented people in the United
States, the problem is growing, said Tanya Broder, a staff attorney with the
National Immigration Law Center.

In many immigrant families, parents and children do not have the same legal
status, Broder said. That, she said, can potentially prevent  parents who can't
get a driver's license from taking their legal children to school.

"These are very hard-working, taxpaying workers who have both immigrants and
citizens in their families," Broder said.

Scammers have stepped into the vacuum. One undocumented 46-year-old construction
worker from Argentina who has been in Virginia for three years said he paid $280
for an international driver's permit at a travel agency in Arlington after the
clerk there told him it would serve as a valid license.

Later, "people told me it's not even worth five dollars," he said. "I wasted my
money."

The U.S. Department of State has authorized  only the American Automobile
Association and the American Automobile Touring Alliance to  issue international
driver's permits, said Kelly Shannon, a spokeswoman for the State Department's
Bureau of Consular Affairs.

Shannon said these permits, which cost about $20, are issued in the country of
residence and are merely translations of driver's licenses.

"It's a complimentary document," Shannon said. "It does not stand alone and does
not replace a U.S. valid state license. They're only used to supplement a valid
license when traveling abroad."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              193 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 12, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Hardships Cited In Va. License Law;
Immigrants Vulnerable, Some Say

BYLINE: Elaine Rivera, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B08

LENGTH: 952 words


Mario Flores, a Bolivian native, waited about a half-hour with nearly 40 other
Latino immigrants for his turn to speak to a representative of the Virginia
Department of Motor Vehicles.

The issue, he explained, is a new state law that requires motorists to prove
they are in the United States legally to get a driver's license.

He described how friends are turned away from the DMV because they don't have
the necessary documents. "What are they supposed to do?" he implored.

Leni Gonzalez, a Northern Virginia outreach coordinator with the DMV, said she
was sympathetic. But her answer was firm.

"We understand the dilemma," Gonzalez said. "But this is the law, and it is very
strict. There are no exceptions."

Police and state officials say the  law, which took effect Jan. 1, has made
undocumented immigrants vulnerable to a growing number of scams that prey on
their desperation. Many stand to lose their jobs if they can't drive. So they
end up paying hundreds or thousands of dollars -- often unwittingly --  for fake
driver's licenses or traveling to states with less restrictive laws.

State officials announced yesterday that they had invalidated more than 1,000
licenses belonging to people who had bought them illegally from two motor
vehicle clerks at the DMV's Tysons Corner branch over the past several years.
The clerks were convicted in federal court last year of selling licenses to
drivers who could not provide proper paperwork.

Spotsylvania authorities also recently obtained indictments against two people
as part of a forgery ring in which false documents were being sold to immigrants
needing the papers for valid driver's licenses, according to the commonwealth
attorney's office there. Ran Kim, 38, and Yong Nan Lee, 30, both of Annandale,
were indicted last month on charges of forgery, said Commonwealth's Attorney
William F. Neely. Neely said Kim had provided Lee with forged documents so Lee
could drive.

The new law came about when it was learned that seven of the 19 hijackers on
Sept. 11, 2001, carried Virginia licenses or identification cards, causing the
state to tighten restrictions twice. Virginia now is one of 25 states that
mandate that applicants show proof of legal residence before obtaining a
driver's license. That proof can be a passport, birth certificate or other
document that indicates legal status, said Pam Goheen, the Virginia DMV
spokeswoman.

Maryland does not require proof of legal residence but asks immigrants for
documents "that lend [themselves] to proving your legal admission to the
country," such as a visa or green card, said Buel C. Young, a spokesman for the
Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration. However, he said, the Maryland General
Assembly established a task force last year to consider other options, including
whether to introduce stricter requirements.

In the District, there is no legal presence mandate, but immigrants must show
their status with a document such as a Social Security card, along with proof of
residency, said Anne Witt, director of the D.C. Department of Motor Vehicles.

Caught in the middle in Virginia are thousands of undocumented immigrants who
have been working in the United States for years, often paying taxes, and who
now stand to lose those jobs because they can't drive to work.

"The law has completely changed their lives," said Connie Freeman with Arlington
County's Buckingham Community Outreach Center, one of the sponsors of the
seminar attended by Flores.

While activists argue that the new law has made it difficult for undocumented
residents, state Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) said those immigrants already
are breaking the law if they are in the country  without the proper documents.
"They shouldn't be rewarded by getting a Virginia driver's license," said Albo,
who sponsored the state's  license bill in the House. "A license is a passport
to do almost anything."

But without it, immigrants say, they are paralyzed.

"There are many of us with this problem," said one 37-year-old Bolivian
immigrant who spoke on condition of anonymity because she was in the United
States illegally. "Without an ID, you can't do anything -- you can't find work,
you can't open a bank account."

With an estimated 6 million to 8 million undocumented people in the United
States, the problem is growing, said Tanya Broder, a staff attorney with the
National Immigration Law Center.

In many immigrant families, parents and children do not have the same legal
status, Broder said. That, she said, can potentially prevent  parents who can't
get a driver's license from taking their legal children to school.

"These are very hard-working, taxpaying workers who have both immigrants and
citizens in their families," Broder said.

Scammers have stepped into the vacuum. One undocumented 46-year-old construction
worker from Argentina who has been in Virginia for three years said he paid $280
for an international driver's permit at a travel agency in Arlington after the
clerk there told him it would serve as a valid license.

Later, "people told me it's not even worth five dollars," he said. "I wasted my
money."

The U.S. Department of State has authorized  only the American Automobile
Association and the American Automobile Touring Alliance to  issue international
driver's permits, said Kelly Shannon, a spokeswoman for the State Department's
Bureau of Consular Affairs.

Shannon said these permits, which cost about $20, are issued in the country of
residence and are merely translations of driver's licenses.

"It's a complimentary document," Shannon said. "It does not stand alone and does
not replace a U.S. valid state license. They're only used to supplement a valid
license when traveling abroad."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              194 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 17, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants' Cash Floods Homelands;
Study Finds Totals Much Higher Than Expected

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1072 words


In tiny ethnic groceries and check-cashing shops, immigrants in the Washington
area line up every day to send $200 or $300 to families back home. Now, a
detailed study has concluded those payments add up to more than a billion
dollars a year that goes to Latin America from workers in the District, Maryland
and Virginia.

The massive flows are part of an estimated $30 billion annually that Latin
American immigrants in the United States convey to their home countries,
according to the study, to be released today by the Inter-American Development
Bank.

Of that amount, the study estimates, $94 million comes from the District.
Immigrants living in Maryland send $500 million, the survey estimates, and those
living in Virginia send $586 million. Most Latino immigrants in Maryland and
Virginia live in the Washington suburbs. The study said the region's immigrants
are more likely to send money to Latin American than are immigrants nationwide,
and they send money more often.

"It adds up very quickly. If you can imagine $30 billion going south every year,
from people who are maids and parking attendants and day laborers, it's a pretty
amazing phenomenon," said Sergio Bendixen, whose Florida-based polling firm was
commissioned to do the study.

While sending money home is an age-old immigrant tradition, the flows are
receiving increasing attention from development experts. Rising immigration to
the United States in recent decades has produced a surging tide of cash heading
south, which far surpasses official aid.

Bendixen said his survey is the biggest state-by-state sampling of Latin
American immigrants who send money home. The results startled even those who
work with immigrants.

"Wow! I knew it was an incredible amount, but $94 million from the District
alone is enough to blow your mind," said the Rev. Donato Lippert, executive
director of the Spanish Catholic Center, which has an office in Columbia Heights
that provides services to immigrants.

Bendixen's survey was based on 3,802 telephone interviews this year with Latin
American adults in 37 states and the District. The pollsters sought a
representative sampling, but because only 100 interviews were done in each
state, the individual figures have a high margin of error, nearly 9 percent,
Bendixen said.

Still, scholars who study remittances said the estimates appear to be on target.
Manuel Orozco, a professor at Georgetown University who is considered a top
expert on the subject, said figures he has tabulated from money-transmitting
companies show that immigrants could be sending more than they told the
pollsters.

Local immigrants said many people send money home like clockwork. "There are
people who send two times a month, $200 each time," said Francis Castillo, 24, a
Gaithersburg electrician who works a second job at a Western Union
money-transmitting store. He sends $200 a month to his parents in El Salvador.

This giant transfer of wealth has transformed parts of Latin America, bringing
new houses, badly needed medicine and countless refrigerators and televisions to
struggling families. Remittances are crucial sources of foreign earnings for
many poor countries; they amount to 14 percent of El Salvador's gross domestic
product, for example.

"It's the best kind of foreign aid because it's not going into the hands of
corrupt politicians. It's going into the streets and alleys of El Salvador,
where people really need it," Lippert said.

However, it is foreign aid donated by America's poor. Nearly half of those
surveyed nationwide said they earned less than $20,000 a year. Many immigrants
make sacrifices here in order to help relatives back home.

Lourdes Guardado, 39, of Columbia Heights sends $280 a month to her mother in
Honduras. To afford those payments, and support her 4-year-old son here, the
single mother works two jobs, making sandwiches in a restaurant and cleaning
buildings at night.

Even though it is hard for her to send the money, Guardado can't imagine
stopping.

"It's my obligation as a daughter," she said simply.

Many Latin American immigrants feel a similar obligation. In the District,
nearly three-quarters send money home regularly, according to the survey. About
80 percent in Maryland and 84 percent in Virginia do so, the study says.

Those numbers are among the highest in the nation and reflect the high
proportion of recent immigrants in the Washington area, according to those who
study remittances. In contrast, the study found about 43 percent of Latin
American immigrants in Texas send money to their countries of origin.

"The more recent the population, the less roots those people have put down.
They're going to remit more," said B. Lindsay Lowell of the Institute for the
Study of International Migration at Georgetown University.

"That 10- to 15-year period [after arriving] is kind of magical," Lowell said.

Critics of large-scale immigration have expressed concerns that this financial
outflow could hurt struggling neighborhoods here. Some analysts say that Cuban
immigrants flourished in the United States in part because they couldn't send
money to their nation after the Communist revolution and instead invested in
their new land.

Academics say that little research has been done on the subject but that studies
indicate that Latin American immigrants send home about 10 percent of their
household income. Lowell said research has shown immigrants send back less money
if they are truly strapped. And most immigrants decrease their payments home
after a few years.

Juan Lazo, 49, is one of them. The mariachi musician used to send about $500 a
month to El Salvador for the care of his three daughters. They are now grown.
But the Columbia Heights resident said he still sends about $200 a month to help
his elderly mother.

"It's the only thing she's living on," he said.

Donald Terry, who heads the Multilateral Investment Fund, the arm of the
Inter-American Development Bank that sponsored the study, said in an interview
he hopes it will entice financial institutions to reach out to Latin American
immigrants, many of whom lack bank accounts. Fund officials hope that immigrants
will be able to use their remittance records to qualify for credit and other
bank benefits.

About one-third of those polled for the survey were illegal immigrants, and
roughly one-quarter were U.S. citizens. The study did not include remittances to
Haiti and the English-speaking Caribbean.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              195 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Raids 17 Businesses That Send Cash Abroad;
Effort to Curb Terrorism Hurts Immigrants, Some Critics Say

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1592 words


Federal agents have raided 17 money-transmitting businesses in the Washington
area that allegedly sent millions of dollars abroad without obtaining licenses,
part of a nationwide crackdown aimed at curbing the ability of terrorists to
move cash.

Authorities have seized $3.6 million in the local raids, which began after the
USA Patriot Act took effect in October 2001, tightening regulations on money
senders. Although authorities have released few details of the operations, they
suspect that three of the firms have sent funds to countries accused by U.S.
authorities of supporting terrorism. No terrorism-related charges have been
filed.

"When you have an underground banking system, it tends to make us very
vulnerable to terrorist activity" as well as other crime, said Kevin
Delli-Colli, assistant special agent in charge of the local Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement office, which has headed the effort.

But some immigrants and crime specialists say the crackdown has targeted many
mom-and-pop businesses that have nothing to do with financing terrorism. These
informal money-senders are running afoul of the Patriot Act simply because they
lack the resources to meet all of its licensing requirements, critics say.

"We're alienating communities that we should be bringing together in our corner
for coalitions against terrorism," said Nikos Passas, a professor at
Northeastern University who has studied terror finance.

The most recent raid occurred at the Eritrean Cultural and Civic Center at Sixth
and L streets NW. On April 13, federal agents and D.C. police swept into a
second-floor office at the center and seized documents and computers. The
office, which was rented from the club, had allegedly been sending hundreds of
thousands of dollars overseas.

Immigrants who gather at the club to swap gossip and watch Eritrean television
programs were shocked at the raid on the office, which many use to send cash to
needy families back home.

"To include us like a terrorist group is unacceptable. Of course we're
offended," said Estefanos Mesmea, 55, a cabdriver from Alexandria who was
sipping espresso at the club on a recent day. The case is under investigation,
and officials declined to provide details.

Informal money-transmitters have flourished in the United States, thanks to
growing immigration and improved technology. For many immigrants, such services
offer a quick, cheap way to send money to regions with inefficient banks -- or
none at all.

The businesses sometimes function through clan or family ties and use unorthodox
methods to move cash to hard-to-reach areas. For example, some are hawalas, an
Arabic word for transfer, in which money is not immediately wired to the final
destination. Instead, a U.S.-based hawala operator tells his counterpart in
another country to give cash to the recipient and leaves an IOU. The two hawala
operators settle up later, sometimes through offsetting transactions or
trade-finance arrangements.

Eritreans in the Washington area say they started using informal cash-sending
channels decades ago, when their homeland was controlled by a Marxist Ethiopian
government. Eventually, a money-transmitting office was set up at the cultural
center. It has been run for the last few years by the Eritrean Embassy,
according to several immigrants. The embassy did not respond to several messages
seeking comment.

"It was a well-intentioned community service, done by volunteers initially,"
said Haile Mezghebe, a prominent local Eritrean who is a surgeon at Howard
University Hospital.

But after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, authorities grew increasingly concerned
about such services and their hard-to-trace transactions. Under the Patriot Act,
money transmitters must register with the Treasury Department and obtain state
money-transfer licenses. The law also requires them to report suspicious
transactions and run programs to prevent money laundering.

Even as the new regulations were being rolled out, agents pounced on a money
transmitter that appeared to illustrate their worst fears. On Nov. 7, 2001, FBI
and Customs agents raided offices of Al Barakaat in six U.S. cities, including
Falls Church and Alexandria. U.S. officials say Al Barakaat, an important
institution for local Somalian cabdrivers and hotel workers, also was used by al
Qaeda to move money around the globe.

"The entry point to these networks may be a small storefront operation, but
follow the network to its center and you discover wealthy banks and
sophisticated technology, all at the service of mass murderers," President Bush
said of the raids at the time. Al Barakaat officials have denied ties to
terrorism.

Well before the Al Barakaat raids, U.S. agents had been targeting businesses
that handled money for drug traffickers or other criminals, but the Patriot Act
gave them more tools. Since it passed, authorities have arrested more than 80
people nationwide in connection with the illegal transfer of millions of dollars
to countries including Pakistan, Iraq and Yemen, immigration and customs
officials said.

Locally, the crackdown has been carried out by an Annandale-based team that
includes officials from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Secret Service,
the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. attorney's office and local police.

They discovered a thriving underground banking system in the Washington area. It
ranged from an Afghan grocery store in Alexandria, where immigrants dropped off
cash for a local hawala operator, to the Towfiiq Group, which sent millions of
dollars to the Middle East from an office on Leesburg Pike, according to ICE
officials. Law enforcement agents shut down that company in November and seized
$523,386 from its Virginia-based bank accounts. Local immigrants said the
service was used by many from Somalia, whose money often passes through Middle
East banking hubs. No charges have been filed.

Agents have also targeted unlicensed money-transmitters who send funds to
Pakistan, Guatemala and Peru.

Authorities have not publicized many details of the local raids, since some of
the targets have cooperated and others are under investigation. But officials
say they are scrutinizing some of the firms for possible terrorist links.

Allen J. Doody, who heads the local ICE office, said three of the area
money-senders are suspected of transferring money to Sudan. That is prohibited
under U.S. sanctions that cite Sudan's alleged support for terrorism. Local
immigrants acknowledge that some residents have sent money to relatives in Sudan
despite the ban.

Two of those firms also may have sent funds to Libya, a practice that until
recently was also illegal, Doody said.

Law enforcement officials say the fact that the businesses do not register with
the government is suspicious. They have turned up cases across the country in
which drug traffickers, smugglers of illegal immigrants and others have used
informal money-transmitters.

But immigrants and some financial experts say some of the businesses caught in
the crackdown are small operations that do not know the regulations or cannot
afford the expense involved, particularly in getting a state license. Although
many states have required money-transmitting licenses for years, enforcement was
not strict until recently, immigrants say.

Osman Yusuf, 49, a Somalian refugee, said he was eager to comply with the new
anti-terrorism regulations. The entrepreneur held a business license for
Dahabshil Inc., a three-room business in a wooded office park in Alexandria,
which sent money to his war-torn homeland. But only after the Al Barakaat
shutdown did he learn that he needed a separate license from Virginia, he said.

Yusuf said it took six months to obtain the license, in part because he made
some mistakes on the forms and needed a lawyer to fix them. He was required to
close his doors until he got the permit.

"It costs a lot. A lot of documentation is involved," he said, adding that he
also had to post a half-million-dollar bond.

Passas, the Northeastern professor, said the regulations could ultimately be
counterproductive, driving the informal bankers further underground.

The problem, he said, is that states are applying consumer protection
regulations to ethnic businesses that do not need them. The hawalas have had a
stellar record in delivering customers' cash, he said.

"Trust has been a motor of efficiency in this informal business. It has
regulated itself," Passas said.

Regulators aren't convinced.

"As a consumer, I would certainly like some protection before I give my money to
someone to send halfway around the world," said Joe Face, Virginia's
commissioner of financial institutions.

To get a Virginia money-sending license -- which can cost a company hundreds if
not thousands of dollars a year -- each senior officer in a business must file a
biographical and personal financial history. Face said the licenses are
typically issued in 45 to 60 days. The money transmitters must also post a
surety bond or other financial guarantee.

Doody said the crackdown is not aimed at immigrant workers but at ensuring that
the financial system cannot be exploited by terrorists. "We're not concerned
with someone trying to get $100 home to Mom," he said.

For the immigrants who gather at the Eritrean cultural center, that is precisely
the issue.

"We're stuck," said Mesmea, the cabdriver, who said many immigrants are now
giving wads of cash to friends to carry to Eritrea on their trips home. "In the
end, we'll be worried how to send the money."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              196 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Adjust the Adjustments

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 281 words


YESTERDAY WE PUBLISHED on the opposite page a description of the "green-card
hell" experienced by a British subject living in Washington who -- thanks to
pointless immigration red tape -- was unable to leave this country to celebrate
his father's 90th birthday. It's only one story, but there are many similar ones
having to do with immigration to this country since the rules changed after the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

Over the past two years, nuclear physicists, wealthy business executives and
ordinary tourists have been subjected to unreasonable delays and inexplicable
refusals from the immigration service. Foreign students are afraid to return
home for brief visits, their colleagues no longer wish to study here at all and
America's reputation as an open society has been badly damaged.

Until now, the Bush administration has seemed largely unmoved by these stories,
apparently viewing the bad publicity they generate abroad as a necessary
byproduct of the war on terrorism. In an interview with editors and reporters of
The Post this week, however, Tom Ridge, the secretary of homeland security,
agreed that the current situation is "not in the best interests of a country
that has a tradition of being open and welcoming and diverse." Mr. Ridge said
that whenever he goes abroad, visa policy is the first thing U.S. ambassadors
want to discuss with him. That situation has, he said, led him to feel it is
time to reexamine some of the adjustments to visa policy that were made after
Sept. 11, including, among other things, bringing back a modified form of
transit visa.

We encourage him in his efforts to "adjust the adjustments," and look forward to
hearing more about them.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              197 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 25, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Green-Card Blues Predate 9/11

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 262 words


In his May 20 op-ed column, "Green-Card Blues for America's Image," Tom Carver
said that Americans never have to enter this world of bureaucracy. I disagree.

I am an American who went through the permanent residency process with my
husband, a native of Chile. Mr. Carver  attributes problems such as long waiting
periods and limited (if any) access to needed information to the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks, but such problems existed well before then.

My husband applied for his green card in 1998 but did not receive it until 2001.
In  that time the Immigration and Naturalization Service  made many mistakes
with his application, including  placing him in deportation proceedings and
identifying him as a convicted felon from Mexico. Our application problems were
caused by clerical errors and a lack of communication among INS departments, but
our lawyer said our best hope was to abandon efforts to get the clerical side of
the INS to fix its mess and to continue with the deportation proceedings. So we
went to court, where a judge granted my husband permanent residency.

Many of our friends have experienced similar problems.

Some  may argue that people who want to live in this country should be willing
to accept the  process. I agree.  The process, however, should afford immigrants
respect.  As it stands it can be a degrading  experience. Applicants also should
be able to expect that the people handling their  cases will do  so competently.

Mr. Carver's  column suggests that things have not improved much  in the past
six years.

GAIL MULLIGAN

Falls Church

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              198 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 2, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Raids N.Va. Office Of Saudi-Based Charity

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 609 words


Federal agents have raided the U.S. branch of a large Saudi-based charity,
founded in Northern Virginia by a nephew of Osama bin Laden, in connection with
a terrorism-related investigation, law enforcement sources said yesterday.

The raid Friday on the World Assembly of Muslim Youth (WAMY) in Alexandria was
carried out by agents of the FBI, U.S. Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement and the Joint Terrorism Task Force, the sources said.

In a statement last night, WAMY said that all of the office's files and computer
hard drives were seized and that a volunteer WAMY board member was arrested on
immigration charges.

Sources said the raid was part of an investigation into whether the group's
operations around the world have financial and other ties to terrorists, but the
scope of the probe could not be learned because the case is under court seal.

But in its statement, the Riyadh-based, tax-exempt charity strongly denied any
terrorist ties and said the government had told them the probe is focused only
on "immigration issues.'' Although acknowledging that bin Laden's nephew,
Abdullah bin Laden, was involved in forming WAMY's U.S. branch in Northern
Virginia, the group said people should not assume that means it has any
terrorist connections.

"While we fully agree with you that Osama Bin Laden is a terrorist and his acts
have been condemned by the whole world including members of the Bin Laden
family, we as a nation should be careful not to find 'guilt by association,' "
said the statement, released through Asim Ghafoor, a spokesman for the group.

Prosecutors have alleged in previous court documents that WAMY espoused hatred
of Jews and portrayed people who murdered Israelis as heroes. But the WAMY
statement compared the group's activities to the YMCA, saying it focuses on
"youth education, youth development and serving the Muslim community.''

About 50 agents participated in Friday's raid, the WAMY statement added.

U.S.-Saudi relations have been particularly sensitive since the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks: 15 of the 19 hijackers were from Saudi Arabia. The two
governments are now cooperating on many fronts in the war on terror, especially
since a series of attacks by Islamic militants with al Qaeda ties shook the
desert kingdom in May 2003.

WAMY's name came up in another recent terrorism-related case in Northern
Virginia: the investigation into a network of Islamic charities operating in
Herndon and elsewhere in the region.  The probe involved allegations of tax
fraud and other improprieties. The charities strongly deny wrongdoing.

During last year's case against Soliman S. Biheiri, the only person convicted as
an outgrowth of that investigation, prosecutors filed documents saying that
Biheiri's company, BMI Inc., had managed money for Abdullah bin Laden. The
documents said Abdullah bin Laden incorporated WAMY's U.S. branch in Falls
Church in 1992, became president and was listed on the organization's tax forms
until at least 1998. The branch is now in Alexandria.

An affidavit signed by Customs Senior Special Agent David C. Kane contends that
a WAMY publication lists people who have attacked Israelis, including a man who
killed 14 people by driving a bus off a cliff, as "Heroes from Palestine.''

Kane writes that a section of that document, titled "Animosity Toward the
Jews,'' lists reasons for Muslims to hate Jews, including, "The Jews are
humanity's enemies: they foment immorality in this world.''

The affidavit also lays out what it calls ties between WAMY and the Islamic
Resistance Movement, or Hamas, which has been designated a terrorist
organization by the U.S. government.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              199 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 3, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

'Don't Even Let Them Know About Her';
Baby's Fate Caught in Anti-Terror War

BYLINE: Brigid Schulte, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T16

LENGTH: 1583 words


Baby Hannah has the hiccups. As the spasm hits her chest, her brown eyes,
already as big as moons, widen in surprise. The baby, the namesake of her
great-grandmother, Hannah Smith, bounces stiffly on Smith's lap. Smith starts to
sing, "Twinkle, Twinkle,  Little Star."

"You're my star, Hannah," the great-grandmother coos into the baby's face.
"You're gonna be my star."

The baby, mesmerized and still spasming rhythmically, launches awkwardly
forward, latches onto a leathery cheek and starts to suck.

Everything about this late spring afternoon scene appears comfortingly familiar:
a doting great-grandmother, a bright-eyed, gurgling 4-month-old baby dressed in
a yellow onesie and a bib. The music box tinkles with nursery rhymes. The
picture of normal.

Except that it isn't. It is a tableau framed by civil war. A single moment of
impetuous violence. Relatives who no longer speak. And immigration during the
war on terrorism. Though the future of all babies is uncertain, Baby Hannah's at
times seems desperately so.

Baby Hannah was born in Carroll County in January, not in one of those new,
sleek birthing suites to gushing parents, but in a detention facility of the
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, formerly the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, to a mother she would know for seven days.

Claudia Smith, Baby Hannah's mother and Hannah Smith's granddaughter, is set to
be deported to Sierra Leone for violating U.S. immigration laws. She hasn't seen
the war-torn African country since she was 5 years old. She has exhausted nearly
all her court appeals and has pleaded for clemency in letters to members of
Congress and to Maryland Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. All have been denied. The
few times Baby Hannah has seen her mother, she has been in shackles.

Hannah Smith, 69, limps from the chronic arthritis in her joints. Her blood
pressure is high. She retired from working as a nanny last year because she
couldn't keep up with the toddlers anymore. She is the only mother Baby Hannah
has ever known. Claudia, 24, in letters written in purple ink, asks that Smith
be the only one to care for the baby. Of some other members of the family, she
writes, "don't even let them know about her."

The cramped one-bedroom apartment in a senior housing complex is the only home
Baby Hannah has. During the day, her world is bounded by the walls of the
16-by-12-foot living room. The objects that catch the baby's fascination are the
porcelain knickknacks -- the Princess Diana plate, the framed photo of President
Bill Clinton, the maple syrup displayed in a bottle the shape of a maple leaf.
At night, the baby sleeps in the back bedroom, where stacks of suitcases run
halfway up the wall. She curls up on the double bed with pink sheets next to her
great-grandmother.

A baby swing and a yellow and orange activity center with bright balls to spin
and doughnut rings to turn are crammed among statues depicting "The Last Supper"
and the end table with Smith's Bible on a lace doily. Not far is a wooden plaque
depicting Jesus, and reading, "Suffer the Children to Come Unto Me."

Hannah Smith knows she cannot keep her great-granddaughter hidden here forever.
She has taken her to the Mormon church for services on Sunday and to
appointments with the pediatrician. But nowhere else. Baby Hannah has never been
to the park. Or out for a stroll.

The subsidized senior housing building has rules. No cats. No dogs. Definitely
no babies. If people find out, Smith is afraid she'll be forced to leave. And
it's only a matter of time before they do, she says. Thank heaven the baby
doesn't cry much, she says. If they're forced out, she doesn't know where
they'll go. A previous employer waded through the confusing bureaucracy to get
her this place. And there is no money for anything else, she says. She spent all
her money on legal fees trying to save Claudia.

And now that Claudia's case is lost, she does not want to lose Claudia's
daughter. "Adoption. Foster care. No. We take care of our children," she says
firmly. "I don't want her to go to anyone. I'm the one. I don't know how long
God will allow me."

Sending the baby back to Sierra Leone with Claudia is unthinkable. All of
Smith's seven children are in America or England. All of her brothers and
sisters are dead. There are no friends to call on for help. Or nobody who would
help if they knew the truth about Claudia. For years, she told family that
Claudia was just away at school. "It's a great shame," Smith says. "A big
disgrace on my family."

Other relatives declined to comment. Some have recently fallen out over Baby
Hannah's future, Smith said. Others, like Claudia's father, one of her seven
children, she said she has not spoken to in years.

Sometimes, when Smith needs a break from the five bottles a day, the rice
cereal, the two baths, three naps and long, slow hours of playing peekaboo, a
friend from upstairs comes down with her walker. Sometimes, when Baby Hannah
starts to cry, Smith cries as well. "If I knew this would happen to me, I would
not have come to America," she says in a lilting West African accent. "Better
that I die over there."

Baby Hannah, still hiccupping, gurgles and chews on her fist.

Baby Hannah's story begins long before she was born, in 1980 in Freetown, Sierra
Leone. Claudia's father was working in Liberia. Claudia's mother came to visit
Smith in Freetown. She said she was going out to run some errands. She never
came back. Claudia was 7 weeks old. Smith thinks Claudia's mother may later have
been killed in the war.

In 1985 Smith brought the 5-year-old with her to America, to escape the civil
war, and to live the American dream of fresh starts and second chances.

They lived for a time with one of Smith's daughters in Virginia. Claudia was
doing well in school. She attended a magnet program. She ran track. Then Smith
got work as a live-in nanny and moved out. Smith said she doesn't know, really,
what happened next. But something went terribly wrong. When Claudia was 13, she
went to live with her father and his new American wife in Washington. At 15,
Claudia ran away from home. She wound up on the streets in Prince George's
County.

What happened next depends on whom you believe. The court transcripts say
Claudia fired a gun into a car. Claudia, in a letter to Ehrlich, remembers it
differently: an angry fight over another girl's sofa, a gun fired in the air to
scare the girl and her friends off, then apologies and a sleepover that night to
make things right.

What is undisputed, however, is that a bystander was grazed by a bullet from a
gun that Claudia fired. A public defender counseled Claudia to plead guilty to
aggravated assault with intent to kill. A felony. She was charged as an adult
and spent seven years in prison. Another girl charged with the same offense, who
hired a lawyer, pleaded guilty to lesser charges and served less time.

This is where the war on terrorism comes in. While in prison, Claudia's visa
expired. No one in her family had sought to make her a legal resident, though at
the time becoming legal was fairly easy, the federal government giving
protection to those fleeing the war. When she was released from prison in
February 2002, the war in Sierra Leone was over and so were the easy visas. On a
visit to check in with her parole officer in May 2003, immigration agents were
waiting for her. She has been in detention ever since.

In the mid-1990s, Congress tightened immigration laws and made it easier to
deport aliens with criminal records. The war on terrorism, which put immigration
enforcement under the Department of Homeland Security, ensured there was enough
money and agents to make deportations happen.

In 2001, the year the World Trade Center was hit, more than 1.4 million criminal
aliens were detained and more than 71,000 deported, or "removed," the highest
number ever, according to the 2002 Yearbook of Immigration Statistics.

Smith doesn't excuse Claudia for the gun. But she was young. She paid her dues,
Smith says. She hasn't found a place for her and the baby because she always
figured Claudia would, somehow, be freed. Baby Hannah's father was willing to
marry Claudia to make her legal, her attorney said, but he was already married
to somebody else. "People make mistakes in life. God forgives us. Why don't they
forgive her and let her stay? Let America give her a second chance?" Smith says.

Baby Hannah begins to rub her eyes. Smith, fretful after another sleepless
night, doesn't notice. She sighs and, as she does often, looks up at the
ceiling, invoking the merciful Lord. "How will Claudia go back to this African
life? She doesn't speak the language. She don't eat African food. She likes
American food. She orders pizza and McDonald's. How will she start her life?"

The baby yawns, breaking her great-grandmother's trance. She looks at the tired
baby. "Come here, Hannah Bannah," she says softly.

She rises from the chair with difficulty and limps the length of the living
room. In her bedroom, she lays the baby on her tummy in a navy blue portable
crib, a loan, like all the other baby things, from a former employer. Baby
Hannah curls her legs up and wiggles back and forth, her diapered bottom in the
air. The noise from the air conditioning unit and the radio tuned to a
static-filled Christian station lull her. A music box plays "Twinkle, Twinkle,
Little Star." She pokes her tiny thumb into her mouth and falls into the
unencumbered sleep of the innocent.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              200 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 16, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Lawmaker Warns About Spending at DHS Agency;
INS-Inherited Accounting Systems Are Faulted

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A25

LENGTH: 609 words


An agency of the Department of Homeland Security is in danger of violating
federal laws against overspending congressionally approved budgets, in part
because of flawed financial accounting systems it inherited from the old
Immigration and Naturalization Service, a Democratic member of Congress said
yesterday.

"I am deeply concerned about reports my staff are receiving from various
personnel" at the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Rep. Jim
Turner (Tex.), the senior Democrat on the House Select Committee on Homeland
Security, wrote to the department's inspector general. "These conversations
revealed a severe lack of confidence" that the bureau's financial system is
yielding accurate, timely information, he wrote.

ICE funds often are hastily moved among the bureau and its sister agencies to
cover budget shortages, Turner said. ICE pilots don't know whether they can
acquire fuel or spare parts, and some vendors are not being paid promptly
because of glitches in the financial system, he said.

Homeland Security spokesmen said the bureau's financial systems are working
adequately and denied that the agency might find itself in violation of laws
against agency overspending.

"The budget is tight, but we're managing the budget we're given," department
spokesman Dennis Murphy said. "People are meeting daily to work these things
out."

In March, the Border and Transportation Security directorate -- ICE's parent
organization within Homeland Security -- announced a temporary hiring freeze
because of a budget crisis. The cause was lower-than-expected employee
attrition, and the fact that combining the agencies' different financial systems
made it difficult to track funds, officials said.

The 20,000-employee ICE -- which investigates the smuggling of arms, cash and
illegal immigrants -- was created by the blending of parts of the former INS,
the former Customs Service and the Agriculture Department's plant inspectors.

Many agents from the old Customs Service, which was a relatively high-performing
agency with an esprit de corps, have expressed deep frustration at being forced
to merge with the old INS, widely viewed as dysfunctional. Some of them call ICE
"INS-occupied territory." One of their complaints is that ICE still uses some of
INS's balky accounting and record-keeping systems.

Yesterday, Turner took up the cause of these agents. In his letter to Homeland
Security's inspector general, Clark Kent Ervin, Turner asked for an
investigation of ICE's financial practices.

"Problems with [ICE] financial systems have crippled the ability of managers and
staff to fulfill their responsibilities," Turner wrote. "It is puzzling to me
that the department would choose to stay with a [financial] system so widely
recognized as inherently flawed."

"I understand that deficiencies in the ICE Federal Financial Management System
are so severe that they place the bureau at risk of violating the
Anti-Deficiency Act," which bars spending money Congress has not appropriated,
he wrote. Violators of the act can face demotion or criminal penalties, he
pointed out.

Former customs agents who now work at ICE welcomed Turner's letter. "INS was
abolished by Congress, but its broken-down practices live on here at ICE," said
one, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the issue's sensitivity.

Murphy said contending with the different financial systems used by ICE and its
sister agencies is extremely difficult for the department.

"I won't sugarcoat the budget situation," Murphy said. "It is not a walk in the
park. It's a multi-year effort to get this all to work smoothly. It's not smooth
yet."

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              201 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 16, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

No More Roundups

BYLINE: David Cole

SECTION: Editorial; A27

LENGTH: 830 words


"The delirium caused by the bombings turned in the direction of a deportation
crusade with the spontaneity of water seeking out the course of least
resistance." So wrote Louis F. Post about the Palmer Raids of 1919-20, when the
federal government responded to a series of terrorist bombings by rounding up
thousands of foreigners, not for their connection to the bombings but for
technical immigration violations and association with various factions of the
Communist Party.

Post's description equally captures the Bush administration's response to the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Once again the government pursued "the
course of least resistance," rounding up thousands of foreigners, not for
terrorist activity but for technical immigration violations. Many were arrested
in secret, held without charges, denied access to lawyers, presumed guilty until
proven innocent, tried in secret, and kept locked up long after their cases were
fully resolved. In the name of "preventing terrorism," the government has locked
up more than 5,000 foreigners who had nothing to do with terrorism.

For 21/2  years, little has been done to rectify this situation. But today
several senators and representatives plan to introduce the Civil Liberties
Restoration Act of 2004, a bill that seeks to ensure that the next time we
suffer a terrorist attack, we will hold fast to basic principles of fairness,
due process and human rights, especially in our treatment of foreign nationals.

The act would bar the practice of blanket secret trials, reserving secrecy for
cases in which the government can demonstrate a specific need. It would require
that when the government locks someone up, it must inform him of the charges
within 48 hours, and bring him before a judge within three days. It would limit
preventive detention to situations in which the government actually has evidence
that an individual poses a risk of flight or a danger to the community. And it
would end "special registration," which selectively targeted men from Arab and
Muslim countries for fingerprints, photographs and interrogations.

But why should Americans care about the rights of foreign nationals? Especially
when we are at war with a terrorist organization made up almost exclusively of
foreigners, shouldn't we be careful to preserve the government's ability to
target immigrants?

We should care for three reasons. First, the government's anti-immigrant
measures have made us less, not more, secure. Of the more than 5,000 foreign
nationals subject to preventive detention, for example, none has been charged
with being associated with al Qaeda or with complicity in the attacks of Sept.
11. Only three have been charged with any terrorist crime at all, and two of
those three were acquitted of the terrorism charges at trial. The lone
conviction is now under a cloud because the prosecution failed to disclose to
the defense evidence that its principal witness lied on the stand.

The most extensive campaign of ethnic profiling in this country since World War
II has thus far failed to disclose a single terrorist. More than 80,000 foreign
men were compelled to register, be fingerprinted and photographed merely because
they came from predominantly Arab or Muslim countries. Another 8,000 men were
called in for FBI interviews, again merely because they were from Arab and
Muslim countries. And 6,000 more were prioritized for deportation, for the same
reasons. Yet not one of these people has been charged with a terrorist crime.

And while these measures have yielded no security gains, they have alienated the
very communities the government most needs to work with if it is going to find
the al Qaeda supporters who seek to kill us. That makes it less likely that we
will get the cooperation we need, and more likely that the terrorists will find
willing recruits.

Second, history suggests that what the government does to foreigners in the name
of national security it will ultimately do to citizens as well. The Palmer Raids
were directed at foreigners, but their architect, a young Justice Department
lawyer named J. Edgar Hoover, was not content to stop there. He devoted his
career to seeking out ways to extend those tactics to citizens, and in the
McCarthy era, he succeeded. In fact, every significant form of political
repression that the government has used against citizens began as an anti-alien
measure.

So we should support the Civil Liberties Restoration Act because it is in our
interest to do so. But there's still another reason: It's the right thing to do.
The rights not to be locked up arbitrarily, tried in secret, held without
charges, or discriminated against based on national origin or religion are not
privileges of U.S. citizenship, but basic human rights. They belong to all of
us, regardless of status.

The writer is a law professor at Georgetown University and the author of "Enemy
Aliens: Double Standards and Constitutional Freedoms in the War on Terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              202 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Gateway to America

BYLINE: Lucy Harvey, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: Weekend; T53

LENGTH: 1110 words


NOT EVERY immigrant coming to America sailed past the Statue of Liberty. For
many Europeans making the voyage in the 18th and 19th centuries, coming to
America meant landing in or near Fell's Point in Baltimore.

But that city's role in "the peopling of America" is not widely known, says
immigration historian Melanie Shell-Weiss. So the Baltimore Immigration Project,
a group of interested citizens, business people and academics, is trying to
"correct this hole in the story," according to Shell-Weiss, a postdoctoral
fellow at the Johns Hopkins University.

One of its first efforts to publicize Baltimore's historic role is an
immigration walking tour of Fell's Point, a joint project that the group
developed with the Fell's Point Preservation Society. My husband and I, with our
three daughters, ages 5, 7 and 9,  took the two-hour tour last month and spent a
delightful day walking, eating, shopping and water-taxiing around Fell's Point
and the Inner Harbor. The tour may have been a bit too advanced for my younger
girls, but they enjoyed walking around and hearing the personal stories. My
9-year-old understood the subject matter much better, and most children 10 and
older will probably have studied some form of immigration and can put the facts
in even greater context.

Tours are led by either a historian or costumed "historic figure." Our tour
guide, Denise Whitman, an antiques storeowner and associate director of the
Preservation Society, took on the accent and corset of Bridget O'Malley, an
Irish indentured servant from the 1770s. While much of the historical
information that she explained was beyond my daughters' understanding, she did
an admirable job of drawing them in with props and vignettes they could relate
to. The first thing Bridget did was hand us all freshly cut leaves of apple
mint, horehound and lemon balm herbs from the Preservation Society's Colonial
garden. She explained that many of the immigrants came in steerage class, under
horrible conditions, so they didn't smell too good. The girls sniffed their
herbs throughout the walk. Bridget explained that the land now called Fell's
Point was actually purchased by shipbuilder William Fell from Lord Baltimore
about 1730. Several street names in the neighborhood, including Ann, Aliceanna
and Bond, were named after members of the Fell family.

Since the buildings on the tour are not in chronological order, the snippets of
history Bridget presented came across a bit jumbled. A useful immigration
timeline from the Baltimore Immigration Project's Web site
(www.immigrationbaltimore.org) helped put it all in perspective for me
afterward.

According to the Baltimore Immigration Project, more than 2 million immigrants
landed in Baltimore from 1754 through the outbreak of World War I. Most came
from Germany, Ireland and Eastern Europe. Since there was no direct steamship
service from Mediterranean ports, most Southern Europeans came to Baltimore via
other American cities.

As we walked along Thames Street near the water, she noted that the cobbled
stones on the streets have a slightly greenish cast. The streets of Fell's Point
were not paved with gold, as some gullible immigrants may have believed, but
with Belgian block, she explained. The rock was carried over as ballast on big
sailing ships, then off-loaded and sold before the return trip.

As a shipbuilding region, the boisterous  neighborhood boasted as many as 28
different ship works. It was here in Fell's Point that the sleek, fast Clipper
ship was developed. Known as the Baltimore Clipper, it was used extensively
during the War of 1812 to raid British ships. Ship captains proudly carried
their letters of marque, which gave them permission to loot and plunder English
ships for profit. Bridget took on a more serious tone when she explained the
fast clippers were also "outfitted for the more unsavory trade of human slaves."
As we walked through a courtyard at the base of Broadway Street, she pointed out
where enslaved Africans were auctioned as they came off the boats. According to
Shell-Weiss, the Baltimore Immigration Project plans to erect a statue here to
honor the slaves, victims of forced immigration.

Earlier on Fell Street, Bridget said that abolitionist Frederick Douglass had
escaped slavery from a house on this block. Disguised as a sailor, he boarded a
train to Philadelphia and freedom. Douglass was born on Maryland's Eastern Shore
and had been brought by his owner to Fell's Point to work as a ship caulker.
After the Civil War, he returned to Fell's Point and built affordable houses for
free blacks; the buildings still stand today on Dallas Street.

At the tip of Fell Street is Henderson's Wharf, a tobacco and coffee warehouse
built in the 1890s that now houses luxury condominiums and a hotel. The letters
B & O can still be seen on the side, as the warehouse serviced the Baltimore &
Ohio railway, which played a significant role in bringing immigrants to
Baltimore and transporting them west.

My daughters were particularly interested in Recreation Pier, which the city
constructed in 1916 as a play space for neighborhood children, including
immigrant children, who were playing under dangerous conditions in the streets.
Now vacant, Recreation Pier was used as a filming location for the popular
mid-'90s television series "Homicide."

Bridget also pointed out McCann's oyster canning factory, which now houses
several restaurants and retail stores. She explained that after shipbuilding
died down in the 1840s, canning became a major industry in Fell's Point until
the 1950s and 1960s.

"This neighborhood has always offered two things that attract immigrants: jobs
and housing," Bridget said.

We observed how history is repeating itself as the neighborhood caters to the
next wave of immigrants. Signs were written in English and Spanish, a former
public library has been  converted into an education-based Latino Outreach
Center, Salvadoran pupusas  (fried, filled dumplings) were sold next to bagels
at the Broadway Market Cafe. A group of Hispanic men gathered and chatted at a
coffee stand.

"The story of immigration does not end," said Bridget as she pointed out
evidence of the newest arrivals.

FELL'S POINT IMMIGRATION TOUR  --  Takes place the first, third and fifth
Saturdays of the month (mid-April through October) from noon to 2. Departs from
the Fell's Point Visitor Center, 808 S. Ann St., Baltimore. Tickets are $12 per
adult, $6 per child under 12. The Fell's Point Preservation Society also offers
other walking tours, including an evening Ghost Walk and a Maritime History
tour. Call 410-675-6750 or visit the Web site www.preservationsociety.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              203 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 19, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Fairfax Woman Won't Be Deported

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND June 18


Mi-Choong O'Brien, a Korean immigrant from Fairfax County who was facing
deportation for embezzling money from her employer, was released from an
Arlington jail Friday and has been told she can remain in this country.

O'Brien, 50, who has been detained since January and was informed Thursday that
her appeal to stay in the country had been denied, was picked up by her husband,
Joseph O'Brien, 54, and taken to their home in Centreville, family members said.

Mi-Choong O'Brien had been sentenced to three years, with all but one suspended,
after she pleaded guilty last year to stealing several thousand dollars from her
employer.

She had been detained for several months under a 1996 immigration law that
allows the United States to deport noncitizens with criminal convictions and
sentences of a year or more.

"We've gone through the blackest of nights to the brightest of days in a matter
of hours," Joseph O'Brien said Friday evening. He said he had been working
furiously to secure his wife's release.

Russ Knocke, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, confirmed that
Mi-Choong O'Brien had been released and that the agency was not pursuing her
deportation. "We did exercise our discretion based upon the merits of the case,"
he said.

Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.), who had pushed for O'Brien's release for several
months, said he was pleased with the decision.

"I am happy for Mi-Choong and her family," he said in a statement. "I know the
past several months have been extremely difficult for her, her husband and her
children."

In a letter to the immigration agency Friday, Wolf said that Mi-Choong O'Brien
was an example of the "unintended consequences" of current laws on immigration
and deportation. He pointed out that the O'Briens have been married for 25
years, that they have four children who are U.S. citizens and that this was her
first offense in 19 years in the country. He also pointed out that the public
defender who represented O'Brien was unaware of the consequences of her guilty
plea.

"I don't believe the intent of the law was to detain and deport individuals like
Mi-Choong," Wolf said. Mi-Choong O'Brien had appealed the decision Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              204 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 22, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

More Residents Lack English Fluency;
D.C. Law Aims to Make Agencies Accessible to Immigrants

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 641 words


More than 38,000 D.C. residents do not speak English very well, and their
numbers are growing, according to a study released yesterday as city officials
prepare to implement a new law requiring delivery of vital services in other
languages.

Two-thirds of those with limited English skills are Spanish speakers, who also
account for the majority of new immigrants to the city. Half the city's Spanish
speakers have limited skills in English, the Brookings Institution study said,
as do even higher proportions of Chinese and Vietnamese.

With immigration soaring, the number of people with limited English skills rose
in the District by nearly a third in the 1990s, said the study, which was based
on census data. One in five city residents who told the Census Bureau they do
not speak English very well was born in the United States -- likely the children
of immigrant parents, according to the study's principal author, Audrey Singer.

Most new immigrants live in the suburbs, so the population that does not speak
English very well rose most sharply outside the city -- by 74 percent in
Montgomery County and 105 percent in Fairfax County, for example. Regionally,
Spanish also dominates among people who do not speak English very well.

At a forum co-sponsored by Brookings and the office of Mayor Anthony A. Williams
(D), speakers said the new city law would help integrate immigrants into society
and recognize their value to the local economy. Some criticized the recent
comment by Maryland Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) that multiculturalism is
"bunk." But they also emphasized that the D.C. law represents a change of
culture for city government that will require time. The deadline for
implementation is October 2006.

The city is not yet a national leader in providing equal services to immigrant
residents, Williams said, but "we believe in this law. We're going to make it
work."

The law, signed by the mayor in April, requires nearly two dozen city agencies
to implement plans to hire bilingual employees and to translate their most
important documents, such as applications and complaint forms. Initially, it
will cover Spanish, Mandarin, Korean, Vietnamese and the Ethiopian language of
Amharic, with more languages added as the need grows.

"I do believe it's important for people to learn English, as it's important for
me to learn Spanish," said D.C. Council member Jim Graham (D-Ward 1), who
represents an area where four in 10 public school students do not speak English
at home. "We have to deal with people where they are. We can't deal with them as
a wish list."

Each agency does not have to translate all its important forms into all five
languages, but it must assess which languages are most likely to be spoken by
its clientele and act accordingly. Gustavo F. Velasquez, executive director of
the city's Office on Latino Affairs, said some city departments have made
progress, including the Department of Mental Health and the police.

People who telephone the mayor's call center can get help in their native
language, he said, but the goal is to have that happen when they call agencies
directly.

"I would expect resistance" from some city employees, he said. But he added,
"Latinos and other [limited-English speakers] want to learn English."

The budget for administering the new law is $300,000 for the first year, said
Kenneth Saunders, director of the D.C. Office of Human Rights, which is
overseeing implementation, but costs are expected to rise in subsequent years.

In Oakland, Calif., which passed a similar law three years ago, city official
Deborah Liu warned D.C. officials that foreign-speaking residents are so eager
for help in their own language that they won't be able to contain themselves.

"People are thirsty," she said. Once they find someone to talk to, they will
"pour out their life histories."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              205 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 27, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Kerry: Bush Has Neglected Latin America;
Presidential Candidate Courts Hispanics by Promising Jobs, Better Education

BYLINE: Lois Romano, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 639 words


John F. Kerry pitched himself to the Latino community -- one of the nation's
fastest-growing voting blocs -- as an alternative to President Bush by promising
jobs and better education, and he accused the president yesterday of ignoring
Latin America.

"Instead of being a good neighbor, the president has ignored a wide range of
ills -- including political and financial crises, runaway unemployment and drug
trafficking," Kerry told a meeting on Capitol Hill of the National Association
of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO). "And his one-note policy
toward Latin America of one-size-fits-all trade agreements have stripped the
respect and partnership that marked the Clinton years."

Kerry, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, said that as president
he would work to bring  the United States  closer to its Latin American
neighbors by developing a "community of the Americas" that would work together
to protect the nations' security and laws.

Kerry also pledged to create a "North American security perimeter" to
"coordinate Customs, immigration and law enforcement"  to reduce the risk of
terrorist attacks in the region. He said he would renegotiate the Central
American Free Trade Agreement to include protections for workers.

He did not address his immigration plan, but he promised respect for immigrants
and a chance at a better life. "Every year, hundreds seeking only a better life
die in the desert," he said. "Millions labor in the shadows of our country, in
fear and often abused and exploited.

"It doesn't reflect our values as a country built by immigrants. It is time to
fulfill the promise of America so that those who work hard and take
responsibility can build a better life for themselves and their families."

NALEO Executive Director Arturo Vargas said this week that during town hall
forums across the nation, Latino voters said they did not think either Kerry or
Bush was hearing their concerns. But after Kerry spoke, Vargas said Kerry had
addressed those concerns.

"He actually gave a speech that talked about the broad American agenda, which is
the Latino agenda. He talked about a broad range of issues. He connected today,"
Vargas said. "He needs to continue to go out into the communities to understand
their concerns . . . so their voices are heard."

Kerry was well received at the event, despite recent concerns from some that he
has not done enough outreach in minority communities. Democrats thought he hit
all the high points of Latinos'  concerns and believe he is on the right track
to connect better with the community. "It's promising," said Rocky Delgadillo,
the Los Angeles city attorney, and the highest-ranking Latino in that city's
government. "I think he is genuinely concerned for the individual who has been
on the downside side of economics for years."

But others who came to hear Kerry for the first time were skeptical. Michael and
Sylvia Torrez are registered Republicans from Taos, N.M., who have voted for
Democrats. Both said Kerry did little to sway them.

"He was good, but he promised too much," said Sylvia Torrez, a homemaker. "For
decades, they have been trying to fix education, and Mrs. Clinton promised to
fix health care and then she dropped it."

Her husband's concerns about Kerry were different. "My thing is the protection
of the nation," said Michael Torrez, a school board member. "I think George Bush
has probably deterred a lot. That would be my reason for sticking with him."

The Bush-Cheney campaign distributed a statement by five members of Congress
charging that Kerry is not connecting with Hispanics and accusing the
Massachusetts senator of spreading a message of pessimism to Latinos.

Kerry returned to Boston after the speech, ending a 48-hour cross-country
campaign and fundraising  trip that netted Democrats $10 million.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              206 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 1, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Fresh Start With Art;
Marga Fripp's Gallery Helps Immigrant Women Find Their Voice

BYLINE: Annie Gowen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Alexandria - Arlington Extra; T12

LENGTH: 1453 words


Poet, artist and jewelry-maker Edith Graciela Sanabria is juggling a lot these
days. She is writing a children's book and trying to sell not just her
paintings, but also those of her mother, Chela, a recent Bolivian immigrant.

But on a warm day in May, as she hurried to take some new paintings to Panetier,
a bakery and bistro in Del Ray, a flier tacked to the bulletin board caught her
eye. The flier described an arts and healing workshop at a new gallery and small
business and arts incubator for immigrant women in Old Town.

Sanabria -- a Bolivian immigrant who came to the United States in 1990 to escape
an oppressive military culture -- felt sure the flier had been written for her.

"I said to my mother, 'Even if you don't understand, you have to come with me,'
" recalled Sanabria, 44. "That's what I need, to heal myself and focus on the
things I love. That's my dream."

The new gallery and business incubator, Empowered Women International Inc., is
the brainchild of Marga Fripp, 33. Fripp, an engaging brunette, was a celebrity
and well-known women's rights activist in her native Romania before immigrating
to the United States in 2001.

Despite her education, experience and American husband, Fripp said she suffered
the same feelings of alienation and self-doubt of many immigrant women when she
arrived here.

"I felt like I was in the middle of the ocean," Fripp said. "No one to help me.
No one to see me. I went from being a name to a no-name. I was a career
professional and I was finding myself with nothing."

Nearly three years later, she finds herself with a gallery space on Prince
Street in Old Town -- an enviable address she secured with little money -- a
board of directors that includes a well-known Republican consultant and a
seemingly limitless future, provided she can scrape together the $83,000 she
needs for this year's operating budget.

Those who have been bowled over by Fripp since her arrival here have little
doubt she'll succeed.

"She is a fireball," said Ann Stone, chairman of Republicans for Choice and one
of Fripp's earliest backers. "I love to hold her up as an example to my American
friends who whine and complain. She's in our country one year and [Maryland Gov.
Robert L.] Ehrlich is giving her an award as one of the top volunteers in
Maryland. . . . Marga is very American in a way. If there's a problem, she'll
figure out how to fix it."

Fripp never had any plans to leave Romania, even after she met her husband -- a
North Carolina native and Peace Corps volunteer named Jesse Fripp. She settled
with him in the town of Timisoara in western Romania to raise a family. She was
a successful TV journalist with her own program, "More Than Eve," and head of
one of the largest women's organizations against domestic abuse in the country.

In August 2001, she gave birth to her second child, Arthur, now 2, but he
suffered a debilitating stroke just two days later. The family was airlifted to
Switzerland for his treatment. They later flew to the United States so Arthur
could be treated at Children's Hospital in the District.

Arthur has since recovered -- Fripp said his pediatrician calls him a miracle
baby -- but by then the Fripps had settled in Silver Spring, where Jesse Fripp's
international development company is headquartered. With her child on his way to
recovery, Marga Fripp entered a difficult period of her own.

Her English was not as good as it is now, and she was never able to find a
position in her field of women's rights, she said. Even waiting in line for a
Social Security card seemed a bureaucratic nightmare.

"I got this feeling -- this is how immigrants are treated," Fripp recalled. "In
crowds, we look like second-class citizens, kids hanging off us." The Social
Security office in Montgomery County "was like Ellis Island 100 years ago. I
felt so bad."

She ultimately landed a one-year position with the national service organization
AmeriCorps, heading up marketing for a neighborhood initiative in Prince
George's County, and later was honored by Ehrlich with the volunteer award.

In her spare time, she began making the contacts necessary to start Empowered
Women International. She firmly believed that immigrant women -- unlike their
husbands and children, who assimilate through school and work -- have the most
difficult time adjusting to their new lives.

"The fact that I couldn't get a job and spent such a long time searching really
hurt my self-confidence," Fripp said. "To go from someone who was well known in
my field to someone who can't actually be paid for anything was like a slap in
your face. I didn't see myself working at McDonald's. I thought I could do
better than that."

Through her work at AmeriCorps, she met an Alexandria landscape architect named
Mark X. LaPierre. LaPierre, 53, had a five-year lease on a office space at 1212
Prince St. in Old Town but no one to fill it. He had lost three large clients
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and had to lay off six people.

"I was basically a lonely guy in a dark, shut-down office space with dust
growing on the tables," LaPierre said. "I was pretty discouraged, having lost a
lot of work. Then I met Marga. She reinvigorated me."

LaPierre and Fripp agreed that she would use his office as her new office and
exhibit space for A Woman's Story Gallery. Pierre also donated paint, labor,
computer help and furniture to the new venture. His business has since
rebounded, and his new employees have squeezed in upstairs.

"We're sort of cheek-by-jowl upstairs," LaPierre said. "But we've made a
commitment. It's like the bird in the nest. You incubate it and it hatches and
grows."

The gallery opened in November. Most recently, Fripp showed brightly colored
abstract paintings filled with birds by an Indian immigrant named Pallavi, a
local resident and library staffer whom she met at the Alexandria Library while
signing up for a library card.

The gallery also shows Sanabria's paintings and jewelry and the paintings of her
mother, Chela. Their story is one of Fripp's inspirations.

Chela Sanabria was suffering from debilitating arthritis and gastrointestinal
trouble and could barely walk when she immigrated to the United States last
year.

"I was sure I was going to die," she said in Spanish, sitting down in the modest
brick home she shares with her daughter in south Alexandria, crammed with
canvases and art supplies.

But with the help of American doctors, alternative healing massage, healthy food
and exercise, she began a rapid improvement. Her stomach has healed, and she now
walks without assistance.

Sanabria credits a large part of her recovery to art. She had taken up painting
in Bolivia before she fell ill and has now returned to it.

Every day, she wakes up with visions of what to paint next: rain forests;
flower-filled patios and street scenes from her home town of Chochibama,
Bolivia; campesinos, or peasants, from the indigenous tribes of her home
country; and the Andes mountains.

"I am so inspired!" she said, clapping her hands together in delight.

In addition to the Sanabrias, Fripp and her squad of 100 volunteers now have 150
immigrant clients trying to launch a variety of small businesses, from freelance
writing to computer training. Fripp is encouraging one client, a Sudanese
immigrant who specializes in the tattoo art of mehndi, to create a line of
greeting cards around her designs for the gallery. Fripp and Edith Sanabria are
working on a plan where she can use her artistic talents to start an
after-school art program for children in her home.

When Brooke Leto, 37, an Arlington resident and Ethiopian immigrant, attended a
poetry reading at the gallery recently, she found herself talking about feelings
of alienation and uncertainty she hadn't discussed since she arrived in this
country more than two decades ago. She said she was immediately understood.

"I found myself opening up about issues I haven't for years," Leto said. "It was
an immediate 'uh-huh' reaction. It's very comforting, and in that sense what
Marga is trying to do is very needed."

Aside from the $83,000 Fripp needs to continue operating, she also has dreams of
securing bigger grants and donations to expand the programming to workshops, art
lessons and lectures in neighborhoods such as Arlandria or the West End, which
have large immigrant communities. She pooh-poohs those who discourage her and
continues to dream large.

"When I came here and immediately had this idea to help immigrants fight for
their rights, some friends said to me, 'Marga, in this country, you need to
crawl before you can walk,' " Fripp said. "In my family -- literally -- I didn't
crawl, and my kids didn't crawl. We all stood up and walked!"

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              207 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 5, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Credit Unions Plan To Target Latinos;
Earning Trust Is a Major Enterprise

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 976 words


Latino officials sometimes refer to it as the "money under the mattress"
syndrome: Many Latino immigrants are unaccustomed to using banks because of
financial instability in their home countries. So they stash money in their
homes and depend mainly on check-cashing and money-transfer companies for
financial transactions.

Three local credit unions are planning to launch an effort this fall to wrest
Hispanic customers from those companies and from the growing number of U.S. and
Latin American banks that target the community. District Government Employees
Federal Credit Union, the Organization of American States Staff Federal Credit
Union and IDB-IIC Federal Credit Union, a credit union affiliated with the
Inter-American Development Bank, are planning to open a joint operation called a
credit union service organization in Mount Pleasant.

The credit unions are trying to set fees and policies to meet the needs of
Latino immigrants. For example, it will accept foreign identification cards,
such as the ones issued by Mexico's Matricula Consular program, so illegal
immigrants can become members and open savings accounts. Loan officers will
evaluate credit risk for auto and home loans not only by looking at credit
reports, but by taking into account whether or not applicants pay rent on time
or send money home regularly. Small-business loans will not be immediately
available.

Mount Pleasant and nearby Adams Morgan and Columbia Heights are about 25 percent
Hispanic and at least half of those people do not have bank accounts, according
to estimates by the District Government Employees Federal Credit Union based on
a neighborhood survey. The new operation will offer savings and checking
accounts, check-cashing and money-transfer services. It will be equally owned by
the three credit unions, governed by its own board of directors and federally
chartered.

Credit unions are nonprofit financial institutions owned and run by their
members, who pool their money to make loans to one another. Deposits up to
$100,000 in federally chartered and most state-chartered credit unions are
insured by the federal government.

About 74 percent of the Hispanic immigrants living in the District send money to
relatives regularly -- a total of $94 million a year, according to the
Inter-American Development Bank. To tap into that market, the new organization
will use a transmittal service called IRnet, short for International Remittance
Network.

For about $10, members will be able to send up to $1,000 to Mexico. Western
Union charges $30, according to the company's Web site. Banagricola and
Bancomercio, subsidiaries of two large Salvadoran banks with operations in Adams
Morgan, charge about $10 for a $1,000 remittance to El Salvador.

"There is a lot of space to even further reduce the cost of remittances. If the
fees are lower, people may decide to save more or spend more," said Carla
Decker, president of District Government Employees Federal Credit Union.
"Remittances are a tool for bringing them in . . . exposing the individual to a
formal financial institution."

Danielle Pereira, a Western Union spokeswoman, said the company expects to keep
its customers because "our services are convenient and reliable for consumers,
and consumers have come to trust that their money will get to their loved ones."

In the District, the law allows check-cashing companies to charge up to 10
percent of the amount of a personal check and 5 percent of a payroll check.
Decker said the new credit union will cash checks free for its members.

But Joseph Coleman, owner of New York-based RiteCheck, said it will be hard to
compete with his industry because check-cashing stores are open seven days a
week, 24 hours a day. "They think that because they are in a similar business,
'Oh, it will be nothing.' I'll wager that many of these credit unions don't
understand the loss [we take] on bad checks. We're open long hours."

The three credit unions plan to pool their assets and apply for grants from
economic development groups to raise the $400,000 it will cost to buy equipment,
hire staff and have the required monetary deposits. The National Credit Union
Foundation, a philanthropy funded by the U.S. Treasury and private
contributions, said it has agreed to give $150,000 over three years to help with
the start-up costs.

The Mount Pleasant operation is not expected to be profitable for three or four
years. Decker estimates that the new branch will attract 50 new members a month
for the first two years. Membership will require each participant to open a
savings account of at least $50 within six months of joining.

One major challenge will be for the credit unions to overcome a distrust of
financial institutions. Daniel A. Mica, president and chief executive of the
District-based Credit Union National Association, said the group's research
found that Hispanic immigrants in general "are very skeptical about traditional
financial institutions."

That mistrust is compounded in Mount Pleasant because a couple of years ago, a
fraudulent investment group and unlicensed company claiming to be a bank
collected money from people in the neighborhood and fled, said Carlos R.
Calderon, president and chief executive of the Organization of American States
Staff Federal Credit Union.

To counter skepticism, the new organization will probably adopt a Spanish name
meant to invoke stability -- such as Fortaleza, which means strength or
fortress, Decker said. It will advertise on Spanish-language radio and in
newspapers, and send people door-to-door in Mount Pleasant, Adams Morgan and the
surrounding neighborhoods, handing out fliers and explaining that tellers and
loan officers will speak Spanish.

"Many of these folks did not have financial relationships in the home county,"
Calderon said. "They need to learn and feel comfortable."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              208 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 6, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Tenn. Creates Immigrants' Driving Permit

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A20

LENGTH: 233 words

DATELINE: NASHVILLE July 5


A law that took effect last month means Dina Guirguis, an Egyptian in the United
States on a temporary student visa, cannot renew her Tennessee driver's license
when it expires.

The law allows U.S. citizens or permanent legal residents to get a driver's
license.

That rules out illegal immigrants and temporary visitors such as Guirguis, 27, a
Vanderbilt University Law School graduate.

But Tennessee is offering a unique compromise -- a "certificate of driving" that
illegal immigrants cannot use for official identification but that allows them
to drive. The certificate guarantees the person knows the rules of driving in
Tennessee but cannot use it to buy a gun, rent a car or board an airplane.

Melissa Savage, a policy analyst with the National Conference of State
Legislatures, said the certificate is the first of its kind, and other states
will be watching to see how it works.

Tennessee Gov. Phil Bredesen (D), whose administration developed the law, said
the change was prompted by the threat of terrorism after Sept. 11, 2001.

Savage said Bredesen's reaction is typical. State leaders across the country are
weighing the risks of giving a driver's license to anyone who passes a test.

"When it came out that so many of the terrorists had acquired driver's licenses,
the trend now is to tighten restrictions," she said. "It's way beyond driving
now, and 9/11 put that all into focus."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              209 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 11, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

New Virginia Law Deepens Distrust Among Immigrants;
Police Can Arrest Some Without Warrant

BYLINE: David Cho and Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 881 words


Fairfax County police recently held a Spanish-language child safety seat
demonstration in Herndon, hoping it would build goodwill between the department
and the area's burgeoning Latino population.

Instead, it underscored the mistrust caused by a new state law that allows local
police to detain some illegal immigrants: No one from the immigrant community
showed up.

According to Capt. Mike Vencak of the Reston District station, which planned the
safety demonstration, some in the Hispanic community "thought it was a ploy" to
snare the undocumented. Elsewhere in Virginia, the law has prompted immigrants
to hoard food and stay indoors, police and community leaders said. One Latina in
Fairfax, a victim of domestic violence, would not go to the police for help,
fearing she would be deported, an immigrant advocate said.

A little over a week after it took   effect, the law -- sometimes called "HB570"
after its bill number -- is fracturing the already fragile trust that bridged
the law enforcement and immigrant communities, critics of the legislation said.
It was intended to be limited in scope, but it is inciting a much broader
reaction of fear and mistrust of the police, they said.

"This is the kind of law that makes a vulnerable community even more
vulnerable," said Arlington County Supervisor Walter Tejada (D), who has been
holding forums to educate Latinos on the law. "Immigrant communities are already
reluctant to contact the police if they are victims of a crime or a witness to a
crime. Now it will make the communities even more hesitant."

The law, which went into effect July 1, is a landmark of sorts in Virginia. For
the first time, state and local authorities can arrest illegal immigrants
without a warrant, but only if they have been convicted of a felony, already
have been ordered out of the country and are suspected of committing another
crime.

Primary sponsor Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) said only a few people meet all
three criteria -- but they could be society's most dangerous criminals.

Several police officers testified during legislative hearings that they worked
to convict gang members of felonies and to have them deported, only to see them
back in their neighborhoods.

Now they'll have another tool to arrest them, Albo said.

"I bet if you talk to immigrants in this country, 99 percent of them will say we
don't want those people in our neighborhoods," he said.

Albo added that he believes a few civic leaders, not the law, are at the root of
the immigrant community's fear. "There's a bunch of people from the community
who are developing a hysteria that I don't understand," he said. "I don't know
why they are doing it."

But immigrant advocates counter that the fear is very real. Many immigrants have
a natural distrust of the police because they come from countries where the
authorities are corrupt, said Tim Freilich, managing attorney of the Virginia
Justice Center, an advocacy group.

"The amount of damage that the passage of this law has already caused between
the police and immigrant communities far outweighs any potential benefit," he
said.

Scot Christenson, media relations coordinator for the Catholic Legal Immigration
Network, said the law could lead to racial profiling and hurt police departments
if it discourages immigrants from reporting crimes.

"It is a security issue," he said. "Police groups can't solve crimes or
investigate if people won't come forward, and what they are basically doing is
alienating a huge chunk of the population."

The number of immigrants, drawn to Virginia by an abundance of jobs in such
fields as construction, is increasing rapidly in the state. Spanish-speakers are
the most numerous among immigrants and composed 11 percent, or 214,000 people,
of the total population of Northern Virginia in 2000, according to the U.S.
Census.

The law's passage has been a daily topic on media outlets within the immigrant
enclaves. Sgt. Richard Perez, a Fairfax police spokesman, said he has appeared
on Spanish-language television and radio stations to explain the new law. Each
time, his office has been flooded with calls as soon as he left the air.

Hispanic residents, he said, "are under the impression that this law was going
to be used to start deporting all illegal aliens." Perez added that "people are
contemplating hoarding food and staying inside to withstand the initial
onslaught of enforcement."

Despite efforts to educate immigrants on the law's limitations, mistrust of the
police is spreading, immigrant advocates said. The fear might not be rational,
they said, but it is a natural reaction.

Part of the problem is that it can be hard to prove one's status, said Frecia
Guzman, a Salvadorian immigrant who owns a deli in Fairfax.

She noted that many of her Salvadorian friends are in the United States with a
special asylum grant known as Temporary Protected Status. But many don't have
the papers to prove it and have been waiting for months to get their documents
from the federal government.

Now they are afraid of venturing outside their homes, believing they will get
stopped by police and asked to produce documents that prove their immigration
status, she said.

"They are scared to go out to the restaurants," Guzman said. "They don't even
want to go outside."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              210 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 11, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Raids Make a Dent in the Market for Fake Documents

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan

SECTION: Metro; C05 , OFF THE BEAT: ADAMS MORGAN Mary Beth Sheridan

LENGTH: 519 words


They no longer wander past El Amigo Dollar Plus, a store popular with immigrants
on Columbia Road NW. They no longer troll for clients near Maria Diaz, who came
to this country  years ago from Guatemala and peddles mangos in the heart of
Adams Morgan.

"They have eliminated them for the past two weeks. I don't see them at all,"
said R. Malik, who runs Malik's Warehouse, a jam-packed emporium of cheap
clothes, blankets and luggage in the 1700 block of Columbia Road NW.

The fake-document vendors who have run a notorious open-air market in Adams
Morgan have disappeared -- or at least faded from view -- after  two dramatic
busts by agents from  Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The June 23 and June 30 raids marked the biggest crackdown in a year on a
long-established market that had come under increasing scrutiny since the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks. But the actions probably haven't eliminated the
illegal business, which provides fake identity documents to unauthorized
immigrants.

"We like to think it's slowed down. I think it has," said Allan Doody, special
agent in charge of the local ICE field office. But, he added, the trade would
probably continue. "We will be watching the area very closely and following up."

Residents were startled June 23 when ICE, assisted by the FBI and local police,
swept onto Columbia Road and began arresting alleged document vendors.

At the same time, agents raided a house in the 4400 block of Ninth  Street NW
and seized 2,076 fake documents -- permanent residency cards, Social Security
cards and employment permits -- as well as equipment to make IDs.

Eighteen illegal immigrants were arrested in the raids: one Honduran, one
Guatemalan and 16 Mexicans, according to an ICE statement.

A week later, agents arrested three more Mexicans in a house in the 4000 block
of 13th Street NW. The agents found 569 phony documents, as well as equipment
for making counterfeit documents, in the residence.

"It was a substantial ring that was providing these fraudulent documents," said
Doody, referring to the two operations.

The raids were the latest actions in Operation Card Shark, which has attempted
to dismantle the fake-ID operations in Adams Morgan. Since May 2002, it has
smashed three document rings, but at least one has managed to persist.

Officials and immigration experts say the trade is difficult to eliminate
because of the ease of falsifying official documents, the relatively light
punishments for many vendors and the strong demand for the bogus documents from
illegal immigrants who need them to work.

D.C. Council member Jim Graham (D-Ward 1), whose ward includes Adams Morgan,
also noted that there is a plethora of young immigrants willing to become
vendors.

"The resource is so expendable," he said. When vendors are detained, many are
removed from the country, he noted: "But for every one that's arrested and
deported, there's a line of 10" waiting to take his place.

Graham praised the recent raids. But he said a more sustained effort is needed,
both by federal and local law-enforcement, if the illegal business is to be
eliminated.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              211 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 11, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Law Raises Immigrants' Suspicions;
Va. Arrests Possible Without Warrants

BYLINE: David Cho and Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 880 words


Fairfax County police recently held a Spanish-language child safety seat
demonstration in Herndon, hoping it would build goodwill between the department
and the area's burgeoning Latino population.

Instead, it underscored the mistrust caused by a new state law that allows local
police to detain some illegal immigrants: No one from the immigrant community
showed up.

According to Capt. Mike Vencak of the Reston District station, which planned the
safety demonstration, some in the Hispanic community "thought it was a ploy" to
snare the undocumented. Elsewhere in Virginia, the law has prompted immigrants
to hoard food and stay indoors, police and community leaders said. One Latina in
Fairfax, a victim of domestic violence, would not go to the police for help,
fearing she would be deported, an immigrant advocate said.

A little over a week after it took effect, the law -- sometimes called "HB570"
after its bill number -- is fracturing the already fragile trust that bridged
the law enforcement and immigrant communities, critics of the legislation said.
It was intended to be limited in scope, but it is inciting a much broader
reaction of fear and mistrust of the police, they said.

"This is the kind of law that makes a vulnerable community even more
vulnerable," said Arlington County Supervisor Walter Tejada (D), who has been
holding forums to educate Latinos on the law. "Immigrant communities are already
reluctant to contact the police if they are victims of a crime or a witness to a
crime. Now it will make the communities even more hesitant."

The law, which went into effect July 1, is a landmark of sorts in Virginia. For
the first time, state and local authorities can arrest illegal immigrants
without a warrant, but only if they have been convicted of a felony, already
have been ordered out of the country and are suspected of committing another
crime.

Primary sponsor Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) said only a few people meet all
three criteria -- but they could be society's most dangerous criminals.

Several police officers testified during legislative hearings that they worked
to convict gang members of felonies and to have them deported, only to see them
back in their neighborhoods.

Now they'll have another tool to arrest them, Albo said.

"I bet if you talk to immigrants in this country, 99 percent of them will say we
don't want those people in our neighborhoods," he said.

Albo added that he believes a few civic leaders, not the law, are at the root of
the immigrant community's fear. "There's a bunch of people from the community
who are developing a hysteria that I don't understand," he said. "I don't know
why they are doing it."

But immigrant advocates counter that the fear is very real. Many immigrants have
a natural distrust of the police because they come from countries where the
authorities are corrupt, said Tim Freilich, managing attorney of the Virginia
Justice Center, an advocacy group.

"The amount of damage that the passage of this law has already caused between
the police and immigrant communities far outweighs any potential benefit," he
said.

Scot Christenson, media relations coordinator for the Catholic Legal Immigration
Network, said the law could lead to racial profiling and hurt police departments
if it discourages immigrants from reporting crimes.

"It is a security issue," he said. "Police groups can't solve crimes or
investigate if people won't come forward, and what they are basically doing is
alienating a huge chunk of the population."

The number of immigrants, drawn to Virginia by an abundance of jobs in such
fields as construction, is increasing rapidly in the state. Spanish-speakers are
the most numerous among immigrants and composed 11 percent, or 214,000 people,
of the total population of Northern Virginia in 2000, according to the U.S.
Census.

The law's passage has been a daily topic on media outlets within the immigrant
enclaves. Sgt. Richard Perez, a Fairfax police spokesman, said he has appeared
on Spanish-language television and radio stations to explain the new law. Each
time, his office has been flooded with calls as soon as he left the air.

Hispanic residents, he said, "are under the impression that this law was going
to be used to start deporting all illegal aliens." Perez added that "people are
contemplating hoarding food and staying inside to withstand the initial
onslaught of enforcement."

Despite efforts to educate immigrants on the law's limitations, mistrust of the
police is spreading, immigrant advocates said. The fear might not be rational,
they said, but it is a natural reaction.

Part of the problem is that it can be hard to prove one's status, said Frecia
Guzman, a Salvadorian immigrant who owns a deli in Fairfax.

She noted that many of her Salvadorian friends are in the United States with a
special asylum grant known as Temporary Protected Status. But many don't have
the papers to prove it and have been waiting for months to get their documents
from the federal government.

Now they are afraid of venturing outside their homes, believing they will get
stopped by police and asked to produce documents that prove their immigration
status, she said.

"They are scared to go out to the restaurants," Guzman said. "They don't even
want to go outside."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              212 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 16, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Ex-Chess Champion Bobby Fischer Detained;
Fugitive Held in Japan on Charges Stemming From '92 Spassky Match in Yugoslavia

BYLINE: Allan Lengel, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 522 words


The hunt for Bobby Fischer, the unpredictable chess legend, ended this week when
he was detained in Japan, where he awaits possible deportation on charges that
he attended a 1992 match in Yugoslavia in violation of a U.S. ban.

The Japanese Immigration Bureau detained the 61-year-old Fischer on Tuesday at
Narita International Airport in Tokyo at the urging of U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, which had recently stepped up efforts to track the
fugitive, U.S. authorities said yesterday.

"He's in custody in Japan, and we are awaiting a determination whether he'll be
deported back to the United States to face charges," said Allan Doody, special
agent in charge of the immigration agency's Washington field office.

The arrest capped a cat-and-mouse game between U.S. authorities and Fischer, who
shuttled among several nations, including Japan, the Philippines and Hungary, to
avoid arrest. A grand jury in Washington charged him with violating the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act by going to Yugoslavia for the chess
match against Boris Spassky.

The charge, handed up in 1992, carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison.

U.S. authorities, acting on the outstanding warrant, recently canceled Fischer's
U.S. passport after discovering that he had a 90-day visa to visit Japan.
Authorities there detained him at the airport for failing to possess valid
travel documents, U.S. authorities said.

In August 1992, the Treasury Department sent Fischer a letter warning him not to
go to Yugoslavia to play Spassky for the world class chess match. It explained
that U.S. citizens were forbidden to get involved in "business or commercial
activities" with Yugoslavia because of its role in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

"We consider your presence in Yugoslavia for this purpose to be an exportation
of services to Yugoslavia in the sense that the Yugoslav sponsor is benefiting
from the use of your name and reputation," the letter said.

Fischer ignored the letter and headed off to Yugoslavia to square off against
Spassky. Fischer had surrendered the world championship in 1975 after he refused
to defend it against Anatoly Karpov of Russia.

At a news conference in Yugoslavia in September 1992, Fischer held up the letter
and spit on it. He went on to beat Spassky and receive $3.3 million.

In subsequent interviews overseas, Fischer said he no longer played the "old
chess." In 1996, he launched his own form of chess, Fischerandom Chess, in which
the major pieces are arranged on a traditional board in an unorthodox way.

Fischer, whose mother is Jewish, became well known for his ranting and raving
and anti-Semitic remarks.

In a radio interview May 24, 1999, in Baguio, the Philippines, Fischer remarked:
"America is totally under control of the Jews, you know. I mean, look what
they're doing now in Yugoslavia. . . . The secretary of state and the secretary
of defense are, are dirty Jews."

After the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, Fischer remarked on Philippine radio: "This
is all wonderful news. It's time . . . to finish off the U.S. once and for all.
. . . This just shows what comes around, goes around."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              213 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 18, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Using Threats, N.Y. Landlords Feed Immigrants' Fear

BYLINE: Michael Powell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1241 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


They sat there, three diminutive and worried Mexican women, in the shadows in
the back pews of St. Jerome's Church in the Bronx. Father John O. Grange noticed
and motioned them forward.

The women handed Grange a letter. They had asked for apartment repairs, and this
letter contained what appeared to be the landlord's response.

"Dear Tenants," the letter stated, "As you know the United States Government and
specifically the Homeland Security Administration is investigating illegal
aliens . . . I have given them all the information that I know about my tenants
(age, names, work, cars, marriage, country of origin, telephone numbers,
children) . . . You should expect a visit in the near future."

Grange, 64, forms a fist and frowns.

"Their hands were shaking as I read the letter -- they were scared stiff," said
the priest, who is a founding member of South Bronx Churches, an ecumenical
organizing group that is helping the women. "Evil has reared its head and
threatens to ruin their hardworking lives."

Much has changed in the post-Sept. 11, 2001, world of New York. There are subway
announcements advising riders to watch for suspicious people and unattended
packages. There is the shared memory of attacks past and the fear of more to
come. And for some of the hundreds of thousands of immigrants in the city,
especially those whose visa papers are not in order, the fear is doubled. They
worry about more attacks and about those who might take advantage of them in
these troubled times.

"This case in the Bronx is a particularly flagrant example of what our
constituency faces with some frequency," said Andrew Friedman, co-director of
Make the Road by Walking, an immigrant advocacy group that has worked with
tenants in Brooklyn who have received similar verbal threats from landlords.
"People put up with absolutely ghastly living conditions and feel they can't
complain in this security-conscious world."

The Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund handled several cases in the
past year in which landlords tried to intimidate Muslim tenants by threatening
to call the FBI. An organizer who works with nannies said that such threats are
common -- and that they recently won a court case for back wages against a
tennis instructor who warned he would call the Department of Homeland Security.

"We hear about this quite often -- it's our main challenge, because employers
know everyone is so scared now," said Ai-jen Poo, who works for Domestic Workers
United in the Bronx. "Even people with legal green cards are afraid of
deportation post-9/11. It's a double whammy because the economy isn't great."

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials in New York report often
receiving tips from landlords. "It's very common to hear from landlords," said
spokesman Michael Gilhooley. "But our inspectors are careful to balance the tips
with the fact that New York has so many immigrants. We prioritize based on
threats to public safety."

What is different about the case of the Mexicans in the Bronx is that they
received a threat in writing. What is also different is that the tenants did not
run. They stood up -- and the landlord seems to be standing down.

"We were scared -- on television you hear all the stories on immigrants and
terrorists," said Sandra, 32, who asked that her surname not be used. The walls
of her apartment are decorated with images  of the Virgin Mary and Jesus and the
World Trade Center. "But the landlord's the one who acted like a terrorist."

Landlord Scott Kalb, who owns a dozen buildings in the South Bronx, said in an
interview that he did not write the letter. It bears his return address and
telephone number, and the type font is the same as his previous letters to
tenants. In the interview he referred approvingly to the letter's message.

"It's a whole, big scare thing;  you're trying to turn me into a dragon
landlord," he said. In reference to his tenants, he said: "You are talking about
people who don't even speak English, who are illegal immigrants just like the
letter says. Tell me this: What do they know?"

Grange, a powerfully built man with white hair cropped so close to his scalp he
appears bald, grew up here in the 1940s and '50s, when Alexander Avenue was
known as the Irish Fifth Avenue. Then came waves of bank disinvestment, white
flight and arson. Over the past 30 years, Grange watched the death and rebirth
of his childhood streets.

"We lost 60 buildings to arson in one month in the 1970s," he said. "Then the
Mexicans started coming about 10 years ago, and this place came back to life. Go
to the subway stop at 5:30 a.m., and you get knocked over by everyone going to
work."

Just to the south in the Mott Haven neighborhood, near the Harlem River, there
is another unlikely revival. Developers are renovating abandoned factory
buildings for downtown artists in search of affordable lofts. Kalb, a rough-hewn
man, works this revival at both ends. He rents lofts to artists and Alexander
Avenue rowhouse apartments to Mexicans.

The Mexican tenants pay between $850 and $1,000 a  month for one-bedroom
apartments.

Kalb's tenements are not the worst. The front doors lock, and there is heat in
the winter. But his Mexican tenants said they found holes in the ceilings, mold
in the bathrooms, and broken floors and windowsills. When Kalb balked at
repairs, the tenants turned to Grange. He, in turn, put them in touch with South
Bronx Churches, an organization affiliated with the Industrial Areas Foundation,
a nationwide group also active in the District, Virginia and Prince George's
County.

The tenants mailed a list of the worst problems to Kalb. "He called up and said:
'I'm not a slumlord;  I'll fix this,' " recalled Marielys Divanne, the lead
organizer with South Bronx Churches.

Contractors descended on the Alexander Avenue buildings. Then, just as quickly,
the work stopped. When the tenants told Kalb that more work remained, he sent
his superintendent around to compile a list of the names and ages of those who
lived in the apartments. Four weeks ago, Sandra, who has lived in the building
for several years, was sleeping on the couch after work when a child came in
with a piece of paper.

It was the letter that appeared to be from the landlord informing tenants that
he had been in touch with Homeland Security. "What little we could understand,
we were very afraid," Sandra said.

Manuela, whose husband works as a dishwasher, nodded. "We were thinking of
leaving. This is no way to live."

Earlier this month, South Bronx Churches contacted the city's Housing
Preservation and Development, which like many city agencies does not help
federal agencies track illegal immigrants who lead otherwise law-abiding lives.
The agency's chief counsel warned Kalb that he was flirting with harassment. "We
are in such a weird time after 9/11," said Carol Abram, a spokeswoman for HPD.
"There can be a fine line between someone who thinks they are doing their civic
duty and someone who harasses his tenants. But persistent psychological
intimidation is harassment."

Kalb said the criticism is unfair. "Why would I want to force them out?" he
asked. "They are paying a very high rent."

As for Manuela and Sandra, they feel the cautious optimism that accompanies
respect. "We know people who died in the World Trade Center," Manuela says. "We
are immigrants trying to build a better life. We just want respect as human
beings."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              214 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 23, 2004 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Tracking 'Terrorist Travel' Is a Key Defense

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A22

LENGTH: 701 words


The U.S. intelligence community has made immense strides in detecting terrorists
by scrutinizing their passports and other travel documents, and U.S. immigration
officials at airports and border posts need to be trained in these arcane
spotting techniques, the commission investigating the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks
concluded in its report released yesterday.

The report contains many previously classified details about an emerging
intelligence community discipline: the tracking of "terrorist travel."
Officials, for example, study the markings on foreigners' passports, analyze the
travel patterns of extremists through lands such as Afghanistan and Pakistan,
and keep abreast of the activities of passport forgers.

Massive expansion of this program is among a number of recommendations dealing
with homeland security in the report.  Some would affect U.S. citizens -- one
said Americans, like many foreign visitors to this country -- should have
passports with their fingerprints or other "biometric" data. Civil libertarians
attacked the idea.

"Targeting [terrorists'] travel is at least as powerful a weapon against
terrorists as targeting their money," the report said. ". . . Better technology
and training to detect terrorist travel documents are the most important
immediate steps to reduce America's vulnerability to clandestine entry."

But, it said, "new insights into terrorist travel have not yet been integrated
into the front lines of border security," such as by training Homeland Security
officers at airports and overseas consulates, and connecting them to databases.
The nation's still-minuscule efforts at terrorist travel intelligence, scattered
among several agencies, have "produced disproportionately useful results," the
report said. The efforts "should be expanded."

Travel is a danger for terrorists because they must present themselves to
government officials, and travel documents are "as important as weapons" to
them, the report said. It documented how al Qaeda set up a passport-making
operation in Afghanistan that altered travel and identity papers. Al Qaeda
members recycled dead members' documents to others, and trained in lifting and
replacing photos and altering border stamps. They also learned and exploited the
minute anomalies in the immigration rules of scores of nations, the report said.

Before the Sept. 11 attacks, the U.S. government was ill-equipped to match al
Qaeda's sophistication in this area, partly because the Immigration and
Naturalization Service was overwhelmed even by its basic immigration tasks, the
report said.

Even so, five al Qaeda members who intended to take part in the Sept. 11 attacks
were denied entry into the United States because their papers were not in order.
The commission's report also said that if immigration rules had been enforced
strictly, as many as 15 of the 19 hijackers might have been barred from the
country because they were not the tourists they claimed to be, or they violated
other regulations.

Officials said analysts at the CIA and elsewhere now keep track of the theft of
blank unissued passports around the world and bribe-taking by employees of
passport offices in foreign nations.

The report said Homeland Security's intelligence operation "should receive more
resources" to develop a corps of analysts dedicated to terrorist travel.

In other recommendations, the commission praised a Homeland Security program
called U.S. VISIT, which collects information about some foreigners entering the
country on visas. It said the program, which stores people's pictures and two
fingerprints, should be expanded to cover millions of other foreign visitors,
and that this data should be integrated into a larger information network.

The Homeland Security Department recently requested bids for a company to create
a prototype U.S. passport with biometric features, along the lines of one of the
commission's recommendations. U.S. officials already have asked other nations to
create such passports.

"We may be getting the back-door creation of a national ID card" that raises
many civil liberties concerns, said Barry Steinhardt, director of the American
Civil Liberties Union's technology and privacy office.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 24, 2004



CORRECTION:  A July 23 article on U.S. intelligence agencies' ability to track
terrorists' travel misidentified the agency that has requested bids to create a
U.S. passport with biometric features, such as fingerprints. It was the State
Department, not the Department of Homeland Security.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              215 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 24, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Bring Dreams and Combs to N.Y. Shop

BYLINE: Peter Goodman, Newsday

SECTION: Metro; B07

LENGTH: 956 words

DATELINE: PLAINVIEW, N.Y.


Rafael Fuzailov's place is a traditional barbershop. The smells, both astringent
and fragrant, are familiar. The steel chairs look as if they've been used for
years. Once in a while, one of the men grabs a broom and cleans up. A sign out
front advertises haircuts for $12.

But around a corner in the back of the shop, a Russian-language newspaper lies
under a ceramic teapot. There is a silver-plated samovar against one wall, and
the barbers' accents are foreign -- the shop is a long way from the cities of
the Great Silk Road of central Asia where the men were born.

Rakhmin Izgelov, who is administering a trim, is from Tashkent. Working the
chair next to him is Rafael's son, Daniel Fuzailov, from Samarkand. They are
Bukharian Jews, barbers transplanted to this shop far from the mountainous land
that was home to their people for centuries.

"I never thought I would be here," said Izgelov, a stocky man with a thick, neat
mustache and a serious expression, who has been cutting hair since 1968. "The
customers are different. But hair is hair."

The Bukharians trace their origins, through Iran and Iraq, to the Persian
Empire, in the centuries after the kingdom of Israel was conquered and its
inhabitants first forced into exile. Today, Bukharians live in Queens, part of a
community of about 50,000 immigrants from Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgystan
and Kazhakstan. For generations, the barbers of central Asia were Jews.

The barbers at Rafael Barber Shop -- nestled in its strip mall near a Starbucks
and a hair salon -- are following a hallowed immigrant path. They are working
their way into American society with the skills they brought from their home
countries, much as how Jewish tailors, Greek cooks and, years ago, Italian
barbers have done.

"There are not too many Italians in the business anymore," said Mike Zholendz of
the American Barber Institute in Manhattan. "Now we have a new breed of people:
The Bukharians are coming."

It helps that it doesn't take much capital to get into the business -- as little
as $10,000, said Gloria Blumenthal of the New York Association for New
Americans, which aids immigrants. She said barbering is the Bukharians' top
profession.

Bukharians are barbering throughout Long Island, though it's difficult to know
exactly how many there are.

"I see a Jewish community. I like to work in a Jewish community," Rafael said,
explaining how he chose Plainview.

He does not work at the shop -- he's got his fingers in other enterprises,
including buying and selling cars -- but his son and his wife, Rachel, do. The
Plainview store also does a little shoe repair, a little jewelry work -- crafts
that Bukharians dominated in the cities of central Asia.

"During Soviet times, most of the professions like barber, photographer, watch
fixers, shoemakers, most of the jobs were controlled by Bukharian Jews," said
Peter Perkhasov, 26, a political science major at Queens College who is director
of www.bukharianjews.com, one of a number of Bukharian Web sites. "There were
barbershops where only Bukharian Jews worked, 20 or 30 people."

Documentary photographer Frederic Brenner made a portrait of one such
establishment in 1989 in Leninabad, Tajikistan, showing 10 Jewish barbers and
their Muslim customers. Eight years later, Brenner found and photographed seven
of the same barbers together in Israel. Along with the 50,000 or so in the New
York area, there are an estimated 100,000 Bukharians in Israel, with a few
thousand more in Austria, France, England, Australia and Argentina. Only about
2,000 are left in Central Asia.

The Bukharians lived in the cities along the Silk Road for hundreds of years,
practicing their own, isolated form of Judaism and speaking a Tajik or Farsi
dialect. As a result of continuous repression and persecution mixed with
occasional periods of free movement, they lost touch with many of their
religious roots.

According to lore, a rabbi from Morocco went to Bukhara, in what is now
Uzbekistan, in the 18th century and instigated a Sephardic religious revival.
"He changed it from the Persian religious tradition to the Sephardic tradition,
but we are not Sephardic Jews," Perkhasov said.

The Bukharians are proud of their Jewish heritage, if not Orthodox in their
observance -- Saturday, the Sabbath, is one of the shop's busiest days. Dmitri
Izkhakov, who also works at Rafael Barber Shop, indicated clearly that he
immigrated because he is Jewish. He arrived in New York in April 2002, because
"there are now 15 [Jewish] families left in Samarkand. There were 10,000
families, and now the synagogue is closing because there is no minyan," he said,
referring to the 10 adult males needed to conduct prayer services.

Barbering is a bit different, both for the newcomers and customers who recall
the old-time practitioners. The Bukharian barbers don't strop their razors the
way the old Italians did; they don't use fragrant oils as much or keep their
scissors and tools in alcohol-filled glasses. "The Italian guys are very slow
and precise," Izgelov said. "We have a little less attention to detail."

And American customers are not the same as the Uzbeks. "In Tashkent, there is
more a standard haircut -- three types of haircuts," he said. "Here, everybody
is different, different kinds."

Ultimately, though, a barber is a barber. Daniel Fuzailov carefully shaved Alan
Sternberg's head while Sternberg's son Jake, 3, perched on his dad's lap. Then
Billy Hunter of Jericho, who had been the store's very first customer, came by
for his regular shave.

"There are very few barbershops that do shaves anymore," Hunter said, settling
back under Izgelov's ministrations. "There's a family atmosphere here. They make
you feel right at home."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              216 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 29, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Officials In Seattle Detain Saudi

BYLINE: Blaine Harden, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE July 28


-- Federal immigration authorities have detained a Saudi citizen who works as a
computer security specialist here at the University of Washington's School of
Nursing.

In connection with the arrest, federal agents seized several computers and
examined Internet servers at the nursing school,  said an employee at the school
who asked not to be identified.

Majid Almassari, 34, who was born in Saudi Arabia, was detained in Seattle on
July 17 on charges that he is in the country illegally, according to Lori Haley,
a spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

"It is an ongoing investigation," she said, declining to provide  other details.

On the morning of Almassari's detention, several federal agents arrived at his
office on the fourth  floor of the university's Health Sciences Building, the
nursing school employee said. Agents told the staff to leave the area and then
seized several computers, the employee said.

A spokesman for the university  declined to  comment on whether computers were
seized from the nursing school.

Almassari has worked at the nursing school for about three years, said Norman G.
Arkans, the university spokesman. He said Almassari's  responsibilities included
administration of the school's computer network, trouble-shooting problems and
writing security patches.

Federal authorities told the university that Almassari's detention is  "related
to a visa violation for drug issues that he has had," Arkans said.

In an unrelated arrest in Texas, federal authorities are investigating whether a
South African woman who tried to board a flight near the U.S.-Mexico border has
ties to terrorist groups, the Associated Press reported.

Farida Goolam Mohamed Ahmed, 48, was arrested July 19 and charged with illegal
entry into the United States, falsifying information and falsifying a passport.
She was denied bond Tuesday by a federal magistrate.

Ahmed was arrested as she tried to board a flight for New York and could not
show a valid visa in her mutilated passport, an FBI affidavit said.

Kyle Welch, Ahmed's attorney, said his client is not charged with any terrorist
activity and does not have a criminal record.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              217 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 4, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Wounded Soldier's New Rank: Citizen;
Immigrant From Guyana Lost A Leg Fighting for U.S. in Iraq

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 628 words


Army Staff Sgt. Hilbert Caesar lost a leg in Iraq, serving a country that wasn't
his.

His heart was American, but his passport said Guyana. That changed yesterday in
a sweltering immigration office in Arlington. Four months after his Army convoy
was devastated by a cluster of roadside bombs in Baghdad, Caesar became a U.S.
citizen, walking into the ceremony with a cane and a powerful sense of optimism.

"I'm ecstatic. I can't even show the emotion," declared Caesar, who has been at
Walter Reed Army Medical Center since April.

Caesar, 26, is one of thousands of immigrants in the military to become citizens
since President Bush issued an order in July 2002 expediting their
naturalization. About 32,400 noncitizens are serving in the armed forces, or
roughly 2.3 percent of the total, according to Lt. Col. Ellen Krenke, a
spokeswoman for the Department of Defense.

Immigrant soldiers have come into the spotlight as they have made the ultimate
sacrifice for the country they serve. Thirty-eight noncitizens serving with the
military have been killed in Afghanistan and Iraq, according to Krenke. One of
the first members of the armed forces to die in combat in Iraq was Marine Lance
Cpl. Jose Gutierrez, a native of Guatemala. He was posthumously awarded
citizenship.

"Your choice to defend your country is . . . respected at the highest levels,"
Eduardo Aguirre, director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, told
Caesar and several other members of the military at the ceremony yesterday.

Immigrants are allowed to join the armed forces as long as they are legal
permanent residents, or green card holders. More than 16,000 have applied to
become citizens since Bush's executive order, which allows them to apply for
naturalization immediately instead of waiting three years, as previously
required of immigrants in the military. Most civilians must wait five years.

Among the 34 who took the oath of citizenship at yesterday's ceremony were a
Dominican serving as an Army administrator and a Jamaican-born Marine.

Two former soldiers who had been posted to Iraq -- a Salvadoran and a Jamaican
-- also became citizens.

But Caesar was the star of the ceremony, a strapping man who walks with a slight
limp. A casual observer might not even notice that one leg was not the one he
started life with.

"You are a man of honor," Aguirre told Caesar. "I'm proud to soon call you a
fellow citizen."

Caesar showed little emotion as he joined the immigrants from 27 countries in an
off-tune rendition of "The Star-Spangled Banner" and raised his right hand to
take the oath of citizenship. But when Aguirre finally said, "Congratulations,
you're U.S. citizens!" Caesar could no longer contain himself.

"Hoo-ah!" he whooped -- the Army's cry of gung-ho commitment and approval.

In a news conference after the ceremony, Caesar said that when he was 11, his
family  emigrated from South America in search of opportunity. He spent his
teens in New York and joined the Army at 20.

"I was born to be a soldier or a police officer," he said, adding later: "I love
helping people. That's what American soldiers do."

He was working as a field artillery section chief with the 1st Armored Division
when he and other soldiers set out along a road in Baghdad on April 18. They
never saw the four explosive devices buried in the dirt. The explosion injured
several other soldiers in addition to Caesar.

Caesar said he didn't want to focus on the bombing but on the future. He hopes
to continue in the military, perhaps as a medical technician, or become a police
officer.

While happy to be a citizen, Caesar said he felt no different.

"I knew I was an American before this," he said. "I always knew I was an
American."

Staff writer Sarah Park contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              218 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 4, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Soldier Wounded in Iraq Has New Rank: Citizen;
Immigrant Lost a Leg Fighting for U.S.

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 628 words


Army Staff Sgt. Hilbert Caesar lost a leg in Iraq, serving a country that wasn't
his.

His heart was American, but his passport said Guyana. That changed yesterday in
a sweltering immigration office in Arlington. Four months after his Army convoy
was devastated by a cluster of roadside bombs in Baghdad, Caesar became a U.S.
citizen, walking into the ceremony with a cane and a powerful sense of optimism.

"I'm ecstatic. I can't even show the emotion," declared Caesar, who has been at
Walter Reed Army Medical Center since April.

Caesar, 26, is one of thousands of immigrants in the military to become citizens
since President Bush issued an order in July 2002 expediting their
naturalization. About 32,400 noncitizens are serving in the armed forces, or
roughly 2.3 percent of the total, according to Lt. Col. Ellen Krenke, a
spokeswoman for the Department of Defense.

Immigrant soldiers have come into the spotlight as they have made the ultimate
sacrifice for the country they serve. Thirty-eight noncitizens serving with the
military have been killed in Afghanistan and Iraq, according to Krenke. One of
the first members of the armed forces to die in combat in Iraq was Marine Lance
Cpl. Jose Gutierrez, a native of Guatemala. He was posthumously awarded
citizenship.

"Your choice to defend your country is . . . respected at the highest levels,"
Eduardo Aguirre, director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, told
Caesar and several other members of the military at the ceremony yesterday.

Immigrants are allowed to join the armed forces as long as they are legal
permanent residents, or green card holders. More than 16,000 have applied to
become citizens since Bush's executive order, which allows them to apply for
naturalization immediately instead of waiting three years, as previously
required of immigrants in the military. Most civilians must wait five years.

Among the 34 who took the oath of citizenship at yesterday's ceremony were a
Dominican serving as an Army administrator and a Jamaican-born Marine.

Two former soldiers who had been posted to Iraq -- a Salvadoran and a Jamaican
-- also became citizens.

But Caesar was the star of the ceremony, a strapping man who walks with a slight
limp. A casual observer might not even notice that one leg was not the one he
started life with.

"You are a man of honor," Aguirre told Caesar. "I'm proud to soon call you a
fellow citizen."

Caesar showed little emotion as he joined the immigrants from 27 countries in an
off-tune rendition of "The Star-Spangled Banner" and raised his right hand to
take the oath of citizenship. But when Aguirre finally said, "Congratulations,
you're U.S. citizens!" Caesar could no longer contain himself.

"Hoo-ah!" he whooped -- the Army's cry of gung-ho commitment and approval.

In a news conference after the ceremony, Caesar said that when he was 11, his
family  emigrated from South America in search of opportunity. He spent his
teens in New York and joined the Army at 20.

"I was born to be a soldier or a police officer," he said, adding later: "I love
helping people. That's what American soldiers do."

He was working as a field artillery section chief with the 1st Armored Division
when he and other soldiers set out along a road in Baghdad on April 18. They
never saw the four explosive devices buried in the dirt. The explosion injured
several other soldiers in addition to Caesar.

Caesar said he didn't want to focus on the bombing but on the future. He hopes
to continue in the military, perhaps as a medical technician, or become a police
officer.

While happy to be a citizen, Caesar said he felt no different.

"I knew I was an American before this," he said. "I always knew I was an
American."

Staff writer Sarah Park contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              219 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 11, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Pakistani Is Held on Immigration Charge;
U.S. Officials Say That Man Had Taken Videotape of Buildings in Several Cities

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A15

LENGTH: 477 words


A Pakistani man was ordered held on immigration charges by a federal magistrate
yesterday, three weeks after a North Carolina police officer arrested him as he
videotaped skyscrapers in downtown Charlotte, law enforcement officials said.

Kamran Akhtar, 36, of New York City's borough of Queens, was arrested on July 20
in Charlotte after he tried to walk away from a police officer who approached to
ask what he was doing, according to a court document released in his case. At
one point, Akhtar  said he was going to the bus station, but it was in the
opposite direction, the document said.

Akhtar's video camera also contained   footage of buildings in Atlanta, Houston,
Dallas and New Orleans, the court document said.

News of the arrest comes amid heightened concern about photos of U.S. financial
institutions that were apparently taken by al Qaeda operatives and found on al
Qaeda computers seized in a raid in Pakistan last month. U.S. officials said the
2000 and 2001 surveillance information showed that terrorists were casing
financial sites in Washington, New York and Newark,  and they raised the
terrorist threat alert status for the financial sectors in those cities on Aug.
1.

A U.S. magistrate yesterday ordered Akhtar, also known as Kamran Shaikh, held on
a charge that he lied to local and federal officers about his immigration
status.  Ordered to leave the country in 1998, he apparently remained illegally.
He is in the custody of  U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Irfan Akhtar said in an interview that his brother  recently received the video
camera as a gift, and was filming  as he traveled the country. His brother  was
laid off recently from a job in a photo store,  Irfan Akhtar said, adding, "He's
not a terrorist."

The  video camera contained videotape not only of the Bank of America and
Wachovia Bank buildings in downtown Charlotte, but also earlier tape of
buildings in downtown Atlanta, Austin, Houston, Dallas and New Orleans,
according to an affidavit filed by ICE agent John Scott Sherrill. In addition,
there was tape of a dam outside Austin and of trolley and transportation systems
in several cities, it said.

"It has sparked suspicions and a full-blown investigation," said a government
official who declined to be identified because of the sensitive nature of the
case. He added that at this point officials are not saying  the case involves
terrorism.

Officials said  Akhtar  lied in stating that he had a "green card" to live in
this country, the ICE agent's affidavit said. A New York immigration court in
1998 gave him a few months to leave the United States, it said.

Charlotte Police Officer Anthony Maglione said at  a news conference yesterday
that Akhtar was "evasive" under questioning, and that "his statements were all
over the place" about what he was doing in the city, the Associated Press said.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              220 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 24, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Survey Finds Border Agents Critical of Training, Resources

BYLINE: Mary Fitzgerald, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A15

LENGTH: 615 words


A dispute has broken out between the Department of Homeland Security and unions
representing Border Patrol workers and immigration officers after the
publication of a survey that found that most employees believe they have not
been given sufficient resources, training and support to fight terrorism.

The survey was commissioned by two labor organizations, the National Homeland
Security Council and the National Border Patrol Council, together with the
American Federation of Government Employees. It consisted of telephone
interviews with 250 Border Patrol agents and 250 Bureau of Customs and Border
Protection inspectors.

Sixty-four percent of those surveyed said they were somewhat or not really
satisfied with the "tools, training and support" they have for dealing with
terrorist threats. Sixty-two percent said Homeland Security could do more to
protect the country from terrorist attacks, with two in five believing the
department could do "a lot more."

While 77 percent said they had seen a significant shift in their
responsibilities since Sept. 11, 2001, 44 percent said they believe the country
is no safer today than it was on that date.

Most of those polled cited a recently introduced hiring freeze and proposed new
pay systems and personnel regulations as having a negative effect on their
ability to accomplish the department's mission, with just under two-thirds
reporting low morale among fellow employees.

"The results we are releasing today don't come as a surprise to those of us who
work on the borders; however, it should be very disturbing news to most
Americans," Charles Showalter, president of the National Homeland Security
Council, said at a news conference.

The Department of Homeland Security questioned the methodology used in the
survey, contending that the poll was not representative.

"The survey is, in our opinion, inaccurate, biased and agenda-driven," said
Christiana Halsey, a spokeswoman for  the Bureau of Customs and Border
Protection. "They did not survey a large enough pool to create an accurate
picture. We are an agency of nearly 42,000 employees. They only interviewed 500
people for this survey."

Halsey added that those polled were all union members. "They did not survey a
good sampling of the workforce. That throws the idea of a balanced survey out
the window," she said.

Responding to the finding that most of those questioned believe the department
could do better, she said: "We don't disagree with that. That's why we are
continuing to assess and look at areas of weaknesses and create programs,
initiatives and partnerships to confront those weaknesses. We will continue to
evolve to address the terrorist threat.

"The findings do cause concern," Halsey said, "but in the sense that it is
disheartening that they would release a survey that misinforms the workforce
about what is being done at a time of increased risk when we need employees to
focus on their priority mission of antiterrorism."

T.J. Bonner, president of the National Border Patrol Council, said the
department failed to acknowledge the concerns raised in the survey.

"They are just trying to obfuscate by choosing to focus on the methodology used
in this survey rather than the strong feelings of their workers and the real
issues they face," he said. "They are just burying their heads in the sand."

Geoffrey Garin, president of Peter D. Hart Research Associates, the firm that
carried out the poll, defended the findings.

"My guess is that this is more about the department not liking the results more
than anything else," he said. "I would be happy to administer the survey amongst
the remaining employees. My suspicion is that the results would be the same."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              221 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 26, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

An International Attraction;
Foreign Families Are Lured by Howard Schools' Reputation

BYLINE: Ylan Q. Mui, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Howard Extra; T10

LENGTH: 932 words


According to school documents, the two shy children playing with stickers and
crayons in the Office of International Student Services are Se Hee and Se Won
Jang.  But ask the kids who they are, and they'll say Leah and John, decidedly
American names.

The siblings -- Leah is 9, and John is 10 -- can speak only a few English words
besides their adopted names. They immigrated with their parents from the Jeonra
Do province of South Korea early this year. The family had intended to stay in
the United States for only a few weeks to visit a friend who lives in Baltimore
County. But during church one day, they heard people talking about the quality
of schools in Howard County and decided to move here permanently.

"They thought this is a very good country for their children to study," said
Jamie Kim, a Howard County school system employee who was interpreting for the
children's mother, Ji Yeong Kim.

It is a refrain echoed by hundreds of immigrant families who have moved into
Howard in recent years, drawn by its reputation for high-performing schools.
School officials said the number of students enrolled in English for Speakers of
Other Languages classes grew by more than 400 from 1999 to 2003, when the total
was 1,684. A complete tally for the most recent school year is not available.

Children from all over the world -- China, Korea, Nigeria, Ethiopia and
Portugal, for example -- come through the county's international student office.
The Jangs were among the first of nearly 10 families that stopped by the office
one day last week to enroll. Immigrant students must enroll through the office
if they have been living in another country or if they were in another school
system but still need help with English.

Howard school officials said they don't know how many immigrant children have
registered this year; an average of eight families a day have signed up in
recent weeks.

For many of these families, the start of the school year is about more than new
teachers, new friends and finding the perfect outfit to wear on the first day.
It is also the chance to start a new life.

That is what prompted Hye Jung Ko to leave her home near Seoul in late March
with her two daughters, Debbie Kim, 7, and Hanny Kim, 11, and six suitcases. Her
husband stayed in Korea. Ko doesn't think he'll be able to join them for three
or four years.

The family lives in a sparse apartment in Ellicott City, home base for much of
the county's Korean population. Debbie will attend Hollifield Station Elementary
School, and Hanny will go to Patapsco Middle School. Although they have started
making friends with some children who live nearby, the girls nodded their heads
vigorously when asked if they miss home.

Ko and her daughters e-mail her husband every day using the Korean characters
taped over English letters on their keyboard. As a going-away present, he gave
Debbie a tiny MP3 recorder so she could tape her school lessons and replay words
she doesn't understand.

To get ready for school, the girls have been practicing English all summer
during language classes at their church.  One morning last week, Debbie
scribbled intently on a pink pad of paper.

"Plase knock!!" she wrote in uncertain letters. "And do not enter. . . . I love
my room."

On Friday, Ko took the girls shopping for school supplies at Wal-Mart. She also
checked out library books for them: "The Cat In the Hat," "The Lady With the
Alligator Purse" and "Emma's Magic Water."

Ko, who'd heard of Howard's schools before coming to this country, said she is
not really concerned about her daughters' academic performance and is confident
that they will quickly catch up with other students. What worries her more is
whether they will make friends.

When they first moved to the county, Debbie was too shy to speak English with
the kids at a nearby swimming pool. But lately, she has started trying out a few
words. Last weekend, she and her sister also started horse-riding lessons, and
Debbie will take ballet this fall.

"I think it's a good chance for her to speak English and make friends, American
friends," Ko said.

School officials said they usually try to place immigrant students into classes
with children close to their own age, even if their skills are far lower, to
ease their social transition. The students are often pulled out of class for
part of the day for intense language training.

Leah could read only about 70 percent of the simple words -- such as "the," "a"
and "was" -- on a placement test that she took while her parents filled out a
mound of forms in the international office. She fared slightly better on a math
test that included fractions, long division and word problems written in Korean.

Still, the teacher who administered the tests recommended that Leah start in
fourth grade at Elkridge Landing. John, her brother, will be in fifth grade.

When Mary K. Bunting heard that news, she rushed over to the international
office. "Hello!" she boomed in a clear, strong voice. "I'm your [English for
Speakers of Other Languages] teacher."

Bunting, whose students just call her "Mrs. B," leaned over Leah and John and
shook their hands. "Make it a little stronger," she told Leah, "a firm
handshake."

John responded to his handshake with a halting, "Nice to meet you."

Bunting told him he had a lot to look forward to in fifth grade, among the
oldest kids in school. John just blinked and answered with his best word,
"Okay."

"I'll see you in a week," she told the children before leaving. "This is going
to be fun."

Bunting waved good-bye to them, and Leah and John waved back, smiling.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              222 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 28, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Bosnian Refugee Accused of Lying For Immigration

BYLINE: Jonathan Finer, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 452 words

DATELINE: BOSTON Aug. 27


Prosecutors here say a construction worker who lives in a suburb north of Boston
was part of a military unit that executed hundreds of Muslim civilians in the
former Yugoslavia during the conflict there in the 1990s.

Marko Boskic was arrested Wednesday at his home in Peabody, Mass., according to
the office of U.S. Attorney Michael J. Sullivan. He was charged Thursday with
two counts of making false statements on immigration forms to conceal his
membership in the 10th Sabotage Detachment, a Serb military unit  that carried
out the slaughter near the Bosnian town of Srebrenica in July  1995.

If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison followed by three
years of supervised release and a fine of $250,000 for each count. He also could
be deported.

"Lying to gain safe harbor in the United States undermines the integrity of our
immigration policies and will not be tolerated," Sullivan said in a statement.
"We continue to aggressively pursue this investigation both here and abroad."

The Boston Globe reported  Friday that Boskic is believed to be one of  eight
men who carried out orders to kill 1,200 unarmed men and boys  near the village
of Pilica, part of a wave of violence that claimed some 8,000 lives in just over
a week. It is considered the largest-scale massacre of civilians in Europe since
World War II.

But a spokeswoman for Sullivan's office said that so far Boskic, a 40-year-old
Bosnian Croat, had not been identified as one of the killers.

According to an affidavit submitted by a federal investigator, Boskic entered
the United States from Germany in April  2000 after seeking refugee status by
claiming he had avoided military service.

"I didn't want to fight in an ethnic war against people I lived with," he wrote
on an immigration form, according to the affidavit.

A  soldier from  the 10th Sabotage Detachment identified Boskic in a video of an
awards ceremony for the  unit. The video was provided by the International
Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, a   U.N. organization  that
prosecutes war crimes, according to the affidavit.

Boskic's name came up last year during the war crimes trial of former Yugoslav
leader Slobodan Milosevic, when Drazen Erdemovic, who pleaded guilty to
involvement in the killings at Pilica, identified Boskic as a participant.

Boskic's attorney, Max D. Stern, of Boston, did not return a telephone call
seeking comment.

Since arriving in the United States, Boskic has had several brushes with law
enforcement, including arrests for assault and drunken driving.

Arthur Liaperdos, who  lives next door to Boskic, called him "unfriendly"  and
said he often heard Boskic fighting with a girlfriend and saw him pushing  her.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              223 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 29, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Detainee Still in Limbo;
U.S. Unsuccessful in Deporting Palestinian

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J. Aug. 28


Immigration agents tried unsuccessfully to put a Palestinian detained in limbo
in the United States on a cargo ship without a passport, according to lawyers
for the man and a shipping company.

Salim Yassir, 28, was caught in 2000 trying to enter the United States aboard a
ship from England. Since then, he has been imprisoned while officials try to
deport him to a country willing to accept him.

Israel has refused to accept Yassir, who is originally from the Gaza Strip,
because he has no original Israeli or Palestinian travel documents. Libya, where
Yassir lived as a teenager, officially expelled all Palestinian refugees in
1995.

Earlier this month, a federal appeals court ordered the judge in Yassir's case
to consider releasing him, saying his deportation "does not appear reasonably
foreseeable."

Immigration officials instead tried to put Yassir on a ship to England without a
passport,  said his lawyer and a lawyer for the shipping company Wallenius
Lines, which owned the ship on which Yassir arrived in the United States.

"Instead of releasing him, they try to take him in the middle of the night and
put him on a ship," Yassir's  lawyer, Joshua Bardavid, told  the Star-Ledger of
Newark.

Wallenius's  lawyers learned about the plan Thursday and refused to allow him on
the ship, which was to depart the Port of Baltimore on Friday.

"It would have been a difficult situation, to put it mildly," said Frank Turner,
a lawyer for Wallenius.

Immigration officials declined to comment to the newspaper, and a spokesman for
the federal detention center in Elizabeth, where Yassir is housed, did not
immediately return a call Saturday.

In a telephone interview last month, Yassir said he was willing to be deported
anywhere.

"I'm ready to go," he said. "I just need my freedom. If they want to deport me,
I'm ready to go."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              224 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 23, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Anti-Terror Measures Delaying Green Cards

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 827 words


The number of foreigners who became permanent U.S. immigrants dropped sharply in
2003 as anti-terrorism measures delayed the processing of applications,
according to a new government report.

The report, released recently by the Department of Homeland Security, showed
that 705,827 people became legal permanent residents in fiscal 2003, down from
1.06 million the year before. The Washington area recorded a 22 percent decline.
A permanent-resident document, known as a "green card," allows an immigrant to
live and work indefinitely in the United States and is the first step toward
citizenship.

The decline does not mean that immigration is drying up. In fact, the number of
newly arrived legal immigrants declined just 7 percent. Most of those affected
by the trend were foreigners already here -- students, workers and others -- who
were hoping to become permanent residents. Only 347,416 got green cards in 2003,
roughly half the number as in the previous year, because of the slowdown in
processing.

Although many of those immigrants were in the United States on temporary visas,
the delays in getting permanent papers often caused hardship, immigrant
advocates and attorneys said.

"This is really about how the federal immigration system post-9/11 has
collapsed," said Michael Maggio, a D.C. immigration attorney.

Federal authorities defended their performance, saying they have had to deal
with a host of new security measures after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks. They noted that about 1,000 immigration workers were diverted in 2003
to a Justice Department program to register male visitors from many
predominantly Muslim countries, reducing the number who could process
applications. In addition, millions of applicants were required to go through
extra background checks.

"We have a responsibility . . . to ensure no one takes advantage of our
hospitality to do us harm," said Christopher Bentley, a spokesman for the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of Homeland Security.

The new measures contributed to a backlog at the immigration service. The number
of pending applications for all immigration benefits grew by nearly 60 percent
in three years, to 6.2 million at the end of fiscal 2003, according to a
Government Accountability Office report this year. That number has since dropped
below 6 million, and about 3.6 million have been pending for more than six
months, officials said.

For many of those applying to be permanent residents, the long wait can frazzle
nerves -- or worse. Without a green card, some immigrants can't travel outside
the country or get in-state tuition rates. In the most extreme cases, immigrants
can fall out of legal status while waiting for their permanent papers, risking
the loss of jobs and even deportation.

Alba Salgado, 32, a hotel housekeeper who lives in Alexandria, has a work permit
through a program called temporary protected status. But in the 10 years since
she was sponsored for a green card by her father, a legal resident, she hasn't
been able to travel outside the country.

In the summer, she sends her two children, ages 13 and 6, to visit relatives in
El Salvador, but she can't join them.

"It's difficult for me to send them there with my dad and stay here alone," she
said.

Salgado said she was informed by immigration authorities last year that she
would get her residency soon. But her file was lost in the upheaval that
occurred when the immigration service was folded into Homeland Security in March
2003, Salgado said. She has had to re-submit many of her documents.

"It's a long time saying, 'Maybe this year, maybe this year,' " she said.

The Washington region gained 29,845 permanent residents last year, down from
38,468 a year earlier, according to the Homeland Security report.

President Bush vowed when he was elected to have every immigration application
processed within six months of submission, and authorities have spent hundreds
of millions of dollars to try to cut the backlog. But they have made limited
progress because of the added checks.

Immigration critics and supporters say the new figures show a mismatch between
the immigration service's resources and commitments.

"If we want an immigration system that is both secure and admits huge numbers of
people, we need to spend enormous amounts of money to make it work," said Mark
Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates lower levels of
immigration.

The processing delays also affected the number of people becoming U.S. citizens
last year. A total of 463,204 were naturalized, down 19 percent from a year
earlier.

In addition to those arriving legally, the immigration service estimates that
the population of unauthorized immigrants grows by 300,000 to 350,000 annually
and now totals about 8 million. More than half of those illegal immigrants sneak
over the border; others overstay their visas, statistics show.

Staff writer D'Vera Cohn contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              225 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 24, 2004 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Metro;
In Brief

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 1092 words


THE REGION

U.S. immigration officials said yesterday that they have made strong progress in
recent months in reducing a backlog of applications for immigration benefits.

A report  this year showed that the number of pending applications for all
benefits had mushroomed by nearly 60 percent in three years, to 6.2 million at
the end of fiscal  2003.

Eduardo Aguirre, director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, said at
a news conference yesterday that the number has since dropped to 4.8 million. He
attributed the change to technological improvements and streamlined procedures.

Authorities said far fewer applications were processed in 2003 because of
security requirements imposed after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. No
breakdown was released yesterday on how many immigrants have been granted
permanent resident status this year.

The Washington area ranks 13th among the nation's smoggiest big cities,
according to a report released yesterday by the environmental group U.S. PIRG.

The group studied levels of ozone, a primary component of smog, and soot in the
air during 2003. It found that there were 64 times last year when the  area's
smog levels exceeded the recommendations set by the Environmental Protection
Agency for eight hours of exposure. The top two spots for smog were in the Los
Angeles metropolitan region, followed by Houston, according to the study.

THE DISTRICT

District residents will be able to receive free medical and dental services and
job information at a community fair tomorrow  from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at Benning
Terrace, at 4450 G St. SE.

More than 25 D.C.  government agencies and faith-based and community groups, led
by the D.C. Department of Human Services, have joined together to present the
fair and two others next month. There will be free exhibits, entertainment and
information about free prenatal care, food assistance, medical insurance,
college scholarships and senior citizen and other services.

The additional fairs will be held Oct. 9 at River Terrace in Northeast and Oct.
16 at the Marie Reed Learning Center in Northwest. For more information, call
202-671-4436.

MARYLAND

Former Oregon senator Mark O. Hatfield is in intensive care with a head injury
he suffered after helping to open a building named in his honor in Bethesda, a
family spokesman said yesterday.

Hatfield, 82, widely considered the senior statesman of Oregon politics, fell
and struck his head in his daughter's home in Bethesda  Wednesday evening after
attending the dedication of a  building at the National Institutes of Health,
said Gerry Frank, a longtime friend who served as chief of staff to the former
Republican senator.

Hatfield was taken by ambulance to Suburban Hospital in Bethesda and later
transferred to Washington Hospital Center, where he was being treated in the
intensive care unit, Frank said.

Montgomery County fire officials said they are trying to determine whether a
fire set at a Wheaton condominium building early yesterday  is linked to a
series of arsons across the region.

Someone set fire to the outside of a garage on the ground level of the
three-story Tiers of Wheaton condominiums in the 10000 block of Amherst Avenue,
said Pete Piringer, spokesman for Montgomery County Fire and Rescue.

None of the building's dozen or so residents was hurt. The fire was set about
3:40 a.m. and caused $5,000 in damage to the garage door and some siding,
Piringer said. He  said it was similar to the serial arsons because someone set
fire to the exterior of an occupied building in the middle of the night.

If linked, it would mark the second time that authorities believe the serial
arsonist has struck in Montgomery County. The first time was Feb. 14, when three
people were treated for smoke inhalation after their Silver Spring apartment
building was torched.

Investigators are trying to determine whether the Wheaton fire was the 40th in
the region linked to a serial arsonist over the past 18 months. Authorities have
said they suspect, but have not concluded, that two other fires since Sept. 17,
in the District and in Prince George's County, also are linked to the string of
arsons.

Anyone with information can reach the arson task force at 301-77-ARSON.

The Chesapeake Ranch Water Co. filed a lawsuit yesterday against the Calvert
County Board of Commissioners and the Maryland Department of the Environment,
seeking to prevent the county from building a pipeline next to the utility's
existing facilities.

The suit, filed in Baltimore City Circuit Court, alleges that the county has not
received the proper environmental permits for a two-mile water line and
production well in Lusby. The utility also said the county's water plans are
inadequately designed, a waste of taxpayer money and a threat to the 10,000
users of Chesapeake's water system.

The dispute began in  February, when the county decided to supply water to the
growing town center in Lusby instead of using Chesapeake. The utility lost a
federal lawsuit to block the county's plans but has appealed the decision.

VIRGINIA

Forty-one administrators at Prince William County elementary schools have signed
a letter asking the School Board to extend Superintendent Edward L. Kelly's
contract.

Kelly announced this month that this year, his 18th, would be his last at the
head of the 65,000-student system. Although he had sought a two-year extension
when his contract expires in the spring, he said School Board members made clear
that they were ready for a change and he withdrew his request.

"Please reconsider your stance and convince Dr. Kelly to remain as
superintendent of schools for at least two more years," the letter read. "We
want to be led by him."

Jarcelyn Hart, who has taught in the county for 12 years and is the principal of
Minnieville Elementary, was one of the signers. "I just support his leadership,"
he said. Kelly, who was present when the principals read the letter at a School
Board meeting Wednesday, said he appreciated the support. "When people stand up
and say those things that are so flattering to you, you can't help but be a
little bit embarrassed," he said.

"The only surprise is that they admitted it."

--  Red Line rider Tom Peterson, on disclosure by Metro officials

yesterday that the rail system's cars are breaking down nearly twice

as often as they did three years ago. -- Page A1

Compiled from reports by staff writers Mary Beth Sheridan, David A. Fahrenthold,
Karlyn Barker, Katherine Shaver, Amit R. Paley and Christina A. Samuels and the
Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 2, 2004



CORRECTION:  A Sept. 24 Metro in Brief item reported that the group U.S. PIRG
had ranked the Washington area 13th among the nation's smoggiest big cities.
This week, the group said it had discovered an error in its calculations. Its
corrected report ranks the area 22nd.The Washington Post is committed to
correcting errors that appear in the newspaper. Those interested in contacting
the paper for that purpose can send an e-mail to

corrections@washpost.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              226 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 15, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Two Accused Of Trafficking

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A15

LENGTH: 123 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore.


Two members of a cargo ship crew faced charges of human trafficking Friday after
five Chinese nationals were found aboard the vessel, officials said.

The five were in good shape but appeared disappointed at being found, Coast
Guard Lt.

Bart Robinson said.

He Hai and Zhang Jing De, crew members in their thirties, were arraigned before
a federal judge on an alien harboring charge, which carries a maximum penalty of
10 years in prison but is usually dealt with less severely, according to
prosecutor Michael Brown.

U.S. Customs officials boarded the ship when it arrived at the mouth of the
Columbia River on Jan. 30, but the stowaways were not discovered until the ship
docked in Portland and the captain reported it, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              227 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Pr. George's Questions Detention Center Plan;
Congressional Action May Stall Bid Process

BYLINE: Paul Schwartzman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1130 words


It is not the sort of development that political leaders had in mind when they
pledged to improve life in Prince George's County: a federal detention center.

And yet three companies have identified sites in the county and expressed their
interest in building and running just such a project for the U.S. Justice
Department. One has gone so far as to hire lobbyists to argue its case.

The effort hit a snag this week when congressional negotiators added a provision
to a budget bill saying that the Justice Department agency soliciting bidders
had no authority to do so. Maryland lawmakers said they hope the move will
stall, if not kill, the detention center proposal.

The Federal Detention Trustee Office has been seeking a private company to own
and operate a 1,750-bed facility for prisoners awaiting trials, sentencing
hearings and proceedings to determine immigration status. The detention center
could be located in the District or in one of five Maryland counties: Anne
Arundel, Baltimore, Howard, Montgomery or Prince George's.

Several companies have expressed interest in the project, including two based in
Florida, Wackenhut Corrections Corp. and Correctional Services Corp., and
Tennessee-based Corrections Corporation of America. Three sites have been
suggested in Prince George's and one in Baltimore County.

But the request for bids has brought fierce opposition from local and
congressional officials. Prince George's County Executive Jack B. Johnson (D)
recently wrote a letter to the county's congressional delegation saying he was
"absolutely opposed to any federal prison being sited for [Upper Marlboro] or
any other part of Prince George's County."

"This facility would affect the quality of life and the public safety of all
Prince Georgians," he said, a view echoed in a letter from U.S. Sens. Paul S.
Sarbanes (D-Md.) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) to Attorney General John D.
Ashcroft.

Opponents aimed to stall the detention center effort with a provision added to
the 2004 omnibus appropriations conference report saying the Office of Federal
Detention Trustee cannot solicit bids for a center. The report could be approved
in the weeks ahead.

According to the report, the Office of Federal Detention Trustee can use only
existing state, local and private detention space to meet its needs. If
additional space is required, the matter should be handled by the Bureau of
Prisons, another arm of the Justice Department. Also, the report calls for
setting up a task force to study the matter.

Prince George's Council member Samuel H. Dean (D-Mitchellville) was heartened by
the news that the agency may have to hold off on its bidding process. "I'm glad
that the feds are taking a stand," Dean said. "I was never enthused about a
prison coming to the area. So I'm glad to hear that. I'm looking for different
types of employment opportunities for this area."

Since the 1980s, state and federal officials have turned increasingly to
companies to build and operate prisons, saying the ventures result in more
streamlined operations and savings for taxpayers.

But the privately run prisons have also had their share of problems. Guards at a
Louisiana juvenile facility operated by Wackenhut, for example, beat inmates and
subjected them to humiliating punishments, a Justice Department report found
several years ago.

New York officials slapped a $300,000 fine this year on Correctional Services
Corp. for failing to report meals, trips and gifts it had bought for more than a
dozen state lawmakers in its quest to renew contracts.

"We are not fond of privately run prisons," said Jamie Fellner, director of the
U.S. Program of Human Rights Watch. "Liberty should not be put in private hands.
It is profoundly troubling to have any part of the criminal justice system in
the hands of people whose allegiance is not to the state. I wouldn't want
private police or private judges."

Private prison companies said their projects bring jobs to a community as they
save money for federal and state governments.

Steve Owen, a spokesman for Corrections Corporation of America, said the
Nashville-based company has identified several sites for a federal detention
center in the Washington region, although he declined to identify them. Tom
Rapone, Correctional Services Corp.'s chief financial officer, said the company
has told Justice officials that it would bid to locate the detention center in
Dundalk, near Baltimore.

A spokesman for Wackenhut did not return two phone calls seeking comment.

In recent months, Wackenhut officials have turned to well-connected players in
the Prince George's political world to help them generate support for their
proposal to build the facility at Pennsylvania Avenue and Westphalia Road in
Upper Marlboro. Wackenhut would need to win zoning approval from the County
Council to build on that site.

The company hired the law firm of O'Malley, Miles, Nylen & Gilmore, a fixture in
the county for decades, to represent it in meetings with officials. On the
advice of John Davey, the firm's managing partner, the company also hired
Charles Dukes, chairman of the Prince George's Economic Development Corp., who
headed Johnson's transition committee.

Dukes said he notified Johnson of the proposal, and he and Wackenhut officials
also met with council member Dean, whose district includes the Pennsylvania
Avenue site.

Dean declined to take a position on the project, saying he would listen to all
sides and make public his opinion if the matter comes before the council.
Wackenhut officials, he said, sought to sell the project by saying it would
create jobs in Prince George's.

But Dean said his constituents have also weighed in, telling him they're
opposed. "What the community is looking for is quality economic development, and
a prison does not constitute that," he said.

The Little Washington Civic Association in Upper Marlboro hosted a community
meeting this month to discuss the project, and more than 200 people showed up
anticipating a presentation from Wackenhut officials, said Darryl Harris, the
organization's president. But Wackenhut officials did not appear.

Harris said the neighborhood already is home to several landfills. "We have so
much. Now you're going to make us take a prison on top of that?" he said.

The prison companies also have expressed interest in sites at Cheltenham, where
the state already maintains a juvenile facility, as well as in Brandywine along
Route 301.

Jorge Martinez, a Justice Department spokesman, said that the agency is in the
early stages of identifying a suitable location and that it would review
opposition from political and community leaders. "Those views will be
incorporated and taken into account," he said.

Staff writer Ovetta Wiggins contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              228 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 18, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Mikulski Decries Detention Center Plan;
Senator Criticizes Justice Department for Not Consulting Pr. George's Residents

BYLINE: Ovetta Wiggins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 555 words


Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) accused the Justice Department yesterday of
attempting a "backroom deal" to build a federal maximum-security detention
center in Maryland.

"It was planned without the community [and] . . . without elected officials. It
was done as a sweetheart deal in the middle of the night," Mikulski told a
meeting of elected officials and community leaders at Westphalia United
Methodist Church in Upper Marlboro. The Prince George's County seat is one of
several possible locations for the center.

Mikulski was referring to the department's decision to solicit, without public
input, bids for a private company to own and operate a 1,750-bed facility for
prisoners awaiting trials, sentencing hearings or immigration proceedings.
Several firms have expressed interest, including Florida-based Wackenhut
Corrections Corp. and Tennessee-based Corrections Corp. of America.

"This is not about NIMBY [not in my back yard], it's about communication and
conversation," she said, urging the group to organize against the plan.

The detention center could be located in the District or one of five Maryland
counties: Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Howard, Montgomery or Prince George's.

The companies have identified three sites in Prince George's, in Upper Marlboro,
Cheltenham and Brandywine.

Darryl Harris, president of the Little Washington Civic Association in Upper
Marlboro, said he is tired of his community being the place of choice for
undesirable projects.

Within a two-mile radius in his community, Harris said, there is an asphalt
plant and a landfill. "We're already the dumping ground," he said. "We just feel
that enough is enough."

Jorge Martinez, a spokesman for the Justice Department, would not comment on
Mikulski's characterization of the bidding process. He did say the department
plans discussions with communities near possible sites.

"As we have said from day one, we plan to seek input from the community," he
said.

Patricia K. Sledge, a Prince George's resident who represented Wackenhut at the
meeting, said the company identified the Upper Marlboro site -- at Pennsylvania
Avenue and Westphalia Road -- because the land is available, zoned
commercial-industrial and easily accessible from the Capital Beltway.

"We try to put these detention centers where they are needed," she said. "And
it's needed in the D.C. area."

Mikulski said she and Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.) will do what they can to
stall, if not kill, the proposal. The 2004 budget bill awaiting final passage by
Congress includes a provision barring the Justice Department's Office of the
Federal Detention Trustee from pursuing bids for the project. The two Maryland
senators said they will seek to retain the measure. That would stop the project
for as long as a year, Mikulski said.

Vernon R. Herron, public safety director in Prince George's, told the group that
he could not guarantee the security of residents with a detention center nearby.
He said the county executive is working with the county attorney to see whether
the project can be blocked through zoning changes.

Sledge said later that the detainees who would be housed in the center are
already in the area.

"These 1,750 inmates are already here," she said. "They're housed at the Prince
George's County jail, the Charles County jail and other county jails."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              229 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 18, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Mikulski Cries Foul On Detention Center

BYLINE: Ovetta Wiggins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 526 words


Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) accused the Justice Department yesterday of
attempting a "backroom deal" to build a federal maximum-security detention
center in Maryland.

"It was planned without the community [and] . . . without elected officials. It
was done as a sweetheart deal in the middle of the night," Mikulski told a
meeting of elected officials and community leaders at Westphalia United
Methodist Church in Upper Marlboro. The Prince George's County seat is one of
several possible locations for the center.

Mikulski was referring to the department's decision to solicit, without public
input, bids for a private company to own and operate a 1,750-bed facility for
prisoners awaiting trials, sentencing hearings or immigration proceedings.
Several firms have expressed interest, including Florida-based Wackenhut
Corrections Corp. and Tennessee-based Corrections Corp. of America.

"This is not about NIMBY [not in my back yard], it's about communication and
conversation," she said, urging the group to organize against the plan.

The detention center could be located in the District or one of five Maryland
counties: Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Howard, Montgomery or Prince George's. The
companies have identified three sites in Prince George's, in Upper Marlboro,
Cheltenham and Brandywine.

Darryl Harris, president of the Little Washington Civic Association in Upper
Marlboro, said he is tired of his community being the place of choice for
undesirable projects.

Within a two-mile radius in his community, Harris said, there is an asphalt
plant and a landfill. "We're already the dumping ground," he said. "We just feel
that enough is enough."

Jorge Martinez, a spokesman for the Justice Department, would not comment on
Mikulski's characterization of the bidding process. He did say the department
plans discussions with communities near possible sites.

"As we have said from day one, we plan to seek input from the community," he
said.

Patricia K. Sledge, a Prince George's resident who represented Wackenhut at the
meeting, said the company identified the Upper Marlboro site -- at Pennsylvania
Avenue and Westphalia Road -- because the land is available, zoned
commercial-industrial and easily accessible from the Capital Beltway.

"We try to put these detention centers where they are needed," she said. "And
it's needed in the D.C. area."

Mikulski said she and Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.) will do what they can to
stall, if not kill, the proposal. The 2004 budget bill awaiting final passage by
Congress includes a provision barring the Justice Department's Office of the
Federal Detention Trustee from pursuing bids for the project.

Vernon R. Herron, public safety director in Prince George's,  said he could not
guarantee the security of residents with a detention center nearby. He said the
county executive is working with the county attorney to see whether the project
can be blocked through zoning changes.

Sledge said later that the detainees who would be housed in the center are
already in the area.

"These 1,750 inmates are . . . at the Prince George's County jail, the Charles
County jail and other county jails," she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              230 of 230 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 4, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Former Detainees Allege Post-9/11 Abuse

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 257 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK May 3


A Middle Eastern immigrant alleges that he was violated during a body-cavity
search at a federal jail following the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

The lawsuit filed Monday by the man and another former detainee contends they
were put in solitary confinement, beaten and verbally abused by jail guards.

They were later cleared of allegations that they had terrorist ties but were
deported after pleading guilty to other charges. Javaid Iqbal, who admitted
having false papers and bogus checks, now lives in Pakistan; Ehab Elmaghraby,
who pleaded guilty to credit-card fraud, lives in Egypt.

Unlike a pending civil complaint by other Sept. 11 detainees, also filed federal
court in Brooklyn, the new suit identifies guards at the Metropolitan Detention
Center by their last names and accuses them of more extreme abuses.

Elmaghraby, a former restaurateur, and Iqbal, a former cable technician, "were
subjected to numerous unreasonable and unnecessary" strip searches, the suit
says.

One guard allegedly paraded Elmaghraby naked in front of a female co-worker. The
same guard later inserted a flashlight into Elmaghraby's rectum as others
watched, the suit said. Both men say they were shackled, punched and called
"Muslim bastards" and other epithets.

The men seek  damages for physical and emotional harm.

The detention center in Brooklyn was cited for brutal treatment of detainees in
a report last year by the Justice Department inspector general. Federal
prosecutors recently decided against bringing criminal charges against any
guards.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post
