
                               1 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Justices receptive to parts of Arizona's immigration law

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1175 words


The Supreme Court on Wednesday sharply questioned the Obama administration's
view of the limited roles states may play in enforcing immigration laws and
seemed receptive to a central part of Arizona's controversial crackdown on
illegal immigrants.

Justices on both sides of the court's ideological divide expressed skepticism
that Arizona's requirement that police check the immigration status of people
they arrest or detain is an impermissible intrusion on Congress's power to set
immigration policy or the executive branch's ability to implement it.

"You can see it's not selling very well," Justice Sonia Sotomayor told the
federal government'slawyer. Arizona's attempt to alert federal authorities that
a person may be in the country illegally does not force "you to change your
enforcement priorities," said Sotomayor, one of the court's liberals and its
first Hispanic member.
http://www.supremecourt.gov/oral_arguments/argument_transcripts/11-182.pdf

But the justices did question other aspects of the Arizona law, particularly
provisions that make it a crime for an illegal immigrant to seek work and allow
non-citizens to be arrested for not carrying documentation.

That raised the prospect of a split decision. And even if key parts of the law
are upheld, future legal battles are inevitable as Arizona and other states
attempt to implement tough legislation that civil rights groups say could
violate constitutional rights.

Chanting protesters outside the court said that Arizona's S.B. 1070 has created
a climate of fear among the state's mostly Latino immigrant population and that
it will lead to racial and ethnic profiling. Gov. Jan Brewer (R), who has been
closely identified with the law, emerged from the oral argument saying that she
was "very, very" encouraged and that protesters were playing "the race card."

It was a different scene - and a different emphasis - inside the courtroom.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. went out of his way to say that the court's
consideration of the law would not deal with those issues. Instead, the
deliberations were a revival of the questions of federal power and states'
rights that marked last month's historic arguments about President Obama's
health-care law.

"No part of your argument has to do with racial or ethnic profiling, does it?"
Roberts asked Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr., who said no.

There could be little evidence that Arizona has implemented the law in a
discriminatory way, because the Obama administration went to court to keep key
provisions from taking effect.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit blocked provisions of the law
that:

l Would require state and local law enforcement to verify the citizenship status
of anyone stopped, detained or arrested when there is "reasonable suspicion"
that the person is in the United States unlawfully.

l Would authorize law enforcement officials to make an arrest without a warrant
when an officer has "probable cause to believe . . . the person to be arrested
has committed any public offense that makes the person removable from the United
States."

l Would make it a state crime to be in the country unlawfully and require
noncitizens to carry documents to prove they are here legally.

l Would make it a state crime for a person who is not lawfully in the country to
work or seek work.

Arizona's law has spawned similar efforts in Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, South
Carolina and Utah; all have been challenged in court.

But Paul D. Clement, who was solicitor general in the George W. Bush
administration, did his best to portray Arizona's role as a cooperative partner
with the federal government rather than a trendsetting challenger to lax
enforcement of immigration laws.

"Arizona borrowed the federal standards as its own, and attempted to enlist
state resources in the enforcement of the uniform federal immigration laws,"
Clement said.

Sotomayor and Justices Stephen G. Breyer and Samuel A. Alito Jr. expressed
concern about how long Arizona officers would be able to detain those suspected
of being in the country illegally while trying to verify their status.

"Today, if you use the name Sonia Sotomayor, they would probably figure out I
was a citizen," Sotomayor said at one point, noting that there is no database of
legal citizens. "But let's assume it's John Doe, who lives in Grand Rapids."

The justices were far tougher in questioning Verrilli about how checking for
citizenship status hurts the federal government's authority.

"What the state is saying, 'Here are people who are here in violation of federal
law, you make the decision,' " Roberts said. "And if your decision is you don't
want to prosecute those people, fine, that's entirely up to you.

"That's why I don't see the problem."

Verrilli urged the court to look at the Arizona law as a whole, and its aim of
"attrition through enforcement." Such a policy shifts the problem of illegal
immigration to other states and undermines the federal government's goal of a
cohesive policy.

Justice Antonin Scalia dismissed the argument. The federal government has the
power to decide who belongs in the country, he said.

"But if, in fact, somebody who does not belong in this country is in Arizona,
Arizona has no power?" he asked. "What does 'sovereignty' mean if it does not
include the ability to defend your borders?"

Roberts suggested that the court already agreed that the states have a role in
immigration enforcement in last term's decision on a different Arizona law. Over
the federal government's objection, the court said the state could revoke the
business licenses of employers who knowingly hired illegal workers.

But Verrilli had more luck with the court in objecting to the provisions of S.B.
1070 that make it a crime to seek work or to fail to register with the federal
government. Neither actions are federal crimes, and Roberts told Clement that
the work provision "does seem to expand beyond the federal government's
determination about the types of sanctions that should govern the employment
relationship."

Verrilli told the justices that Arizona's criminal sanctions for illegal
immigrants have international implications.

"You're going to have a situation of mass incarceration of people who are
unlawfully present," he said. That "poses a very serious risk of raising
significant foreign relations problems."

How to deal with the nation's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants is one of
the country's thorniest political issues and is playing an important role in the
presidential contest.

Obama and his administration have been accused of not properly securing the
nation's borders and criticized for not delivering comprehensive immigration
reform. Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney's tough stance
against illegal immigration has angered some interest groups and is said to have
cost him support of increasingly influential Latino voters.

The case is Arizona v. United States. Justice Elena Kagan has recused herself
because of her previous involvement in the case as Obama's solicitor general.

barnesr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Justices throw out parts of Arizona's immigration law

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1228 words


The Supreme Court on Monday struck down several key parts of Arizona's tough law
on illegal immigrants, but it left standing a controversial provision requiring
police to check the immigration status of people they detain and suspect to be
in the country illegally.

The5 to 3 decisionupholding the "show me your papers" provision came with a
warning that the courts would be watching its implementation. Arizona Gov. Jan
Brewer (R) declared victory and said police could enforce the law without
resorting to profiling based on ethnicity.

But the ruling, which reinforced the federal government's primacy in immigration
policy, also vindicated the Obama administration's decision to challenge the
Arizona law almost from the moment it was passed.

The justices will rule Thursday on the
http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/for-obama-supreme-court-health-care-immig
ration-rulings-to-close-a-tough-term/2012/06/24/gJQAhWWH0V_story.htmlconstitutio
nality of President Obama's most important priority before the court: the
health-care law, his signature domestic achievement. It will be the final day of
a term that has been dominated by questions about the power of the federal
government.

The immigration decision comes as the issue has taken a central spot in the
nation's political conversation and domestic agenda, even as the numbers of
illegal immigrants coming to this country have fallen. It is likely to be just
one in a series of court decisions about the role states may play in combating
illegal immigration; five states have adopted laws similar to Arizona's, and
others are waiting in the wings.

Obama recently ignited new controversy by announcing that many immigrants under
age 30 who were brought to this country illegally by their parents would not be
deported. In an unusual moment Monday, a dissenting Justice Antonin Scalia
mentioned Obama's policy as he spoke from the bench to criticize the majority's
decision.

In oral arguments on the Arizona law, the justices had seemed skeptical of the
administration's vision of the subordinate role states must play in immigration
matters.

But Justice Anthony M. Kennedy spelled out states' limited role, even as he
acknowledged criticism that the failure of Congress and the executive branch to
form a comprehensive immigration strategy has led to severe hardships.

"Arizona may have understandable frustrations with the problems caused by
illegal immigration while that process continues," he wrote, "but the state may
not pursue policies that undermine federal law."

The court threw out three such provisions in the Arizona law. It said the state
cannot make it a misdemeanor for immigrants to not carry registration documents;
criminalize the act of an illegal immigrant seeking employment; or authorize
state officers to arrest someone on the belief that the person has committed an
offense that makes him deportable.

Kennedy wrote for Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Ruth Bader
Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor. Justice Elena Kagan recused
herself from the case, presumably because she had worked on it while serving as
Obama's solicitor general.

Scalia and Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. wrote dissents from
the decision. In reading his dissent, Scalia made clear the extent of his
disagreement.

"Arizona has moved to protect its sovereignty - not in contradiction of federal
law, but in complete compliance with it," he wrote. "If securing its territory
in this fashion is not within the power of Arizona, we should cease referring to
it as a sovereign state."

Scalia took aim at Obama's new policy on deportation in the statement he read
from the bench, as well as in his dissent,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/us-will-stop-deporting-some-illegal-immig
rants-who-came-here-as-children/2012/06/15/gJQANBbseV_story.htmlalthough the
issue was not before the court.

"The husbanding of scarce enforcement resources can hardly be the justification
for this, since those resources will be eaten up by the considerable
administrative cost of conducting the nonenforcement program, which will require
as many as 1.4 million background checks and biennial rulings on requests for
dispensation," Scalia said.

He went on: "But to say, as the court does, that Arizona contradicts federal law
by enforcing applications of federal immigration law that the president declines
to enforce boggles the mind."

Brewer, in a statement, accentuated the positive in the ruling about her state's
statute. "After more than two years of legal challenges, the heart of S.B. 1070
can now be implemented in accordance with the U.S. Constitution," she said.

She said the law will not result in profiling. "Law enforcement will be held
accountable should this statute be misused in a fashion that violates an
individual's civil rights," she said.

The justices made clear at oral arguments that they were not considering charges
that the provision allowing police to check immigration status would lead to
profiling. Kennedy explained in his decision that because the administration had
challenged the law before its implementation, it would be improper to block it
now.

But he seemed to say that courts would be watching. "This opinion does not
foreclose other preemption and constitutional challenges to the law as
interpreted and applied after it goes into effect," he wrote.

The Obama administration has taken a tough stance against the Arizona law and
against similar laws in most other states that have implemented them. Its
lawyers went to court early to block S.B. 1070 and won at both the district
court level and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit.

In a statement Monday, Obama said that he was "pleased that the Supreme Court
has struck down key provisions of Arizona's immigration law." He added that the
decision makes clear "that Congress must act on comprehensive immigration
reform," since a "patchwork of state laws is not a solution to our broken
immigration system." At the same time, he said, he remains "concerned about the
practical impact" of the part of the law that was allowed to stand.

"No American should ever live under a cloud of suspicion just because of what
they look like," Obama said. "Going forward, we must ensure that Arizona law
enforcement officials do not enforce this law in a manner that undermines the
civil rights of Americans, as the Court's decision recognizes."

Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney issued a statement that did not
comment on the specifics of the ruling but instead said that it "underscores the
need for a President who will lead on this critical issue and work in a
bipartisan fashion to pursue a national immigration strategy."

Obama "has failed to provide any leadership on immigration," the former
Massachusetts governor said.

Romney did not speak to reporters accompanying him on a campaign trip to
Arizona, and aides refused to say whether he agrees with the Supreme Court's
ruling or whether he supports Arizona's immigration policy.

"The governor supports the states' rights to craft immigration laws when the
federal government has failed to do so," spokesman Rick Gorka said. "That's all
we're going to say on this issue."

The case is Arizona v. United States.

barnesr@washpost.com

Staff writers N.C. Aizenman and William Branigin in Washington and Philip Rucker
in Scottsdale, Ariz., contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 15, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

ROMNEY vs. OBAMA on immigration

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 483 words


Because of the Supreme Court's ruling on Arizona's immigration law, the weak
economy and the Obama administration's announcement that it will not deport
certain young illegal immigrants, immigration is at the forefront of the
presidential campaign. Statements from the two candidates reveal contrasting yet
overlapping visions.

PRESIDENT OBAMA

Today, there are an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants here in the
United States. Some crossed the border illegally. Others avoid immigration laws
by overstaying their visas. Regardless of how they came, the overwhelming
majority of these folks are just trying to earn a living and provide for their
families.

But we have to acknowledge they've broken the rules. They've cut in front of the
line. And what is also true is that the presence of so many illegal immigrants
makes a mockery of all those who are trying to immigrate legally.

May 10, 2011

Over the next few months, eligible individuals who do not present a risk to
national security or public safety will be able to request temporary relief from
deportation proceedings and apply for work authorization.

Now, let's be clear - this is not amnesty, this is not immunity. This is not a
path to citizenship. It's not a permanent fix. This is a temporary stopgap
measure that lets us focus our resources wisely while giving a degree of relief
and hope to talented, driven, patriotic young people. It is the right thing to
do.

June 15, 2012

MITT ROMNEY

[W]e must address illegal immigration in a way that is civil but resolute.

Our country must do a better job of securing its borders and as president, I
will. That means completing construction of a high-tech fence, and investing in
adequate manpower and resources.

We must also get tough on employers who hire illegal immigrants. That means
putting in place an employment verification system that is both reliable and
secure.

Finally, we must stop providing the incentives that promote illegal immigration.
As governor, I vetoed legislation that would have provided in-state tuition
rates to illegal immigrants and I strengthened the authority our state troopers
had to enforce existing immigration laws.

Sept. 2,
2011http://www.mittromney.com/news/press/2011/09/mitt-romney-delivers-remarks-re
publican-national-hispanic-assembly" title="www.mittromney.com

Immigration reform is not just a moral imperative, but an economic necessity as
well. Immigrants with advanced degrees start companies, create jobs, and drive
innovation at a high rate. Immigrants founded or cofounded nearly half of our 50
top venture-backed companies. They are nearly 30 percent more likely to start a
business. And that kind of risk taking is something we need more than ever
because new business starts are now at a 30-year low.

June 21, 2012

http://www.mittromney.com/blogs/mitts-view/2012/06/remarks-naleo-growing-opportu
nity-all-americans" title="www.mittromney.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 26, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Justices receptive to parts of Arizona's immigration law

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1185 words


The Supreme Court on Wednesday sharply questioned the Obama administration's
view of the limited roles states may play in enforcing immigration laws and
seemed receptive to a central part of Arizona's controversial crackdown on
illegal immigrants.          Justices on both sides of the court's ideological
divide expressed skepticism that Arizona's requirement that police check the
immigration status of people they arrest or detain is an impermissible intrusion
on Congress's power to set immigration policy or the executive branch's ability
to implement it.

"You can see it's not selling very well," Justice Sonia Sotomayor told the
federal government's lawyer. Arizona's attempt to alert federal authorities that
a person may be in the country illegally does not force "you to change your
enforcement priorities," said Sotomayor, one of the court's liberals and its
first Hispanic member.

But the justices did question other aspects of the Arizona law, particularly
provisions that make it a crime for an illegal immigrant to seek work and allow
non-citizens to be arrested for not carrying documentation.

That raised the prospect of a split decision. And even if key parts of the law
are upheld, future legal battles are inevitable as Arizona and other states
attempt to implement tough legislation that civil rights groups say could
violate constitutional rights.

Chanting protesters outside the court said that Arizona's S.B. 1070 has created
a climate of fear among the state's mostly Latino immigrant population and that
it will lead to racial and ethnic profiling. Gov. Jan Brewer (R), who has been
closely identified with the law, emerged from the oral argument saying that she
was "very, very" encouraged and that protesters were playing "the race card."

It was a different scene - and a different emphasis - inside the courtroom.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. went out of his way to say that the court's
consideration of the law would not deal with those issues. Instead, the
deliberations were a revival of the questions of federal power and states'
rights that marked last month's historic arguments about President Obama's
health-care law.

"No part of your argument has to do with racial or ethnic profiling, does it?"
Roberts asked Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr., who said no.

There could be little evidence that Arizona has implemented the law in a
discriminatory way, because the Obama administration went to court to keep key
provisions from taking effect.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit blocked provisions of the law
that:

l Would require state and local law enforcement to verify the citizenship status
of anyone stopped, detained or arrested when there is "reasonable suspicion"
that the person is in the United States unlawfully.

l Would authorize law enforcement officials to make an arrest without a warrant
when an officer has "probable cause to believe . . . the person to be arrested
has committed any public offense that makes the person removable from the United
States."

l Would make it a state crime to be in the country unlawfully and require
noncitizens to carry documents to prove they are here legally.

l Would make it a state crime for a person who is not lawfully in the country to
work or seek work.

Arizona's law has spawned similar efforts in Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, South
Carolina and Utah; all have been challenged in court.

But Paul D. Clement, who was solicitor general in the George W. Bush
administration, did his best to portray Arizona's role as a cooperative partner
with the federal government rather than a trendsetting challenger to lax
enforcement of immigration laws.

"Arizona borrowed the federal standards as its own, and attempted to enlist
state resources in the enforcement of the uniform federal immigration laws,"
Clement said.

Sotomayor and Justices Stephen G. Breyer and Samuel A. Alito Jr. expressed
concern about how long Arizona officers would be able to detain those suspected
of being in the country illegally while trying to verify their status.

"Today, if you use the name Sonia Sotomayor, they would probably figure out I
was a citizen," Sotomayor said at one point, noting that there is no database of
legal citizens. "But let's assume it's John Doe, who lives in Grand Rapids."

The justices were far tougher in questioning Verrilli about how checking for
citizenship status hurts the federal government's authority.

"What the state is saying, 'Here are people who are here in violation of federal
law, you make the decision,' " Roberts said. "And if your decision is you don't
want to prosecute those people, fine, that's entirely up to you.

"That's why I don't see the problem."

Verrilli urged the court to look at the Arizona law as a whole, and its aim of
"attrition through enforcement." Such a policy shifts the problem of illegal
immigration to other states and undermines the federal government's goal of a
cohesive policy.

Justice Antonin Scalia dismissed the argument. The federal government has the
power to decide who belongs in the country, he said.

"But if, in fact, somebody who does not belong in this country is in Arizona,
Arizona has no power?" he asked. "What does 'sovereignty' mean if it does not
include the ability to defend your borders?"

Roberts suggested that the court already agreed that the states have a role in
immigration enforcement in last term's decision on a different Arizona law. Over
the federal government's objection, the court said the state could revoke the
business licenses of employers who knowingly hired illegal workers.

But Verrilli had more luck with the court in objecting to the provisions of S.B.
1070 that make it a crime to seek work or to fail to register with the federal
government. Neither actions are federal crimes, and Roberts told Clement that
the work provision "does seem to expand beyond the federal government's
determination about the types of sanctions that should govern the employment
relationship."

Verrilli told the justices that Arizona's criminal sanctions for illegal
immigrants have international implications.

"You're going to have a situation of mass incarceration of people who are
unlawfully present," he said. That "poses a very serious risk of raising
significant foreign relations problems."

How to deal with the nation's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants is one of
the country's thorniest political issues and is playing an important role in the
presidential contest.

Obama and his administration have been accused of not properly securing the
nation's borders and criticized for not delivering comprehensive immigration
reform. Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney's tough stance
against illegal immigration has angered some interest groups and is said to have
cost him support of increasingly influential Latino voters.The case is
Arizona v. United States             . Justice Elena Kagan has recused herself
because of her previous involvement in the case as Obama's solicitor general.

barnesr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 26, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Justices throw out parts of Arizona's immigration law

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1189 words


The Supreme Court on Monday struck down several key parts of Arizona's tough law
on illegal immigrants, but it left standing a controversial provision requiring
police to check the immigration status of people they detain and suspect to be
in the country illegally.

The 5 to 3 decision upholding the "show me your papers" provision came with a
warning that the courts would be watching its implementation. Arizona Gov. Jan
Brewer (R) declared victory and said police could enforce the law without
resorting to profiling based on ethnicity.           But the ruling, which
reinforced the federal government's primacy in immigration policy, also
vindicated the Obama administration's decision to challenge the Arizona law
almost from the moment it was passed.

The justices will rule Thursday on the constitutionality of President Obama's
most important priority before the court: the health-care law, his signature
domestic achievement. It will be the final day of a term that has been dominated
by questions about the power of the federal government.The immigration decision
comes as the issue has taken a central spot in the nation's political
conversation and domestic agenda, even as the numbers of illegal immigrants
coming to this country have fallen. It is likely to be just one in a series of
court decisions about the role states may play in combating illegal immigration;
five states have adopted laws similar to Arizona's, and others are waiting in
the wings.

Obama recently ignited new controversy by announcing that many immigrants under
age 30 who were brought to this country illegally by their parents would not be
deported. In an unusual moment Monday, a dissenting Justice Antonin Scalia
mentioned Obama's policy as he spoke from the bench to criticize the majority's
decision.           In oral arguments on the Arizona law, the justices had
seemed skeptical of the administration's vision of the subordinate role states
must play in immigration matters.

But Justice Anthony M. Kennedy spelled out states' limited role, even as he
acknowledged criticism that the failure of Congress and the executive branch to
form a comprehensive immigration strategy has led to severe hardships.

"Arizona may have understandable frustrations with the problems caused by
illegal immigration while that process continues," he wrote, "but the state may
not pursue policies that undermine federal law."

The court threw out three such provisions in the Arizona law. It said the state
cannot make it a misdemeanor for immigrants to not carry registration documents;
criminalize the act of an illegal immigrant seeking employment; or authorize
state officers to arrest someone on the belief that the person has committed an
offense that makes him deportable.

Kennedy wrote for Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Ruth Bader
Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor. Justice Elena Kagan recused
herself from the case, presumably because she had worked on it while serving as
Obama's solicitor general.

Scalia and Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. wrote dissents from
the decision. In reading his dissent, Scalia made clear the extent of his
disagreement.

"Arizona has moved to protect its sovereignty - not in contradiction of federal
law, but in complete compliance with it," he wrote. "If securing its territory
in this fashion is not within the power of Arizona, we should cease referring to
it as a sovereign state."

Scalia took aim at Obama's new policy on deportation in the statement he read
from the bench, as well as in his dissent, although the issue was not before the
court.

"The husbanding of scarce enforcement resources can hardly be the justification
for this, since those resources will be eaten up by the considerable
administrative cost of conducting the nonenforcement program, which will require
as many as 1.4 million background checks and biennial rulings on requests for
dispensation," Scalia said.

He went on: "But to say, as the court does, that Arizona contradicts federal law
by enforcing applications of federal immigration law that the president declines
to enforce boggles the mind."

Brewer, in a statement, accentuated the positive in the ruling about her state's
statute. "After more than two years of legal challenges, the heart of S.B. 1070
can now be implemented in accordance with the U.S. Constitution," she said.

She said the law will not result in profiling. "Law enforcement will be held
accountable should this statute be misused in a fashion that violates an
individual's civil rights," she said.

The justices made clear at oral arguments that they were not considering charges
that the provision allowing police to check immigration status would lead to
profiling. Kennedy explained in his decision that because the administration had
challenged the law before its implementation, it would be improper to block it
now.

But he seemed to say that courts would be watching. "This opinion does not
foreclose other preemption and constitutional challenges to the law as
interpreted and applied after it goes into effect," he wrote.

The Obama administration has taken a tough stance against the Arizona law and
against similar laws in most other states that have implemented them. Its
lawyers went to court early to block S.B. 1070 and won at both the district
court level and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit.

In a statement Monday, Obama said that he was "pleased that the Supreme Court
has struck down key provisions of Arizona's immigration law." He added that the
decision makes clear "that Congress must act on comprehensive immigration
reform," since a "patchwork of state laws is not a solution to our broken
immigration system." At the same time, he said, he remains "concerned about the
practical impact" of the part of the law that was allowed to stand.

"No American should ever live under a cloud of suspicion just because of what
they look like," Obama said. "Going forward, we must ensure that Arizona law
enforcement officials do not enforce this law in a manner that undermines the
civil rights of Americans, as the Court's decision recognizes."

Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney issued a statement that did not
comment on the specifics of the ruling but instead said that it "underscores the
need for a President who will lead on this critical issue and work in a
bipartisan fashion to pursue a national immigration strategy."

Obama "has failed to provide any leadership on immigration," the former
Massachusetts governor said.

Romney did not speak to reporters accompanying him on a campaign trip to
Arizona, and aides refused to say whether he agrees with the Supreme Court's
ruling or whether he supports Arizona's immigration policy.

"The governor supports the states' rights to craft immigration laws when the
federal government has failed to do so," spokesman Rick Gorka said. "That's all
we're going to say on this issue."

The case is Arizona v. United States.           barnesr@washpost.com

Staff writers N.C. Aizenman and William Branigin in Washington and Philip Rucker
in Scottsdale, Ariz., contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 15, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

ROMNEY vs. OBAMA on immigration

SECTION: Outlook; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 441 words


Because of the Supreme Court's ruling on Arizona's immigration law, the weak
economy and the Obama administration's announcement that it will not deport
certain young illegal immigrants, immigration is at the forefront of the
presidential campaign. Statements from the two candidates reveal contrasting yet
overlapping visions.

PRESIDENT OBAMA

Today, there are an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants here in the
United States. Some crossed the border illegally. Others avoid immigration laws
by overstaying their visas. Regardless of how they came, the overwhelming
majority of these folks are just trying to earn a living and provide for their
families.

But we have to acknowledge they've broken the rules. They've cut in front of the
line. And what is also true is that the presence of so many illegal immigrants
makes a mockery of all those who are trying to immigrate legally.

May 10, 2011

Over the next few months, eligible individuals who do not present a risk to
national security or public safety will be able to request temporary relief from
deportation proceedings and apply for work authorization.

Now, let's be clear - this is not amnesty, this is not immunity. This is not a
path to citizenship. It's not a permanent fix. This is a temporary stopgap
measure that lets us focus our resources wisely while giving a degree of relief
and hope to talented, driven, patriotic young people. It is the right thing to
do.

June 15, 2012

MITT ROMNEY

[W]e must address illegal immigration in a way that is civil but resolute.

Our country must do a better job of securing its borders and as president, I
will. That means completing construction of a high-tech fence, and investing in
adequate manpower and resources.

We must also get tough on employers who hire illegal immigrants. That means
putting in place an employment verification system that is both reliable and
secure.

Finally, we must stop providing the incentives that promote illegal immigration.
As governor, I vetoed legislation that would have provided in-state tuition
rates to illegal immigrants and I strengthened the authority our state troopers
had to enforce existing immigration laws.

Sept. 2, 2011

Immigration reform is not just a moral imperative, but an economic necessity as
well. Immigrants with advanced degrees start companies, create jobs, and drive
innovation at a high rate. Immigrants founded or cofounded nearly half of our 50
top venture-backed companies. They are nearly 30 percent more likely to start a
business. And that kind of risk taking is something we need more than ever
because new business starts are now at a 30-year low.

June 21, 2012

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 21, 2012 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 408 words

ALABAMA

Court rejects partof immigration law

The part of Alabama's immigration law that ordered public schools to check the
citizenship status of new students was ruled unconstitutional Monday by a
federal appeals court that also said police in that state and Georgia can demand
papers from criminal suspects they have detained.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit ruled that the schools provision
wrongly singles out children who are in the country illegally.

Alabama was the only state that passed such a requirement, and the court
previously had blocked that part of the law from being enforced. Private groups
and the Obama administration filed suits to block the law, considered the
toughest in the country.

The judges sided with opponents of the law on other key points, including
challenges to sections that made it illegal to harbor illegal immigrants; made
it a crime for illegal immigrants to seek work; and made it a state crime for
people in the country illegally not to have registration documents.

The decisions follow a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling upholding parts of a
similar law in Arizona. The Atlanta-based appeals court referenced that decision
in its opinion to lift the injunction on the challenged section dealing with
criminal suspects.

- Associated Press

WEATHER

Arctic ice is no match for 2012's record heat

Sea ice in the Arctic Ocean is likely to shrink to a record small size sometime
next week and  keep on melting, a scientist at the U.S. National Snow and Ice
Data Center said Monday.

The Arctic is a potent global weather-maker, sometimes characterized as the
world's air conditioner. As parts of the ice there melted this year, record heat
and drought hit much of the Northern Hemisphere temperate zone, especially the
continental United States.

This summer could see the ice retreat to less than 1.5 million square miles, an
unprecedented low, said Ted Scambos, the lead scientist at the data center. The
previous low figure came in 2007, when Arctic ice cover shrank to 1.66 million
square miles, 23 percent below the earlier record set in 2005.

- Reuters

Lobster ruling pinches: A New York court has concluded that three men owe $54.9
million in restitution to the South African government for stealing lobsters off
its coast. The finding, which must be approved by a district judge, came in a
case brought by the U.S. government against the three for harvesting lobsters
between 1987 and 2001.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 21, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 427 words


ALABAMA          Court rejects partof immigration law

The part of Alabama's immigration law that ordered public schools to check the
citizenship status of new students was ruled unconstitutional Monday by a
federal appeals court that also said police in that state and Georgia can demand
papers from criminal suspects they have detained.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit ruled that the schools provision
wrongly singles out children who are in the country illegally.

Alabama was the only state that passed such a requirement, and the court
previously had blocked that part of the law from being enforced. Private groups
and the Obama administration filed suits to block the law, considered the
toughest in the country.

The judges sided with opponents of the law on other key points, including
challenges to sections that made it illegal to harbor illegal immigrants; made
it a crime for illegal immigrants to seek work; and made it a state crime for
people in the country illegally not to have registration documents.

The decisions follow a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling upholding parts of a
similar law in Arizona. The Atlanta-based appeals court referenced that decision
in its opinion to lift the injunction on the challenged section dealing with
criminal suspects.

- Associated Press

WEATHER          Arctic ice is no match for 2012's record heat

Sea ice in the Arctic Ocean is likely to shrink to a record small size sometime
next week and  keep on melting, a scientist at the U.S. National Snow and Ice
Data Center said Monday.

The Arctic is a potent global weather-maker, sometimes characterized as the
world's air conditioner. As parts of the ice there melted this year, record heat
and drought hit much of the Northern Hemisphere temperate zone, especially the
continental United States.

This summer could see the ice retreat to less than 1.5 million square miles, an
unprecedented low, said Ted Scambos, the lead scientist at the data center. The
previous low figure came in 2007, when Arctic ice cover shrank to 1.66 million
square miles, 23 percent below the earlier record set in 2005.

- Reuters

Lobster ruling pinches: A New York court has concluded that three men owe $54.9
million in restitution to the South African government for stealing lobsters off
its coast. The finding, which must be approved by a district judge, came in a
case brought by the U.S. government against the three for harvesting lobsters
between 1987 and 2001.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 28, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Every Edition

The GOP's immigration incoherence

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 495 words


THE REPUBLICAN PARTY'S incoherence on illegal immigration was on vivid display
last week in Tampa, where delegates gathered to draft their party's official
platform.

The platform amounts to a declaration of war on the 11 million undocumented
immigrants in the country. It embraces laws like those in Arizona and Alabama
that are intended to make life so miserable for undocumented workers that they
will "self-deport," in Mitt Romney's memorable phrase, and it slams the Obama
administration for trying to block those measures. The Republican Party would
punish cities that look the other way on immigration enforcement and
universities that grant in-state tuition rates to undocumented students, in both
cases by withholding federal funds.

In addition, the party of free enterprise and small government would force every
employer in the country - in many cases against its will - to electronically
verify the immigration status of job applicants. At a time when illegal
border-crossing from Mexico is at a 40-year low, the GOP would complete the
2,000-mile border fence, at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars.

On the other hand, the GOP platform tips its hat to reality by recognizing that
the nation needs low-skilled labor and that there is no adequate legal mechanism
to supply it. It therefore calls for a guest-worker program.

But how does it make sense to embrace such a program while pressing to deport 11
million immigrants, most of whom have been in this country for more than a
decade and in many cases are integral parts of American communities and parents
of American citizens? The whole thing amounts to both an acknowledgment that the
job market demands low-wage immigrant workers and a rejection of those who came
to this country precisely in response to that demand.

To grasp the full absurdity of the GOP's position, suppose for a moment that the
party actually carried out its threat to drive out 11 million illegal
immigrants, including 7 million in the job force. Imagine the scope, cost and
administrative complexity of the guest-worker program that would then be
required to replace them. It's hard to conceive of a more wide-ranging expansion
of government.

The GOP's contradictions on immigration have been evident for a number of years.
In 2000, the party platform called for expanding the migrant-farm-workers
program. In 2004, bowing to President George W. Bush's support for legalizing
millions of undocumented immigrants, the party backed a program that would allow
migrants to "come out of the shadows and to participate legally in America's
economy" - if only temporarily. Then in 2008, hard-liners slammed the door shut
again, pushing through an enforcement-only platform.

Perhaps this year's GOP platform should count as a step forward, for recognizing
the market demand for low-skilled labor. But by refusing to devise any
alternative to deportation for the undocumented immigrants already here, the
party remains in thrall to extremists.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 28, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

The GOP's immigration incoherence

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 499 words


THE REPUBLICAN PARTY'S incoherence on illegal immigration was on vivid display
last week in Tampa, where delegates gathered to draft their party's official
platform.          The platform amounts to a declaration of war on the 11
million undocumented immigrants in the country. It embraces laws like those in
Arizona and Alabama that are intended to make life so miserable for undocumented
workers that they will "self-deport," in Mitt Romney's memorable phrase, and it
slams the Obama administration for trying to block those measures. The
Republican Party would punish cities that look the other way on immigration
enforcement and universities that grant in-state tuition rates to undocumented
students, in both cases by withholding federal funds.

In addition, the party of free enterprise and small government would force every
employer in the country - in many cases against its will - to electronically
verify the immigration status of job applicants. At a time when illegal
border-crossing from Mexico is at a 40-year low, the GOP would complete the
2,000-mile border fence, at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars.

On the other hand, the GOP platform tips its hat to reality by recognizing that
the nation needs low-skilled labor and that there is no adequate legal mechanism
to supply it. It therefore calls for a guest-worker program.

But how does it make sense to embrace such a program while pressing to deport 11
million immigrants, most of whom have been in this country for more than a
decade and in many cases are integral parts of American communities and parents
of American citizens? The whole thing amounts to both an acknowledgment that the
job market demands low-wage immigrant workers and a rejection of those who came
to this country precisely in response to that demand.

To grasp the full absurdity of the GOP's position, suppose for a moment that the
party actually carried out its threat to drive out 11 million illegal
immigrants, including 7 million in the job force. Imagine the scope, cost and
administrative complexity of the guest-worker program that would then be
required to replace them. It's hard to conceive of a more wide-ranging expansion
of government.

The GOP's contradictions on immigration have been evident for a number of years.
In 2000, the party platform called for expanding the migrant-farm-workers
program. In 2004, bowing to President George W. Bush's support for legalizing
millions of undocumented immigrants, the party backed a program that would allow
migrants to "come out of the shadows and to participate legally in America's
economy" - if only temporarily. Then in 2008, hard-liners slammed the door shut
again, pushing through an enforcement-only platform.

Perhaps this year's GOP platform should count as a step forward, for recognizing
the market demand for low-skilled labor. But by refusing to devise any
alternative to deportation for the undocumented immigrants already here, the
party remains in thrall to extremists.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 24, 2012 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Activists gird for Supreme Court's ruling on Ariz. immigration law

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 1096 words


With the Supreme Court expected to rule next week on Arizona's tough law against
illegal immigrants, activists on both sides are preparing to pounce on the
issue, whether manning voter registration drives in Georgia and Arizona,
reviving lawsuits in Alabama and Indiana or dusting off stalled copycat bills in
Pennsylvania and Mississippi.

Hispanic and pro-immigrant groups say they are preparing for a major
disappointment from the high court, which they believe is likely to uphold the
right of state and local police to question and detain suspected illegal
immigrants. But they also plan to use the expected blow to rally immigrant
communities to defend their rights, seek legal assistance and sign up to vote.

"Arizona will become hotter now, and this will give permission to other states
to pursue their own laws, but we are already working to ensure it makes the
Latino community  stronger and more engaged," said Ben Monterrosa, executive
director of Mi Familia Vota, a civic-action group based in Phoenix that is
co-organizing public forums and media messages across the state in anticipation
of the ruling.

"We have only just begun to fight," said Justin Cox, a lawyer in Atlanta with
the American Civil Liberties Union, which filed a lawsuit last year against laws
in Arizona and five other states that allow police to check the status of
suspected illegal immigrants and mandate other sanctions that may conflict with
federal law. Cox said legal opponents will now challenge the laws on other
grounds, including due process and civil rights.

On the other side of the divide, sponsors and supporters of get-tough laws
against illegal immigrants say that if the high court upholds Arizona's statute
- which makes it a crime to be in the United States illegally and allows the
state to use police as immigration-law enforcers - lawmakers who have been
rebuffed in more cautious states will leap into the fray and push for similar
crackdowns.

"If the court rules in our favor, we will have a lot more momentum to continue
the fight to protect our citizens against the invasion of illegal immigrants,"
said Pennsylvania state Rep. Daryl Metcalfe (R), who introduced a bill similar
to Arizona's in 2010 and chairs a legislative committee that has passed other
illegal-immigration bills. "Our state has had $1.4 billion in education and
health and detention costs," he said. "This affects every state in the nation."

Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R), a former law professor who authored
much of the Arizona statute, predicts that the Supreme Court will "vindicate all
the work we've been doing and the work of state legislators and city council
members who are trying to take reasonable steps to discourage illegal
immigration."

Kobach said the court's ruling on Arizona will have "a huge impact" on the fate
and influence of an even stronger measure in Alabama, which allows police to
question and detain suspected illegal immigrants, requires schools to determine
if new students are legal and bars undocumented immigrants from many
transactions. "Cooperation with state and local law enforcement is the linchpin
of this effort," he said.

Opponents agree that the ruling is likely to reinforce Alabama's legislative
model, but they portray its impact in darker terms. They note that in Alabama,
deep-rooted Latino communities have been decimated and agricultural businesses
harmed by the exodus of illegal immigrants since the law took effect in
September.

"We have Alabama as a little window of what Arizona will look like," said Karen
Tumlin, a lawyer in Phoenix who played a leading role in a lawsuit filed by half
a dozen rights groups against six states. She said the Alabama law unleashed a
"humanitarian crisis," with hundreds of calls to hotlines and "state-sanctioned
racial profiling."

Tumlin said that no matter how far the Supreme Court goes in validating the
Arizona law - which makes it a state crime to be an illegal immigrant and
requires police to check the immigration status of anyone who they have a
"reasonable suspicion" may be illegal - rights groups are ready to continue
challenging similar laws in other states and expect it will take months for such
cases to filter through federal courts.

Meanwhile, Hispanic and rights groups in every affected state say they are
launching campaigns to unify, inform and defend immigrants against anticipated
actions against them.

In Georgia, the Latino Alliance for Human Rights is gearing up to handle the
impact on the state's population of about 800,000 Mexican immigrants. Teodoro
Maus, the group's president in Atlanta, said advocates are "not very optimistic
about the Supreme Court, but whether we win or lose we will keep pushing to
break down the walls." He also said President Obama's new policy granting
amnesty to many young illegal immigrants has "given us renewed energy."

In Arizona, a border state where nearly one-third of the population is Hispanic,
a coalition of groups called Hoy Somos Arizona (Today We are Arizona) organized
a 30-minute message about the law that was broadcast simultaneously Thursday on
all Spanish-language media. Now, activists there are organizing community forums
across the state to further prepare and organize immigrant communities.

In some states that have grappled with the issue, such as Utah and Mississippi,
activists say there may be a reduced interest now in actions against illegal
immigrants, in part because of opposition from business leaders and in part
because of the resulting disruption of Hispanic communities.

"There is not much appetite for it this year," said Esperanza Granados, a lawyer
with the ACLU in Salt Lake City. "The trend is shifting."

Esperanza said that after Utah passed a law against illegal immigrants last
year, there were high-profile cases of children being threatened with
deportation. "A lot of people don't want to engage in this kind of thing," she
said.

But even in states with more-liberal immigration laws, immigrant groups say they
are not going to let down their guard. In Florida, where activists helped defeat
an Arizona-style legislative proposal last year, the groups are preparing for a
new fight.

"The Supreme Court could give a potential green light to every state that has
tried similar laws. We have to keep organized," said Gaby Pacheco, an organizer
from the United We Dream movement in Miami. She noted that Florida, a major
grower of fruit and vegetables, has long relied on immigrant farmworkers,
including many who do not have papers. "We have to stay very hands-on," she
said.

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 24, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Activists gird for Supreme Court's ruling on Ariz. immigration law

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: A section; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 1105 words


With the Supreme Court expected to rule next week on Arizona's tough law against
illegal immigrants, activists on both sides are preparing to pounce on the
issue, whether manning voter registration drives in Georgia and Arizona,
reviving lawsuits in Alabama and Indiana or dusting off stalled copycat bills in
Pennsylvania and Mississippi.           Hispanic and pro-immigrant groups say
they are preparing for a major disappointment from the high court, which they
believe is likely to uphold the right of state and local police to question and
detain suspected illegal immigrants. But they also plan to use the expected blow
to rally immigrant communities to defend their rights, seek legal assistance and
sign up to vote.

"Arizona will become hotter now, and this will give permission to other states
to pursue their own laws, but we are already working to ensure it makes the
Latino community  stronger and more engaged," said Ben Monterrosa, executive
director of Mi Familia Vota, a civic-action group based in Phoenix that is
co-organizing public forums and media messages across the state in anticipation
of the ruling.

"We have only just begun to fight," said Justin Cox, a lawyer in Atlanta with
the American Civil Liberties Union, which filed a lawsuit last year against laws
in Arizona and five other states that allow police to check the status of
suspected illegal immigrants and mandate other sanctions that may conflict with
federal law. Cox said legal opponents will now challenge the laws on other
grounds, including due process and civil rights.

On the other side of the divide, sponsors and supporters of get-tough laws
against illegal immigrants say that if the high court upholds Arizona's statute
- which makes it a crime to be in the United States illegally and allows the
state to use police as immigration-law enforcers - lawmakers who have been
rebuffed in more cautious states will leap into the fray and push for similar
crackdowns.

"If the court rules in our favor, we will have a lot more momentum to continue
the fight to protect our citizens against the invasion of illegal immigrants,"
said Pennsylvania state Rep. Daryl Metcalfe (R), who introduced a bill similar
to Arizona's in 2010 and chairs a legislative committee that has passed other
illegal-immigration bills. "Our state has had $1.4 billion in education and
health and detention costs," he said. "This affects every state in the nation."

Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R), a former law professor who authored
much of the Arizona statute, predicts that the Supreme Court will "vindicate all
the work we've been doing and the work of state legislators and city council
members who are trying to take reasonable steps to discourage illegal
immigration."

Kobach said the court's ruling on Arizona will have "a huge impact" on the fate
and influence of an even stronger measure in Alabama, which allows police to
question and detain suspected illegal immigrants, requires schools to determine
if new students are legal and bars undocumented immigrants from many
transactions. "Cooperation with state and local law enforcement is the linchpin
of this effort," he said.

Opponents agree that the ruling is likely to reinforce Alabama's legislative
model, but they portray its impact in darker terms. They note that in Alabama,
deep-rooted Latino communities have been decimated and agricultural businesses
harmed by the exodus of illegal immigrants since the law took effect in
September.          "We have Alabama as a little window of what Arizona will
look like," said Karen Tumlin, a lawyer in Phoenix who played a leading role in
a lawsuit filed by half a dozen rights groups against six states. She said the
Alabama law unleashed a "humanitarian crisis," with hundreds of calls to
hotlines and "state-sanctioned racial profiling."

Tumlin said that no matter how far the Supreme Court goes in validating the
Arizona law - which makes it a state crime to be an illegal immigrant and
requires police to check the immigration status of anyone who they have a
"reasonable suspicion" may be illegal - rights groups are ready to continue
challenging similar laws in other states and expect it will take months for such
cases to filter through federal courts.

Meanwhile, Hispanic and rights groups in every affected state say they are
launching campaigns to unify, inform and defend immigrants against anticipated
actions against them.

In Georgia, the Latino Alliance for Human Rights is gearing up to handle the
impact on the state's population of about 800,000 Mexican immigrants. Teodoro
Maus, the group's president in Atlanta, said advocates are "not very optimistic
about the Supreme Court, but whether we win or lose we will keep pushing to
break down the walls." He also said President Obama's new policy granting
amnesty to many young illegal immigrants has "given us renewed energy."

In Arizona, a border state where nearly one-third of the population is Hispanic,
a coalition of groups called Hoy Somos Arizona (Today We are Arizona) organized
a 30-minute message about the law that was broadcast simultaneously Thursday on
all Spanish-language media. Now, activists there are organizing community forums
across the state to further prepare and organize immigrant communities.

In some states that have grappled with the issue, such as Utah and Mississippi,
activists say there may be a reduced interest now in actions against illegal
immigrants, in part because of opposition from business leaders and in part
because of the resulting disruption of Hispanic communities.

"There is not much appetite for it this year," said Esperanza Granados, a lawyer
with the ACLU in Salt Lake City. "The trend is shifting."

Esperanza said that after Utah passed a law against illegal immigrants last
year, there were high-profile cases of children being threatened with
deportation. "A lot of people don't want to engage in this kind of thing," she
said.

But even in states with more-liberal immigration laws, immigrant groups say they
are not going to let down their guard. In Florida, where activists helped defeat
an Arizona-style legislative proposal last year, the groups are preparing for a
new fight.

"The Supreme Court could give a potential green light to every state that has
tried similar laws. We have to keep organized," said Gaby Pacheco, an organizer
from the United We Dream movement in Miami. She noted that Florida, a major
grower of fruit and vegetables, has long relied on immigrant farmworkers,
including many who do not have papers. "We have to stay very hands-on," she
said.

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Trafficking suspected as 14 in pickup die

BYLINE: Christopher Sherman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 596 words

DATELINE: MCALLEN, TEX.


McALLEN, Tex. - With little more than photographs and fingerprints, authorities
were trying Monday to identify 14 immigrants who were killed when a pickup truck
packed with nearly two dozen people crashed in South Texas in what appeared to
be one of the nation's deadliest immigrant-smuggling accidents.

The victims - men, women and children - were carrying toothbrushes, toothpaste,
and changes of socks and underwear  - but no identification. Authorities said
the white Ford F250 was transporting 23 immigrants from Mexico, Honduras and
Guatemala when it veered off a highway and crashed into trees Sunday night.

"It's the worst single-vehicle wreck I've worked in my 40 years in the funeral
business," said Adrian Fulton, a local funeral director who picked up the 11
people who died at the scene. Fulton estimated their age range as 8 to 30. The
other victims died in the hospital.

Federal immigration agents are looking into the human-smuggling aspect of the
case, while public safety authorities are investigating the cause of the crash
in Goliad County, about 150 miles northeast of the Mexican border. The crash
scene is less than an hour's drive from the site of the nation's most deadly
immigrant-smuggling case, where 19 immigrants died in 2003 after being placed in
a sweltering trailer.

Six of those who died in Sunday's crash were still inside the cab of the mangled
vehicle and one was in the truck's bed when emergency crews arrived at the
scene, said Gerald Bryant, a Texas Department of Public Safety spokesman. Others
were scattered on the roadway and in a ditch between the pavement and the fence
line where the truck stopped.

Bryant said he saw at least two young children among the dead.

"This is the most people I've seen in any passenger vehicle, and I've been an
officer for 38 years," he said.

It is not uncommon for human traffickers to try to maximize profits by
overloading vehicles with illegal immigrants as they head north from the
Texas-Mexico border. In April, nine Mexican immigrants died near the border when
the teenage driver of their van crashed after fleeing the Border Patrol.
Eighteen people were in that minivan.

Sunday's accident happened around 6:30 p.m. on a rural yet busy stretch of U.S.
59, which runs diagonally from the Mexican border at Laredo to Houston before
turning north and continuing to the Canadian border. The pickup was heading
north when it drove off the right side of the highway near the unincorporated
community of Berclair, about 90 miles southeast of San Antonio, and struck two
large trees, Bryant said.

The truck was registered in Houston to someone other than the driver, Bryant
said. A woman who answered at the address where the truck was registered said
she was the daughter of the man listed as the owner. But she said they had sold
the truck and it was no longer theirs. When asked when the sale took place, she
hung up.

Greg Palmore, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman, said the 11 men
and three females who died included citizens of Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras.

Victor Corzo, the head of legal affairs at the Mexican consulate in San Antonio,
said the only Mexican citizen involved was a 22-year-old man from Tamaulipas, a
state in northern Mexico. Corzo said the consulate was still working to notify
the man's family.

Bryant told the Associated Press that several of the survivors had
life-threatening injuries. He did not have their official conditions but
described them as "very serious." The injured were taken to hospitals in San
Antonio, Victoria and Corpus Christi.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 21, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

The 'Show Me Your Papers' State

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 478 words


AFTER A TWO-YEAR struggle, a federal judge this week authorized Arizona law
enforcement agencies to require officers to check the immigration status of
anyone they suspect is in the country illegally. Wearing the wrong clothes,
speaking with the wrong accent or having the wrong skin color could land you in
hot water in Arizona.

The state's "show me your papers" provision - one of the most bitterly contested
parts of the obnoxious immigration law enacted in 2010 - is the second such
measure to receive a green light from federal courts. The first was from
Alabama, where a similar policy was implemented about a year ago.

There, according to a recent report by the National Immigration Law Center, an
immigrant advocacy group, law enforcement officers have created an "environment
of racial profiling" that has encouraged private citizens to discriminate and
abuse people they regard as foreign. The report, based on thousands of calls to
a hotline, recounted instances of Hispanics, including legal residents, who were
repeatedly stopped by police on flimsy pretexts and, in some cases, subjected to
prolonged roadside detentions.

Arizona has a far larger population of Hispanics than Alabama does, including
citizens, legal residents and illegal immigrants. Many of them have good reason
to brace for similar treatment. Although the Supreme Court upheld Arizona's
"show me your papers" provision , the justices warned that it could be struck
down if it gave rise to a documented pattern of racial profiling or if it caused
detentions to be prolonged. The Alabama case suggests that is highly likely.

Civil and immigrant-rights groups in Arizona are preparing to collect data they
hope will provide the basis to challenge the law. Anecdotal evidence and even
large numbers of pretextual traffic stops by police and sheriff's offices will
not suffice to prove that people were targeted for detention based on their race
or appearance.

A more promising angle of attack may be to show that checking on detainees'
immigration status - a process that requires police to contact federal
authorities - results in prolonged detentions, constitutionally barred as an
unreasonable search and seizure. A number of prominent law enforcement officers,
including the police chief of Tucson, have said the new immigration checks will
inevitably delay routine traffic stops, turning them into ordeals.

And for what? Federal immigration authorities have made it clear they lack the
resources to pick up and deport illegal immigrants if they are neither repeat
offenders nor threats to public order or national security. The Arizona law,
forced on the state by Republicans, is unlikely to result in increased
deportations. The more probable outcome will be to deepen the climate of
hostility for Hispanics, legal and illegal, in a state heavily dependent on them
for its economic well-being.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     October 17, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Prince William irked by ICE move

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 604 words


Prince William officials blasted federal immigration authorities Tuesday over a
move to change the way illegal immigrants are investigated and detained in the
county.

After this year, county law enforcement authorities would no longer be able to
investigate the immigration status of people they arrest. Instead, they would
only be able to check those arrested against a federal immigration database that
contains the names of anyone who has come into contact with federal immigration
authorities.

As a result of the change, county officials said that their efforts to root out
illegal immigrants who commit crimes would be severely undermined.

"We have a duty to protect our citizens and to make our community safe," said
Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors.

"If someone commits a crime and they are here illegally, they should be
deported."

The news came in letters last week from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
to the county sheriff's office, the jail and police department, and as the Obama
administration has instructed federal immigration offices around the country to
focus on border security and those who commit serious crimes.

The Department of Homeland Security has begun phasing out agreements with local
law enforcement agencies across the country to identify illegal immigrants.
Prince William County, which passed a measure to crack down on illegal
immigrants in 2007, was one of the first jurisdictions in the country to sign
such an agreement, known as a 287 (g).

County officials said they thought they would be negotiating a new three-year
agreement with federal officials and were stunned to see it expire at the end of
this year.

As the federal government phases out the agreements, it is moving instead to a
program called Secure Communities, which uses the ICE database.

"The Secure Communities screening process, coupled with federal officers, is
more consistent, efficient and cost effective in identifying and removing
criminal and other priority aliens," said Danielle Bennett, an ICE spokeswoman,
in a statement.

But Stewart called the move "further evidence that ICE is abdicating its
responsibilities."

In a statement, Prince William officials said that 5,000 people arrested in the
county so far have been found to be in the country illegally. With the change,
they estimated that the number would drop by 60 percent.

The change would mean that fewer illegal immigrants are identified, said Jessica
Vaughan of the Center for Immigration Studies, a District-based nonpartisan
think tank that studies immigration issues. Vaughan said that ICE's regional
office would have to decide on any given day which cases in what areas are worth
pursuing in an environment in which budgets are tight and there probably won't
be new hires to pick up the slack.

She said she was surprised that ICE would cancel the program in Prince William,
which was extensively studied by the University of Virginia.

"It stretches [ICE] much more thinly, and I'm pretty confident in saying they're
not going to get more people to do this; they're going to somehow have to pick
up the slack," she said.

The Obama administration has previously announced that it would scale back the
287 (g) program, citing the success of Secure Communities and $17 million in
cost savings nationally. But administration officials have not said that they
would do away with the program entirely, and Prince William has not had
substantiated accusations of racial profiling that have led to 287 (g) being
revoked elsewhere.

bordenj@washpost.com

Tara Bahrampour and Caitlin Gibson contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 12, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Fix immigration now

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 521 words


IN THE DAYS since President Obama's victory, it has become an instant truism
that Republicans, desperate to halt their free fall with Hispanic voters, need
to make a sweeping deal on immigration reform. But no matter how strong the
political impetus, fixing the nation's broken immigration system, which proved
too tough for Congress in the past decade, remains a subject for hard
bargaining. And no part of the deal will be harder than resolving the status of
illegal immigrants.

It's obvious - though Mitt Romney had to learn it the hard way - that 11 million
undocumented residents will not "self-deport," nor should they. Two-thirds of
them are in the work force; many of those have been in this country for a decade
or more; and some have children, born here, who are American citizens. They are
a pillar of the American economy. The fair and sensible solution is to grant
them a path to citizenship.

Still, some fudging at the margins may be necessary to reach an agreement,
especially given the depth of grass-roots Republican hostility to "amnesty." A
creative compromise could take many forms, such as conferring legal status on
undocumented immigrants and removing the threat of deportation for those with no
criminal history but postponing the question of citizenship for a finite number
of years. That wouldn't be ideal - it could be portrayed as a program of
second-class citizenship. But it would put an end to state legislation designed
to harass undocumented residents and would allow immigrants to lead open, secure
lives.

The other components of an immigration deal will be only marginally easier, but
without a comprehensive bargain that includes the "smaller" pieces the two
parties are unlikely to resolve the central question of the 11 million.
Democrats should be prepared to agree to additional enforcement measures,
especially in establishing a watertight system for employers to verify that job
applicants are in the country legally.

Legal immigration will also have to be changed. Among the urgent priorities is
attracting skilled workers and especially students who receive advanced degrees
at American universities in science, technology, engineering and math. Too
often, they are turned away; that is lunacy.

At the same time, businesses must have timely access to adequate numbers of
seasonal and agricultural workers, and U.S. citizens' relatives who wish to
immigrate should not languish for years. Both parties will have to compromise on
the mechanisms by which annual quotas are set.

In the past, much of the jockeying around solving the immigration problem has
been about who would get blame or credit. Even now, some Republicans are openly
fearful that a deal would simply cement Democrats' electoral advantage among
Latinos - and, possibly, create millions of new Hispanic voters. Some Democrats
might rather milk the status quo, which has helped them until now, than make
tough compromises.

Both parties would be wise to realize that standing pat carries its own risks.
Every poll suggests that large majorities of Americans want the immigration
system fixed. Congress should heed that message.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 17, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Republicans build super PAC in favor of immigration reform

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 821 words


Prominent Republicans are launching a new super PAC they hope will help begin
repairing the political damage left by years of anti-illegal-immigrant rhetoric
that has dominated GOP primaries and alienated crucial Hispanic voters.

The organization, to be called Republicans for Immigration Reform, aims to
undermine what organizers call the "extremists" who have pushed party nominees
to stake out far-right positions such as opposing a pathway to legalization for
millions of illegal workers, students and children.

Even before it raises money and establishes target races for 2014, the group's
organizers told The Washington Post, it will help smooth the way for wavering
Republican lawmakers to vote next year for an immigration overhaul. Such a
measure suddenly gained momentum last week after GOP leaders watched President
Obama's dominance among Hispanic voters  help carry him to an electoral college
landslide.

Spearheading the group is Carlos Gutierrez, the Cuban American commerce
secretary under President George W. Bush. He is joined by Washington lawyer
Charlie Spies, co-founder of the pro-Mitt Romney super PAC Restore Our Future,
which, illustrating the very trend that the new PAC aims to thwart, aired some
tough ads during this year's primaries accusing Romney's rivals of supporting
"amnesty" and being "too liberal on immigration."

"There's currently only energy on the anti-immigration reform side, and we want
to be able to provide some cover for Republicans that vote in support of an
immigration reform approach," Spies said.

Spies and Gutierrez declined to cite a fundraising goal, but both enjoy close
ties to corporate America, which generally favors looser immigration laws. A
super PAC can accept unlimited donations. Spies's pro-Romney group raised $142
million for the 2012 campaign, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.

"This is not small ball," Gutierrez said. "We're serious, and we are going to
push the debates on immigration reform to a place where I believe the Republican
Party should be in the 21st century."

Gutierrez, who was a top Romney adviser, gained attention over the weekend when
he told Univision anchor Jorge Ramos that the Republican nominee lost to Obama
because the GOP "frightened the American people" during its primaries.

He told The Post that he regretted some of Romney's remarks on immigration
during the campaign. Romney used the issue to fend off challenges from Texas
Gov. Rick Perry and former House speaker Newt Gingrich, accusing both men of
being soft on illegal immigration. At one point, Romney endorsed a policy of
"self-deportation" for immigrants in the country illegally, adopting the
language of some of the country's most ardent critics of illegal immigration.

"Mitt Romney's comments were a symptom of the disease of the Republican Party,
and the extreme far-right wing that is way out of the mainstream of Americans'
views is the cause," Gutierrez said. "Governor Romney was forced to say things
that got him into a lot of trouble. And the irony of it is that had he not said
those things, he wouldn't have been the nominee."

The result was Romney winning just 27 percent of the Hispanic vote - less than
John McCain in 2008 and far less than Bush's 40 percent support level for his
2004 reelection.

Bush and his senior strategist Karl Rove tried to push their party to the left
on immigration, arguing that Hispanics are a fast-growing voter segment in key
swing states. But conservatives rebelled when Bush tried in his second term to
create a path to citizenship, and GOP orthodoxy ever since has required
candidates to take a hard line against such policies.

Spies said the new PAC will most likely favor whatever immigration plans are
backed by House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) and Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.),
a Cuban American and possible 2016 presidential candidate who is expected to be
a central GOP player on the issue, although both lawmakers have staked out
conservative stances in the past.

The challenge ahead for the GOP was evident last week when Boehner stepped out
to endorse a "comprehensive" approach to the immigration issue - only to be
denounced by some House conservatives for sounding as though he was preparing to
back an "amnesty" plan. Boehner later backtracked a bit but still said he was
committed to acting.

Gutierrez and Spies are not alone in speaking out for a new GOP approach to
immigration.

Former Florida governor Jeb Bush, another possible 2016 presidential candidate,
has long derided critics of new immigration laws and is co-writing a book on the
issue. His wife, Columba, is Mexican American.

Their eldest son, George P. Bush, who has worked to recruit Hispanic GOP
candidates in Texas, recently filed papers there to run for statewide office,
although it's not clear which one. A fundraising appeal from his father
suggested that he was interested in running for Texas land commissioner.

wallstenp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration officials arrest more than 3,100 in sweep

BYLINE: Annie Gowen;Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 771 words


U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said Monday that they had
arrested more than 3,100 criminals and others living in the country illegally,
the largest such effort in the agency's history, adding fuel to the national
debate over the Obama administration's stepped-up deportation policies.

The six-day operation - dubbed "Cross Check" - nabbed 3,168 offenders across the
nation, including in all 50 states, three territories and the District of
Columbia. Of those, 1,477 taken into custody had felony convictions such as
murder, manslaughter, attempted murder, kidnapping, child abuse, assault and
other offenses.

"This is part of our effort to prioritize our immigration enforcement efforts,"
said John Morton, the agency's director. "As a matter of public safety, we start
first and foremost with criminal offenders."

The wide-ranging sweep, the third in two years, included 131 arrests in Virginia
- 20 in the city of Alexandria - 53 in Maryland and 11 in the District of
Columbia.

The Obama administration has faced criticism from across the political spectrum
for tightening its controls on illegal immigration. The administration has
deported about 1 million people in the past three years, some 400,000 yearly, a
record-setting pace.

Advocates for the nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants expressed
concern about Monday's raids, saying that while they supported the premise of
targeting criminal aliens, large roundups tend to sweep in less serious
offenders who may have committed only minor violations.

In addition to the convicted criminals, 698 of those arrested were what
authorities call "immigration fugitives," which means that they were previously
ordered to leave the country but failed to depart. Others had committed
misdemeanor offenses.

"The concern is, are we doing this with a scalpel or a sledgehammer?" said Laura
Lichter, president-elect of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, a
group of lawyers who practice immigration law. "Just because someone had an
encounter with the criminal justice system - that could have been just for
driving without a license."

But Morton dismissed such concerns, noting that all of those arrested had either
criminal backgrounds or a previously outstanding immigration order.

"I wouldn't agree with that basic premise to start with," Morton said. "While
many of the people who did have convictions had misdemeanors, a significant
portion of those had multiple misdemeanor convictions."

Among the dozen serious offenders named Monday by ICE officials was Emmanuel
Awanda, 31, a native of Cameroon. Awanda was picked up in Amherst, a tiny town
in south-central Virginia, where he was living after being convicted on drug
distribution and firearms charges.

Others arrested included Ignacio Franco-Galvez, 43, a self-admitted member of
the Norteno gang back in the United States illegally for the third time and
living in Sacramento, and Jose Angel Duran-Ramos, 66, a native of Mexico and
convicted murderer living in El Paso. Those arrested will be kept in civil
detention centers, where they can either ask for a hearing before an immigration
judge or voluntarily leave the country, an ICE spokesman said.

Although those arrested would return to 116 countries, the large majority were
from Mexico and other Central American countries. Immigration advocates said
that was not a surprise but that it highlights the delicate spot Obama finds
himself in with Latino voters as he heads into the general election campaign.

Two-thirds of Hispanic voters supported the president in 2008, and Republicans
have yet to make significant strides in winning them over.

But Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, an immigration reform
advocacy group, said the continuing raids will hurt Obama with Hispanic voters.

"This is a personal issue, particularly for Latino immigrant voters who made a
huge difference for Obama in 2008 and will play a huge factor this year if they
turn out in swing states," Sharry said.

Advocates for tougher enforcement, meanwhile, have accused the administration of
using the raids to appeal to independents and moderates while retaining the
support of Obama's political base.

"This is obviously part of the administration's effort to convince the American
public that they are serious about immigration enforcement, while assuring
advocates for illegal aliens that, 'Hey, you guys have nothing to worry about,'
" said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which advocates tougher enforcement.

gowena@washpost.com

markonj@washpost.com

Researcher Magda Jean-Louis contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration muddle

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 559 words


PRESIDENT OBAMA has gotten more notice for what he's failed to do on immigration
policy than for what he's done right. The fact remains that his administration
is taking steps to rationalize what has become a deeply dysfunctional system.
Meanwhile Republicans, increasingly nervous that they have antagonized Hispanics
with their hostility to illegal immigrants, are seeking a way back into the good
graces of the country's fastest-growing minority voting bloc.

Taken together, this picture presents a stark contrast between one party trying
to get something done and another that can think only of limiting the political
fallout caused by obstructionism.

Mr. Obama did renege on his campaign promise to make immigration reform a
first-year priority. But that almost surely would have been a losing battle,
since virtually every Republican - including some who supported reform in 2007 -
opposed by 2009 any real overhaul, meaning one that would put undocumented
immigrants on a path to citizenship.

Blocked at that turn, the administration has tried to fashion what is at least a
more sensible policy than the one it inherited. It has continued to strengthen
border security, driving illegal crossings down (with help from the recession
and conditions inside Mexico) to their lowest level in four decades. Although
Republicans hate to admit it, the U.S.-Mexico border, manned by a record number
of border patrol agents, is now under tighter control than at any time in recent
memory.

At the same time, the administration developed an aggressive deportation policy
that replaced random sweeps at workplaces with the targeted removal of dangerous
and criminal immigrants.

As part of that effort, it widened a program known as Secure Communities, which
is designed to identify jailed immigrants who may be deportable under
immigration laws. Although the administration initially made a hash of
coordinating and explaining the program to state and local officials, it has
been generally successful in removing illegal immigrants who have committed
crimes, according to a recent report from the Department of Homeland Security's
inspector general.

In one recent example of its aggressive policy, hundreds of immigration agents
fanned out in every state at the end of March, arresting more than 3,100
undocumented foreigners, about half of them with felony convictions.

But the deportation policy is not indiscriminate. The administration has begun
reviewing 300,000 lower-priority illegal immigrants who have clogged the
nation's immigration courts, with an eye to suspending cases of those with no
criminal history so they may remain in the country.

While some Republicans in Congress slam that approach as "backdoor amnesty,"
others have begun talking about a related idea, in the interest of extending an
olive branch to alienated Hispanic voters. Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, a
putative GOP vice presidential prospect, says he is working on a proposal - call
it the Dream Act Lite - that would extend legal status (but not citizenship) to
undocumented young immigrants who grow up in America and attend college or serve
in the military.

That's hardly a systemic solution - it would create what would amount to a
status of second-class, not-quite citizens - but it would still be an
improvement over the tough-guy posturing featured in the Republican primary
debates.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 22, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration reform?Dream on.

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 809 words


Anew level of provocation came to the immigration fight this  last week when
Democratic members of Congress paraded a quartet of undocumented immigrants on
the Capitol grounds and used them as a backdrop to taunt the Republicans.

Rep. Nydia Velazquez of New York, speaking Spanish to the cameras, counseled
Latinos not to vote Republican. "As long as Republican candidates cling to
radical anti-immigrant ideology, they will lose another generation of Hispanic
voters," she said in English.

Rep. Ruben Hinojosa of Texas accused Republicans of "a slap in the face." Rep.
Silvestre Reyes, another Texan, accused likely Republican presidential nominee
Mitt Romney of being a "basher" of immigrants' hopes and of making "the most
reprehensible and most irresponsible statement that any presidential candidate
could ever make."

Though they stood just steps from the Capitol, they made no pretense that their
appearance was anything but campaigning. Rep. Luis Gutierrez of Illinois, the
first speaker, took just 12 seconds to confess that he expects no legislative
action this year on the Dream Act, which would allow the foreign-born children
of illegal immigrants (like those standing with the lawmakers) to earn
citizenship by going to college or serving in the military. "The opposition
toward immigration and opposition toward immigration reform runs too deep with
the Republicans," Gutierrez announced.

The politics for Democrats are irresistible. After a primary season in which
Romney tried to outdo his Republican rivals in toughness on illegal immigration,
he is shaking his Etch a Sketch with fury. Though he plainly announced his
support for Arizona's law cracking down on illegal immigrants, he is now
claiming he supported only one benign piece of it. He has also disowned Kris
Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state and an immigration hard-liner, after
embracing his advice during the primary.

Even within the GOP, pressure is building on Romney to soften his immigration
position. As the Democrats were parading outside the Capitol's East Front on
Thursday, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), a possible Romney vice presidential pick,
announced that he wanted to find a way to allow the foreign-born children of
illegal immigrants to remain legally in the United States.

But rather than embrace Rubio's olive branch (he is, after all, taking a
position at odds with many in his party), the lawmakers, all from the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, derided him as a "wolf in sheep's clothing."

This refusal to contemplate any sort of compromise will continue to stall the
Dream Act Democrats' cause of immigration reform. It's just one of many issues
where consensus would be relatively easy but conflict proves more satisfying.

I was thinking about this because of what Vice President Biden said in a speech
Wednesday. "I know from experience," he said, "if you tried to do it all, you
don't generate a consensus. And the single most important thing is for us to
have a cultural consensus that this is a god-awful problem."

Biden was talking about the Violence Against Women Act, which he authored in the
Senate. But if the administration had followed his advice, President Obama might
not have a health reform law in jeopardy before the Supreme Court and unified
Republican opposition. Even on the renewal of Biden's Violence Against Women
Act, Democrats broke the consensus by adding provisions regarding same-sex
couples and illegal immigrants.

It's the same story on taxes and the debt, but immigration may be the issue most
resistant to the obvious consensus: a need for enforcement and legalization. At
their event this  last week, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus members were so
hurried to score points that they tripped over their words.

Gutierrez spoke of an "electrical" map through Latino neighborhoods. Rep. Raul
Grijalva (D-Ariz.), also reaching for electoral, spoke of "this electrical
season." All the talk of electricity took Rep. Ed Pastor (D-Ariz.) back to a
time before it was universal: "They have to make sure that this cycle, in 1912,
we elect a . . . Congress that will restore their dream."

The undocumented young people, as it turned out, gave compelling accounts. Lucy
Allain spoke about how she confronted Romney on immigration at an event a few
months ago. A recent law-school grad, Jose Manuel Godinez, declared: "I'm
undocumented, unapologetic and unafraid."

But instead of listening, the lawmakers departed after their own statements,
drawing the reporters and cameras with them. "I think we lost half of our
crowd," observed the organizer, Erika Andiola.

"They had to vote," explained Gutierrez, who promptly disappeared as well.

Andiola, noticing that some lawmakers were instead granting TV interviews, asked
a staffer if "they really have to vote."

Yes, they did. But, as usual, not for anything important.

danamilbank@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 23, 2012 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The reality of immigration law enforcement

BYLINE: Arthur Hunter Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 717 words


This week the Supreme Court is to hear argument in Arizona v. United States, the
case that may determine the constitutionality of that state's 2010 law regarding
illegal immigrants. Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana and Utah have passed similar
laws authorizing police officers to detain and question people about their
immigration status.

While presiding over a criminal case a few years ago - a prosecution for
operating an automobile without documentation of lawful presence in the United
States - I asked the arresting officer what, exactly, caused him to suspect that
the defendant was not a legal U.S. resident. "Because," the officer said,
Louisiana's immigration statute passed in 2002 "relates to someone in the
country illegally."

I posed my question a different way: "Well, how would you know, again, that a
white driver, a black driver, Asian driver, Indian driver, someone from the
Middle East, are illegal aliens for you to even ask that question?"

He responded, "I don't know, I guess."

I pressed further: "Well, what makes you ask a Latino driver whether or not he
is an illegal alien?"

The officer's reply was revealing: "Nothing. I don't have an answer for that."

While many have debated the constitutionality of these laws, our public
discourse lacks a clear expression of the practical implications such statutes
have on criminal cases. I am a criminal court judge in Louisiana and a former
police officer. I have seen firsthand the onerous burden placed on law
enforcement and the judiciary when statutes like those enacted in Arizona and
Louisiana criminalize a person's inability to establish his or her immigration
status upon demand. These statutes give law enforcement officials unlimited
discretion that is prone to abuse by officers intent on detaining undocumented
immigrants.

So far, all states with such laws have included admonitions against racial or
ethnic profiling. But my experience as a trial court judge has convinced me that
cautionary "no-profiling" provisions are inherently ineffective. They are
unenforceable because they are vague and give too much discretion to police
officers on the street.

Consider that the immigration statutes passed in all of these states prohibit
racial profiling as a means of enforcement, yet all are silent as to how law
enforcement should determine who is an illegal alien.

How can the mere inclusion of statutory provisions prohibiting racial profiling
prevent the practice? Is there any means by which law enforcement agencies can
develop objective policies that do not rely on skin color, national origin, or
other racially or ethnically subjective factors to trigger an inquiry into
whether a person is an illegal immigrant? People of all colors and nationalities
live in our country, and these factors alone surely are insufficient under the
Constitution to prompt law enforcement interrogations into one's immigration
status.

On the other hand, a neutral, broad policy that encourages police officers to
ask everyone to "show your papers," even in the course of an otherwise routine
traffic stop, could turn our communities into something akin to police states.

When prosecutors pursue charges brought under these laws, it falls to the judges
presiding in state courts to determine whether racial profiling has occurred.
But the courts have not been provided standards or procedural mechanisms by
which they can root out abuses by law enforcement. The absence of effective
standards to identify police violations of provisions barring racial profiling
renders the provisions unworkable and unenforceable by courts. And arguably,
these statutes may require racial profiling to be enforced because it is simply
impracticable for law enforcement officers to require every person they
encounter to prove citizenship.

For any law to be effective, there must be viable, constitutional means by which
it can be enforced. The criminal penalties created by anti-immigration laws such
as Arizona's make proper enforcement standards all the more imperative. As the
Supreme Court considers the constitutional questions raised in the Arizona case,
the justices should not overlook the realities of day-to-day administration of
criminal justice in U.S. trial courts.

Arthur Hunter Jr. is a judge in Orleans Parish Criminal District Court in
Louisiana.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Dream on, Republicans

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 450 words


BETTER LATE than never, a prominent Republican has begun fashioning a stance on
immigration policy that breaks from GOP orthodoxy.

Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), who is Cuban American and a possible running mate for
Mitt Romney, has broached the outlines of what would be a Republican version of
the Dream Act. It would extend legal status - but no clear path to citizenship,
as Democrats have sought - to young illegal immigrants brought to America by
their parents.

Mr. Rubio clearly hopes his proposal might begin mending fences with Hispanic
voters alienated by the hard line against undocumented immigrants that has
featured in the Republican presidential primary. His idea qualifies as a genuine
attempt at compromise; no Senate Republicans signed on as co-sponsors the last
time Democrats introduced their Dream Act, in 2010.

Neither the Democratic version of the Dream Act nor the Rubio version qualifies
as comprehensive immigration reform. Both might offer assistance to 1 million
young people who go to college or serve in the military, while leaving 10
million undocumented immigrants in limbo. The details aren't clear, but the
danger in Mr. Rubio's plan is creation of a kind of permanent second-class
status. On the other hand, many young people might welcome a route out of the
shadows, and the country would certainly benefit from their contributions.

So far, other Republicans are keeping their distance from Mr. Rubio's proposal,
and the most Mr. Romney has managed is a tepid we'll-think-about-it. Political
calculation may push him further. Republican strategists worry that GOP bills
designed to hound illegal immigrants in Arizona, Alabama and elsewhere are
tilting Hispanics to President Obama in several Western swing states. Mr. Romney
himself said as much the other day, fretting that the president's support among
Hispanic voters "spells doom for us."

If so, Mr. Romney has himself partly to blame, having hailed Arizona's draconian
law as a model for the nation, urged similar measures in the hope that
undocumented immigrants will "self-deport" and opposed the Dream Act.

If he now moderates those views, he won't be the first candidate to try sidling
toward the center after courting his party's extremes in the primaries. But it
would be nice if his shape-shifting were paired with some truth-telling: that
illegal immigrants have vitalized the economy by doing jobs Americans don't
want; that it's unfair, and antithetical to American values, to penalize
immigrant children for the sins of their parents; and that eventually the nation
will have to forge a solution for all 11 million illegal immigrants that does
not rest on the fantasy of mass deportation - enforced or voluntary.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Obama takes DREAM to Hispanic voters

BYLINE: David Nakamura;Felicia Sonmez

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 910 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO


ORLANDO - A week after unveiling a new immigration policy, President Obama made
a direct appeal to a large conference of Latinos here Friday, hoping to rally a
constituency that could be crucial to his reelection campaign.

Obama addressed hundreds of members of the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials, just a day after his likely Republican
challenger, Mitt Romney, appeared at the same conference. Romney, who courted
conservative primary voters with hardline opposition to illegal immigration,
began an attempt to soften his image and move toward the center by pledging
Thursday to loosen some restrictions on the flow of legal foreign workers.

Obama, without mentioning Romney by name, drew a sharp distinction with his
challenger on immigration, reminding the crowd of Romney's opposition to the
DREAM Act, the legislation intended to put many illegal immigrant students and
veterans on a path to citizenship. The bill was defeated in Congress after
Republicans opposed it.

"Your speaker from yesterday, he's promised to veto the DREAM Act, and we should
take him at his word," Obama said. By contrast, the president said that he
announced last week that his administration would stop deporting some illegal
immigrants who were brought to the country as children and have gone on to be
productive and otherwise law-abiding residents.

"I refused to keep looking deserving young people in the eye and telling them,
'Tough luck, the politics are too hard,' " Obama said.

Hispanics, who had helped power Obama's 2008 victory, had grown increasingly
frustrated with his administration over the slow progress of immigration reform.
And employment has hit the community particularly hard, with 11 percent of
Latinos out of work compared with the national rate of 8.2 percent.

In 2008, Obama had told the NALEO conference that immigration would be a top
priority, but he had little to show for it after the defeat of the DREAM Act.

Polls suggest his new immigration policy is popular: A Bloomberg News survey
found that among likely voters, 64 percent agree with it.

Obama addressed the NALEO crowd not long after Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), a
rising GOP star who has been mentioned as a potential Romney running mate,
criticized the president during his own speech at the conference.

Rubio, who had been crafting a scaled-back version of the DREAM Act, was
blindsided by Obama's immigration announcement last week; the president had not
discussed his directive with the senator.

"I don't care who gets the credit," Rubio told the crowd in the ballroom. "I
don't. But it exposes the fact that this issue is all about politics for some
people. Not just Democrats, Republicans too."

But Rubio ripped Obama's approach on immigration and suggested that the
president has a purely political motivation in making his recent appeal to
Hispanics.

"I know in a few moments you'll hear from the president. I was tempted to come
here and tell you, 'Hey, he hasn't been here in three years. What a coincidence;
it's an election year,' " Rubio said, drawing some boos. "I was tempted to tell
you, 'Why didn't he make this issue a priority?' "

Obama spent much of his remarks focusing on his campaign message of building a
stronger middle class, and he emphasized policies that he said have helped small
businesses owned by Latinos and his health care reform law that requires
coverage for the uninsured.

But it was his remarks on immigration that drew the most applause from the
audience. He blamed Republicans for blocking the DREAM Act and tied Romney
directly to GOP leaders on Capitol Hill.

Obama also emphasized that his directive is not intended as a long-term solution
to immigration reform.

"It's not amnesty. Congress still needs to come up with a long-range solution,"
he said. "To those who are saying Congress should be the one to fix this,
absolutely. For those who say we should do this in a bipartisan fashion,
absolutely. My door's been open for 3Â½ years. They know where to find me."

The president added: "I've said time and again, 'Send me the DREAM Act.I will
sign it right away.' "

Arturo Vargas, the executive director of NALEO, pointed to the enthusiastic
reaction of Friday's crowd to Obama's mention of his immigration move last week
as "evidence of the fact that it was something long overdue."

"It was something many people in this room were asking for - some kind of
administrative action in the absence of legislative action," Vargas said in an
interview. "But I think everybody understands it's only temporary. It's not a
solution. And in fact, that's what I found most compelling of Governor Romney's
remarks yesterday - when he acknowledged that we have a broken immigration
system. The fact that he said that to me, then, suggests that he understands
that we need a fix."

And if Obama's immigration order was indeed a political move, that fact didn't
appear to bother many of the Hispanic leaders who heard the president speak in
Orlando.

"Obviously, I think there is some politics to this, but it doesn't take away
from the fact that it's the right thing to do," said Janet Murguia, president
and chief executive of the National Council of La Raza. "And people see it as a
really positive step and possibly a breakthrough moment, even if it's on a
temporary basis. It's offering folks in the community out there a little bit of
hope that this isn't the end of a process, but maybe the beginning."

nakamurad@washpost.com

sonmezf@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 24, 2012 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

States crack down on illegal immigrants

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 598 words

Arizona

Passed and enacted legislation in April 2010 making it a state crime for any
illegal immigrant to be in the state, making it a crime to hire or shelter
illegal immigrants, and requiring police to check immigration status of anyone,
during arrest or any other "lawful contact," if they have "reasonable suspicion"
the person is in the country illegally. Supporters called local police a "force
multiplier" for federal immigration enforcement. The law was challenged by the
federal government and advocacy groups and was partly blocked by federal courts
in July 2010.

Georgia

Passed and enacted a law in May 2011 that allowed police to question "criminal"
suspects on immigration status, outlawed hiring or sheltering illegal immigrants
and required most companies to use federal ID checks for workers. Officials said
the aim was to "eliminate incentives" for illegal immigrants to enter the state.
Farmers and businesses protested, citing a loss of workers and income. A federal
judge blocked police provisions, saying the law sought to create a climate of
"hostility" and "fear."

Alabama

Passed and enacted a law in June 2011 allowing police to check immigration
status at routine traffic stops, requiring schools to determine legal status of
all new students, making it a crime for any illegal immigrant to conduct
business or official transactions, and penalizing anyone who hires or does
business with an illegal immigrant. Law was challenged by the Obama
administration. Most provisions were upheld by a federal judge and went into
effect in October.

Utah

Passed and enacted compromise legislation in March 2011 that sought to curb
illegal immigration but allow some undocumented workers with families to remain
as guest workers. It allowed police to check immigration status but only of
individuals suspected of felonies or major misdemeanors. National rights groups
have challenged the law, but state sponsors called it a balance of compassion,
law and economic needs.

South Carolina

Passed and enacted a law in June 2011 similar to the Arizona and Alabama laws. A
federal judge blocked the toughest provisions in December, but the governor and
supporters said the federal government had ceded its authority over states on
the issue by failing to prevent an influx of illegal immigrants into the
country.

Indiana

Passed and enacted a law in May 2011 allowing local and state police to arrest
anyone ordered deported by immigration courts. The law was challenged by the
Obama administration and civil rights groups. A federal judge blocked parts of
the law in June, calling it "seriously flawed," and said anyone arrested should
have access to courts. State officials called the law an "indictment" of a
federal failure to enact and enforce immigration policy.

Colorado

Enacted a law in 2006 to curb illegal immigration by limiting public benefits
and employment but did not empower police to generally question or detain
individuals over immigration status. It said police must report people arrested
for other crimes to federal immigration authorities only if they have "probable
cause" to believe they are illegal. The law has not been blocked in federal
courts; supporters said they were careful not to impinge on federal authority.

Other states

In the past several years, laws aimed at curbing illegal immigration through law
enforcement and other means, similar to the Arizona legislation, have been
introduced in Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Michigan, Minnesota and Mississippi.
Most bills failed, were delayed or were not brought to vote, in anticipation of
federal court rulings.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration smackdown

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 491 words


THE SUPREME COURT didn't gut Arizona's over-the-top immigration law, but it came
close.

The five justices in the majority made clear that Arizona blatantly overreached
by trying to take enforcement of federal immigration law into its hands - making
it a state crime, for instance, for illegal immigrants to hold a job or to apply
for one, or to be present in the state without valid papers. In so doing, the
court served notice to other states that immigration policy remains primarily
Washington's domain. It also dealt a blow to those, such as Mitt Romney, who
have embraced the idea that illegal immigrants will "self-deport" if laws are
made sufficiently onerous.

Nonetheless, the court (with Justice Elena Kagan not voting) upheld the law's
most obnoxious feature: its "show me your papers" section, which requires law
officers to check the immigration status of anyone stopped or arrested for any
reason, based on an ill-defined "reasonable suspicion" that they are
undocumented. Whether that provision survives ongoing litigation in the state
courts is an open question; it may contain the seeds of its own destruction.

With good reason, the Supreme Court said that "detaining individuals solely to
verify their immigration status would raise constitutional concerns." State
police, the justices said, have no business jailing illegal immigrants simply
for being unlawfully present in the country, without authorization from federal
authorities.

The justices expressed some faith that state courts would deem it unreasonable
for authorities to hold a jaywalker for a lengthy detention while trying to
verify his immigration status.  But there is ample reason to believe that such
practices are common in parts of Arizona and may become more so now that the
law's "show me your papers" section has the court's provisional approval.

In sprawling Maricopa County, for example, which includes Phoenix, the
overzealous sheriff's office is notorious for detaining and arresting people on
such pretexts as broken taillights and minor moving violations, and the
presumption of illegal-immigration status is often arrived at by little more
than a quick once-over. If law enforcement officers routinely use such pretexts
to carry out what amount to sweeps of undocumented immigrants, what remains of
Arizona's immigration law may not survive future legal challenges. As the
justices said, their ruling Monday doesn't close the door on further litigation
once the law takes effect.

In the meantime, the court's ruling may mark a milestone in the American debate
over the dysfunctional immigration system. After an initial flurry of
Republican-sponsored copycat legislation inspired by the Arizona law, states
seem to have lost some of their zeal for hounding and harassing the country's 11
million undocumented immigrants. Now the justices have held up a cautionary
hand, warning state lawmakers against further poaching on the federal
government's turf.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration laws, state by state

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 531 words

Arizona

Law enacted in 2010 required police to check immigration status of individuals
they suspect of being illegal. Also made it a crime for any illegal immigrant to
be in the state and allowed police to seek and arrest them without warrant.

Impact: Law was challenged by the federal government and advocacy groups; partly
blocked by federal courts in July 2010. Section allowing police checks was
upheld by Supreme Court on Monday; other sections were struck down.

Georgia

Law enacted in 2011 allowed police to question "criminal" suspects on
immigration status, also outlawed hiring or sheltering illegal immigrants and
required most companies to use federal ID checks. Farmers and businesses
protested, citing loss of workers and income.

Impact: Federal judge blocked police provisions, saying the law sought to create
a climate of "hostility" and "fear." Supreme Court ruling could affect this.

Alabama

Law enacted in 2011 allowed police to check immigration status at routine stops,
required schools to determine legality of new students, made it a crime for
illegal immigrants to seek jobs, and penalized anyone who hires them.

Impact: Law was challenged by Obama administration. Most provisions were upheld
by a federal judge and took effect. Supreme Court ruling reinforces police
checks but strikes down section making it a crime for illegal immigrants to seek
work.

Utah

Law enacted in 2011 allowed police to check immigration status of suspected
criminals only and allowed some undocumented workers with families to remain as
guest workers. It also allowed for warrantless arrests of illegal immigrants.

Impact: National rights groups challenged the law, but state sponsors called it
a balance of compassion and law. Supreme Court ruling would allow police checks
of suspected criminals but not arrests without warrant.

South Carolina

Enacted law in 2011 similar to Arizona. Federal judge blocked the toughest
provisions, including one making it a crime for illegal immigrants to be in the
state. Supporters said the federal government had ceded its authority over
states on the issue.

Impact: Supreme Court ruling would reinforce state police authority to check
immigrant status but ban provision making it a crime for illegal immigrants to
be in the state.

Indiana

Law enacted in 2011 allowing police to arrest anyone ordered deported by
immigration courts and also allowed warrantless arrests. Law was challenged, and
a federal judge blocked parts of it. State officials called the law an
"indictment" of a federal failure to enact and enforce immigration policy.

Impact: Supreme Court ruling would uphold police arrest provisions but ban
warrantless arrests.

Colorado

Law enacted in 2006 limiting public benefits for illegal immigrants but did not
empower police to generally question or detain individuals over immigration
status. Law was written to avoid conflicting with federal law and was not been
blocked in federal courts.

Other states

Laws aimed at curbing illegal immigration through law enforcement and other
means have been introduced in Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Michigan, Minnesota
and Mississippi. Most failed or were delayed in anticipation of federal court
rulings.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 9, 2012 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

When justices call onsearch engines

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 870 words


Justice Antonin Scalia's angry dissent from the Supreme Court's decision to
strike down parts of Arizona's tough anti-illegal-immigrant law outraged
liberals even more than his biting words normally do.

As part of his argument, that the decision imposed on the sovereignty of the
states, Scalia reached outside the briefs and the oral arguments to mention
President Obama's recent decision to allow some illegal immigrants who were
brought here as children to remain in the country.

"That Arizona contradicts federal law by enforcing applications of federal
immigration law that the president declines to enforce boggles the mind," Scalia
said in reading part of his dissent from the bench.

If the framers had proposed that all immigration decisions will be made by the
federal government and "enforced only to the extent the president deems
appropriate," Scalia thundered, "the delegates to the Grand Convention would
have rushed to the exits from Independence Hall."

For our purposes, let's leave aside Scalia's excoriation from the left and
defense from the right and focus on a different lesson:

Supreme Court justices Google just like the rest of us.

Scalia cited a nine-day-old newspaper article in his dissent, and he is hardly
alone: The justices routinely supplement their arguments with facts, studies,
media reports, law review articles and other materials that none of the parties
in the case before them ever put forward or countered.

How judges use generalized facts about the world in their legal decisions has
become a new focus of legal academic research.

Well known is the story of Justice Harry Blackmun hunkering down in the medical
library of the Mayo Clinic to research abortion procedures before he wrote the
1973 majority opinion in Roe v. Wade.

But there's been an information revolution since then.

"Now the justices (and their clerks and their librarians) are flooded with
information literally at their fingertips. Social science studies, raw
statistics, and other data are all just a Google search away," writes Allison
Orr Larsen, a professor at William & Mary Law School.

"If the justices want more empirical support for a factual dimension of their
argument, they can find it easily and without the help of anyone outside of the
Supreme Court building," she wrote.

Larsen, a former clerk to retired Justice David Souter, studied 15 years of
Supreme Court decisions for her paper. She found more than 100 examples of
asserted facts from authorities never mentioned in any of the briefs in the
case. And in the 120 cases from 2000 to 2010 rated the most salient - judged
largely by whether they appeared on the front pages of newspapers - nearly 60
percent of them contained facts researched in-house.

"Virtually all of the justices do it regardless of whether they are
traditionally labeled liberal or conservative," Larsen found, "and they cite
authorities they find themselves on a wide range of subject matter (from biology
to history to golf)."

A 2011 decision in which the court found a California law forbidding the sale of
violent video games to minors violated the First Amendment provided a good
example. Justice Stephen G. Breyer in a dissent provided 13 pages of studies on
the topic of psychological harm from playing violent video games.

Justice Clarence Thomas cited 59 sources to support his view that the Founding
Fathers believed that parents had absolute control over their children's
development; 57 of them were not in the briefs submitted in the case.

And Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., another dissenter, listed references to
SlashGear and other Web sites to bolster his point about the "astounding
violence" in the games. That prompted Scalia, who wrote the majority opinion, to
criticize Alito for his "considerable independent research."

There are no rules about in-house research, and Larsen is troubled by the risks:
"the possibility of mistake, unfairness to the parties, and judicial
enshrinement of biased data which can now be quickly posted to the world by
anyone without cost."

She does not claim that it has changed the outcome of a case, but she notes that
inaccurate information has found its way into opinions, in part, she argues,
because no lawyer for the other side knew about it or had a chance to challenge
it.

In Graham v. Florida, for instance, the courtinvalidated life-without-parole
sentences for juveniles who commit non-homicide offenses. Justice Anthony M.
Kennedy relied on a letter from the Bureau of Prisons, solicited at his request
by the Supreme Court library, about the number of such prisoners.

After the decision, the government submitted a letter to the court saying the
bureau had been wrong: None of the six inmates listed in the BOP's letter was
actually serving a life sentence for a crime committed as a juvenile.

"Do I think that factual information would have changed Justice Kennedy's mind?"
Larsen asked. "Probably not."

But she says the practice undermines the adversary process.

Asked whether she had engaged in in-house fact-finding as a clerk to Souter, she
laughed and declined to comment. But she added:

"I will tell you Justice Souter didn't own a computer."

barnesr@washpost.com

For previous High Court columns, go to washingtonpost.com/fedpage.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 20, 2012 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Ariz. sheriff on trial over bias claims

BYLINE: Tim Gaynor

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


PHOENIX - Arizona's controversial Joe Arpaio, who calls himself the nation's
toughest sheriff, went on trial Thursday in a class-action lawsuit that alleges
he discriminates against Latinos and legal immigrants in his zeal to crack down
on illegal immigration.

The case will test whether the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office (MCSO) can
target undocumented residents in immigration sweeps without racially profiling
Hispanics.

Arpaio, 80, who is seeking election to a sixth term, has been a lightning rod
for controversy over his aggressive enforcement of immigration laws in the
border state, and his volunteer posse's investigation of the validity of
President Obama's birth certificate.

Arpaio was not in court on Thursday when lawyers   made opening statements
before Judge Murray Snow in the bench trial at U.S. District Court in Phoenix.

"A fundamental value of our nation is equal protection under laws, regardless of
race or ethnicity," plaintiff attorney Stanley Young said. "We will argue . . .
the MCSO has engaged in racial discrimination, particularly saturation patrols
[that] have led to the different treatment under the law."

Tim Casey, an attorney for Arpaio and the sheriff's office, said his side will
prove that there was no profiling as alleged by the five plaintiffs, nor was
there discrimination by the office in three stops cited in the suit.

"The evidence will show race and ethnicity had nothing to do with their traffic
stops," he said.

Arpaio faces a separate, broader lawsuit that was lodged by the U.S. Justice
Department in May, alleging systematic profiling, sloppy and indifferent police
work, and a disregard for minority rights by him and county officials.

Attorneys for the plaintiffs called Ralph Taylor, a professor and criminal
justice expert at Temple University in Philadelphia, who analyzed racial and
ethnic patterns from traffic stops carried out by the office from 2007 to 2009,
including about a dozen "saturation patrols" in the Phoenix valley.

Taylor told the court that when an officer ran a name check on the day of a
"major" sweep, there was "a much higher likelihood" that the name run would be
Hispanic than non-Hispanic. He also testified that when an officer ran a check
of at least one Hispanic name, the stop would take about two minutes longer.

The defense called Taylor's study incomplete and biased, saying it did not take
into account variables including language difficulties that might lengthen stops
involving Hispanics.

Among the plaintiffs is Mexican tourist Manuel Ortega Melendres, who was a
passenger in a car pulled over by Arpaio's deputies during a sweep for illegal
immigrants, ostensibly because the vehicle's driver was speeding.

But Ortega Melendres was arrested, despite having a valid visa and producing
identification, while the vehicle's non-Hispanic driver was not cited.

- Reuters

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 21, 2012 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The 'Show Me Your Papers' State

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 478 words


AFTER A TWO-YEAR struggle, a federal judge this week authorized Arizona law
enforcement agencies to require officers to check the immigration status of
anyone they suspect is in the country illegally. Wearing the wrong clothes,
speaking with the wrong accent or having the wrong skin color could land you in
hot water in Arizona.

The state's "show me your papers" provision - one of the most bitterly contested
parts of the obnoxious immigration law enacted in 2010 - is the second such
measure to receive a green light from federal courts. The first was from
Alabama, where a similar policy was implemented about a year ago.

There, according to a recent report by the National Immigration Law Center, an
immigrant advocacy group, law enforcement officers have created an "environment
of racial profiling" that has encouraged private citizens to discriminate and
abuse people they regard as foreign. The report, based on thousands of calls to
a hotline, recounted instances of Hispanics, including legal residents, who were
repeatedly stopped by police on flimsy pretexts and, in some cases, subjected to
prolonged roadside detentions.

Arizona has a far larger population of Hispanics than Alabama does, including
citizens, legal residents and illegal immigrants. Many of them have good reason
to brace for similar treatment. Although the Supreme Court upheld Arizona's
"show me your papers" provision , the justices warned that it could be struck
down if it gave rise to a documented pattern of racial profiling or if it caused
detentions to be prolonged. The Alabama case suggests that is highly likely.

Civil and immigrant-rights groups in Arizona are preparing to collect data they
hope will provide the basis to challenge the law. Anecdotal evidence and even
large numbers of pretextual traffic stops by police and sheriff's offices will
not suffice to prove that people were targeted for detention based on their race
or appearance.

A more promising angle of attack may be to show that checking on detainees'
immigration status - a process that requires police to contact federal
authorities - results in prolonged detentions, constitutionally barred as an
unreasonable search and seizure. A number of prominent law enforcement officers,
including the police chief of Tucson, have said the new immigration checks will
inevitably delay routine traffic stops, turning them into ordeals.

And for what? Federal immigration authorities have made it clear they lack the
resources to pick up and deport illegal immigrants if they are neither repeat
offenders nor threats to public order or national security. The Arizona law,
forced on the state by Republicans, is unlikely to result in increased
deportations. The more probable outcome will be to deepen the climate of
hostility for Hispanics, legal and illegal, in a state heavily dependent on them
for its economic well-being.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 17, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Prince William irked by ICE move

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 604 words


Prince William officials blasted federal immigration authorities Tuesday over a
move to change the way illegal immigrants are investigated and detained in the
county.

After this year, county law enforcement authorities would no longer be able to
investigate the immigration status of people they arrest. Instead, they would
only be able to check those arrested against a federal immigration database that
contains the names of anyone who has come into contact with federal immigration
authorities.

As a result of the change, county officials said that their efforts to root out
illegal immigrants who commit crimes would be severely undermined.

"We have a duty to protect our citizens and to make our community safe," said
Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors.

"If someone commits a crime and they are here illegally, they should be
deported."

The news came in letters last week from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
to the county sheriff's office, the jail and police department, and as the Obama
administration has instructed federal immigration offices around the country to
focus on border security and those who commit serious crimes.

The Department of Homeland Security has begun phasing out agreements with local
law enforcement agencies across the country to identify illegal immigrants.
Prince William County, which passed a measure to crack down on illegal
immigrants in 2007, was one of the first jurisdictions in the country to sign
such an agreement, known as a 287 (g).

County officials said they thought they would be negotiating a new three-year
agreement with federal officials and were stunned to see it expire at the end of
this year.

As the federal government phases out the agreements, it is moving instead to a
program called Secure Communities, which uses the ICE database.

"The Secure Communities screening process, coupled with federal officers, is
more consistent, efficient and cost effective in identifying and removing
criminal and other priority aliens," said Danielle Bennett, an ICE spokeswoman,
in a statement.

But Stewart called the move "further evidence that ICE is abdicating its
responsibilities."

In a statement, Prince William officials said that 5,000 people arrested in the
county so far have been found to be in the country illegally. With the change,
they estimated that the number would drop by 60 percent.

The change would mean that fewer illegal immigrants are identified, said Jessica
Vaughan of the Center for Immigration Studies, a District-based nonpartisan
think tank that studies immigration issues. Vaughan said that ICE's regional
office would have to decide on any given day which cases in what areas are worth
pursuing in an environment in which budgets are tight and there probably won't
be new hires to pick up the slack.

She said she was surprised that ICE would cancel the program in Prince William,
which was extensively studied by the University of Virginia.

"It stretches [ICE] much more thinly, and I'm pretty confident in saying they're
not going to get more people to do this; they're going to somehow have to pick
up the slack," she said.

The Obama administration has previously announced that it would scale back the
287 (g) program, citing the success of Secure Communities and $17 million in
cost savings nationally. But administration officials have not said that they
would do away with the program entirely, and Prince William has not had
substantiated accusations of racial profiling that have led to 287 (g) being
revoked elsewhere.

bordenj@washpost.com

Tara Bahrampour and Caitlin Gibson contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 12, 2012 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Fix immigration now

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 521 words


IN THE DAYS since President Obama's victory, it has become an instant truism
that Republicans, desperate to halt their free fall with Hispanic voters, need
to make a sweeping deal on immigration reform. But no matter how strong the
political impetus, fixing the nation's broken immigration system, which proved
too tough for Congress in the past decade, remains a subject for hard
bargaining. And no part of the deal will be harder than resolving the status of
illegal immigrants.

It's obvious - though Mitt Romney had to learn it the hard way - that 11 million
undocumented residents will not "self-deport," nor should they. Two-thirds of
them are in the work force; many of those have been in this country for a decade
or more; and some have children, born here, who are American citizens. They are
a pillar of the American economy. The fair and sensible solution is to grant
them a path to citizenship.

Still, some fudging at the margins may be necessary to reach an agreement,
especially given the depth of grass-roots Republican hostility to "amnesty." A
creative compromise could take many forms, such as conferring legal status on
undocumented immigrants and removing the threat of deportation for those with no
criminal history but postponing the question of citizenship for a finite number
of years. That wouldn't be ideal - it could be portrayed as a program of
second-class citizenship. But it would put an end to state legislation designed
to harass undocumented residents and would allow immigrants to lead open, secure
lives.

The other components of an immigration deal will be only marginally easier, but
without a comprehensive bargain that includes the "smaller" pieces the two
parties are unlikely to resolve the central question of the 11 million.
Democrats should be prepared to agree to additional enforcement measures,
especially in establishing a watertight system for employers to verify that job
applicants are in the country legally.

Legal immigration will also have to be changed. Among the urgent priorities is
attracting skilled workers and especially students who receive advanced degrees
at American universities in science, technology, engineering and math. Too
often, they are turned away; that is lunacy.

At the same time, businesses must have timely access to adequate numbers of
seasonal and agricultural workers, and U.S. citizens' relatives who wish to
immigrate should not languish for years. Both parties will have to compromise on
the mechanisms by which annual quotas are set.

In the past, much of the jockeying around solving the immigration problem has
been about who would get blame or credit. Even now, some Republicans are openly
fearful that a deal would simply cement Democrats' electoral advantage among
Latinos - and, possibly, create millions of new Hispanic voters. Some Democrats
might rather milk the status quo, which has helped them until now, than make
tough compromises.

Both parties would be wise to realize that standing pat carries its own risks.
Every poll suggests that large majorities of Americans want the immigration
system fixed. Congress should heed that message.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 17, 2012 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Republicans build super PAC in favor of immigration reform

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 821 words


Prominent Republicans are launching a new super PAC they hope will help begin
repairing the political damage left by years of anti-illegal-immigrant rhetoric
that has dominated GOP primaries and alienated crucial Hispanic voters.

The organization, to be called Republicans for Immigration Reform, aims to
undermine what organizers call the "extremists" who have pushed party nominees
to stake out far-right positions such as opposing a pathway to legalization for
millions of illegal workers, students and children.

Even before it raises money and establishes target races for 2014, the group's
organizers told The Washington Post, it will help smooth the way for wavering
Republican lawmakers to vote next year for an immigration overhaul. Such a
measure suddenly gained momentum last week after GOP leaders watched President
Obama's dominance among Hispanic voters  help carry him to an electoral college
landslide.

Spearheading the group is Carlos Gutierrez, the Cuban American commerce
secretary under President George W. Bush. He is joined by Washington lawyer
Charlie Spies, co-founder of the pro-Mitt Romney super PAC Restore Our Future,
which, illustrating the very trend that the new PAC aims to thwart, aired some
tough ads during this year's primaries accusing Romney's rivals of supporting
"amnesty" and being "too liberal on immigration."

"There's currently only energy on the anti-immigration reform side, and we want
to be able to provide some cover for Republicans that vote in support of an
immigration reform approach," Spies said.

Spies and Gutierrez declined to cite a fundraising goal, but both enjoy close
ties to corporate America, which generally favors looser immigration laws. A
super PAC can accept unlimited donations. Spies's pro-Romney group raised $142
million for the 2012 campaign, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.

"This is not small ball," Gutierrez said. "We're serious, and we are going to
push the debates on immigration reform to a place where I believe the Republican
Party should be in the 21st century."

Gutierrez, who was a top Romney adviser, gained attention over the weekend when
he told Univision anchor Jorge Ramos that the Republican nominee lost to Obama
because the GOP "frightened the American people" during its primaries.

He told The Post that he regretted some of Romney's remarks on immigration
during the campaign. Romney used the issue to fend off challenges from Texas
Gov. Rick Perry and former House speaker Newt Gingrich, accusing both men of
being soft on illegal immigration. At one point, Romney endorsed a policy of
"self-deportation" for immigrants in the country illegally, adopting the
language of some of the country's most ardent critics of illegal immigration.

"Mitt Romney's comments were a symptom of the disease of the Republican Party,
and the extreme far-right wing that is way out of the mainstream of Americans'
views is the cause," Gutierrez said. "Governor Romney was forced to say things
that got him into a lot of trouble. And the irony of it is that had he not said
those things, he wouldn't have been the nominee."

The result was Romney winning just 27 percent of the Hispanic vote - less than
John McCain in 2008 and far less than Bush's 40 percent support level for his
2004 reelection.

Bush and his senior strategist Karl Rove tried to push their party to the left
on immigration, arguing that Hispanics are a fast-growing voter segment in key
swing states. But conservatives rebelled when Bush tried in his second term to
create a path to citizenship, and GOP orthodoxy ever since has required
candidates to take a hard line against such policies.

Spies said the new PAC will most likely favor whatever immigration plans are
backed by House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) and Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.),
a Cuban American and possible 2016 presidential candidate who is expected to be
a central GOP player on the issue, although both lawmakers have staked out
conservative stances in the past.

The challenge ahead for the GOP was evident last week when Boehner stepped out
to endorse a "comprehensive" approach to the immigration issue - only to be
denounced by some House conservatives for sounding as though he was preparing to
back an "amnesty" plan. Boehner later backtracked a bit but still said he was
committed to acting.

Gutierrez and Spies are not alone in speaking out for a new GOP approach to
immigration.

Former Florida governor Jeb Bush, another possible 2016 presidential candidate,
has long derided critics of new immigration laws and is co-writing a book on the
issue. His wife, Columba, is Mexican American.

Their eldest son, George P. Bush, who has worked to recruit Hispanic GOP
candidates in Texas, recently filed papers there to run for statewide office,
although it's not clear which one. A fundraising appeal from his father
suggested that he was interested in running for Texas land commissioner.

wallstenp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                      November 12, 2012 Monday 3:42 AM EST

Sen. Chuck Schumer says hes restarting immigration reform talks with Sen. Graham

BYLINE: Sean Sullivan

LENGTH: 253 words


Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said Sunday that he will be making a renewed push
for reforms to the nation's immigration laws along with Sen. Lindsey Graham
(R-S.C.).

Sen. Graham and I have talked and we are resuming the talks that were broken off
two years ago, Schumer said on NBC's Meet The Press.

President Obama won Hispanic voters by 44 points over Mitt Romney, according to
exit polls, a margin that was wider than the Democrat's 36-point advantage over
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) among Latinos in the 2008 election.

"The Republican Party has learned that being anti-immigrant doesn't work for
them, Schumer said.

"I intend to tear this wall down and pass an immigration reform bill that's an
American solution to an American problem, but we have nobody to blame but
ourselves when it comes to losing Hispanics and we can get them back with some
effort on our part," Graham said Sunday on CBS's "Face The Nation."

Graham continued: "It means securing our borders which every American agrees
with, it means making sure that you stop, make it harder to high illegal
immigrants, verifying employment, we need to secure the borders, make sure you
can't hire an illegal immigrant because you'll have documents that can't be
faked, we need guest workers to make it a win-win for American employers when
they can't find workers here, and when it comes to the 12 million, we need to be
firm and fair, self-deportation's not going to work, 65% of the people in the
exit poll of this election supported a pathway to citizenship."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 3, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration officials arrest more than 3,100 in sweep

BYLINE: Annie Gowen;Jerry Markon

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 774 words


U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said Monday that they had
arrested more than 3,100 criminals and others living in the country illegally,
the largest such effort in the agency's history, adding fuel to the national
debate over the Obama administration's stepped-up deportation policies.

The six-day operation - dubbed "Cross Check" - nabbed 3,168 offenders across the
nation, including in all 50 states, three territories and the District of
Columbia. Of those, 1,477 taken into custody had felony convictions such as
murder, manslaughter, attempted murder, kidnapping, child abuse, assault and
other offenses.

"This is part of our effort to prioritize our immigration enforcement efforts,"
said John Morton, the agency's director. "As a matter of public safety, we start
first and foremost with criminal offenders."

The wide-ranging sweep, the third in two years, included 131 arrests in Virginia
- 20 in the city of Alexandria - 53 in Maryland and 11 in the District of
Columbia.

The Obama administration has faced criticism from across the political spectrum
for tightening its controls on illegal immigration. The administration has
deported about 1 million people in the past three years, some 400,000 yearly, a
record-setting pace.          Advocates for the nation's estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants expressed concern about Monday's raids, saying that while
they supported the premise of targeting criminal aliens, large roundups tend to
sweep in less serious offenders who may have committed only minor violations.

In addition to the convicted criminals, 698 of those arrested were what
authorities call "immigration fugitives," which means that they were previously
ordered to leave the country but failed to depart. Others had committed
misdemeanor offenses.

"The concern is, are we doing this with a scalpel or a sledgehammer?" said Laura
Lichter, president-elect of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, a
group of lawyers who practice immigration law. "Just because someone had an
encounter with the criminal justice system - that could have been just for
driving without a license."

But Morton dismissed such concerns, noting that all of those arrested had either
criminal backgrounds or a previously outstanding immigration order.

"I wouldn't agree with that basic premise to start with," Morton said. "While
many of the people who did have convictions had misdemeanors, a significant
portion of those had multiple misdemeanor convictions."

Among the dozen serious offenders named Monday by ICE officials was Emmanuel
Awanda, 31, a native of Cameroon. Awanda was picked up in Amherst, a tiny town
in south-central Virginia, where he was living after being convicted on drug
distribution and firearms charges.

Others arrested included Ignacio Franco-Galvez, 43, a self-admitted member of
the Norteno gang back in the United States illegally for the third time and
living in Sacramento, and Jose Angel Duran-Ramos, 66, a native of Mexico and
convicted murderer living in El Paso. Those arrested will be kept in civil
detention centers, where they can either ask for a hearing before an immigration
judge or voluntarily leave the country, an ICE spokesman said.

Although those arrested would return to 116 countries, the large majority were
from Mexico and other Central American countries. Immigration advocates said
that was not a surprise but that it highlights the delicate spot Obama finds
himself in with Latino voters as he heads into the general election campaign.

Two-thirds of Hispanic voters supported the president in 2008, and Republicans
have yet to make significant strides in winning them over.

But Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, an immigration reform
advocacy group, said the continuing raids will hurt Obama with Hispanic voters.

"This is a personal issue, particularly for Latino immigrant voters who made a
huge difference for Obama in 2008 and will play a huge factor this year if they
turn out in swing states," Sharry said.

Advocates for tougher enforcement, meanwhile, have accused the administration of
using the raids to appeal to independents and moderates while retaining the
support of Obama's political base.

"This is obviously part of the administration's effort to convince the American
public that they are serious about immigration enforcement, while assuring
advocates for illegal aliens that, 'Hey, you guys have nothing to worry about,'
" said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which advocates tougher enforcement.

gowena@washpost.com

markonj@washpost.com

Researcher Magda Jean-Louis contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 10, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration muddle

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 559 words


PRESIDENT OBAMA has gotten more notice for what he's failed to do on immigration
policy than for what he's done right. The fact remains that his administration
is taking steps to rationalize what has become a deeply dysfunctional system.
Meanwhile Republicans, increasingly nervous that they have antagonized Hispanics
with their hostility to illegal immigrants, are seeking a way back into the good
graces of the country's fastest-growing minority voting bloc.

Taken together, this picture presents a stark contrast between one party trying
to get something done and another that can think only of limiting the political
fallout caused by obstructionism.

Mr. Obama did renege on his campaign promise to make immigration reform a
first-year priority. But that almost surely would have been a losing battle,
since virtually every Republican - including some who supported reform in 2007 -
opposed by 2009 any real overhaul, meaning one that would put undocumented
immigrants on a path to citizenship.

Blocked at that turn, the administration has tried to fashion what is at least a
more sensible policy than the one it inherited. It has continued to strengthen
border security, driving illegal crossings down (with help from the recession
and conditions inside Mexico) to their lowest level in four decades. Although
Republicans hate to admit it, the U.S.-Mexico border, manned by a record number
of border patrol agents, is now under tighter control than at any time in recent
memory.

At the same time, the administration developed an aggressive deportation policy
that replaced random sweeps at workplaces with the targeted removal of dangerous
and criminal immigrants.

As part of that effort, it widened a program known as Secure Communities, which
is designed to identify jailed immigrants who may be deportable under
immigration laws. Although the administration initially made a hash of
coordinating and explaining the program to state and local officials, it has
been generally successful in removing illegal immigrants who have committed
crimes, according to a recent report from the Department of Homeland Security's
inspector general.

In one recent example of its aggressive policy, hundreds of immigration agents
fanned out in every state at the end of March, arresting more than 3,100
undocumented foreigners, about half of them with felony convictions.

But the deportation policy is not indiscriminate. The administration has begun
reviewing 300,000 lower-priority illegal immigrants who have clogged the
nation's immigration courts, with an eye to suspending cases of those with no
criminal history so they may remain in the country.

While some Republicans in Congress slam that approach as "backdoor amnesty,"
others have begun talking about a related idea, in the interest of extending an
olive branch to alienated Hispanic voters. Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, a
putative GOP vice presidential prospect, says he is working on a proposal - call
it the Dream Act Lite - that would extend legal status (but not citizenship) to
undocumented young immigrants who grow up in America and attend college or serve
in the military.

That's hardly a systemic solution - it would create what would amount to a
status of second-class, not-quite citizens - but it would still be an
improvement over the tough-guy posturing featured in the Republican primary
debates.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 22, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration reform?Dream on.

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 816 words


Anew level of provocation came to the immigration fight this  last week when
Democratic members of Congress paraded a quartet of undocumented immigrants on
the Capitol grounds and used them as a backdrop to taunt the Republicans.

Rep. Nydia Velazquez of New York, speaking Spanish to the cameras, counseled
Latinos not to vote Republican. "As long as Republican candidates cling to
radical anti-immigrant ideology, they will lose another generation of Hispanic
voters," she said in English.

Rep. Ruben Hinojosa of Texas accused Republicans of "a slap in the face." Rep.
Silvestre Reyes, another Texan, accused likely Republican presidential nominee
Mitt Romney of being a "basher" of immigrants' hopes and of making "the most
reprehensible and most irresponsible statement that any presidential candidate
could ever make."

Though they stood just steps from the Capitol, they made no pretense that their
appearance was anything but campaigning. Rep. Luis Gutierrez of Illinois, the
first speaker, took just 12 seconds to confess that he expects no legislative
action this year on the Dream Act, which would allow the foreign-born children
of illegal immigrants (like those standing with the lawmakers) to earn
citizenship by going to college or serving in the military. "The opposition
toward immigration and opposition toward immigration reform runs too deep with
the Republicans," Gutierrez announced.          The politics for Democrats are
irresistible. After a primary season in which Romney tried to outdo his
Republican rivals in toughness on illegal immigration, he is shaking his Etch a
Sketch with fury. Though he plainly announced his support for Arizona's law
cracking down on illegal immigrants, he is now claiming he supported only one
benign piece of it. He has also disowned Kris Kobach, the Kansas secretary of
state and an immigration hard-liner, after embracing his advice during the
primary.

Even within the GOP, pressure is building on Romney to soften his immigration
position. As the Democrats were parading outside the Capitol's East Front on
Thursday, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), a possible Romney vice presidential pick,
announced that he wanted to find a way to allow the foreign-born children of
illegal immigrants to remain legally in the United States.

But rather than embrace Rubio's olive branch (he is, after all, taking a
position at odds with many in his party), the lawmakers, all from the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, derided him as a "wolf in sheep's clothing."
This refusal to contemplate any sort of compromise will continue to stall the
Dream Act Democrats' cause of immigration reform. It's just one of many issues
where consensus would be relatively easy but conflict proves more satisfying.

I was thinking about this because of what Vice President Biden said in a speech
Wednesday. "I know from experience," he said, "if you tried to do it all, you
don't generate a consensus. And the single most important thing is for us to
have a cultural consensus that this is a god-awful problem."

Biden was talking about the Violence Against Women Act, which he authored in the
Senate. But if the administration had followed his advice, President Obama might
not have a health reform law in jeopardy before the Supreme Court and unified
Republican opposition. Even on the renewal of Biden's Violence Against Women
Act, Democrats broke the consensus by adding provisions regarding same-sex
couples and illegal immigrants.

It's the same story on taxes and the debt, but immigration may be the issue most
resistant to the obvious consensus: a need for enforcement and legalization. At
their event this  last week, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus members were so
hurried to score points that they tripped over their words.

Gutierrez spoke of an "electrical" map through Latino neighborhoods. Rep. Raul
Grijalva (D-Ariz.), also reaching for electoral, spoke of "this electrical
season." All the talk of electricity took Rep. Ed Pastor (D-Ariz.) back to a
time before it was universal: "They have to make sure that this cycle, in 1912,
we elect a . . . Congress that will restore their dream."

The undocumented young people, as it turned out, gave compelling accounts. Lucy
Allain spoke about how she confronted Romney on immigration at an event a few
months ago. A recent law-school grad, Jose Manuel Godinez, declared: "I'm
undocumented, unapologetic and unafraid."

But instead of listening, the lawmakers departed after their own statements,
drawing the reporters and cameras with them. "I think we lost half of our
crowd," observed the organizer, Erika Andiola.

"They had to vote," explained Gutierrez, who promptly disappeared as well.

Andiola, noticing that some lawmakers were instead granting TV interviews, asked
a staffer if "they really have to vote."

Yes, they did. But, as usual, not for anything important.

danamilbank@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 23, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

The reality of immigration law enforcement

BYLINE: Arthur Hunter Jr.

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 723 words


This week the Supreme Court is to hear argument in Arizona v. United States
, the case that may determine the constitutionality of that state's 2010 law
regarding illegal immigrants. Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana and Utah have passed
similar laws authorizing police officers to detain and question people about
their immigration status.          While presiding over a criminal case a few
years ago - a prosecution for operating an automobile without documentation of
lawful presence in the United States - I asked the arresting officer what,
exactly, caused him to suspect that the defendant was not a legal U.S. resident.
"Because," the officer said, Louisiana's immigration statute passed in 2002
"relates to someone in the country illegally."

I posed my question a different way: "Well, how would you know, again, that a
white driver, a black driver, Asian driver, Indian driver, someone from the
Middle East, are illegal aliens for you to even ask that question?"

He responded, "I don't know, I guess."

I pressed further: "Well, what makes you ask a Latino driver whether or not he
is an illegal alien?"

The officer's reply was revealing: "Nothing. I don't have an answer for that."

While many have debated the constitutionality of these laws, our public
discourse lacks a clear expression of the practical implications such statutes
have on criminal cases. I am a criminal court judge in Louisiana and a former
police officer. I have seen firsthand the onerous burden placed on law
enforcement and the judiciary when statutes like those enacted in Arizona and
Louisiana criminalize a person's inability to establish his or her immigration
status upon demand. These statutes give law enforcement officials unlimited
discretion that is prone to abuse by officers intent on detaining undocumented
immigrants. So far, all states with such laws have included admonitions against
racial or ethnic profiling. But my experience as a trial court judge has
convinced me that cautionary "no-profiling" provisions are inherently
ineffective. They are unenforceable because they are vague and give too much
discretion to police officers on the street.

Consider that the immigration statutes passed in all of these states prohibit
racial profiling as a means of enforcement, yet all are silent as to how law
enforcement should determine who is an illegal alien.

How can the mere inclusion of statutory provisions prohibiting racial profiling
prevent the practice? Is there any means by which law enforcement agencies can
develop objective policies that do not rely on skin color, national origin, or
other racially or ethnically subjective factors to trigger an inquiry into
whether a person is an illegal immigrant? People of all colors and nationalities
live in our country, and these factors alone surely are insufficient under the
Constitution to prompt law enforcement interrogations into one's immigration
status.

On the other hand, a neutral, broad policy that encourages police officers to
ask everyone to "show your papers," even in the course of an otherwise routine
traffic stop, could turn our communities into something akin to police states.

When prosecutors pursue charges brought under these laws, it falls to the judges
presiding in state courts to determine whether racial profiling has occurred.
But the courts have not been provided standards or procedural mechanisms by
which they can root out abuses by law enforcement. The absence of effective
standards to identify police violations of provisions barring racial profiling
renders the provisions unworkable and unenforceable by courts. And arguably,
these statutes may require racial profiling to be enforced because it is simply
impracticable for law enforcement officers to require every person they
encounter to prove citizenship.

For any law to be effective, there must be viable, constitutional means by which
it can be enforced. The criminal penalties created by anti-immigration laws such
as Arizona's make proper enforcement standards all the more imperative. As the
Supreme Court considers the constitutional questions raised in the Arizona case,
the justices should not overlook the realities of day-to-day administration of
criminal justice in U.S. trial courts.

Arthur Hunter Jr. is a judge in Orleans Parish Criminal District Court in
Louisiana.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 1, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Dream on, Republicans

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 450 words


BETTER LATE than never, a prominent Republican has begun fashioning a stance on
immigration policy that breaks from GOP orthodoxy.

Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), who is Cuban American and a possible running mate for
Mitt Romney, has broached the outlines of what would be a Republican version of
the Dream Act. It would extend legal status - but no clear path to citizenship,
as Democrats have sought - to young illegal immigrants brought to America by
their parents.

Mr. Rubio clearly hopes his proposal might begin mending fences with Hispanic
voters alienated by the hard line against undocumented immigrants that has
featured in the Republican presidential primary. His idea qualifies as a genuine
attempt at compromise; no Senate Republicans signed on as co-sponsors the last
time Democrats introduced their Dream Act, in 2010.

Neither the Democratic version of the Dream Act nor the Rubio version qualifies
as comprehensive immigration reform. Both might offer assistance to 1 million
young people who go to college or serve in the military, while leaving 10
million undocumented immigrants in limbo. The details aren't clear, but the
danger in Mr. Rubio's plan is creation of a kind of permanent second-class
status. On the other hand, many young people might welcome a route out of the
shadows, and the country would certainly benefit from their contributions.

So far, other Republicans are keeping their distance from Mr. Rubio's proposal,
and the most Mr. Romney has managed is a tepid we'll-think-about-it. Political
calculation may push him further. Republican strategists worry that GOP bills
designed to hound illegal immigrants in Arizona, Alabama and elsewhere are
tilting Hispanics to President Obama in several Western swing states. Mr. Romney
himself said as much the other day, fretting that the president's support among
Hispanic voters "spells doom for us."

If so, Mr. Romney has himself partly to blame, having hailed Arizona's draconian
law as a model for the nation, urged similar measures in the hope that
undocumented immigrants will "self-deport" and opposed the Dream Act.

If he now moderates those views, he won't be the first candidate to try sidling
toward the center after courting his party's extremes in the primaries. But it
would be nice if his shape-shifting were paired with some truth-telling: that
illegal immigrants have vitalized the economy by doing jobs Americans don't
want; that it's unfair, and antithetical to American values, to penalize
immigrant children for the sins of their parents; and that eventually the nation
will have to forge a solution for all 11 million illegal immigrants that does
not rest on the fantasy of mass deportation - enforced or voluntary.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 23, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Obama takes DREAM to Hispanic voters

BYLINE: David Nakamura;Felicia Sonmez

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 916 words


ORLANDO - A week after unveiling a new immigration policy, President Obama made
a direct appeal to a large conference of Latinos here Friday, hoping to rally a
constituency that could be crucial to his reelection campaign.

Obama addressed hundreds of members of the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials, just a day after his likely Republican
challenger, Mitt Romney, appeared at the same conference. Romney, who courted
conservative primary voters with hardline opposition to illegal immigration,
began an attempt to soften his image and move toward the center by pledging
Thursday to loosen some restrictions on the flow of legal foreign workers.
Obama, without mentioning Romney by name, drew a sharp distinction with his
challenger on immigration, reminding the crowd of Romney's opposition to the
DREAM Act, the legislation intended to put many illegal immigrant students and
veterans on a path to citizenship. The bill was defeated in Congress after
Republicans opposed it.

"Your speaker from yesterday, he's promised to veto the DREAM Act, and we should
take him at his word," Obama said. By contrast, the president said that he
announced last week that his administration would stop deporting some illegal
immigrants who were brought to the country as children and have gone on to be
productive and otherwise law-abiding residents.

"I refused to keep looking deserving young people in the eye and telling them,
'Tough luck, the politics are too hard,' " Obama said.

Hispanics, who had helped power Obama's 2008 victory, had grown increasingly
frustrated with his administration over the slow progress of immigration reform.
And employment has hit the community particularly hard, with 11 percent of
Latinos out of work compared with the national rate of 8.2 percent.

In 2008, Obama had told the NALEO conference that immigration would be a top
priority, but he had little to show for it after the defeat of the DREAM Act.

Polls suggest his new immigration policy is popular: A Bloomberg News survey
found that among likely voters, 64 percent agree with it.

Obama addressed the NALEO crowd not long after Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), a
rising GOP star who has been mentioned as a potential Romney running mate,
criticized the president during his own speech at the conference.

Rubio, who had been crafting a scaled-back version of the DREAM Act, was
blindsided by Obama's immigration announcement last week; the president had not
discussed his directive with the senator.

"I don't care who gets the credit," Rubio told the crowd in the ballroom. "I
don't. But it exposes the fact that this issue is all about politics for some
people. Not just Democrats, Republicans too."

But Rubio ripped Obama's approach on immigration and suggested that the
president has a purely political motivation in making his recent appeal to
Hispanics.

"I know in a few moments you'll hear from the president. I was tempted to come
here and tell you, 'Hey, he hasn't been here in three years. What a coincidence;
it's an election year,' " Rubio said, drawing some boos. "I was tempted to tell
you, 'Why didn't he make this issue a priority?' "

Obama spent much of his remarks focusing on his campaign message of building a
stronger middle class, and he emphasized policies that he said have helped small
businesses owned by Latinos and his health care reform law that requires
coverage for the uninsured.

But it was his remarks on immigration that drew the most applause from the
audience. He blamed Republicans for blocking the DREAM Act and tied Romney
directly to GOP leaders on Capitol Hill.

Obama also emphasized that his directive is not intended as a long-term solution
to immigration reform.

"It's not amnesty. Congress still needs to come up with a long-range solution,"
he said. "To those who are saying Congress should be the one to fix this,
absolutely. For those who say we should do this in a bipartisan fashion,
absolutely. My door's been open for 3½ years. They know where to find me."

The president added: "I've said time and again, 'Send me the DREAM Act.I will
sign it right away.' "

Arturo Vargas, the executive director of NALEO, pointed to the enthusiastic
reaction of Friday's crowd to Obama's mention of his immigration move last week
as "evidence of the fact that it was something long overdue."

"It was something many people in this room were asking for - some kind of
administrative action in the absence of legislative action," Vargas said in an
interview. "But I think everybody understands it's only temporary. It's not a
solution. And in fact, that's what I found most compelling of Governor Romney's
remarks yesterday - when he acknowledged that we have a broken immigration
system. The fact that he said that to me, then, suggests that he understands
that we need a fix."

And if Obama's immigration order was indeed a political move, that fact didn't
appear to bother many of the Hispanic leaders who heard the president speak in
Orlando.

"Obviously, I think there is some politics to this, but it doesn't take away
from the fact that it's the right thing to do," said Janet Murguia, president
and chief executive of the National Council of La Raza. "And people see it as a
really positive step and possibly a breakthrough moment, even if it's on a
temporary basis. It's offering folks in the community out there a little bit of
hope that this isn't the end of a process, but maybe the beginning."

nakamurad@washpost.com

sonmezf@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 24, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

States crack down on illegal immigrants

SECTION: A section; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 629 words


Arizona

Passed and enacted legislation in April 2010 making it a state crime for any
illegal immigrant to be in the state, making it a crime to hire or shelter
illegal immigrants, and requiring police to check immigration status of anyone,
during arrest or any other "lawful contact," if they have "reasonable suspicion"
the person is in the country illegally. Supporters called local police a "force
multiplier" for federal immigration enforcement. The law was challenged by the
federal government and advocacy groups and was partly blocked by federal courts
in July 2010.

Georgia

Passed and enacted a law in May 2011 that allowed police to question "criminal"
suspects on immigration status, outlawed hiring or sheltering illegal immigrants
and required most companies to use federal ID checks for workers. Officials said
the aim was to "eliminate incentives" for illegal immigrants to enter the state.
Farmers and businesses protested, citing a loss of workers and income. A federal
judge blocked police provisions, saying the law sought to create a climate of
"hostility" and "fear."

Alabama

Passed and enacted a law in June 2011 allowing police to check immigration
status at routine traffic stops, requiring schools to determine legal status of
all new students, making it a crime for any illegal immigrant to conduct
business or official transactions, and penalizing anyone who hires or does
business with an illegal immigrant. Law was challenged by the Obama
administration. Most provisions were upheld by a federal judge and went into
effect in October.

Utah

Passed and enacted compromise legislation in March 2011 that sought to curb
illegal immigration but allow some undocumented workers with families to remain
as guest workers. It allowed police to check immigration status but only of
individuals suspected of felonies or major misdemeanors. National rights groups
have challenged the law, but state sponsors called it a balance of compassion,
law and economic needs.

South Carolina

Passed and enacted a law in June 2011 similar to the Arizona and Alabama laws. A
federal judge blocked the toughest provisions in December, but the governor and
supporters said the federal government had ceded its authority over states on
the issue by failing to prevent an influx of illegal immigrants into the
country.

Indiana

Passed and enacted a law in May 2011 allowing local and state police to arrest
anyone ordered deported by immigration courts. The law was challenged by the
Obama administration and civil rights groups. A federal judge blocked parts of
the law in June, calling it "seriously flawed," and said anyone arrested should
have access to courts. State officials called the law an "indictment" of a
federal failure to enact and enforce immigration policy.

Colorado

Enacted a law in 2006 to curb illegal immigration by limiting public benefits
and employment but did not empower police to generally question or detain
individuals over immigration status. It said police must report people arrested
for other crimes to federal immigration authorities only if they have "probable
cause" to believe they are illegal. The law has not been blocked in federal
courts; supporters said they were careful not to impinge on federal authority.

Other states

In the past several years, laws aimed at curbing illegal immigration through law
enforcement and other means, similar to the Arizona legislation, have been
introduced in Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Michigan, Minnesota and Mississippi.
Most bills failed, were delayed or were not brought to vote, in anticipation of
federal court rulings.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 26, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration smackdown

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 491 words


THE SUPREME COURT didn't gut Arizona's over-the-top immigration law, but it came
close.

The five justices in the majority made clear that Arizona blatantly overreached
by trying to take enforcement of federal immigration law into its hands - making
it a state crime, for instance, for illegal immigrants to hold a job or to apply
for one, or to be present in the state without valid papers. In so doing, the
court served notice to other states that immigration policy remains primarily
Washington's domain. It also dealt a blow to those, such as Mitt Romney, who
have embraced the idea that illegal immigrants will "self-deport" if laws are
made sufficiently onerous.

Nonetheless, the court (with Justice Elena Kagan not voting) upheld the law's
most obnoxious feature: its "show me your papers" section, which requires law
officers to check the immigration status of anyone stopped or arrested for any
reason, based on an ill-defined "reasonable suspicion" that they are
undocumented. Whether that provision survives ongoing litigation in the state
courts is an open question; it may contain the seeds of its own destruction.

With good reason, the Supreme Court said that "detaining individuals solely to
verify their immigration status would raise constitutional concerns." State
police, the justices said, have no business jailing illegal immigrants simply
for being unlawfully present in the country, without authorization from federal
authorities.

The justices expressed some faith that state courts would deem it unreasonable
for authorities to hold a jaywalker for a lengthy detention while trying to
verify his immigration status.  But there is ample reason to believe that such
practices are common in parts of Arizona and may become more so now that the
law's "show me your papers" section has the court's provisional approval.

In sprawling Maricopa County, for example, which includes Phoenix, the
overzealous sheriff's office is notorious for detaining and arresting people on
such pretexts as broken taillights and minor moving violations, and the
presumption of illegal-immigration status is often arrived at by little more
than a quick once-over. If law enforcement officers routinely use such pretexts
to carry out what amount to sweeps of undocumented immigrants, what remains of
Arizona's immigration law may not survive future legal challenges. As the
justices said, their ruling Monday doesn't close the door on further litigation
once the law takes effect.

In the meantime, the court's ruling may mark a milestone in the American debate
over the dysfunctional immigration system. After an initial flurry of
Republican-sponsored copycat legislation inspired by the Arizona law, states
seem to have lost some of their zeal for hounding and harassing the country's 11
million undocumented immigrants. Now the justices have held up a cautionary
hand, warning state lawmakers against further poaching on the federal
government's turf.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 26, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration laws, state by state

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 584 words


Arizona

Law enacted in 2010 required police to check immigration status of individuals
they suspect of being illegal. Also made it a crime for any illegal immigrant to
be in the state and allowed police to seek and arrest them without warrant.

Impact:Law was challenged by the federal government and advocacy groups; partly
blocked by federal courts in July 2010. Section allowing police checks was
upheld by Supreme Court on Monday; other sections were struck down.

Georgia

Law enacted in 2011 allowed police to question "criminal" suspects on
immigration status, also outlawed hiring or sheltering illegal immigrants and
required most companies to use federal ID checks. Farmers and businesses
protested, citing loss of workers and income.

Impact:Federal judge blocked police provisions, saying the law sought to create
a climate of "hostility" and "fear." Supreme Court ruling could affect this.

Alabama

Law enacted in 2011 allowed police to check immigration status at routine stops,
required schools to determine legality of new students, made it a crime for
illegal immigrants to seek jobs, and penalized anyone who hires them.

Impact:Law was challenged by Obama administration. Most provisions were upheld
by a federal judge and took effect. Supreme Court ruling reinforces police
checks but strikes down section making it a crime for illegal immigrants to seek
work.

Utah

Law enacted in 2011 allowed police to check immigration status of suspected
criminals only and allowed some undocumented workers with families to remain as
guest workers. It also allowed for warrantless arrests of illegal immigrants.

Impact: National rights groups challenged the law, but state sponsors called it
a balance of compassion and law. Supreme Court ruling would allow police checks
of suspected criminals but not arrests without warrant.

South Carolina

Enacted law in 2011 similar to Arizona. Federal judge blocked the toughest
provisions, including one making it a crime for illegal immigrants to be in the
state. Supporters said the federal government had ceded its authority over
states on the issue.

Impact:Supreme Court ruling would reinforce state police authority to check
immigrant status but ban provision making it a crime for illegal immigrants to
be in the state.

Indiana

Law enacted in 2011 allowing police to arrest anyone ordered deported by
immigration courts and also allowed warrantless arrests. Law was challenged, and
a federal judge blocked parts of it. State officials called the law an
"indictment" of a federal failure to enact and enforce immigration policy.

Impact:Supreme Court ruling would uphold police arrest provisions but ban
warrantless arrests.

Colorado

Law enacted in 2006 limiting public benefits for illegal immigrants but did not
empower police to generally question or detain individuals over immigration
status. Law was written to avoid conflicting with federal law and was not been
blocked in federal courts.

Other states

Laws aimed at curbing illegal immigration through law enforcement and other
means have been introduced in Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Michigan, Minnesota
and Mississippi. Most failed or were delayed in anticipation of federal court
rulings.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 9, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

When justices call onsearch engines

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A section; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 884 words


Justice Antonin Scalia's angry dissent from the Supreme Court's decision to
strike down parts of Arizona's tough anti-illegal-immigrant law outraged
liberals even more than his biting words normally do.          As part of his
argument, that the decision imposed on the sovereignty of the states, Scalia
reached outside the briefs and the oral arguments to mention President Obama's
recent decision to allow some illegal immigrants who were brought here as
children to remain in the country.

"That Arizona contradicts federal law by enforcing applications of federal
immigration law that the president declines to enforce boggles the mind," Scalia
said in reading part of his dissent from the bench.

If the framers had proposed that all immigration decisions will be made by the
federal government and "enforced only to the extent the president deems
appropriate," Scalia thundered, "the delegates to the Grand Convention would
have rushed to the exits from Independence Hall."

For our purposes, let's leave aside Scalia's excoriation from the left and
defense from the right and focus on a different lesson:          Supreme Court
justices Google just like the rest of us.

Scalia cited a nine-day-old newspaper article in his dissent, and he is hardly
alone: The justices routinely supplement their arguments with facts, studies,
media reports, law review articles and other materials that none of the parties
in the case before them ever put forward or countered.

How judges use generalized facts about the world in their legal decisions has
become a new focus of legal academic research.

Well known is the story of Justice Harry Blackmun hunkering down in the medical
library of the Mayo Clinic to research abortion procedures before he wrote the
1973 majority opinion in Roe v. Wade.

But there's been an information revolution since then.

"Now the justices (and their clerks and their librarians) are flooded with
information literally at their fingertips. Social science studies, raw
statistics, and other data are all just a Google search away," writes Allison
Orr Larsen, a professor at William & Mary Law School."If the justices want more
empirical support for a factual dimension of their argument, they can find it
easily and without the help of anyone outside of the Supreme Court building,"
she wrote.

Larsen, a former clerk to retired Justice David Souter, studied 15 years of
Supreme Court decisions for her paper. She found more than 100 examples of
asserted facts from authorities never mentioned in any of the briefs in the
case. And in the 120 cases from 2000 to 2010 rated the most salient - judged
largely by whether they appeared on the front pages of newspapers - nearly 60
percent of them contained facts researched in-house.

"Virtually all of the justices do it regardless of whether they are
traditionally labeled liberal or conservative," Larsen found, "and they cite
authorities they find themselves on a wide range of subject matter (from biology
to history to golf)."

A 2011 decision in which the court found a California law forbidding the sale of
violent video games to minors violated the First Amendment provided a good
example. Justice Stephen G. Breyer in a dissent provided 13 pages of studies on
the topic of psychological harm from playing violent video games.Justice
Clarence Thomas cited 59 sources to support his view that the Founding Fathers
believed that parents had absolute control over their children's development; 57
of them were not in the briefs submitted in the case.

And Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., another dissenter, listed references to
SlashGear and other Web sites to bolster his point about the "astounding
violence" in the games. That prompted Scalia, who wrote the majority opinion, to
criticize Alito for his "considerable independent research."

There are no rules about in-house research, and Larsen is troubled by the risks:
"the possibility of mistake, unfairness to the parties, and judicial
enshrinement of biased data which can now be quickly posted to the world by
anyone without cost."

She does not claim that it has changed the outcome of a case, but she notes that
inaccurate information has found its way into opinions, in part, she argues,
because no lawyer for the other side knew about it or had a chance to challenge
it.

In Graham v. Florida, for instance, the court invalidated life-without-parole
sentences for juveniles who commit non-homicide offenses. Justice Anthony M.
Kennedy relied on a letter from the Bureau of Prisons, solicited at his request
by the Supreme Court library, about the number of such prisoners.After the
decision, the government submitted a letter to the court saying the bureau had
been wrong: None of the six inmates listed in the BOP's letter was actually
serving a life sentence for a crime committed as a juvenile.

"Do I think that factual information would have changed Justice Kennedy's mind?"
Larsen asked. "Probably not."

But she says the practice undermines the adversary process.

Asked whether she had engaged in in-house fact-finding as a clerk to Souter, she
laughed and declined to comment. But she added:

"I will tell you Justice Souter didn't own a computer."

barnesr@washpost.com

For previous High Court columns, go to washingtonpost.com/fedpage.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

On immigration case, Scalia throws fair, impartial to wind

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 773 words


As the Supreme Court heard arguments Wednesday about an Arizona immigration law,
supporters of the crackdown set up an amp on the sidewalk in front of the court
and belted out a tune:

We've got illegals in the back yard

It's time we claimed our borders once again

I think Arizona's great

Protecting citizens of that state

And I believe that all across this land

With Arizona we should take a stand.

The melody was weak and the lyrics weaker. But the protest anthem was noteworthy
in one respect: In tone and substance, it was nearly identical to the argument
Justice Antonin Scalia made inside the court.

While other justices at least attempted a veneer of fair and impartial
questioning in the highly charged case, Scalia left no doubt from the start that
he was a champion of the Arizona crackdown and that he would verbally lacerate
anybody who felt  otherwise.

"The state has no power to close its borders to people who have no right to be
there?" he asked incredulously.

And: "What does 'sovereignty' mean if it does not include the ability to defend
your borders?"

And: "Are you objecting to harassing the people who have no business being here?
Surely you're not concerned about harassing them."

And: "We have to enforce our laws in a manner that will please Mexico?"

Technically, Scalia was questioning counsel, but at best the queries were
rhetorical. At times he verged on outright heckling. He interrupted Solicitor
General Donald Verrilli, who was arguing against the Arizona law, to say that
his position "sounds like racial profiling to me."

He wasn't the wordiest justice - Sonia Sotomayor interjected 36 times to
Scalia's 35 during the 90-minute session - but he was by far the most caustic
and the least inclined to subdue his partisan instincts.

Scalia's tart tongue has been a fixture on the bench for years, but as the
justices venture this year into highly political areas such as health-care
reform and immigration, the divisive and pugilistic style of the senior
associate justice is very much defining the public image of the Roberts Court.

When John Roberts became chief justice, he spoke about forging consensus and
moving beyond 5 to 4 decisions, but the tone instead is being set by Scalia, the
justice who crossed First Street NE last year to address a gathering of the
congressional Tea Party Caucus.

During the immigration argument Wednesday, several justices were scrupulous
about challenging both sides. Roberts noted that parts of the Arizona statute
impose "significantly greater sanctions" than federal law does. Sotomayor
informed Verrilli at one point that she was "terribly confused by your answer"
and let him know that "it's not selling very well."

Scalia wasn't the only ill-tempered justice in the chamber. Samuel Alito rolled
his eyes to the ceiling and shook his head in objection when two liberal
justices spoke. And Sotomayor took a shot at the conservative justices when she
referred to "those of us for whom legislative history has some importance."

But Scalia was the leading dyspeptic, interjecting his way through the argument.
He interrupted Sotomayor, demanding to know whether Arizona "has to accept
within its borders all people who have no right to be there."

He interrupted Paul Clement, the lawyer representing Arizona, if only to mock
the federal authorities' response as "yes, he's an illegal immigrant, but that's
okay with us."

He interrupted the solicitor general to inform him that "Arizona is not trying
to kick out anybody that the federal government has not already said do not
belong here" and again to say that the executive branch "doesn't want this law
enforced so rigorously."

Scalia derisively likened the administration's position to saying that it would
prosecute only "professional bank robbers" and would object when a state decides
to prosecute an "amateur bank robber."

Patiently, Verrilli explained that the Arizona law is forcing federal
authorities to take their emphasis away from the most dangerous illegal
immigrants, that it is merely shifting the problem to other states, and that
mass incarceration risks upsetting foreign relations.

"Well, can't you avoid that particular foreign relations problem by simply
deporting these people?" Scalia retorted. "Look, free them from the jails and
send them back to the countries that are objecting. What's the problem with
that?"

The protesters outside - with their tea party signs proclaiming "We Are a Nation
of USA Citizens" and lyrics demanding "What part of the word 'illegal' don't
they understand?" - made precisely the same point.

danamilbank@washpost.com

For previous Washington Sketch columns, go to postpolitics.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 488 words

Human dignitynot up for debate

Jose H. Gomez is the archbishop of Los Angeles and chairman of the U.S.
Conference of Catholic Bishops' Committee on Migration.

On Wednesday, the U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments on Arizona's immigration
law. The case before the court focuses on a few provisions of this law, but the
principle at stake is whether the federal government holds full authority to
enact and implement immigration law.

The implications are huge. How the court responds could fundamentally alter how
our country governs immigration. Instead of one federal law that applies to all
the states, a patchwork of 50 state immigration policies could define our
nation's immigration system.

In a friend-of-the-courtbrief submitted in the case, the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops argues that the federal government is in the best position to
balance competing goals of enforcement of immigration laws while uphold-ing
American values such as family unity and human dignity. These values help define
America as a nation.

State laws such as the one in Arizona do not always honor these values, long
enshrined in immigration law. Indeed, these laws threaten to remove such
humanitarian considerations from our immigration system altogether. This would
be a tragedy for those subject to these laws, but also for all Americans.

As a pastor, I am deeply concerned about the human consequences if Arizona's law
is upheld.

First, it would create a society that treats foreign-born men and women not as
contributors to our American life but as threats. The Arizona statute permits
law enforcementofficials to detain a person pursuant to a legal stop if they
have a reasonable suspicion that the person is undocumented and the person
cannot prove otherwise. This encourages a kind of racial "profiling" that is
inconsistent with respect for human dignity and equality before the law.

Second, upholding the Arizona law would accelerate a disturbing anti-family
tendency. In recent years, we have witnessed an alarming rise in the number of
undocumented parents being seized and forcibly separated from their U.S.-citizen
children. We must retain a deep concern for innocent children and family unity
in our immigration policy.

The Arizona law gives state and local law enforcement officials full sway to act
as "immigration agents." This is an unprecedented power and changes the
relationship between the government and our immigrant communities. It is hard to
create trust when members of a community are always a potential target of
criminal profiling.

Most disturbing, upholding Arizona's law would change our American identity as a
welcoming nation. The goals of such laws are to discourage immigrants from
coming and to encourage those who are here to leave. We must consider whether
that is the signal we want to send the world, given that immigrants and their
descendants - all of us - built this country and will continue to renew it.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration victory by Arizona could spawn laws in other states

BYLINE: David Crary

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1075 words


Emboldened by signals that the Supreme Court might uphold parts of Arizona's
immigration law, legislators and activists across the country say they are
gearing up to push for similar get-tough measures in their states.

"We're getting our national network ready to run with the ball and saturate
state legislatures with versions of the law," said William Gheen, president of
Americans for Legal Immigration.

Lawmakers in about a dozen states told the Associated Press that they were
interested in proposing Arizona-style laws if its key components are upheld by
the Supreme Court. A ruling is expected in June on the Justice Department's
appeal that the law conflicts with federal immigration policy.

Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, said he
was encouraged that several justices suggested during Wednesday's oral arguments
that they were ready to let Arizona enforce the most controversial part of its
law - a requirement that police officers check the immigration status of people
they suspect are in the country illegally. Another provision allows suspected
illegal immigrants to be arrested without warrants.

"The justices sent a clear signal that there's a huge zone for state action in
this area," Stein said. "There will be an enormous amount of energy spent in the
next few months examining the full range of possibilities."

A ruling in favor of Arizona's Senate Bill 1070 would probably enable Alabama,
Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and Utah to move forward with comparable
measures that were enacted but have been on hold pending the high court's
decision.

"If Arizona does very well, we'll do very well," said Alabama state Sen. Scott
Beason (R), sponsor of a law that in some respects is tougher than Arizona's. In
addition to requiring police to determine citizenship status during traffic
stops, it directs government offices to verify legal residency for transactions
such as obtaining a car license, enrolling a child in school and getting a job.

Lawmakers in states as different as Mississippi and Pennsylvania said they would
be eager to follow the Arizona-Alabama model if the Supreme Court gave a green
light.

"You look at poll after poll after poll, whether they're a business owner or
employee or small-business owner or executive, the majority of Americans support
bills like 1070," said Pennsylvania state Rep. Daryl Metcalfe (R), chairman of
the House State Government Committee.

Metcalfe has already introduced a bill that incorporates Arizona's law and is
waiting for a favorable Supreme Court ruling to bring it up in his committee.

In Mississippi, a get-tough immigration bill passed the House this year but died
in a Senate committee. Its backers plan to try again next year and hope for a
Supreme Court ruling that gives them guidance.

"This just ensures to the taxpayers of Mississippi that when we pass the law, we
won't end up in a long court battle," said Rep. Becky Currie (R).

As in Mississippi, South Dakota lawmakers also have rejected a measure based on
the Arizona law, but its sponsor, Rep. Manny Steele (R), says he's ready to try
again.

"I would be excited to get another bill going back in there, according to what
the Supreme Court decision is," Steele said.

In Rhode Island, Rep. Peter Palumbo (D) said he was pleased by the Supreme
Court's apparent support for allowing states to enforce immigration law.

"It's tremendous," said Palumbo, who would like to empower the state police to
help federal authorities with immigration enforcement.

In several states where neither major party has a monopoly on power - Iowa,
Colorado, Montana and Kentucky, among them - lawmakers said the fate of any
hard-line immigration bill would probably depend on the outcome of state
elections in November.

One of Kentucky's leading critics of illegal immigration, Rep. Stan Lee (R),
said an Arizona-style bill has little chance of overcoming staunch opposition
from the Democratic majority in the House.

"Even if the Supreme Court upholds all or virtually all of that, I don't expect
to pursue any of that type of legislation unless there's a significant change in
the makeup of the House," Lee said. "The votes, as I've discovered, just aren't
there."

In Minnesota, Rep. Steve Drazkowski (R) said he will consider proposing a bill
modeled in part on the Arizona law but acknowledged that it could well be vetoed
by Gov. Mark Dayton (D), whose term runs until 2014.

In Kansas, where Republicans dominate, GOP legislators are split over
immigration, preventing action both on proposals to crack down on illegal
immigration and a business-backed program to place some immigrants in
hard-to-fill jobs in farming and other sectors.

In Virginia, which already has numerous restrictive immigration laws, Del. David
B. Albo (R-Fairfax) said there may not be room for many more.

"We're already bumping up against the legal limits of what we're allowed to do,"
said Albo, author of a state law that denies adult illegal immigrants
non-emergency public benefits such as food stamps and welfare payments.

In many states, there is little or no prospect for adopting Arizona-style laws
anytime soon. In some cases, such as in Idaho, it's because the agriculture
industry worries about losing needed workers; elsewhere it's a question of
immigrant-friendly politics.

"I can't envision the state adopting the position that we should be enforcing
immigrant laws," said New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D), noting that his state
has ample law enforcement challenges on its plate already.

In Illinois, which has some of the most immigrant-friendly laws in the nation,
Rep. Randy Ramey (R) has tried four times to propose an Arizona-style law but
failed to get a measure out of committee. Heartened by the Supreme Court
arguments, Ramey said he may try again despite the odds.

"It encourages me, but doesn't mean anything will move here as long as Democrats
are in charge," he said. "They'll just laugh at it."

There are an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States. Of
that total, roughly 6.1 million are from Mexico, down from nearly 7 million in
2007, according to a Pew Hispanic Center study released Monday. That decline has
coincided with a cooling-off of the immigration debate in some states such as
Tennessee.

"It doesn't seem to have the same numbers that were here a couple of years ago,"
said state Sen. Bill Ketron (R), who has sponsored a number of bills targeting
illegal immigrants.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration victory by Arizona could spawn laws in other states

BYLINE: David Crary

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1075 words


Emboldened by signals that the Supreme Court might uphold parts of Arizona's
immigration law, legislators and activists across the country say they are
gearing up to push for similar get-tough measures in their states.

"We're getting our national network ready to run with the ball and saturate
state legislatures with versions of the law," said William Gheen, president of
Americans for Legal Immigration.

Lawmakers in about a dozen states told the Associated Press that they were
interested in proposing Arizona-style laws if its key components are upheld by
the Supreme Court. A ruling is expected in June on the Justice Department's
appeal that the law conflicts with federal immigration policy.

Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, said he
was encouraged that several justices suggested during Wednesday's oral arguments
that they were ready to let Arizona enforce the most controversial part of its
law - a requirement that police officers check the immigration status of people
they suspect are in the country illegally. Another provision allows suspected
illegal immigrants to be arrested without warrants.

"The justices sent a clear signal that there's a huge zone for state action in
this area," Stein said. "There will be an enormous amount of energy spent in the
next few months examining the full range of possibilities."

A ruling in favor of Arizona's Senate Bill 1070 would probably enable Alabama,
Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and Utah to move forward with comparable
measures that were enacted but have been on hold pending the high court's
decision.

"If Arizona does very well, we'll do very well," said Alabama state Sen. Scott
Beason (R), sponsor of a law that in some respects is tougher than Arizona's. In
addition to requiring police to determine citizenship status during traffic
stops, it directs government offices to verify legal residency for transactions
such as obtaining a car license, enrolling a child in school and getting a job.

Lawmakers in states as different as Mississippi and Pennsylvania said they would
be eager to follow the Arizona-Alabama model if the Supreme Court gave a green
light.

"You look at poll after poll after poll, whether they're a business owner or
employee or small-business owner or executive, the majority of Americans support
bills like 1070," said Pennsylvania state Rep. Daryl Metcalfe (R), chairman of
the House State Government Committee.

Metcalfe has already introduced a bill that incorporates Arizona's law and is
waiting for a favorable Supreme Court ruling to bring it up in his committee.

In Mississippi, a get-tough immigration bill passed the House this year but died
in a Senate committee. Its backers plan to try again next year and hope for a
Supreme Court ruling that gives them guidance.

"This just ensures to the taxpayers of Mississippi that when we pass the law, we
won't end up in a long court battle," said Rep. Becky Currie (R).

As in Mississippi, South Dakota lawmakers also have rejected a measure based on
the Arizona law, but its sponsor, Rep. Manny Steele (R), says he's ready to try
again.

"I would be excited to get another bill going back in there, according to what
the Supreme Court decision is," Steele said.

In Rhode Island, Rep. Peter Palumbo (D) said he was pleased by the Supreme
Court's apparent support for allowing states to enforce immigration law.

"It's tremendous," said Palumbo, who would like to empower the state police to
help federal authorities with immigration enforcement.

In several states where neither major party has a monopoly on power - Iowa,
Colorado, Montana and Kentucky, among them - lawmakers said the fate of any
hard-line immigration bill would probably depend on the outcome of state
elections in November.

One of Kentucky's leading critics of illegal immigration, Rep. Stan Lee (R),
said an Arizona-style bill has little chance of overcoming staunch opposition
from the Democratic majority in the House.

"Even if the Supreme Court upholds all or virtually all of that, I don't expect
to pursue any of that type of legislation unless there's a significant change in
the makeup of the House," Lee said. "The votes, as I've discovered, just aren't
there."

In Minnesota, Rep. Steve Drazkowski (R) said he will consider proposing a bill
modeled in part on the Arizona law but acknowledged that it could well be vetoed
by Gov. Mark Dayton (D), whose term runs until 2014.

In Kansas, where Republicans dominate, GOP legislators are split over
immigration, preventing action both on proposals to crack down on illegal
immigration and a business-backed program to place some immigrants in
hard-to-fill jobs in farming and other sectors.

In Virginia, which already has numerous restrictive immigration laws, Del. David
B. Albo (R-Fairfax) said there may not be room for many more.

"We're already bumping up against the legal limits of what we're allowed to do,"
said Albo, author of a state law that denies adult illegal immigrants
non-emergency public benefits such as food stamps and welfare payments.

In many states, there is little or no prospect for adopting Arizona-style laws
anytime soon. In some cases, such as in Idaho, it's because the agriculture
industry worries about losing needed workers; elsewhere it's a question of
immigrant-friendly politics.

"I can't envision the state adopting the position that we should be enforcing
immigrant laws," said New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D), noting that his state
has ample law enforcement challenges on its plate already.

In Illinois, which has some of the most immigrant-friendly laws in the nation,
Rep. Randy Ramey (R) has tried four times to propose an Arizona-style law but
failed to get a measure out of committee. Heartened by the Supreme Court
arguments, Ramey said he may try again despite the odds.

"It encourages me, but doesn't mean anything will move here as long as Democrats
are in charge," he said. "They'll just laugh at it."

There are an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States. Of
that total, roughly 6.1 million are from Mexico, down from nearly 7 million in
2007, according to a Pew Hispanic Center study released Monday. That decline has
coincided with a cooling-off of the immigration debate in some states such as
Tennessee.

"It doesn't seem to have the same numbers that were here a couple of years ago,"
said state Sen. Bill Ketron (R), who has sponsored a number of bills targeting
illegal immigrants.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 30, 2012 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Arizona's flawed immigration law

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 209 words


Despite the Supreme Court justices' apparent skepticism ["Justices receptive to
parts of Arizona's  immigration law," front page, April 26], the immigration
status checks required by Arizona's law subvert federal enforcement priorities
and procedures. Section 2(B) requires Arizona police to verify the immigration
status of all individuals arrested. This  will result in thousands of additional
verification requests to the federal government every year, significantly delay
response times and divert scarce  enforcement resources away from high-priority
targets.

Section 2(B) also requires that, in the event of a lawful stop or an
investigative detention, police check immigration status only if they have
"reasonable suspicion" an individual is unlawfully present. Given the cursory
nature of such stops, the complexities of federal immigration law and minimal
guidance from the state law, police - under threat of civil damages - will be
forced to rely on impermissible criteria such as race to make these
determinations.

Such an arbitrary and unjust process contradicts the comprehensive enforcement
scheme embodied in federal immigration law.

Melissa Crow, North Potomac

The writer is director of the American Immigration Council's Legal Action
Center.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 10, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 726 words

ARIZONA

Immigration decision may continue strife

A forthcoming U.S. Supreme Court decision on Arizona's controversial immigration
law - which some experts believe could uphold the most controversial aspects of
the measure - won't end legal disputes on the matter and instead is likely to
ignite renewed assaults by the law's opponents.

The court is evaluating the 2010 law solely on the question of whether federal
law trumps Arizona's attempt to fix its border problems. That means that
opponents could still ask the courts to block enforcement of the law on other
legal grounds.

For example, the high court isn't considering the possibility that racial
profiling may arise from the law - because the Obama administration's lawsuit
didn't challenge it on those grounds. The administration focused instead on
whether federal law supersedes the state law, an issue known as preemption.

The case was argued before the high court in April, and a ruling is expected by
the end of June.

- Associated Press

CALIFORNIA

Legal battle targets workers' pensions

For years, companies have been chipping away at workers' pensions. Two
California cities may help pave the way for governments to follow suit.

Voters in San Diego and San Jose, the nation's eighth- and 10th-largest cities,
overwhelmingly approved ballot measures last week to roll back municipal
retirement benefits - not only for future hires but also for current employees.

From coast to coast, the pensions of current public employees have long been
generally considered untouchable. But now, some politicians are saying those
obligations are overridden by the need to provide for the public's health and
safety.

The two California cases could put that argument to the test in a legal battle
that could resonate in cash-strapped state capitols and city halls across the
country. Lawsuits have already been filed in both cities.

The court battles are playing out as lawmakers nationwide grapple with
ballooning pension obligations that increasingly threaten schools, police,
health clinics and other basic services.

State and local governments may have $3 trillion in unfunded pension
liabilities. Seven states and six large cities will be unable to cover their
obligations beyond 2020, Northwestern University finance professor Joshua Rauh
estimated last year.

- Associated Press

WASHINGTON

Consumer paradox on saving energy

When it comes to saving energy, people in the United States know that driving a
fuel-efficient car accomplishes more than turning off the lights at home.

But that doesn't mean they'll do it. A new poll shows that while most of those
questioned understand effective ways to save energy, they have a hard time
adopting them.

Six in 10 surveyed say driving a more fuel-efficient car would save a large
amount of energy, but only one in four says that's easy to do, according to the
poll by the AP-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. People also are
skeptical of carpooling or installing better home insulation, rating the actions
as effective but impractical.

- Associated Press

New York police dismiss bearded recruit: An Orthodox Jew who was weeks away from
becoming a New York City police officer told the Daily News he has been kicked
out of the police academy for refusing to trim his beard. The recruit, Fishel
Litzman, of Monsey is Hasidic and believes that cutting his beard is forbidden
by God. The NYPD makes exceptions for beards kept for religious purposes, but
even then allows only one millimeter worth of growth.

Daughter alleges abuse by megachurch pastor father: The 15-year-old daughter of
megachurch pastor Creflo Dollar told authorities her father choked, punched and
hit her with his shoe during an argument over whether she could go to a party,
according to a police report. Dollar disputed her allegations, telling a
sheriff's deputy that he was trying to restrain her when she became
disrespectful. Dollar's World Changers Church International has 30,000 members
in the Atlanta area, and the ministry has satellite churches across the United
States.

Toothpick heist in Georgia: Police are trying to figure out who stole about
400,000 toothpicks worth nearly $3,000 from a manufacturer in Athens, Ga. Police
told the Athens Banner-Herald someone took six cases from Armond's Manufacturing
about two weeks ago, and seven more cases disappeared last weekend.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

States see useful tool in Arizona decision

BYLINE: Pamela Constable;Jeremy Borden

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1109 words


The Supreme Court ruling on Arizona's tough immigration law, which allows state
and local police there to question individuals about their immigration status,
will bolster laws in a dozen other states that want to use local law enforcement
as a tool to curb illegal immigration, experts and advocates said Monday.

While supporters hailed the court's decision as a major breakthrough in the
battle to control illegal immigration in the absence of an effective national
policy, opponents said they feared it would open the door to abuse, intimidation
and racial profiling across the country.

"This is good news for the state of Arizona, and it will have an immediate
impact on Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina, which have similar arrest
provisions in their laws and will presumably have easy sailing in the courts
now," said Kris Kobach, secretary of state for Kansas and a former law professor
who co-authored the Arizona law.

"There is no way to enforce this law without racial profiling," said Edgar
Aranda-Yanoc, chairman of the Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations,
speaking to reporters Monday with leaders from several other groups in Falls
Church. "Unfortunately, people of color and Latinos will be targeted."

National advocates on both sides of the debate described the situation in
Alabama - the only state that allows police to check immigration status - as a
role model or negative example of how Arizona-style laws play out.

In the Washington area, advocates on both sides praised and criticized the
long-term results of a similar law that passed five years ago in Prince William
County.

The high court decision will not have an immediate impact in any state,
including Arizona, because federal courts will need weeks or months to consider
and apply the ruling to state laws they have blocked, and because other legal
challenges to those laws are expected to be revived.

White House officials also announced Monday that they are instructing federal
immigration offices around the country to focus on border security and criminal
problems. They said the Department of Homeland Security will no longer issue
detention orders for illegal immigrants who have not committed other crimes and
will phase out its cooperative agreements with local law enforcement agencies to
identify illegal immigrants - starting immediately with Arizona.

However, local and national immigrant rights groups expressed concern that the
court decision will help other states pass and implement "copycat" legislation
that makes legal and illegal immigrants vulnerable to police pressure and
harassment. The Arizona law requires police to check the legal status of almost
anyone they encounter if they have a "reasonable suspicion" they may be in the
state illegally.

Legislators in Pennsylvania, Mississippi and several other states said this week
that they had been waiting for the ruling to introduce Arizona-type laws that
would withstand legal challenges.

"I am very, very concerned about the 'show me your papers' policy. It is going
to create discrimination," said Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA of
Maryland, a regional immigrant advocacy group. He said the ruling made it "more
important than ever" for the federal government to pass comprehensive
immigration reform.

Immigration experts noted that the high court did not give carte blanche to
Arizona's drive against illegal immigrants. While upholding the right of police
to ascertain legal status, it struck down other aspects of the law that
conflicted with federal policy, such as making it a crime for an illegal
immigrant to seek work or to be in the state without proper documents.

Activists disagreed on the scope and significance of the ruling. Dan Stein,
president of the Federation for Immigration Reform, said the ruling - coupled
with an earlier decision upholding federal ID checks on employees - means that
"states now have broad latitude to carry out a policy of attrition through
enforcement" of immigration laws.

But opponents stressed that, in addition to striking down three other sections
of the Arizona law, the high court framed a narrow definition of what states can
do to enforce immigration law and suggested that in some cases, even police
questioning of legal status could still be open to legal challenge.

"The court has issued a sharp rebuke to Arizona and restated the limits on state
power to deal with immigration matters," said Cecilia Wang, a spokesman for the
American Civil Liberties Union in San Francisco. She said the ACLU will "go into
court immediately" to challenge Arizona and "copycat" laws in other states on
grounds of violating immigrants' rights.

Laws that have been blocked in Georgia, Indiana and South Carolina all have
provisions allowing police to question immigrants' legal status, but all are
written slightly differently and some may need to be changed to fit within the
high court's ruling.

National immigrant advocates said the situation in Alabama, where a federal
court last year upheld part of a state law allowing local police to check
immigrants' legal status, makes them especially worried about what will happen
if other states are allowed to follow suit. Tens of thousands of illegal
immigrants have fled Alabama since the fall.

Alabama state Sen. Scott Beason, the state law's sponsor, said he was "very
pleased" that the high court upheld state police powers, but disappointed and
confused by parts of the ruling that forbid states from making it a crime for
immigrants to be in the state without proper documents.

"I think the court made the issue as clear as mud," Beason said.

The greater Washington area has also served as a laboratory for tough
immigration laws. In Prince William County, the 2007 law originally allowed
police to check any individual's immigration status. After protests, the law was
modified to allow police to check the legal status only of people who have
already been arrested.

County Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), who championed the county
law and is now running for lieutenant governor of Virginia, said Monday that
Prince William had found a "sweet spot" that would allow localities to crack
down on illegal immigration without provoking problems. "I would not be
surprised ultimately if Arizona goes the same way," he said.

But local critics of the county law hold a more negative view. Tim Freilich, who
heads an immigrant advocacy program for the Legal Aid Justice Center, said the
county crackdown had "divided the community, it devastated the local economy."

constablep@washpost.com

bordenj@washpost.com

Staff writers Luz Lazo, N.C. Aizenman and Sandhya Somashekhar contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 26, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

On immigration case, Scalia throws fair, impartial to wind

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 775 words


As the Supreme Court heard arguments Wednesday about an Arizona immigration law,
supporters of the crackdown set up an amp on the sidewalk in front of the court
and belted out a tune:

We've got illegals in the back yard

It's time we claimed our borders once again

I think Arizona's great

Protecting citizens of that state

And I believe that all across this land

With Arizona we should take a stand.

The melody was weak and the lyrics weaker. But the protest anthem was noteworthy
in one respect: In tone and substance, it was nearly identical to the argument
Justice Antonin Scalia made inside the court.

While other justices at least attempted a veneer of fair and impartial
questioning in the highly charged case, Scalia left no doubt from the start that
he was a champion of the Arizona crackdown and that he would verbally lacerate
anybody who felt  otherwise.

"The state has no power to close its borders to people who have no right to be
there?" he asked incredulously.

And: "What does 'sovereignty' mean if it does not include the ability to defend
your borders?"

And: "Are you objecting to harassing the people who have no business being here?
Surely you're not concerned about harassing them."

And: "We have to enforce our laws in a manner that will please Mexico?"

Technically, Scalia was questioning counsel, but at best the queries were
rhetorical. At times he verged on outright heckling. He interrupted Solicitor
General Donald Verrilli, who was arguing against the Arizona law, to say that
his position "sounds like racial profiling to me."

He wasn't the wordiest justice - Sonia Sotomayor interjected 36 times to
Scalia's 35 during the 90-minute session - but he was by far the most caustic
and the least inclined to subdue his partisan instincts.

Scalia's tart tongue has been a fixture on the bench for years, but as the
justices venture this year into highly political areas such as health-care
reform and immigration, the divisive and pugilistic style of the senior
associate justice is very much defining the public image of the Roberts Court.

When John Roberts became chief justice, he spoke about forging consensus and
moving beyond 5 to 4 decisions, but the tone instead is being set by Scalia, the
justice who crossed First Street NE last year to address a gathering of the
congressional Tea Party Caucus.

During the immigration argument Wednesday, several justices were scrupulous
about challenging both sides. Roberts noted that parts of the Arizona statute
impose "significantly greater sanctions" than federal law does. Sotomayor
informed Verrilli at one point that she was "terribly confused by your answer"
and let him know that "it's not selling very well."

Scalia wasn't the only ill-tempered justice in the chamber. Samuel Alito rolled
his eyes to the ceiling and shook his head in objection when two liberal
justices spoke. And Sotomayor took a shot at the conservative justices when she
referred to "those of us for whom legislative history has some importance."

But Scalia was the leading dyspeptic, interjecting his way through the argument.
He interrupted Sotomayor, demanding to know whether Arizona "has to accept
within its borders all people who have no right to be there."

He interrupted Paul Clement, the lawyer representing Arizona, if only to mock
the federal authorities' response as "yes, he's an illegal immigrant, but that's
okay with us."

He interrupted the solicitor general to inform him that "Arizona is not trying
to kick out anybody that the federal government has not already said do not
belong here" and again to say that the executive branch "doesn't want this law
enforced so rigorously."

Scalia derisively likened the administration's position to saying that it would
prosecute only "professional bank robbers" and would object when a state decides
to prosecute an "amateur bank robber."

Patiently, Verrilli explained that the Arizona law is forcing federal
authorities to take their emphasis away from the most dangerous illegal
immigrants, that it is merely shifting the problem to other states, and that
mass incarceration risks upsetting foreign relations.

"Well, can't you avoid that particular foreign relations problem by simply
deporting these people?" Scalia retorted. "Look, free them from the jails and
send them back to the countries that are objecting. What's the problem with
that?"

The protesters outside - with their tea party signs proclaiming "We Are a Nation
of USA Citizens" and lyrics demanding "What part of the word 'illegal' don't
they understand?" - made precisely the same point.

danamilbank@washpost.com          For previous Washington Sketch columns, go to
postpolitics.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 28, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 496 words


Human dignitynot up for debate

Jose H. Gomez is the archbishop of Los Angeles and chairman of the U.S.
Conference of Catholic Bishops' Committee on Migration.

On Wednesday, the U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments on Arizona's immigration
law. The case before the court focuses on a few provisions of this law, but the
principle at stake is whether the federal government holds full authority to
enact and implement immigration law.

The implications are huge. How the court responds could fundamentally alter how
our country governs immigration. Instead of one federal law that applies to all
the states, a patchwork of 50 state immigration policies could define our
nation's immigration system.

In a friend-of-the-courtbrief submitted in the case, the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops argues that the federal government is in the best position to
balance competing goals of enforcement of immigration laws while uphold-ing
American values such as family unity and human dignity. These values help define
America as a nation.

State laws such as the one in Arizona do not always honor these values, long
enshrined in immigration law. Indeed, these laws threaten to remove such
humanitarian considerations from our immigration system altogether. This would
be a tragedy for those subject to these laws, but also for all Americans.

As a pastor, I am deeply concerned about the human consequences if Arizona's law
is upheld.

First, it would create a society that treats foreign-born men and women not as
contributors to our American life but as threats. The Arizona statute permits
law enforcementofficials to detain a person pursuant to a legal stop if they
have a reasonable suspicion that the person is undocumented and the person
cannot prove otherwise. This encourages a kind of racial "profiling" that is
inconsistent with respect for human dignity and equality before the law.

Second, upholding the Arizona law would accelerate a disturbing anti-family
tendency. In recent years, we have witnessed an alarming rise in the number of
undocumented parents being seized and forcibly separated from their U.S.-citizen
children. We must retain a deep concern for innocent children and family unity
in our immigration policy.

The Arizona law gives state and local law enforcement officials full sway to act
as "immigration agents." This is an unprecedented power and changes the
relationship between the government and our immigrant communities. It is hard to
create trust when members of a community are always a potential target of
criminal profiling.

Most disturbing, upholding Arizona's law would change our American identity as a
welcoming nation. The goals of such laws are to discourage immigrants from
coming and to encourage those who are here to leave. We must consider whether
that is the signal we want to send the world, given that immigrants and their
descendants - all of us - built this country and will continue to renew it.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 29, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration victory by Arizona could spawn laws in other states

BYLINE: David Crary

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1079 words


Emboldened by signals that the Supreme Court might uphold parts of Arizona's
immigration law, legislators and activists across the country say they are
gearing up to push for similar get-tough measures in their states.

"We're getting our national network ready to run with the ball and saturate
state legislatures with versions of the law," said William Gheen, president of
Americans for Legal Immigration.

Lawmakers in about a dozen states told the Associated Press that they were
interested in proposing Arizona-style laws if its key components are upheld by
the Supreme Court. A ruling is expected in June on the Justice Department's
appeal that the law conflicts with federal immigration policy.

Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, said he
was encouraged that several justices suggested during Wednesday's oral arguments
that they were ready to let Arizona enforce the most controversial part of its
law - a requirement that police officers check the immigration status of people
they suspect are in the country illegally. Another provision allows suspected
illegal immigrants to be arrested without warrants.

"The justices sent a clear signal that there's a huge zone for state action in
this area," Stein said. "There will be an enormous amount of energy spent in the
next few months examining the full range of possibilities."

A ruling in favor of Arizona's Senate Bill 1070 would probably enable Alabama,
Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and Utah to move forward with comparable
measures that were enacted but have been on hold pending the high court's
decision.

"If Arizona does very well, we'll do very well," said Alabama state Sen. Scott
Beason (R), sponsor of a law that in some respects is tougher than Arizona's. In
addition to requiring police to determine citizenship status during traffic
stops, it directs government offices to verify legal residency for transactions
such as obtaining a car license, enrolling a child in school and getting a job.

Lawmakers in states as different as Mississippi and Pennsylvania said they would
be eager to follow the Arizona-Alabama model if the Supreme Court gave a green
light.

"You look at poll after poll after poll, whether they're a business owner or
employee or small-business owner or executive, the majority of Americans support
bills like 1070," said Pennsylvania state Rep. Daryl Metcalfe (R), chairman of
the House State Government Committee.

Metcalfe has already introduced a bill that incorporates Arizona's law and is
waiting for a favorable Supreme Court ruling to bring it up in his committee.

In Mississippi, a get-tough immigration bill passed the House this year but died
in a Senate committee. Its backers plan to try again next year and hope for a
Supreme Court ruling that gives them guidance.

"This just ensures to the taxpayers of Mississippi that when we pass the law, we
won't end up in a long court battle," said Rep. Becky Currie (R).

As in Mississippi, South Dakota lawmakers also have rejected a measure based on
the Arizona law, but its sponsor, Rep. Manny Steele (R), says he's ready to try
again.

"I would be excited to get another bill going back in there, according to what
the Supreme Court decision is," Steele said.

In Rhode Island, Rep. Peter Palumbo (D) said he was pleased by the Supreme
Court's apparent support for allowing states to enforce immigration law.

"It's tremendous," said Palumbo, who would like to empower the state police to
help federal authorities with immigration enforcement.

In several states where neither major party has a monopoly on power - Iowa,
Colorado, Montana and Kentucky, among them - lawmakers said the fate of any
hard-line immigration bill would probably depend on the outcome of state
elections in November.

One of Kentucky's leading critics of illegal immigration, Rep. Stan Lee (R),
said an Arizona-style bill has little chance of overcoming staunch opposition
from the Democratic majority in the House.

"Even if the Supreme Court upholds all or virtually all of that, I don't expect
to pursue any of that type of legislation unless there's a significant change in
the makeup of the House," Lee said. "The votes, as I've discovered, just aren't
there."

In Minnesota, Rep. Steve Drazkowski (R) said he will consider proposing a bill
modeled in part on the Arizona law but acknowledged that it could well be vetoed
by Gov. Mark Dayton (D), whose term runs until 2014.

In Kansas, where Republicans dominate, GOP legislators are split over
immigration, preventing action both on proposals to crack down on illegal
immigration and a business-backed program to place some immigrants in
hard-to-fill jobs in farming and other sectors.

In Virginia, which already has numerous restrictive immigration laws, Del. David
B. Albo (R-Fairfax) said there may not be room for many more.

"We're already bumping up against the legal limits of what we're allowed to do,"
said Albo, author of a state law that denies adult illegal immigrants
non-emergency public benefits such as food stamps and welfare payments.

In many states, there is little or no prospect for adopting Arizona-style laws
anytime soon. In some cases, such as in Idaho, it's because the agriculture
industry worries about losing needed workers; elsewhere it's a question of
immigrant-friendly politics.

"I can't envision the state adopting the position that we should be enforcing
immigrant laws," said New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D), noting that his state
has ample law enforcement challenges on its plate already.

In Illinois, which has some of the most immigrant-friendly laws in the nation,
Rep. Randy Ramey (R) has tried four times to propose an Arizona-style law but
failed to get a measure out of committee. Heartened by the Supreme Court
arguments, Ramey said he may try again despite the odds.

"It encourages me, but doesn't mean anything will move here as long as Democrats
are in charge," he said. "They'll just laugh at it."

There are an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States. Of
that total, roughly 6.1 million are from Mexico, down from nearly 7 million in
2007, according to a Pew Hispanic Center study released Monday. That decline has
coincided with a cooling-off of the immigration debate in some states such as
Tennessee.

"It doesn't seem to have the same numbers that were here a couple of years ago,"
said state Sen. Bill Ketron (R), who has sponsored a number of bills targeting
illegal immigrants.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 30, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Arizona's flawed immigration law

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 209 words


Despite the Supreme Court justices' apparent skepticism ["Justices receptive to
parts of Arizona's  immigration law," front page, April 26], the immigration
status checks required by Arizona's law subvert federal enforcement priorities
and procedures. Section 2(B) requires Arizona police to verify the immigration
status of all individuals arrested. This  will result in thousands of additional
verification requests to the federal government every year, significantly delay
response times and divert scarce  enforcement resources away from high-priority
targets.

Section 2(B) also requires that, in the event of a lawful stop or an
investigative detention, police check immigration status only if they have
"reasonable suspicion" an individual is unlawfully present. Given the cursory
nature of such stops, the complexities of federal immigration law and minimal
guidance from the state law, police - under threat of civil damages - will be
forced to rely on impermissible criteria such as race to make these
determinations.

Such an arbitrary and unjust process contradicts the comprehensive enforcement
scheme embodied in federal immigration law.

Melissa Crow, North Potomac

The writer is director of the American Immigration Council's Legal Action
Center.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 10, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 744 words


ARIZONA          Immigration decision may continue strife

A forthcoming U.S. Supreme Court decision on Arizona's controversial immigration
law - which some experts believe could uphold the most controversial aspects of
the measure - won't end legal disputes on the matter and instead is likely to
ignite renewed assaults by the law's opponents.

The court is evaluating the 2010 law solely on the question of whether federal
law trumps Arizona's attempt to fix its border problems. That means that
opponents could still ask the courts to block enforcement of the law on other
legal grounds.

For example, the high court isn't considering the possibility that racial
profiling may arise from the law - because the Obama administration's lawsuit
didn't challenge it on those grounds. The administration focused instead on
whether federal law supersedes the state law, an issue known as preemption.

The case was argued before the high court in April, and a ruling is expected by
the end of June.

- Associated Press

CALIFORNIA          Legal battle targets workers' pensions

For years, companies have been chipping away at workers' pensions. Two
California cities may help pave the way for governments to follow suit.

Voters in San Diego and San Jose, the nation's eighth- and 10th-largest cities,
overwhelmingly approved ballot measures last week to roll back municipal
retirement benefits - not only for future hires but also for current employees.

From coast to coast, the pensions of current public employees have long been
generally considered untouchable. But now, some politicians are saying those
obligations are overridden by the need to provide for the public's health and
safety.

The two California cases could put that argument to the test in a legal battle
that could resonate in cash-strapped state capitols and city halls across the
country. Lawsuits have already been filed in both cities.

The court battles are playing out as lawmakers nationwide grapple with
ballooning pension obligations that increasingly threaten schools, police,
health clinics and other basic services.

State and local governments may have $3 trillion in unfunded pension
liabilities. Seven states and six large cities will be unable to cover their
obligations beyond 2020, Northwestern University finance professor Joshua Rauh
estimated last year.

- Associated Press

WASHINGTON          Consumer paradox on saving energy

When it comes to saving energy, people in the United States know that driving a
fuel-efficient car accomplishes more than turning off the lights at home.

But that doesn't mean they'll do it. A new poll shows that while most of those
questioned understand effective ways to save energy, they have a hard time
adopting them.

Six in 10 surveyed say driving a more fuel-efficient car would save a large
amount of energy, but only one in four says that's easy to do, according to the
poll by the AP-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. People also are
skeptical of carpooling or installing better home insulation, rating the actions
as effective but impractical.

- Associated Press

New York police dismiss bearded recruit: An Orthodox Jew who was weeks away from
becoming a New York City police officer told the Daily News he has been kicked
out of the police academy for refusing to trim his beard. The recruit, Fishel
Litzman, of Monsey is Hasidic and believes that cutting his beard is forbidden
by God. The NYPD makes exceptions for beards kept for religious purposes, but
even then allows only one millimeter worth of growth.

Daughter alleges abuse by megachurch pastor father: The 15-year-old daughter of
megachurch pastor Creflo Dollar told authorities her father choked, punched and
hit her with his shoe during an argument over whether she could go to a party,
according to a police report. Dollar disputed her allegations, telling a
sheriff's deputy that he was trying to restrain her when she became
disrespectful. Dollar's World Changers Church International has 30,000 members
in the Atlanta area, and the ministry has satellite churches across the United
States.

Toothpick heist in Georgia: Police are trying to figure out who stole about
400,000 toothpicks worth nearly $3,000 from a manufacturer in Athens, Ga. Police
told the Athens Banner-Herald someone took six cases from Armond's Manufacturing
about two weeks ago, and seven more cases disappeared last weekend.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 26, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

States see useful tool in Arizona decision

BYLINE: Pamela Constable;Jeremy Borden

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1113 words


The Supreme Court ruling on Arizona's tough immigration law, which allows state
and local police there to question individuals about their immigration status,
will bolster laws in a dozen other states that want to use local law enforcement
as a tool to curb illegal immigration, experts and advocates said Monday.

While supporters hailed the court's decision as a major breakthrough in the
battle to control illegal immigration in the absence of an effective national
policy, opponents said they feared it would open the door to abuse, intimidation
and racial profiling across the country. "This is good news for the state of
Arizona, and it will have an immediate impact on Alabama, Georgia and South
Carolina, which have similar arrest provisions in their laws and will presumably
have easy sailing in the courts now," said Kris Kobach, secretary of state for
Kansas and a former law professor who co-authored the Arizona law.

"There is no way to enforce this law without racial profiling," said Edgar
Aranda-Yanoc, chairman of the Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations,
speaking to reporters Monday with leaders from several other groups in Falls
Church. "Unfortunately, people of color and Latinos will be targeted."

National advocates on both sides of the debate described the situation in
Alabama - the only state that allows police to check immigration status - as a
role model or negative example of how Arizona-style laws play out.

In the Washington area, advocates on both sides praised and criticized the
long-term results of a similar law that passed five years ago in Prince William
County.

The high court decision will not have an immediate impact in any state,
including Arizona, because federal courts will need weeks or months to consider
and apply the ruling to state laws they have blocked, and because other legal
challenges to those laws are expected to be revived.

White House officials also announced Monday that they are instructing federal
immigration offices around the country to focus on border security and criminal
problems. They said the Department of Homeland Security will no longer issue
detention orders for illegal immigrants who have not committed other crimes and
will phase out its cooperative agreements with local law enforcement agencies to
identify illegal immigrants - starting immediately with Arizona.

However, local and national immigrant rights groups expressed concern that the
court decision will help other states pass and implement "copycat" legislation
that makes legal and illegal immigrants vulnerable to police pressure and
harassment. The Arizona law requires police to check the legal status of almost
anyone they encounter if they have a "reasonable suspicion" they may be in the
state illegally.

Legislators in Pennsylvania, Mississippi and several other statessaid this week
that they had been waiting for the ruling to introduce Arizona-type laws that
would withstand legal challenges.

"I am very, very concerned about the 'show me your papers' policy. It is going
to create discrimination," said Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA of
Maryland, a regional immigrant advocacy group. He said the ruling made it "more
important than ever" for the federal government to pass comprehensive
immigration reform.

Immigration experts noted that the high court did not give carte blanche to
Arizona's drive against illegal immigrants. While upholding the right of police
to ascertain legal status, it struck down other aspects of the law that
conflicted with federal policy, such as making it a crime for an illegal
immigrant to seek work or to be in the state without proper documents.

Activists disagreed on the scope and significance of the ruling. Dan Stein,
president of the Federation for Immigration Reform, said the ruling - coupled
with an earlier decision upholding federal ID checks on employees - means that
"states now have broad latitude to carry out a policy of attrition through
enforcement" of immigration laws.

But opponents stressed that, in addition to striking down three other sections
of the Arizona law, the high court framed a narrow definition of what states can
do to enforce immigration law and suggested that in some cases, even police
questioning of legal status could still be open to legal challenge.

"The court has issued a sharp rebuke to Arizona and restated the limits on state
power to deal with immigration matters," said Cecilia Wang, a spokesman for the
American Civil Liberties Union in San Francisco. She said the ACLU will "go into
court immediately" to challenge Arizona and "copycat" laws in other states on
grounds of violating immigrants' rights.

Laws that have been blocked in Georgia, Indiana and South Carolina all have
provisions allowing police to question immigrants' legal status, but all are
written slightly differently and some may need to be changed to fit within the
high court's ruling.

National immigrant advocates said the situation in Alabama, where a federal
court last year upheld part of a state law allowing local police to check
immigrants' legal status, makes them especially worried about what will happen
if other states are allowed to follow suit. Tens of thousands of illegal
immigrants have fled Alabama since the fall.

Alabama state Sen. Scott Beason, the state law's sponsor, said he was "very
pleased" that the high court upheld state police powers, but disappointed and
confused by parts of the ruling that forbid states from making it a crime for
immigrants to be in the state without proper documents.

"I think the court made the issue as clear as mud," Beason said.

The greater Washington area has also served as a laboratory for tough
immigration laws. In Prince William County, the 2007 law originally allowed
police to check any individual's immigration status. After protests, the law was
modified to allow police to check the legal status only of people who have
already been arrested.

County Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), who championed the county
law and is now running for lieutenant governor of Virginia, said Monday that
Prince William had found a "sweet spot" that would allow localities to crack
down on illegal immigration without provoking problems. "I would not be
surprised ultimately if Arizona goes the same way," he said.

But local critics of the county law hold a more negative view. Tim Freilich, who
heads an immigrant advocacy program for the Legal Aid Justice Center, said the
county crackdown had "divided the community, it devastated the local economy."

constablep@washpost.com

bordenj@washpost.com

Staff writers Luz Lazo, N.C. Aizenman and Sandhya Somashekhar contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      September 3, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Unleashing immigrants' potential

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 488 words


ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS are entitled to a free public education through high school.
Thanks to President Obama's executive order this spring, more than 1 million of
them are now eligible for temporary work permits. But even as America slouches
toward recognition that undocumented youngsters are here to stay, most states
continue to bar them from receiving in-state tuition benefits at public
colleges. That self-defeating stance saps their ability to realize their
ambitions and to contribute more to the U.S. economy.

Voters in Maryland are in a position to right that wrong by ratifying the
state's Dream Act at referendum this fall. Doing so is critical to the hopes of
youngsters graduating from Maryland high schools and to the state's economic
vitality.

The legislation, enacted in 2011, would extend in-state tuition rates, which are
much cheaper than those for out-of-staters, to undocumented students who entered
the country as children, graduated from Maryland high schools and hail from
families that file tax returns. Native-born students would suffer no increased
competition for admission, since undocumented applicants would compete with
out-of-state students,

If the debate over Maryland's Dream Act once seemed abstract, it shouldn't now
that the federal government is accepting applications from undocumented
youngsters to stay and work legally in this country. Tens of thousands of them
lined up in Chicago, in Los Angeles and elsewhere, seeking guidance and
discussing their hopes for a productive, upwardly mobile future in the only
country they consider their own.In most cases, it was absurd to classify them as
"undocumented," an irony not lost on a New York Times reporter who noted that
they came with "school transcripts, awards for academic achievements and sports
victories, high school and college diplomas, letters of recommendation, pay
stubs, bank statements, rent checks, tax returns." That was a useful reminder
that the immigrants, though they entered the country illegally as children or
overstayed their visas, are integrated into American life.

A new report from the Partnership for a New American Economy, a bipartisan group
of mayors and business leaders, found that immigrants are more than twice as
likely to start businesses than are native-born Americans, and were responsible
for more than a quarter of all new businesses started in 2011. Collectively, the
study found, immigrant-founded businesses employ a tenth of the private-sector
work force.

Unleashing and encouraging that work ethic and entrepreneurial drive should be
the task of government at all levels. Some states don't get that - think of
Arizona, where Gov. Jan Brewer (R) issued an order barring driver's licenses to
illegal immigrants even if they receive work permits. Other states, like
Maryland, have a chance to unlock the potential of a class of immigrants ready
and willing to contribute to the nation's future success.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     October 11, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

material for issues package on immigration

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 991 words


Where they stand

President Obama

Obama has urged Congress to pass the Dream Act, which would give young illegal
immigrants who were brought to the United States as children a path to
citizenship if they attend college or serve in the military. The Senate blocked
the bill in 2010.

In June, Obama said his administration would grant a two-year work permit and
deferral of deportation to young illegal immigrants who arrived as children, are
students or veterans, and meet certain other conditions.

Up to 1.7 million people could be eligible for the program. Tens of thousands
have applied since August.

At the same time, the president has pursued an aggressive policy of deporting
others, especially those who break U.S. laws. Since 2009, his administration has
deported about 1.5 million illegal immigrants, more than the administrations of
George W. Bush and Bill Clinton.

More than half of the 397,000 who were deported in 2011 had been convicted of
drug offenses or crimes such as drunken driving. Others were repeat
border-crossers from Mexico or were deemed threats to national security.

Obama's position has been that the government should focus on sending back
criminals and recent arrivals rather than minors and families who are settled.

MITT ROMNEY

As governor of Massachusetts, Romney vetoed a state law similar to the Dream
Act, and during the primaries he said that as president he would veto the
legislation if Congress were to pass it. But he later endorsed a path to legal
status for those who serve in the military.

Regarding Obama's deferred-action plan, he has said he would not continue it.
Instead, he has said that there should be a "permanent solution" to the problem
of illegal immigration, but he has not detailed what that solution would be.

The Republican suggested in January that illegal immigrants should
"self-deport," meaning that they would leave the country of their own accord if
they were unable to find jobs or obtain driver's licences. He later backtracked
from his comments and told a Latino audience at a campaign event in Florida in
June that he favored a long-term, comprehensive solution to illegal immigration.

Romney has always said he supports strong enforcement of U.S. border controls.
He has consistently said that he opposes providing "amnesty" or "magnets" for
illegal immigrants such as driver's licenses, jobs and in-state college tuition.
He also has said that he is uncomfortable with the idea of rounding up and
deporting people en masse.

President Obama

Obama has repeatedly said he supports legislation, backed by some business
sectors, that would increase the number of highly skilled foreign workers and
entrepreneurs who can enter the United States on special visas or apply to
immigrate. The issue has been bogged down in congressional divisions, and Obama
has said his options are limited.

The issue has been complicated by the high rate of joblessness in the United
States. Obama says he is committed to training 2 million Americans to meet
high-tech business demands, while also helping U.S. businesses hire more skilled
foreign workers.

Administration officials say Obama is committed to attracting skilled foreign
workers in various ways, including support for measures that would grant
permanent legal residency to foreign students who receive advanced U.S. degrees
in science and technology.

Mitt Romney

Romney has said consistently that he favors legal immigration, especially by
skilled and highly educated workers who are sought by American high-tech firms
and other industries. He has criticized the current annual limit on the number
of high-skilled visas, saying it is a barrier to the kinds of immigrants the
country needs to remain innovative.

Romney, a former business executive, has argued that private industry should be
allowed to determine the number of skilled foreign workers needed to do jobs if
Americans cannot be found to do them. He has often criticized the Obama
administration for keeping limits on skilled foreigners while not taking action
against illegal immigrants.

President Obama

Obama says he opposes "a patchwork of 50 states with 50 different immigration
laws." He has labeled as "misguided" the 2010 Arizona law that, among other
provisions, requires police to check the status of anyone they suspect is in the
country illegally.

His administration filed a federal lawsuit against Arizona, saying the state law
thwarted federal laws. In June, the Supreme Court threw out several of the law's
provisions but left standing the one on status checks, although it did reinforce
the federal government's primacy in immigration policy.

Obama has similarly called "a bad law" an Alabama statute that requires police
to try to determine a person's legal status if they suspect that he or she is
here illegally. The law prohibits illegal immigrants from receiving state or
local benefits and requires that schools ascertain whether students are here
legally. It prohibits landlords from renting to illegal immigrants and requires
businesses to validate workers' status using the E-Verify program. In August,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit struck down major provisions of
the law. Alabama has challenged the panel's ruling and asked for a new hearing.

Mitt Romney

Romney has not said outright that he supports the laws enacted in Arizona,
Alabama and other states, but he has called on the Justice Department to drop
its lawsuit against the Arizona legislation. Kansas Secretary of State Kris
Kobach, his informal adviser, is a key architect of the measures.

Romney has called Arizona "a model" for the nation, for another
immigrant-related law that requires employers to check the legal status of
workers through the E-Verify system. He has remained relatively quiet on the
Alabama law, and more recently he has deflected questions on whether the country
should follow Arizona's immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     October 11, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 337 words


About Issues Week

The Post sjkdgh asjk dg asdga sdgasdgasdgasdg asgasjdgsgh asjkdgh asjk dg asdga
sdgasdgasdgasdg asasdg asgkdgh asjk dg a sgh. The schedule:

Contributors

g asgasjd gjkasgh asjkdgh asjk dg asdga sdgasdgasdgasdg asgasjdgsgh asjkdgh asjk
dg asdga sdgasdgasdgasdg asgasjdgsgh asjkdjdg a sdgasdgasdgasdg asgasdgasdg
asgasjdgsgh asjkdjdg a sdgasdgasdg asdg asgasjdgsgh

Immigration was a major issue in the presidential campaign when Republicans were
battling one another for the party's nomination. It's still an issue, but not
one that President Obama or Mitt Romney talks about much, except in front of
Hispanic audiences.

During the primaries, Romney tacked to the right on immigration to outflank his
conservative rivals. He went after Texas Gov. Rick Perry over a long-standing
state law that allows illegal immigrants who live in Texas to pay in-state
tuition at colleges and universities there.

Romney later attacked former House speaker Newt Gingrich (Ga.) for suggesting
that illegal immigrants who have lived in the United States for a
quarter-century or longer and who have roots in their communities eventually
should have an opportunity to gain legal status, although not citizenship.
Romney said he believed in "self-deportation" for the millions of illegal
immigrants in the country.

The Hispanic vote will be critically important in the general election, and
Romney is fighting an uphill battle. He has done little during the campaign to
move toward the middle on immigration issues. Rather, he has tried to win Latino
votes by talking economics and saying he would promote immigration reform. Obama
has acknowledged that his inability to achieve such reform is his "biggest
failure."

Romney needs to hold Obama at or below 65 percent of the Hispanic vote, but most
polls show the president above that level. That puts Romney at a disadvantage in
the competition for the fastest-growing share of the population. - Dan Balz

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 21, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Stewart says move is political

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: ; Pg. T01

LENGTH: 491 words


As Prince William County grapples with the sudden loss of a controversial
program to identify and deport illegal immigrants who commit crimes, the
immigration debate has been renewed just ahead of Election Day.

County officials were surprised that a partnership allowing Prince William to
enforce federal immigration laws, known as 287 (g), is being renewed only until
year's end by the Department of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. County
officials had thought they were negotiating a new three-year deal.

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors,
considers the program the crux of its anti-illegal immigration efforts, passed
in 2007, mandating that police check the immigration status of people arrested.

Stewart (R-At Large) said he thinks ICE and the Obama administration are playing
politics.

"Frankly, I didn't think they'd have the guts to do it," Stewart said of the
Obama administration. "It's going to hurt them in Virginia, and it's going to
hurt them in Prince William County. I really didn't think they'd be foolish . .
. from a political perspective to terminate the program right before the
November elections."

ICE has remained mostly mum about the reasons for the change. The Obama
administration has instructed federal immigration offices across the country to
focus on border security and people who commit serious crimes. It plans to phase
out 287 (g) in favor of the Secure Communities program.

"The Secure Communities screening process, coupled with federal officers, is
more consistent, efficient and cost effective in identifying and removing
criminal and other priority aliens," ICE spokeswoman Danielle Bennett said in a
statement.

The department has declined to answer further questions.

Under Secure Communities, suspects' names are run through an ICE database, which
contains records of people who have come into contact with federal immigration
authorities. After this year, Prince William law enforcement authorities would
no longer be able to investigate the immigration status of people they arrest.

County officials say they won't be able to identify nearly as many illegal
immigrants. In a statement, they said that 5,000 people arrested in the county
so far have been found to be here illegally. With the change, they estimated
that  number would drop by 60 percent.

The change was welcomed by people who say the 287 (g) program can lead to racial
profiling and distract police from their core responsibilities.

Claire G. Gastanaga, executive director of the Virginia American Civil Liberties
Union, said the ACLU has opposed the program from the beginning because ICE
already detains and deports dangerous criminals.

"We think it's antithetical to good, effective community policing," she said.
"You confuse the roles of local police and federal immigration authorities. You
end up being less safe because people are not willing to cooperate with the
police."

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 7, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Md. voters approve Question 4

BYLINE: Nick Anderson;and Luz Lazo

SECTION: A section; Pg. A49

LENGTH: 673 words


A Maryland law that grants an in-state tuition discount to undocumented college
students won voter approval Tuesday in a referendum that set a precedent in the
national debate over illegal immigration.

By 1 a.m. Wednesday, Question 4 had built an insurmountable lead in unofficial
returns, with 93 percent of precincts reporting.

"This is going to be a tremendous victory," Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) said in
Baltimore as results were coming in, capping support for the measure that
included spirited rallies and marches.

Del. Neil C. Parrott (R-Washington), a leading opponent of the law, acknowledged
that his side was trailing significantly. No matter what the outcome, he said,
it was a victory for voters to be able to consider the question.

Preelection polling showed broad support for the law, known as Maryland's
version of the "Dream Act," which grants in-state public tuition rates to
certain undocumented immigrants who attended Maryland high schools for at least
three years and meet other conditions.

The law won approval last year from the Democrat-controlled General Assembly and
O'Malley. But the issue landed on the ballot after critics collected enough
petition signatures to force a referendum on whether to uphold the statute or
strike it down.

About a dozen other states have laws or policies that echo Maryland's version.
But the outcome of Question 4 set a precedent. No other state has approved such
a law through a popular vote.

Francisco Javier Mercado, 42, a Silver Spring resident and native of El
Salvador, said the prominence of immigration issues led him to vote Tuesday for
the first time. "I am 100 percent in favor of the Dream Act," Mercado said. "It
is another opportunity for the students that want to better themselves. We can't
deny them an education."

In Upper Marlboro, Sandra Bossard, 62, said she voted against the referendum. "I
know young people who are citizens who have difficulty getting into college,"
Bossard said. "We need to support our own and take care of our own."

Under the law, students who qualify for the tuition benefit must first attend
community college. Those who receive an associate degree or at least 60 credits
at the two-year school can then qualify for a tuition discount at a four-year
university.

For students from families of modest means, the subsidy is crucial to hopes of
getting a bachelor's degree. At the University of Maryland in College Park,
in-state tuition is $7,175 a year. For out-of-state students, it is $25,554.

Critics called the law an unjustified giveaway of taxpayer funding. They also
said it would leave fewer slots available at U-Md. and other selective public
schools for U.S. citizens. Proponents called that argument unfounded.

U-Md. President Wallace D. Loh, a supporter of the law, said the number of
undocumented students who would qualify for the benefit at College Park would be
minimal, perhaps 20 a year.

"Yes, they are undocumented," Loh said. "But we're talking about people who came
here as children." He called the issue a matter of "fairness and justice" and
said that Maryland has a vested interest in providing higher education access,
at a low price, to all its high school graduates.

Maryland's law stands out among similar statutes across the country. Experts say
no other state that provides an in-state discount for undocumented immigrants
requires the students to attend community college first. Some analysts estimated
that the tuition subsidy could cost taxpayers $3.5 million a year. But there is
little consensus on the cost because it is unknown how many students would
qualify for the benefit.

Debate over tuition benefits for illegal immigrants arose in the Republican
presidential primary. Texas Gov. Rick Perry, a supporter of such benefits, drew
criticism for his stance from former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, the
eventual Republican nominee. The campaign on Question 4 in Maryland was largely
overshadowed by debate on ballot measures related to same-sex marriage and
gambling.

andersonn@washpost.com

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 9, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

The way forward

BYLINE: Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 813 words


They lose and immediately the chorus begins. Republicans must change or die. A
rump party of white America, it must adapt to evolving demographics or forever
be the minority.

The only part of this that is even partially true regards Hispanics. They should
be a natural Republican constituency: striving immigrant community, religious,
Catholic, family-oriented and socially conservative (on abortion, for example).

The principal reason they go Democratic is the issue of illegal immigrants. In
securing the Republican nomination, Mitt Romney made the strategic error of
(unnecessarily) going to the right of Rick Perry. Romney could never
successfully tack back.

For the party in general, however, the problem is hardly structural. It requires
but a single policy change: Border fence plus amnesty. Yes, amnesty. Use the
word. Shock and awe - full legal normalization (just short of citizenship) in
return for full border enforcement.

I've always been of the "enforcement first" school, with the subsequent promise
of legalization. I still think it's the better policy. But many Hispanics fear
that there will be nothing beyond enforcement. So, promise amnesty right up
front. Secure the border with guaranteed legalization to follow on the day the
four border-state governors affirm that illegal immigration has slowed to a
trickle.

Imagine Marco Rubio advancing such a policy on the road to 2016. It would
transform the landscape. He'd win the Hispanic vote. Yes, win it. A problem
fixable with a single policy initiative is not structural. It is solvable.

The other part of the current lament is that the Republican Party consistently
trails among blacks, young people and (unmarried) women. (Republicans are plus-7
among married women.) But this is not for reasons of culture, identity or even
affinity. It is because these constituencies tend to be more politically liberal
- and Republicans are the conservative party.

The country doesn't need two liberal parties. Yes, Republicans need to weed out
candidates who talk like morons about rape. But this doesn't mean the country
needs two pro-choice parties either. In fact, more women are pro-life than are
pro-choice. The problem here for Republicans is not policy but delicacy -
speaking about culturally sensitive and philosophically complex issues with
reflection and prudence.

Additionally, warn the doomsayers, Republicans must change not just ethnically
but ideologically. Back to the center. Moderation above all!

More nonsense. Tuesday's exit polls showed that by an eight-point margin
(51-43), Americans believe that government does too much. And Republicans are
the party of smaller government. Moreover, onrushing economic exigencies -
crushing debt, unsustainable entitlements - will make the argument for smaller
government increasingly unassailable.

So, why give it up? Republicans lost the election not because they advanced a
bad argument but because they advanced a good argument not well enough. Romney
ran a solid campaign, but he is by nature a Northeastern moderate. He sincerely
adopted the new conservatism but still spoke it as a second language.

More Ford '76 than Reagan '80, Romney is a transitional figure, both
generationally and ideologically. Behind him, the party has an extraordinarily
strong bench. In Congress - Paul Ryan, Marco Rubio, Kelly Ayotte, (the incoming)
Ted Cruz and others. And the governors - Bobby Jindal, Scott Walker, Nikki
Haley, plus former governor Jeb Bush and the soon-retiring Mitch Daniels. (Chris
Christie is currently in rehab.)

They were all either a little too young or just not personally prepared to run
in 2012. No longer. There may not be a Reagan among them, but this generation of
rising leaders is philosophically rooted and politically fluent in the new
constitutional conservatism.

Ignore the trimmers. There's no need for radical change. The other party thinks
it owns the demographic future - counter that in one stroke by fixing the Latino
problem. Do not, however, abandon the party's philosophical anchor. In a world
where European social democracy is imploding before our eyes, the party of
smaller, more modernized government owns the ideological future.

Romney is a good man who made the best argument he could, and nearly won. He
would have made a superb chief executive, but he (like the Clinton machine)
could not match Barack Obama in the darker arts of public persuasion.

The answer to Romney's failure is not retreat, not aping the Democrats'
patchwork pandering. It is to make the case for restrained, rationalized and
reformed government in stark contradistinction to Obama's increasingly
unsustainable big-spending, big-government paternalism.

Republicans: No whimpering. No whining. No reinvention when none is needed. Do
conservatism but do it better. There's a whole generation of leaders ready to do
just that.

letters@charleskrauthammer.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 10, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Post-election, new momentum for a path to citizenship

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1276 words


A growing number of conservatives are softening their views on immigration in
the wake of President Obama's dominating performance among Hispanic voters,
giving new momentum to a years-long push by advocates to legalize millions of
undocumented immigrants.

Yet even as officials in both parties pledged to make overhauling immigration a
top goal in the coming months, it became clear Friday that the issue remains
thorny for each side.

House Speaker John A. Boehner was criticized by some in his party for a Thursday
interview in which he endorsed passing a "comprehensive" plan, adopting the
language of immigrant advocates pushing for citizenship.

By the time Boehner faced reporters for a Friday news conference, his remarks
were more tepid, focusing primarily on the border-security theme that is more
comfortable terrain for Republicans.

"I'm not talking about a 3,000-page bill," he said. "What I'm talking about is a
common sense, step-by-step approach [that] would secure our borders, allow us to
enforce the laws and fix a broken immigration system."

Pressed on whether he would ever support giving illegal immigrants the chance to
be citizens, the speaker demurred: "I'm not going to get into any of the details
of how you would get there. It's just time to get the job done."

The issue promises to also be complicated for Obama and his fellow Democrats,
who will face unprecedented pressure from a newly empowered political base to
secure a complete victory, citizenship path and all.

Hispanic leaders decided to cut Obama a break and support his reelection,
despite what they considered his broken 2008 campaign promise to push
immigration in his first term, but now several major organizations are planning
an extensive grass-roots push next year to pressure White House officials.

"They understand they can't make that promise twice in a lifetime," said Eliseo
Medina, secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union, which
spent millions recruiting new Hispanic voters this year. "For the White House
and the Democrats, we don't want to hear any more, 'We're with you but [the
Republicans] won't let me.' That ain't good enough anymore."

The Obama dilemma could come into focus early in the debate, if Republicans and
some advocates seek to negotiate smaller, scaled-back ideas as a starting point.

A key demographic

The sudden burst of activity on the right and left reflects what activists
describe as a sea change in the push for immigration legislation, which has been
stymied since conservatives thwarted efforts by former president George W. Bush
to pursue an overhaul following his 2004 reelection.

Unlike then, activists said Friday, many conservatives now see the danger of
alienating Hispanic voters. And, in contrast to the Bush strategy, which focused
on backroom negotiations on Capitol Hill, advocates have decided their best hope
now is to apply outside pressure on skittish politicians in both parties.

Supporters of a new law were thrilled Friday with the news that two prominent
conservative thinkers, talk show host Sean Hannity and columnist Charles
Krauthammer, both expressed support for legalizing illegal immigrants.

Hannity used the movement's chosen phrase, calling for a "pathway to
citizenship," saying he had "evolved" on the matter, while Krauthammer, in his
Friday Post column, described the GOP's hard-line stance on illegal immigration
as the single policy shift required to bring Hispanics back to the party.

"Border fence plus amnesty. Yes, amnesty," Krauthammer wrote, citing the word
long used by conservative opponents of a path to citizenship. "Use the word.
Shock and awe - full legal normalization (just short of citizenship) in return
for full border enforcement."

The post-election discussion on the right reflects a more fundamental shift that
has been happening for months among several core Republican constituencies, with
a growing number of evangelical leaders, business executives and law enforcement
officials expressing support for legalizing immigrants. The Southern Baptist
Convention voted last year to support a "just and compassionate path to legal
status."

Some of the movement has come about as part of a new campaign called "Bibles,
Badges and Businesses," orchestrated by the National Immigration Forum. The
group's executive director, Ali Noorani, said the program has targeted leaders
in both parties and has set the stage for Obama and lawmakers to feel a
"different kind of pressure" than they have in the past.

Grover Norquist, the anti-tax activist and a key conservative advocate for
citizenship, said he is convening a strategy session this month of like-minded
conservatives to begin hunting for more support on the right for a bill to be
passed soon.

"If you'd asked me a month ago, I'd have said we were five years out" from
immigration legislation passing, Norquist said. "Now I think we're 18 months
out."

How will he and others convince skeptical House Republicans? "The way it happens
is evangelicals will increasingly be louder, the business community will be
louder, the high-tech community will be louder," he said.

Conversation starter

Obama, at the moment, appears to be in a strong position to begin the
discussion. Exit polls showed he won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote, and that
Hispanics turned out in large numbers to boost his candidacy in the key states
of Colorado, Nevada and Florida. About two-thirds of voters - including most
independents and 51 percent of Republicans - said most illegal immigrants
working in the United States should be offered a chance to apply for legal
status, rather than being deported, according to the exit poll.

The president cited immigration in his victory speech early Wednesday as one of
his top policy priorities. He had predicted in the final weeks of the campaign
that GOP leaders would feel political pressure to compromise on the issue after
the election, telling Des Moines Register editors that "a big reason I will win
a second term is because the Republican nominee and the Republican Party have so
alienated the fastest-growing demographic group in the country, the Latino
community."

A White House spokesman declined to comment Friday on the administration's
legislative strategy.

The biggest questions swirled around Boehner and his always unpredictable
Republican caucus, which remains heavily influenced by tea-party conservatives.

A House GOP leadership aide said Friday that many rank-and-file members seemed
to be "getting it" and that Hannity's statement was "giving cover to those who
might ordinarily want to do it but wouldn't or couldn't." Still, the aide said,
"we're talking about a massive piece of legislation, and those are difficult to
do."

After Boehner's comments Thursday to ABC News' Diane Sawyer, in which he
endorsed a "comprehensive approach," conservative talk radio hummed with
frustrated conservatives worried he was too quick to speak on the issue.

U.S. Rep. John Fleming (R-La.) issued a statement calling on Boehner to "pull
back on this issue and stop negotiating in public."

In an interview Friday, Fleming said he had heard from a number of colleagues
supportive of his statement, and they planned on confronting Boehner during a
caucus meeting next week.

"This hasn't been discussed in the conference at all," Fleming said. "The issue
of immigration reform has not even been in the mix that I can recall for the
last two years."

He said the lawmakers planned to ask Boehner to "get some input" from his GOP
colleagues "before negotiating in public what we will not - will not - support."

wallstenp@washpost.com

Scott Clement contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 12, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Israel treats asylum-seekers well

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 236 words


Regarding the Nov. 3 news article "Israel closing its doors to illegal African
migrants":

The Post presented accusations that Israel is violating human rights by refusing
to distinguish between illegal immigrants and asylum seekers.

The charge is simply untrue. Israel, the only developed country with a common
border with Africa, has attracted many thousands of illegal migrants. The vast
majority of these are men seeking work, not asylum. Since Israel cannot easily
repatriate them - Sudan, for example, refuses to recognize our existence - they
are accommodated at centers that provide full health services and free
education, as well as humanitarian protection for those in need. Israel not only
meets U.N. requisites on illegal migrants but exceeds them.

Some 65,000 migrants are currently in Israel, posing serious social and economic
challenges for a country of 8 million. Still, we welcome those Africans who
genuinely seek asylum, just as we formerly sheltered refugees from Bosnia and
Vietnam.

Over the past six months, The Post has published two other pieces on this
subject - the July 24 news story "In Israel, African migrants face backlash over
assaults" and the July 25 op-ed column "Israel confronts a flood." Like this
month's article, they were similarly misleading. Such focus is odd if not
disturbing.

Aaron Sagui, Washington

The writer is the spokesman for the Israeli embassy in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Promoting self-deportation

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 139 words


The Jan. 29 editorial "The 'self-deportation' fantasy" overstated the case.
Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney has never suggested that all 11
million illegal immigrants in the United States would self-deport. He is correct
in saying that many   undocumented immigrants unable to work in the United
States would return to their home countries if things got too tough. There is
evidence that this is already occurring.

It will take a mix of methods to reduce the number of illegal immigrants in the
United States. Creating conditions that cause some of them to go back home of
their own volition is sensible and more humane than some other methods that have
been suggested.

This approach might not apply to the grandmother who has been here illegally for
25 years, but it could work for a 19-year-old male.

John Brinkerhoff, Burke

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 6, 2012 Monday
                                Regional Edition

'Back of the line'? What line?

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 544 words


IN THE VENOMOUS debate over illegal immigration, there is a point of agreement
between President Obama and some of his would-be Republican rivals, including
former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney. They'd like to see undocumented
immigrants "get to the back of the line" for citizenship. Unfortunately, that
convergence of views distorts rather than illuminates the debate.

Granted, Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney have different ideas of how the "line" would
work. The president doesn't seem inclined to force unauthorized immigrants to
leave the country before applying for legal status. Mr. Romney thinks it would
be nice if they somehow "self deported," then lined up back home for legal
re-entry to America. In the end, the distinction is meaningless - because there
is no line, not even a relevant visa category, for millions of immigrants.

Here's why. A large majority of the 11 million illegal immigrants are unskilled
or low-skilled Mexicans. Many of them have no relatives over age 18 who are
either U.S. citizens or permanent residents in possession of green cards.

That makes them ineligible for any realistic visa category. They are barred in
most cases from employment-based visas, which favor skilled and well-educated
applicants, and from family-based visas, which require applicants to have
spouses, parents or siblings who are U.S. citizens or hold green cards. (Even
the "line" for those visas often takes 15 to 20 years or more.) There is simply
no immigrant visa category for which most unskilled Mexicans qualify and no
realistic prospect they could be legally admitted to the United States. About
half of the unauthorized adults in the country are Mexicans who probably have no
category for admission, according to Pew Hispanic Center senior demographer
Jeffrey S. Passel.

However, there will continue to be a demand for their labor. At least 7 million
illegal immigrants are in the American work force, in many cases doing jobs most
Americans consider  too dirty or unsuited to their educational attainment. (A
half-century ago, about half of American men dropped out of high school to seek
unskilled work; today just 10 percent do.)

There is a tiny number of "other worker" immigrant visas for which Mexicans may
apply. But those applications take several years and require employer
sponsorship. And no employer would go through the time and expense of
sponsorship for an unskilled worker.

It is possible to argue that the United States should shift away from
family-based visa preferences toward employment-based ones or that it should
create a new category of visas for skilled or unskilled "fortune seekers," who,
like millions  before them, want to come to America because of its record of
rewarding hard work and hustle.

Likewise, we would like to see an improved guest worker program, one that
offered American employers some reasonable prospect of filling jobs with
adequate numbers of immigrant employees in a timely way. But as things stand
now, those things don't exist.

On the campaign trail, it may sound tough or fair or common-sensical to demand
that illegal immigrants "get to the back of the line." In fact, it is a
convenient fiction, a trope designed more to obfuscate than resolve a policy
mess that politicians find too hard to tackle.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 20, 2012 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Some who fled crackdown on immigration returning to Ala.

BYLINE: Jay Reeves

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 710 words

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, ALA.


BIRMINGHAM, Ala. - Ana Jimenez and her husband were so terrified of being sent
back to their native Mexico when Alabama's tough crackdown on illegal immigrants
took effect that they fled more than 2,000 miles to Los Angeles, cramming into a
two-bedroom apartment with more than 20 other relatives.

Now they are among the families coming back to cities such as Birmingham, as the
mass deportations never materialized and courts blocked parts of the law. No one
knows how many people initially left the state, so it's impossible to say how
many have returned. But some illegal immigrants are trickling back, unable to
find work elsewhere and missing the place that had been home for years.

As for Jimenez, she left Birmingham with her husband, father and brother three
days after the law took effect. All except her brother are back. Jimenez said
through a translator that not much has changed, though she can't reclaim her job
at a McDonald's restaurant because managers are checking citizenship papers.

"Everything is the same. I just can't work now," Jimenez said through a
translator. She said the family is living off the income of her husband, who
installs carpet and flooring.

The Obama administration, immigrant groups and others sued over Alabama's law,
and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit is set to consider arguments
about it on March 1. The Supreme Court will hear oral arguments a month later
over Arizona's crackdown on illegal immigration, which isn't considered as
strict as Alabama's.

Republicans who supported the crackdown had said they hoped the tough provisions
- which made it difficult if not impossible to legally find work and housing,
among other things - would force people to "self-deport" and move out of the
state.

Among those who self-deported were Verenece Flores and her husband. They sold
their home in  the Birmingham area and moved with their three young children to
Chicago. But the couple, originally from Mexico and living in the United States
without legal documents, also could not find work, and relatives told them
people weren't being deported after traffic stops as some had feared.

The family is staying with relatives and doesn't have their own place, and
Flores remains "a little scared" of the law. But she said she was happy to be
back. Flores had lived here for 15 years before the brief move to Chicago, and
her children are happier and her husband is back working construction jobs.

"I missed everything about it - friends, family, the weather," Flores said. She
knows two more families that left Alabama for Washington state only to return.

Estela Fuentes said friends of hers moved to Atlanta because the law required
that public schools verify the citizenship status of students, yet they returned
late last month after learning courts had put that section of the law on hold.
The family was sad throughout its exile to Georgia, she said through a
translator.

"One of their daughters cried and cried because she had no friends over there,"
said Fuentes, who is originally from El Salvador.

And while there are families returning, some officials say they haven't heard
anything to suggest that the numbers are huge. Zayne Smith, an immigration
lawyer with the nonprofit Alabama Appleseed legal center in Montgomery, said she
had been hearing that some people wanted to wait until after the 11th Circuit
considers the case in March.

State agriculture officials who say the new law led to a chronic shortage in
agricultural labor said they haven't seen evidence of large numbers of
immigrants returning to the state. Many immigrants worked in the state's
poultry-processing plants or in tomato fields, planting and harvesting crops.

Gwen Ferreti, a researcher and activist in the Hispanic community, said some
immigrants remain wary but are coming back because of their deep ties to the
state.

Some initially feared the law would mean that people would be rounded up, or
that "you'd be stopped just for being Hispanic," said Ferreti, an anthropologist
from the University of Texas who is living in Tuscaloosa, about 60 miles
southwest of Birmingham, for her studies. "That has not happened, but people are
aware that racial profiling is going on if you are Hispanic. They are still
uneasy."

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Romney seeks to attract Hispanic voters

BYLINE: Philip Rucker;Dan Balz

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1240 words

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, ARIZ.


SCOTTSDALE, Ariz.- In his pursuit of the Republican nomination, Mitt Romney took
an aggressive position on immigration, denouncing the Dream Act, suggesting that
illegal immigrants should "self-deport" and attacking rivals who appeared to
show compassion for some undocumented immigrants.

That has left the presumptive nominee in a deep hole with Hispanic voters,
trailing President Obama by more than 40 points among this critically important
constituency in the latest NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll. The question is
whether Romney can credibly undo the damage from the primaries without igniting
a renewed debate about his consistency on the issues.

The problem is clearly on Romney's mind, so much so that he addressed it openly
Sunday at a Florida fundraiser. He told his audience that Republicans must do a
better job of attracting Hispanic votes and, according to NBC News and the Wall
Street Journal, said polling showing Obama far ahead among Hispanic voters
"spells doom for us."

The Hispanic vote will be crucial in many states this fall, from Mountain West
battlegrounds - Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico - where the election could be
determined, to such states as Florida and Virginia, which will be among the
nation's most competitive .

Romney's Friday schedule reflected those concerns. In Arizona to speak to state
chairs of the Republican Party, the former Massachusetts governor included on
his agenda a roundtable with Hispanic business leaders.

Immigration is a prime example of how Romney was forced to the right in his
battle for the nomination. Faced with a potentially strong challenge from Texas
Gov. Rick Perry, he attacked Perry for his support of a state law providing
in-state college tuition to children of illegal immigrants who are Texas
residents. "It makes no sense at all," he said in a Florida debate.

Later, he went after former House speaker Newt Gingrich for saying that illegal
immigrants who have lived in the United States for a quarter-century or more and
who have deep roots in a community should be given an opportunity to achieve
legal status but not citizenship. Romney called that a form of amnesty that
would "create another magnet" for more illegal immigrants.

Romney advisers say their candidate's focus on the economy will help boost his
standing with Latinos. "I think that our goal in this campaign is to focus very
intently on the economy," said Kevin Madden, an outside adviser to the campaign.
"When we do, I think that Hispanic voters are going to see that they have a
better chance for a brighter future for a President Romney than they have
witnessed the last four years under President Obama."

Obama campaign advisers are determined not to let Romney pivot away from some of
his past remarks without challenging him as inconsistent or insincere. They say
the record from the primary campaign will be difficult to erase or minimize. "I
think it's an impossible image to reverse," said Joel Benenson, the Obama
campaign's chief pollster.

Stephanie Cutter, Obama's deputy campaign manager, said Romney would have
trouble turning back the clock with Hispanic voters. "They tuned in at much
higher levels during the Republican primaries as a result of the harsh rhetoric,
and his positions on everything from the Arizona law to self-deportation didn't
go unnoticed," she said.

Arizona has been ground zero for a national debate over how to deal with illegal
immigration, particularly since the 2010 passage of legislation that requires
police officers to check the immigration status of anyone arrested or stopped if
there is reason to suspect that the person is in the country illegally.

The law generated national controversy, with supporters saying it was necessary
because the federal government had failed to secure borders. The Obama
administration sued the state of Arizona to block key provisions of the law.
Next week, the Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in the case.

On Thursday, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), a possible candidate to become Romney's
vice presidential running mate, said, "I do not believe that laws like Arizona's
should be a model for the nation." But Rubio said he believed that Arizona was
within its constitutional rights to enact the law.

Romney has said that he supports the law and that he would drop the federal
lawsuit if elected. It was widely reported after a Feb. 22 Republican
candidates' debate in Arizona that Romney had described the tough law as a model
for the nation. His campaign has since said his reference to Arizona as a model
was to a law calling for employers to use an electronic system to verify the
legal status of workers, not to the broader legislation.

Asked whether Romney thinks the controversial Arizona law also should be a
template for other states, a spokesman, who declined to be identified in order
to offer fuller comment, said: "The impact of illegal immigration differs from
state to state, as do questions of how to allocate scarce law enforcement
resources. Decisions on whether to adopt such laws should be left to the states,
so the Arizona law is not a model for the nation."

When it was passed, Romney said the law should be implemented with care. Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer (R), who endorsed Romney just before the Feb. 28 primary, said
Thursday that she had never spoken with Romney about his views on the law. "I've
never asked him," she said. "I know what he has said at the presidential
debates, I've read a few comments and stuff, so you know, I believe what he says
is that he understands the issues and that he realizes that we've got to get a
secure border," she said.

"What Governor Romney has said is that model seems to have worked for Arizona,
but that doesn't mean it's a model for the country or other states," said Jose
Fuentes, co-chair of Romney's National Hispanic Steering Committee. Fuentes said
Romney has had a deliberate strategy to be supportive of Arizona's efforts
without endorsing the law outright or ever suggesting that it is a model for the
nation.

The GOP's inability to win stronger support from Hispanics is a long-running
problem. Rubio, a Cuban American, is one of a number of Republicans who have
argued that the party needs a new strategy to overcome a deficit that has
long-term implications.

He is drafting what he hopes will be a compromise version of the Dream Act,
which would be more restrictive than the Democrats' plan but would give illegal
immigrants' children a chance to achieve legal status.

Romney is on record saying he would veto the Democratic-sponsored Dream Act. "I
would hope we could convince him to support a concept like this," Rubio said at
a forum hosted by National Journal on Thursday.

Romney's campaign advisers reacted cautiously to Rubio's efforts, saying the
candidate will carefully study any such proposals. "We must work together on
protecting and strengthening legal immigration, securing our borders, ending
illegal immigration in a civil but resolute manner, and ensuring that any
reforms do not encourage further illegal immigration," spokeswoman Andrea Saul
said in a statement.

Rubio's efforts could put Romney in a political bind by forcing him to back away
from his stated opposition to giving any legal status to those covered by the
bill - or Rubio might be throwing him a political lifeline in a competition for
voters destined to play a critical role in November and beyond.

ruckerp@washpost.com

balzd@washpost.com

Balz reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 22, 2012 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Politics to test justices again

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1314 words


The Supreme Court will conclude one of its most significant and controversial
terms in decades by taking on one more issue that has divided the nation:
Arizona's crackdown on illegal immigrants.

The court's final oral argument on Wednesday - Arizona v. United States -
provides yet another chance for the justices to confront fundamental questions
about the power of the federal government. And the rulings the court will issue
between now and the end of June could dramatically alter the nation's
election-year landscape.

The court has considered President Obama's health-care law, has taken its first
look at the political redistricting battles being fought across the nation and
will decide whether federal regulators still hold the authority to police the
nation's airwaves.

The Obama administration has moved aggressively against Arizona's SB 1070, which
directs law enforcement to play a much more active role in identifying illegal
immigrants and makes it a crime for them to seek work. The administration has
persuaded courts to put asidekey parts of the law.

And, as with last month's hearings on the health-care law,  in the Arizona case
the government is asking the court to recognize that the Constitution gives the
federal government vast powers to confront national problems, such as illegal
immigration.

"As the framers understood, it is the national government that has the ultimate
responsibility to regulate the treatment of aliens while on American soil,
because it is the nation as a whole - not any single state - that must respond
to the international consequences of such treatment," Solicitor General Donald
B. Verrilli Jr. told the court in the government's brief.

Immigration is one of the nation's thorniest political issues. Obama and his
administration have been accused of not properly securing the nation's borders
and criticized for not delivering comprehensive immigration reform. Presumptive
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney's tough stance against illegal
immigration has angered some interest groups and is said to have cost him among
increasingly influential Latino voters.

And even as the pace of illegal immigration has slowed, it has left a changed
picture of undocumented immigrants in the United States. According to the
liberal Center for American Progress, 63 percent of illegal immigrants have been
in the country for more than 10 years and more than 16.6 million people in the
United States have at least one undocumented family member.

Tom Saenz, president and general counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Education Fund, said that while the legal issues inArizona v. United
States"relate to the  structure of government, it is still very much a civil
rights case."

Beyond Arizona

The decision will have implications well beyond Arizona. Several states have
copied - and toughened - Arizona's law, and more are considering such steps.

"This debate is not just about SB 1070," Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R) said in a
statement when the state filed its brief in the case. "Rather, it is for the
constitutional principle that every state has a duty and obligation to protect
its people, especially when the federal government has failed in upholding its
core responsibilities.

"SB 1070 is Arizona's way of saying 'enough!'â[#x20ac][#x160]"

The Obama administration opposed Arizona's efforts from the start, as it has
similar laws passed in Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, Utah and elsewhere.

"Arizona has adopted its own immigration policy, which focuses solely on maximum
enforcement and pays no heed to the multifaceted judgments" that Congress
intends for the executive branch to make, Verrilli wrote in the government's
briefhttp://sblog.s3.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/11-182bsUnitedStat
es.pdf. "For each State, and each locality, to set its own immigration policy in
that fashion would wholly subvert Congress's goal: a single, national approach."

The Obama administration persuaded a federal judge and then the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 9th Circuit to keep four sections of the law from taking effect,
and they will be at the heart of the Supreme Court's review. Those sections:

l Require state and local law enforcement to verify the citizenship status of
anyone stopped, detained or arrested when there is "reasonable suspicion" that
the person is in the United States unlawfully.

l Authorize law enforcement officials to make and arrest without a warrant when
an officer has "probable cause to believe . . . [t]he person to be arrested has
committed any public offense that makes the person removable from the United
States."

l Make it a state crime to be in the United States unlawfully and require
non-citizens to carry documents to prove they are legally in the country.

l Make it a state crime for a person who is not lawfully in the country to work
or seek work. Federal law puts the burden on employers to verify the legality of
those seeking work.

Familiar faces

The case before the court offers a rematch of the lawyers who last month argued
the constitutionality of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act:
Verrilli for the government and Paul D. Clement, president George W. Bush's
solicitor general, representing Arizona.

Clement's brief opens with page after page of costs and crimes that have
accompanied a wave of illegal immigration across Arizona's borders: Schools,
hospitals and jails are overtaxed. Home invasions related to drug smuggling and
human trafficking have soared. "Incredibly," Clement writes, the federal
government has even posted signs warning travelers: "Danger - Public Warning -
Travel Not Recommended." "Active Drug and Human Smuggling Area." "Visitors May
Encounter Armed Criminals and Smuggling Vehicles Traveling at High Rates of
Speed."

Clement says SB 1070 is not imposing new immigration standards but merely
directing its own officials to make sure federal laws are respected.

"Such cooperative law enforcement is the norm, not something that requires
affirmative congressional authorization," Clement writes.

Verrilli responds that the Arizona law's "very design discards cooperation and
embraces confrontation."

He describes a complex federal policy of detaining and deporting illegal
immigrants prioritized on criminal activity and other factors. The Department of
Homeland Security receives funding to remove annually about 400,000 of the
approximately 11 million people in the country illegally, he says, and it is up
to federal officials - not Arizona's - to decide who they should be.

And he says Arizona's decision to impose criminal sanctions on those who seek
work is an idea Congress debated and rejected in passing immigration legislation
in 1986.

The Supreme Court in its previous term signaled that immigration enforcement is
not solely the province of the federal government. In a 5 to 3 vote, it agreed
that Arizona could revoke the business licensesof companies that knowingly
employ undocumented workers.

The court in that case said Arizona was in line with an exception in the 1986
law that allows states leeway in the licensing of businesses, Chief Justice John
G. Roberts Jr. wrote.

The same eight justices will hear Wednesday's Arizona case - Justice Elena Kagan
recused herself in both, presumably because of her work on the issue in her
previous job as Obama's solicitor general.

If they split evenly, the 9th Circuit's injunction of those aspects of the
Arizona law would stand and the larger issue of federal authority would need to
wait for a challenge to one of the other states' laws.

As with health care, the case has attracted a raft of amicus briefs. Sixteen
states, including Virginia, are supporting Arizona; 11, including Maryland, say
the federal government must play the dominant role in immigration.

The stance of each state follows less the number of immigrants within its
borders and more the political party of its leadership.

barnesr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

A test for architects of bills on migrants

BYLINE: David A. Fahrenthold

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1734 words


They were a mismatched pair who somehow managed to rearrange the national
immigration debate and the half-shadow world in which illegal immigrants live
and work in the United States.

One,Kris Kobach,was a telegenic law professor who was worried about foreign
terrorists. The other, Michael Hethmon,
http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/03/110331094617.htmwas a bookish
lawyer afraid that immigrants would overburden the environment.

Over the past six years, the two have become the most successful propagators of
a powerful idea: that state and local governments can make life so miserable for
illegal immigrants that they would choose to deport themselves.

During this year's Republican presidential primary contest, the notion of
self-deportation began to take on new legitimacy. Mitt Romney, the party's
presumed nominee, praised the idea and has pledged that he would drop the Obama
administration's challenges to state laws in places such as Alabama and Arizona.

Kobach and Hethmon have helped six states and at least seven cities and counties
write tough legislation that allows local police or bureaucrats to crack down on
illegal immigrants. Usually, that's a function reserved for the federal
government, but these two lawyers said they knew the "magic words" of legalese
to make local laws work.

"We are constantly told that the only two options are massive roundups [of
illegal immigrants] or an amnesty. But attrition through enforcement is the
third way," said Kobach, the better-known of the pair. "Change the individual
decisions of particular illegal aliens, and they will decide to leave the
country."

Hethmon worries about cultural shifts that could result.

Immigration is "on track to change the demographic makeup of the entire country.
You know, what they call 'minority-majority,' " said Hethmon, who is general
counsel at the Washington-based Immigration Reform Law Institute. "How many
countries have gone through a transition like that - peacefully, carefully? It's
theoretically possible, but we don't have any examples."

Now, however, is their time of trial. Judges have blocked some of the
legislation, resulting in a pile of legal bills for the governments they helped,
and on Wednesday the U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments about the law in
Arizona that has become the centerpiece achievement of the self-deportation
movement.

Supporters say the idea would never have advanced this far without Kobach and
Hethmon, who have been editors, advisers, ghostwriters and legal defenders for
politicians nationwide.

"They're the wizards behind the curtain," said Oklahoma stateRep. Randy
Terrill(R), whose bill they rewrote. "They were the face and the muscle behind
the effort that really synthesized it into a movement. Do I think it would have
happened without them? Most certainly it would not have."

Their role behind the curtain began in 2006, with a phone call from Hazleton,
Pa.

That old coal town had swelled with thousands of Latino immigrants. Then-Mayor
Lou Barletta blamed illegal residents for a surge in crime, saying he was paying
for the failures of the federal immigration system. That year, the United States
had an estimated 11.6 million "unauthorized immigrants." The federal system
deported about 272,000 people.

Barletta wrote an ordinance that punished people who hired illegal immigrants or
rented apartments to them. In the furor that followed, he noticed a supportive
quote in a newspaper from a law professor at the University of Missouri at
Kansas City.

His secretary placed the call. Kobach picked up: "What took you so long?"

Kobach, 46, has a strong chin, a quarterback's build, and degrees from Harvard,
Oxford and Yale. He says his focus on immigration came from working in the
Justice Department on Sept. 11, 2001. Kobach fixated on the fact that some
hijackers had been living in the United States illegally.

What if they had been caught? "The 9/11 attack could have been stopped," Kobach
said.

While in Washington, he had connected with Hethmon - a very different man with
the same goals. Hethmon, 58, is a former hippie who left the United States
during the Vietnam War. He works for a group that opposes large-scale
immigration: It believes that, given how much food, fuel and space the average
American consumes, the environment can't take many more people.

The two complemented each other. Kobach was astounded by Hethmon's intricate
knowledge of law and precedent. Hethmon, whose parent organization, the IRLI,
was designated a "hate group" by the Southern Poverty Law Center, was delighted
to have an ally with political influence.

Mayor Barletta had called the right people. But he had the wrong law.

"We can definitely win in court," Kobach told him. "But the ordinance is going
to need to be redrafted."

It needed the magic words. Illegal immigration is generally a federal matter, so
the mayor didn't have the power to go hunting for people without papers. But
there was a loophole: The law allows towns to control "licensing" matters.

So Hazleton eventually decreed that everybody in town needed a license to rent
an apartment. Using these licenses, the city could find illegal immigrants - and
order landlords to evict them.

This was a lesson: It wasn't necessary to catch illegal immigrants. It was
necessary only to make them uncomfortable.

"What are you going to say to the people who say that you're creating a climate
of fear?" Hethmon recalled someone asking him recently. "I say: 'Well, yeah,
it's not great. But it's the best choice.' "

It grew from there. Hethmon helped write an ordinance that passed in Prince
William County in 2007. The two of them helped write legislationthat made it
harder to hire illegal immigrants; Alabama said businesses could lose their
licenses.

And they helped with laws on police powers, such as one in Arizona that requires
officers to check immigration status during any lawful stop if they have
reasonable suspicion that the person is in the United States illegally.

These laws redrew the map of an underground nation, turning some places into
avoided zones. The University of Virginiafoundthat more than 2,000 illegal
immigrants left Prince William County. In Georgia, which passed a tough measure
last May, migrant farm labor dropped by 30 to 40 percent. The workers skipped
Georgia in their usual East Coast swing, and agriculture officials said $140
million was lost as fruit rotted in fields.

In Arizona, Hethmon and Kobach became involved after GOP state Sen. Russell
Pearce wrote the first draft of a bill - offering small revisions and in some
cases rewriting whole sections - during a series of phone calls and e-mails.
They stressed that it was Pearce who provided the bill's direction. Their job
was to show him a legal way to do it.

Immigrant groups said the laws created the danger of police misconduct and
racial profiling. In many places, however, politicians saw the results they
wanted. Barletta became a congressman. Kobach was elected as a Republican to be
Kansas's secretary of state.

"People's neighborhoods have gotten better, and the improvement in the
neighborhoods has been most dramatic in the parts of the county that have
heavier concentrations of minorities," said Republican Corey Stewart, a champion
of the Prince William law who chairs the county's Board of Supervisors and wants
to be lieutenant governor. The Virginia study found that that most crime
statistics were unchanged but that the county's hit-and-run accidents were
reduced by nearly half.

But in court, the duo's magic words began to fail them.

"We conclude that the ordinance's sole purpose is not to regulate housing but to
exclude undocumented aliens," wrote Thomas M. Reavley, a federal appellate
judge, in blocking a 2008 license-to-rent law in Farmers Branch, Tex. "It is an
impermissible regulation of regulation."

The duo has won some legal victories: The Supreme Court last year upheldan
Arizona law that limits the employment of illegal immigrants. But judges have
blocked all or parts of immigration laws in Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, Indiana,
South Carolina and Utah, as well as in several cities.

In Farmers Branch, it has cost about $4.5 million to defend the law. And it
hasn't been in force for a day.

"How do you get out of those things? You know, if we just walk away from it,
we've got the other people's legal fees that would fall on top," saidMayor Bill
Glancy, who notes that the suspended law still seems to have driven away illegal
residents, reducing turnover in  schools. "You run legal expenses way up, to
where it's almost impossible to back down from it."

Now, it all hangs on the Supreme Court. After Wednesday's oral arguments, it
could take weeks for the justices to decide whether Arizona's broader
immigration law is an unlawful overstep onto federal turf.

If they win, "copycat legislation will explode," Hethmon said. "This is the
classic environment for, if you will, sort of nativist-type sentiment. . . . It
should explode at the states or - even better - [Congress] will be provoked to
take action."

In the meantime, Hethmon had an up-close and unpleasant experience with the same
kind of local police he had done so much to empower.

The problem began with graffiti on a highway overpass in Bowie. Police there
suspected that Hethmon's teenage son might be involved and obtained a search
warrant. They arrived at 7 a.m. on March 9 with a heavily armed team of county
officers.

"Come in with masks, guns, screaming. You know, knocking everybody down,"
Hethmon recalled. "I tried to explain to them, you know: 'Look, I'm a lawyer,
this is outrageous.' [The reply was:] 'Shut up and lie down on the floor.' "

Police said they found 2.5 grams of marijuana in the house. They filed charges
against Hethmon, his son and his wife - all for the same drugs. The charges
against Hethmon will be dropped, prosecutors said last week.

Hethmon said the experience has not changed his work.

"The fact that a law is legitimate and serving a purpose doesn't mean that it
can't be abused," he said. "Human beings are flawed people."

And so, for the lesser-known of this duo, there has been a personal test. After
he did so much to place greater trust in local police officers nationwide,
police in Prince George's County sent a SWAT team to his house to look for . . .
spray paint.

"It's ironic, you know," Hethmon said.

fahrenthold@washpost.com

Staff researcher Lucy Shackelford contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

CORRECTION-DATE: May 4, 2012



CORRECTION: An April 25 Page One article about Kris Kobach and Michael Hethmon,
who have helped write tougher laws on illegal immigration, incorrectly said that
the Immigration Reform Law Institute, for which Hethmon is general counsel, was
labeled a "hate group" by the Southern Poverty Law Center. The SPLC applied that
designation to the IRLI's parent organization, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Crossing the line?

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 585 words


"ARIZONA AND its 370-mile border are a conduit for rampant illegal entries and
cross-border smuggling to a degree unparalleled in any other State." So argue
lawyers for Arizona in a case the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear Wednesday.
Although immigration has in fact declined, the state says that the "public
safety and economic strains" created by a porous border "have created an
emergency situation, which demanded a response."

The response was Arizona's S.B. 1070, a 2010 immigration bill that empowers
state and local law enforcement officers to detain those suspected of being in
the country illegally. It also provides for criminal charges against illegal
immigrants who seek or secure employment in the state.

The Obama administration pushed back hard and early, arguing even before the law
was implemented that it unconstitutionally trod on the federal government's
exclusive rights to enforce immigration laws and conduct foreign policy. A
federal trial judge and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit blocked
implementation of the provisions. Now the Supreme Court will hear arguments on
whether the Arizona provisions are forbidden, or "pre-empted," because they
incur on legal territory that is the exclusive domain of the federal government.
Although Arizona has been widely - and we believe, rightly - criticized for a
law that threatens the constitutional rights of legal and illegal immigrants
alike, such questions are not at play in this case.

The state went too far when it essentially overrode Congress, which had decided
to penalize those who hire unauthorized workers, rather than the workers
themselves. Workers are governed by different aspects of federal immigration law
and can face penalties for providing false documentation to assert their legal
status. Congress, in other words, spoke directly to this issue, and Arizona's
law is a direct affront to that considered judgment.

The provisions pertaining to local and state law enforcement's power to verify a
suspect's immigration status or to detain those suspected of being in the
country illegally represent a closer call. The federal government - through such
programs as "Secure Communities" - often requires local officials to verify the
immigration status of those arrested on state or local charges. Arizona's law
goes further, directing officers to check the status of those who they believe
"have committed any public offense that makes the person removable from the
United States." This arbitrary and unnecessarily invasive measure would surely
offend the Constitution's Fourth Amendment if this question were before the
court. But does federal law clearly prohibit what Arizona says is its effort to
be an aggressive partner in ensuring that federal immigration standards are
enforced - especially when the federal government retains exclusive authority
over removal or deportation? Not so clear.

What is certain is that immigration policy would be even more dysfunctional if
states were given the green light to craft and enforce their own laws. This
legislative hodgepodge would sow confusion, invite abuse and encroach on the
president's constitutional prerogative to be the authoritative voice of the
country on foreign affairs. Of course, the best way to keep states out would be
for Congress and the White House to pass legislation that explicitly rejects
state interference on the immigration front while addressing legitimate security
concerns and paving a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Early on, Rubio took a softer line on immigration

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 646 words


Marco Rubio ran for Senate as an immigration hard-liner, but the lawmaker from
Florida struck a very different tone in the early years of his political career,
championing the plight of farmworkers and undocumented college students,
according to a forthcoming biography.

As a state legislator, the Republican teamed up with a prominent Democrat to
introduce a bill to protect field workers, many of them illegal immigrants. He
promoted legislation to extend in-state college tuition to illegal immigrants.
But his rhetoric shifted when he ran for the U.S. Senate a few years later with
the backing of the tea party movement.

The shift underscores the tension inherent along Rubio's unusual path to
political prominence, detailed by Washington Post staff writer Manuel
Roig-Franzia in the book "The Rise of Marco Rubio," set for release June 19.
Rubio's autobiography, "An American Son," also will hit bookstores that day.

Roig-Franzia's unauthorized biography paints a picture of a politician torn
between the overtures expected of a Hispanic politician and the demands of a
conservative base that made him its darling.

But the book also traces the trajectory of a savvy political figure who did not
hesitate to leverage, and in some cases misstate, his family's Cuban American
roots. Rubio was so focused on his political future that he hired a public
relations firm to uncover any skeletons that could threaten his plans.

Rubio's name remains on the shortlist of potential Republican vice presidential
nominees. At the same time, he is attempting again to add more nuance to his
public stance on illegal immigration.

Rubio has been trying to build support for a Republican version of the Dream
Act, which would have created a path to citizenship for college students and
military members who had been brought to the country illegally as children.
Rubio opposed the original bill and has sketched out an alternative that would
allow visas but not citizenship.

His opposition to the original measure stems in part from the ability of the
beneficiaries to sponsor their relatives for citizenship. But the book shows
that Rubio's own family, including his parents and grandparents, benefited from
"chain migration" policies.

Documents obtained by Roig-Franzia show that Irma and Luis Lastres, Rubio's aunt
and uncle, completed "affidavits of support" to help multiple relatives gain
legal entrance to the United States. Rubio's parents also applied for an
immigrant visa and alien registration, noting that they were "destined to" his
aunt Dolores Denis.

On Wednesday, a Rubio spokesman said that the senator generally supports family
reunification and legal chain migration but that the original Dream Act was too
broad.

As the book details, Rubio's family history clashed with his harsh rhetoric on
illegal immigration in another way: His grandfather Pedro Victor Garcia entered
the country illegally in 1962 and remained in violation of a deportation order.
Garcia, who left Cuba because of the Fidel Castro regime and personal reasons,
later may have gained retroactive refugee status.

The book delves into a revelation last year that the story Rubio had long told
of his parents fleeing Castro's regime was untrue. Documents obtained by
Roig-Franzia showed that Rubio's parents came to the United States in 1956,
2â[#x20ac][#x160]1 / 2 years before Castro's rise.

Rubio has said that he was relying on "family lore" and that the gist of the
story remains true. Rubio spokesman Alex Conant, who said the senator did not
previously know that his grandfather had been in the country illegally, said
Garcia's story proves that Rubio "grew up in the exile community, and clearly
this story adds new details to that compelling story."

sandhya@washpost.com

More from PostPolitics:

- Rubio goes bipartisan in foreign policy address

- What Rubio would bring to the GOP ticket

- Pick Mitt Romney's vice president

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                Regional Edition

What crisis?

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 748 words


Now that the immigration "crisis" has solved itself, this is the perfect time
for Congress and the president to agree on a package of sensible, real-world
reforms.

Yeah, right, and it's also the perfect time for pigs to grow wings and take
flight.

Perhaps this week's most significant news was a report from the nonpartisan Pew
Hispanic Center showing that net migration from Mexico to the United States has
slowed to a halt and may actually have reversed. That's right: There may be more
people leaving this country to live in Mexico than leaving Mexico to live here.

End of the "crisis" - which wasn't really a crisis at all, except in overwhelmed
border-state cities such as Phoenix. There's no longer the slightest excuse for
histrionics about the alleged threat to our way of life from invading hordes
intent on - shudder - working hard and raising their families.

Why the turnaround? The report cites "many factors, including the weakened U.S.
job and housing construction markets, heightened border enforcement, a rise in
deportations, the growing dangers associated with illegal border crossings, the
long-term decline in Mexico's birth rates and broader economic conditions in
Mexico."

To me, all of that makes perfect sense. Whether they have papers or not,
immigrants are rational. As a general rule, they don't come here to commit
crimes; they could do that at home if they wanted. They don't come here to laze
around and enjoy government benefits because, well, what benefits would those
be? They come to work.

But the U.S. economy fell off a cliff, meaning there is less work to be had.
Mexico's economy, while not unscathed, is improving. And the Obama
administration has dramatically stepped up border enforcement while carrying out
a record number of deportations. Suddenly, both for Mexicans who considered
immigrating legally and those who might have been tempted to come without
documents, the risk-reward equation has changed.

According to the Pew report, there are an estimated 11 million illegal
immigrants in the United States; six out of 10 are Mexican. The number of
immigrants without papers has actually been falling. Wouldn't this be a perfect
time to take a deep breath and start talking about reasonable ways to engineer a
more rational immigration policy?

Yes it would, but don't hold your breath. Apparently, we're going to have a lot
of shouting without actually trying to find a solution. On Wednesday, the
Supreme Court heard arguments on the constitutionality of Arizona's "driving
while brown" law, which instructs police to challenge and, if necessary,
apprehend anyone they suspect of being an illegal immigrant. The law forbids
racial profiling, but the truth is that it effectively guarantees profiling.

The administration argues that the state law usurps the federal government's
prerogative to set immigration policy. The court is expected to decide the case
this summer, and the ruling's impact may be less practical - since illegal
immigration, I repeat, is already on the decline - than political.

Democrats will react with thunderous outrage if the court upholds the Arizona
law - but if you stand outside the back room where the pollsters and campaign
strategists work, you might hear the slapping of high-fives. Anything that draws
attention to the Republican Party's extremist position on immigration will only
reinforce a tendency that Mitt Romney recently characterized as "doom" - the
headlong rush of Latino voters into a waiting Democratic embrace.

Barack Obama won a remarkable two-thirds of the Latino vote in 2008. This year,
according to the polls, he's running even stronger among the biggest minority
group in the country. If Republicans don't find a way to win more Latino
support, Obama will be hard to beat. In the long term, if Latinos become a more
or less permanent Democratic constituency like African Americans have, the GOP
will inexorably go the way of the Whigs.

So that is what this year's immigration "debate" will be about: how to reap
political gain and avoid political loss.

What should our elected officials be talking about? I'd suggest they start with
the obvious solution.

We don't need to build a giant wall along the Rio Grande; Obama has already
"hardened" the border. We need a Reagan-style amnesty that would allow the great
majority of undocumented immigrants to stay, along with reforms that give
Mexicans and others a realistic hope of being able to come here someday.

Assuming they want to.

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 789 words

ARIZONA

Hundreds rally for embattled sheriff

As many as 200 activists, some chanting "go Joe, go Joe," rallied in Arizona on
Saturday to support Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who is facing a federal
racial-profiling probe for his police sweeps against illegal immigrants.

"Sheriff Joe is one of the very few guys who will enforce the immigration laws
across this nation," said Randy Hatch, who used a megaphone to rally supporters
at a park in Fountain Hills. Arpaio, who styles himself "America's toughest
sheriff," is a resident of the town.

Earlier this month, the Obama administration said it was preparing to sue Arpaio
and his department "for violating civil rights laws by improperly targeting
Latinos."

The sheriff has denied any wrongdoing and lashed out at the federal government
for targeting his department while failing to confront the more than 11 million
illegal immigrants who live and work throughout the nation.

The rally came amid heightened tension over immigration in Arizona after the
Supreme Court heard arguments last week over a partially blocked state law
targeting illegal immigrants.

- Reuters

INDIANA

Police: Remains from man's yard identified

Police say human remains found in a southern Indiana man's back yard have been
identified as a woman who has been missing for about a month.

New Albany police Maj. Keith Whitlow said the remains found in William Gibson's
back yard Friday night are those of Stephanie M. Kirk, 35, of Charlestown, Ind.,
who was last seen March 25. Medical examiners in neighboring Kentucky used
dental records and other means to identify her.

Gibson is being held without bond at the Floyd County jail in connection with
the death last week of 75-year-old Christine Whitis of Clarksville, Ind., and
the death of Florida hairdresser Karen Hodella, 44, whose body was found in
Clarksville in 2003.

Gibson was arrested on drunk-driving charges last week after police spotted him
driving Whitis's car.

- Associated Press

MISSOURI

Tent collapse in wind kills 1, injures dozens

St. Louis media outlets were reporting Saturday evening that one person was
killed and up to 100 were hurt when high winds knocked down a large tent south
of Busch Stadium.

KSDK reported that five people were in critical condition Saturday afternoon
after the tent, at Kilroy's bar, collapsed during a thunderstorm that blew
through the area.

The report said that the St. Louis fire department took 17 people to a hospital
and that 100 received medical treatment at the scene.

KMOX reported that Fire Chief Dennis Jenkerson said a few hundred people were
celebrating in the tent after the Cardinals' victory over the Milwaukee Brewers
when the storm hit.

- Associated Press

COLORADO

Bear that fell from tree returns to wild

A 200-pound black bear that wandered onto the University of Colorado campus and
caused a stir before falling 15 feet from a tree has returned to the wild,
officials said Friday.

State wildlife official Jennifer Churchill said that the male bear was tagged
and taken to a remote Rocky Mountain area west of Boulder. The bear has become a
celebrity since it wandered around a university residence hall in Boulder and
climbed a tree Thursday. Wildlife officers eventually tranquilized it, and the
bear dropped from its perch onto pads placed on the ground.

A photographer with the CU Independent online student newspaper captured a shot
of the bear, its arms and legs akimbo, as it fell.

"It was really a perfect landing," campus police spokesman Ryan Huff told the
Daily Camera.

- Associated Press

Ga. inmate gives birth in cell; baby dies: Authorities say an inmate in Georgia
gave birth to a child in her jail cell and the baby later died at a hospital.
Capt. Brian Crisp, spokesman for the Clayton County sheriff's office, said
Saturday that the birth is under investigation. He said authorities are not
releasing more information about the birth or the woman. Sheriff Kem Kimbrough
told WSB-TV that the mother and newborn were taken to a hospital, where the
child died. Kimbrough said his office is looking into whether jail staff did
anything wrong. Representatives of Southern Regional Hospital declined to
release any information.

Toddler fatally struck by backing SUV: The wife of the police chief in the
central Florida community of Titusville accidentally ran over a family friend's
22-month-old son in a parking lot, authorities said. Pamela Bodenheimer, 51, was
backing up from a parking spot Friday night at Titusville High School when she
drove over Brady Hutto. She told police that she did not see the boy. No charges
have been filed. A witness tried to perform CPR on the boy before he was taken
by ambulance to a hospital, police said. He was pronounced dead soon after
arrival.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Mexico on the move

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 535 words


THE WAVE of immigration from Mexico that began four decades ago, most of it
unauthorized, has ended, possibly for good. As a report from the Pew Hispanic
Center confirms, net migration from Mexico to the United Statessank to about
zero in  the past five years. The number of Mexicans living in the United States
without documents shrank from 7 million in 2007 to 6.1 million last year. Causes
include tougher U.S. border enforcement and fewer U.S. jobs, especially in
construction.

Did the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) play a role? President Bill
Clinton pushed the controversial pact through Congress in 1993, arguing that
slashing tariffs would create jobs and increase incomes in Mexico, resulting in
"much less pressure on them to come to this country in the form of illegal
immigration." Has NAFTA finally fulfilled this promise?

Yes and no. Actually, the number of Mexicans living illegally in the United
States shot up from 2.5 million in 1995, the year after NAFTA took effect, to 11
million in 2005. The main reason was the booming U.S. economy, which generated
huge demand for labor just as the share of Mexico's population aged 15  to 39 -
prime migration years - was peaking at about 75 percent.

Migration plummeted after 2005 because of reduced U.S. demand for labor and the
slowing of Mexican population growth - but also because NAFTA started to pay off
in the form of dynamic new export industries in Mexico such as automobile
manufacturing. Analysts suggest the gap in wages between the United States and
its southern neighbor, while still wide, has narrowed to the point where staying
home is economically rational for a growing number of Mexican workers.

NAFTA encouraged both the United States and Mexico to make optimal use of their
scarce resources. In the short run, this shifted jobs and income within each
society and between them. This inherently disruptive process doubtless caused
Mexicans who lost out to seek opportunity in the United States.

But over time, NAFTA helped make Mexico more efficient and, hence, wealthier. It
formed part of a broader restructuring that has transformed Mexico from the
underdeveloped, authoritarian country it was 30 years ago to the increasingly
middle-class democracy it is now.

The gross domestic product per capita in Mexico was $12,400 in 2010, up about 21
percent in real terms since 1980. Infant mortality is down from 79.4 per 1,000
live births in 1970 to 14.7 in 2009.

Practically every Mexican home has electricity; only 41.5 percent  did in 1970.
As educational levels have risen, the birth rate has dwindled to roughly that of
the United States. There may never again be legions of Mexican jobless desperate
to migrate, as  in the '80s  and '90s.

Yes, Mexico is wracked by drug-related violence; income inequality remains high.
Yet in addition to being richer, Mexico is more politically developed than
before NAFTA; its current problems can't overturn what has become one of the
most vibrant multiparty systems in the Americas.

The waning of unauthorized migration may ease a perennial sore point in
U.S.-Mexican relations, enabling both countries to deepen their  cooperation, of
which NAFTA is, on balance, a worthy example.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 789 words

ARIZONA

Hundreds rally for embattled sheriff

As many as 200 activists, some chanting "go Joe, go Joe," rallied in Arizona on
Saturday to support Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who is facing a federal
racial-profiling probe for his police sweeps against illegal immigrants.

"Sheriff Joe is one of the very few guys who will enforce the immigration laws
across this nation," said Randy Hatch, who used a megaphone to rally supporters
at a park in Fountain Hills. Arpaio, who styles himself "America's toughest
sheriff," is a resident of the town.

Earlier this month, the Obama administration said it was preparing to sue Arpaio
and his department "for violating civil rights laws by improperly targeting
Latinos."

The sheriff has denied any wrongdoing and lashed out at the federal government
for targeting his department while failing to confront the more than 11 million
illegal immigrants who live and work throughout the nation.

The rally came amid heightened tension over immigration in Arizona after the
Supreme Court heard arguments last week over a partially blocked state law
targeting illegal immigrants.

- Reuters

INDIANA

Police: Remains from man's yard identified

Police say human remains found in a southern Indiana man's back yard have been
identified as a woman who has been missing for about a month.

New Albany police Maj. Keith Whitlow said the remains found in William Gibson's
back yard Friday night are those of Stephanie M. Kirk, 35, of Charlestown, Ind.,
who was last seen March 25. Medical examiners in neighboring Kentucky used
dental records and other means to identify her.

Gibson is being held without bond at the Floyd County jail in connection with
the death last week of 75-year-old Christine Whitis of Clarksville, Ind., and
the death of Florida hairdresser Karen Hodella, 44, whose body was found in
Clarksville in 2003.

Gibson was arrested on drunk-driving charges last week after police spotted him
driving Whitis's car.

- Associated Press

MISSOURI

Tent collapse in wind kills 1, injures dozens

St. Louis media outlets were reporting Saturday evening that one person was
killed and up to 100 were hurt when high winds knocked down a large tent south
of Busch Stadium.

KSDK reported that five people were in critical condition Saturday afternoon
after the tent, at Kilroy's bar, collapsed during a thunderstorm that blew
through the area.

The report said that the St. Louis fire department took 17 people to a hospital
and that 100 received medical treatment at the scene.

KMOX reported that Fire Chief Dennis Jenkerson said a few hundred people were
celebrating in the tent after the Cardinals' victory over the Milwaukee Brewers
when the storm hit.

- Associated Press

COLORADO

Bear that fell from tree returns to wild

A 200-pound black bear that wandered onto the University of Colorado campus and
caused a stir before falling 15 feet from a tree has returned to the wild,
officials said Friday.

State wildlife official Jennifer Churchill said that the male bear was tagged
and taken to a remote Rocky Mountain area west of Boulder. The bear has become a
celebrity since it wandered around a university residence hall in Boulder and
climbed a tree Thursday. Wildlife officers eventually tranquilized it, and the
bear dropped from its perch onto pads placed on the ground.

A photographer with the CU Independent online student newspaper captured a shot
of the bear, its arms and legs akimbo, as it fell.

"It was really a perfect landing," campus police spokesman Ryan Huff told the
Daily Camera.

- Associated Press

Ga. inmate gives birth in cell; baby dies: Authorities say an inmate in Georgia
gave birth to a child in her jail cell and the baby later died at a hospital.
Capt. Brian Crisp, spokesman for the Clayton County sheriff's office, said
Saturday that the birth is under investigation. He said authorities are not
releasing more information about the birth or the woman. Sheriff Kem Kimbrough
told WSB-TV that the mother and newborn were taken to a hospital, where the
child died. Kimbrough said his office is looking into whether jail staff did
anything wrong. Representatives of Southern Regional Hospital declined to
release any information.

Toddler fatally struck by backing SUV: The wife of the police chief in the
central Florida community of Titusville accidentally ran over a family friend's
22-month-old son in a parking lot, authorities said. Pamela Bodenheimer, 51, was
backing up from a parking spot Friday night at Titusville High School when she
drove over Brady Hutto. She told police that she did not see the boy. No charges
have been filed. A witness tried to perform CPR on the boy before he was taken
by ambulance to a hospital, police said. He was pronounced dead soon after
arrival.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Mexico on the move

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 535 words


THE WAVE of immigration from Mexico that began four decades ago, most of it
unauthorized, has ended, possibly for good. As a report from the Pew Hispanic
Center confirms, net migration from Mexico to the United Statessank to about
zero in  the past five years. The number of Mexicans living in the United States
without documents shrank from 7 million in 2007 to 6.1 million last year. Causes
include tougher U.S. border enforcement and fewer U.S. jobs, especially in
construction.

Did the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) play a role? President Bill
Clinton pushed the controversial pact through Congress in 1993, arguing that
slashing tariffs would create jobs and increase incomes in Mexico, resulting in
"much less pressure on them to come to this country in the form of illegal
immigration." Has NAFTA finally fulfilled this promise?

Yes and no. Actually, the number of Mexicans living illegally in the United
States shot up from 2.5 million in 1995, the year after NAFTA took effect, to 11
million in 2005. The main reason was the booming U.S. economy, which generated
huge demand for labor just as the share of Mexico's population aged 15  to 39 -
prime migration years - was peaking at about 75 percent.

Migration plummeted after 2005 because of reduced U.S. demand for labor and the
slowing of Mexican population growth - but also because NAFTA started to pay off
in the form of dynamic new export industries in Mexico such as automobile
manufacturing. Analysts suggest the gap in wages between the United States and
its southern neighbor, while still wide, has narrowed to the point where staying
home is economically rational for a growing number of Mexican workers.

NAFTA encouraged both the United States and Mexico to make optimal use of their
scarce resources. In the short run, this shifted jobs and income within each
society and between them. This inherently disruptive process doubtless caused
Mexicans who lost out to seek opportunity in the United States.

But over time, NAFTA helped make Mexico more efficient and, hence, wealthier. It
formed part of a broader restructuring that has transformed Mexico from the
underdeveloped, authoritarian country it was 30 years ago to the increasingly
middle-class democracy it is now.

The gross domestic product per capita in Mexico was $12,400 in 2010, up about 21
percent in real terms since 1980. Infant mortality is down from 79.4 per 1,000
live births in 1970 to 14.7 in 2009.

Practically every Mexican home has electricity; only 41.5 percent  did in 1970.
As educational levels have risen, the birth rate has dwindled to roughly that of
the United States. There may never again be legions of Mexican jobless desperate
to migrate, as  in the '80s  and '90s.

Yes, Mexico is wracked by drug-related violence; income inequality remains high.
Yet in addition to being richer, Mexico is more politically developed than
before NAFTA; its current problems can't overturn what has become one of the
most vibrant multiparty systems in the Americas.

The waning of unauthorized migration may ease a perennial sore point in
U.S.-Mexican relations, enabling both countries to deepen their  cooperation, of
which NAFTA is, on balance, a worthy example.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 4, 2012 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Health-care funds found for undocumented immigrants

BYLINE: Tim Craig

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 623 words


D.C. Council member David A. Catania has found an additional $20 million in the
budget to continue offering free health insurance to 19,000 undocumented
immigrants, reversing a proposal by Mayor Vincent C. Gray (D) that could have
restricted them from receiving emergency care.

Catania (I-At Large), chairman of the council's Health Committee, has made full
funding of the Alliance Insurance program a chief priority as the council
prepares for final budget deliberations.

But the council would be restoring the health insurance program at the same time
it isscaling back other government services, including millions in services for
the poor, potentially sparking fresh debate about whether city benefits for
undocumented immigrants are too generous.

When the Health Committee convened on the budget Thursday, Catania announced
that he and his staff had found $20.5 million in savings by eliminating some
vacant positions, recalculating Medicaid enrollment and transferring some funds
between Health Department units.

The five-member Health Committee unanimously approved Catania's plan to transfer
the money to immigrant health care. The full council is expected to accept the
agreement when it votes on the budget later this month.

"The mayor's proposal would have treated immigrants differently," Catania said
in an interview. "I believe, for us in this city, it was critically important we
reject that."

Gray had proposed scaling back the Alliance program to balance his 2013 spending
plan by shifting some of the burden for immigrant care onto hospitals and
federal programs for uncompensated care.

Created in 2001 after D.C. General Hospital closed, the Alliance Insurance
program provides coverage to residents who earn too much to qualify for Medicaid
but not enough to be able to afford private insurance.

But following the 2010 passage of President Obama's health-care legislation,
which boosted Medicaid eligibility, the city was able to transfer thousands of
residentsinto the federal program.

Now, about 99 percent of residents covered by locally funded insurance are
undocumented immigrants who are not eligible for federal benefits.

Catania said preserving the program this year was a crucial and symbolic step in
the nationwide battle over immigration and health care.

"It's big America versus small America," Catania said. "I gravitate toward the
notion of big America. Big America is one who welcomes people who want to work."

If the program is cut, Catania said, undocumented immigrants would not be
covered for specialty or emergency care at many area hospitals. But Gray had
argued the patients would still receive care through funds hospitals establish
to provide services to the uninsured.

A Gray spokesman said the administration is reviewing Catania's proposal.

Catania's decision comes as the council has been struggling over whether the
city can afford to repay its employees a combined $22 million for furlough days
they were forced to take last year. By fully funding the Alliance program,
public employee unions are likely to put renewed pressure on the council to come
up with the money.

For Catania, however, cutting Alliance would be a setback to his long-held goal
of offering universal health insurance in the District.

In 2010, the city estimated that only 6.2 percent of District residents were
uninsured, less than half the national average and lagging behind only
Massachusetts in total percentage of uninsured residents.

The District was only able to achieve those rates by extending coverage to
undocumented immigrants, Catania said.

"This is a rich city, and we have the resources," said Catania. "We ought to be
a leader, and not a follower, and showing the rest of the country this is
America."

craigt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Mobilizing in Maryland for a dream

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 487 words


ACRUCIAL TEST on illegal immigration will appear on Maryland's ballot this fall
- whether undocumented students shall be eligible for in-state college tuition
providing they graduate from a state high school, have a record of filing tax
returns and commit to pursuing legal status. That's the thrust of the state's
so-called Dream Act, the first state law of its kind (not counting a much
broader measure in California, in 1994) to get a vote at referendum.

The General Assembly approved the Dream Act last year, but opponents collected
enough signatures to put it before voters. It's critical that it be approved,
and not only because teenagers brought to this country as children, through no
fault of their own, deserve compassionate treatment. The vote will also send an
important signal to supporters of the federal Dream Act, so far spurned by
Congress, that would lay out a path to citizenship for unauthorized youngsters
who go to college or serve in the military.

For years most of the energy on the immigration debate - on talk radio, in state
legislatures, and in Congress - has been monopolized by opponents of reform.
With twisted facts and overheated rhetoric, they have stalled progress on
overhauling the broken immigration system, while pushing measures designed to
harass the 11 million illegal immigrants already in the country.

There will be no shortage of money or activists to oppose the Maryland Dream
Act. The question is whether the advocates will put up a fight. That's why the
leadership of Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) is essential - but, by itself,
inadequate. He must be joined by other prominent supporters, such as Sen.
Barbara A. Mikulski (D); Lt. Gov. Anthony G. Brown (D); or Laurene Powell Jobs,
widow of Steve Jobs. They could help overcome skeptics in Baltimore and the
Washington suburbs. So could local technology executives, who need immigrant
engineers for their companies to thrive.

Already, the Dream Act's foes  are distorting the facts. They warn it would make
Maryland a magnet for illegal-immigrant families seeking tuition breaks for
their kids. But there is no evidence for that in any of the other 11 states that
grant in-state tuition to undocumented students.

They argue that native-born students would be displaced from state colleges. But
undocumented students would compete with out-of-state applicants, not
Marylanders. Opponents contend it's a waste to encourage unauthorized students
to attend college, since they cannot be legally employed - an argument that
overlooks the  fact that legally or not, 7 million undocumented immigrants have
jobs, and the nation depends on them.

It makes no sense for Maryland to educate bright, ambitious youngsters through
high school, then deny them a realistic shot at higher education. Maryland will
be a litmus test of the proposition that compassion as well as self-interest
justify the Dream Act. The state's leaders have to make the sale.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 9, 2012 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

BYLINE: - Jason Samenow

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 367 words

Immigration

Border Patrol targets repeat offenders

With illegal border crossings at a 40-year low, the U.S. Border Patrol announced
a new strategy Tuesday that targets repeat crossers and tries to find out why
they keeping coming.

For nearly two decades, the Border Patrol has relied on a strategy that
blanketed heavily trafficked immigration corridors with agents, pushing migrants
to more remote areas where they would be easier to capture.

Under the new approach, agents will draw on intelligence to identify repeat
crossers, said Border Patrol Chief Michael J. Fisher.

Conditions on the border have changed dramatically. A hiring boom more than
doubled the number of agents, to 21,000, since 2004, accompanied by heavy
spending on fencing, cameras and sensors.

At the same time, illegal migration from Mexico has slowed significantly. Last
year, the Border Patrol made 327,577 apprehensions on the Mexican border, down
80 percent from more than 1.6 million in 2000. It was the slowest year since
1971.

- Associated Press

Weather

U.S. experiences its hottest year on record

The 12-month period from May 2011 through April 2012 was the warmest in the
continental United States since 1895, when such records were first kept,
according to data released Tuesday.

According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National
Climatic Data Center, the record-setting period edged out November 1999-October
2000 by a tenth of a degree.

In the past year, the United States has experienced its second-hottest summer,
fourth-warmest winter  and warmest March on record. April 2012 was the
third-warmest April ever recorded.

This year's record-breaking warm weather is related to a jet stream pattern that
has locked up cold air in high latitudes and favored heat domes over the
country's midsection, which have moved east and west at times.

- Jason Samenow

Artist Kinkade died of accidental overdose: The Santa Clara County, Calif.,
Medical Examiner-Coroner's Office said artist Thomas Kinkade died of an
accidental overdose of alcohol and prescription tranquilizers. Before his April
6 death, the 54-year-old Kinkade produced sentimental scenes of country gardens
and pastoral landscapes.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 6, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

In D.C., no warm welcome for immigration crackdown

BYLINE: Mihir Zaveri

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 799 words


Federal officials on Tuesday launched a controversial program in the District
that targets illegal immigration, but not without a fight from some city
officials who argue the effort undermines trust between police and local
immigrant communities.

The program, Secure Communities, requires that arrestee fingerprints collected
by local governments be shared with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement so
the federal government can identify illegal immigrants and potentially move to
detain or deport them. All other localities in the metropolitan area have been
participating.

But the D.C. Council on Tuesday quickly voted to limit the program's reach,
saying it could discourage immigrants who are crime victims or witnesses from
working with police, ultimately making the city less safe.

_blankSecure Communities calls for local jurisdictions to hold a suspected
illegal immigrant who has been arrested for 48 hours so ICE can interview the
detainee and decide whether to seek deportation.

The D.C. Council unanimously passed a billto detain only those who have been
previously convicted of a "dangerous" crime and only for an additional 24 hours
beyond the time they would otherwise be held. Under the legislation, the city
would hold people only if the federal government paid for the additional day of
incarceration. And it would prohibit city officials from participating in a
"generalized search of or inquiry about inmates" conducted by federal
authorities. Mayor Vincent C. Gray (D) is expected to sign the bill.

Danielle Bennett, spokeswoman for ICE, said in a statement that the agency
"anticipates that law enforcement agencies will comply" with the 48-hour
detainer, though "ICE has not sought to compel compliance through legal
proceedings. Jurisdictions that ignore detainers bear the risk of possible
public safety risks."

Council member Phil Mendelson (D-At Large), chairman of the council's public
safety and judiciary committee, said the legislation is needed to keep the
federal government from "using local government for federal immigration
enforcement."

"That works against community policing," Mendelson said. "We want people who are
victims to report crime, and we want witnesses to report crime."

Kristopher Baumann, head of the D.C. police union, disagreed, calling
Mendelson's and others' comments about the program "fear mongering."

"This was a program in place that would actually help keep people safe and keep
bad folks out of the streets," Baumann said.

Bennett said the implementation of Secure Communities, started by the federal
government in 2008, has been staggered so the agency can cope with the new data.

From March 2009, when Fairfax County activated the program, through March 2012,
1,246 people were removed from the county through the initiative, and 408 of
them had committed serious crimes, such as murder or drug trafficking, or were
considered threats to national security, according to ICE. Prince George's
County, which started the program in December 2009, has removed 493 people.
Since the program's start in Montgomery County in February, there have been no
deportations there.

D.C. politicians have long opposed Secure Communities.

In October, Gray signed an executive orderthat bars D.C. police and corrections
officials from asking those they come in contact with about their immigration
status. They also will not enforce an ICE detainer or warrant issued against
someone who has not committed another crime.

Bennett said the program does not put any additional requirements - such as
forcing police to actively check someone's immigration status - on local
governments. She said ICE does not direct local police on how or when to collect
the fingerprints, which are sent to the FBI and then ICE.

D.C. Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier said in a statement that the onset of Secure
Communities would not change the way officers interact with people in the
community.

"The members of the police department will not be involved in the identification
of undocumented foreign nationals or the enforcement of civil immigration laws,"
Lanier said. "Additionally, we will continue to proactively protect witnesses
and victims of crime through all available means."

According to Pedro Ribeiro, a Gray spokesman, the problem with the program is
when undocumented people worry that they will run into trouble with ICE, whether
or not they would actually be subject to removal. For instance, he said, an
undocumented domestic-abuse victim may be reluctant to report the crime, fearing
deportation.

"It's one of these things where local law enforcement and local elected
officials know what's best for their communities, not the secretary of homeland
security," Ribeiro said.

mihir.zaveri@washpost.com

Staff writers Mike DeBonis and Tim Craig contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Opened doors spark fears of job competition

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1114 words


President Obama has just opened a floodgate of opportunity for young illegal
immigrants in the United States, but could it squeeze the aspirations of legal
Americans in the process?

Across the nation Friday, immigrant advocates and Hispanic youth groups hailed
Obama's decision to offer legal status to some undocumented immigrants under 30
as a watershed in U.S. immigration history and a long-sought victory for
ambitious youths denied a chance to realize the American dream.

"I thank God for this day. It has changed my whole life," Jorge Acuna, 19, a
college student in Silver Spring who came to the United States with his family
as a child, told a cheering crowd outside the White House on Friday afternoon,
minutes after Obama announced the new policy. Last spring, the community college
student was nearly deported to his native Colombia. Now, under the amnesty, he
will be able to pursue his degree in engineering.

But opponents of illegal immigration warned that the policy could create
significant new competition for jobs and university slots at a time of
nationwide recession and numerous states' efforts to curb public spending.

"I see a tidal wave coming," said Brad Botwin, president of Help Save Maryland,
a group that opposes legalization for undocumented immigrants. "Half of our
college graduates today can't find jobs, and the unemployment rate for
high-school-aged Americans is extremely high. This is unfair to U.S. citizens
and legal immigrants who are out there struggling to get ahead."

Residency not provided

Under the new policy, as many as 1.4 million undocumented immigrants under age
30 will be able to apply for the amnesty, allowing them to work and attend
college legally. To be eligible, they must have been in the United States for
five years, have no criminal record, and attend high school or college or be a
military veteran.

The policy does not provide permanent legal residency, but it protects those who
qualify from being deported and gives them a chance to renew their new status
every two years. It also does not grant any public benefits, such as Medicare
and Medicaid. Federal law already grants all undocumented immigrants the right
to a public-school education and emergency hospital care.

The new policy could entail additional costs for administration and enforcement,
however, and put pressure on state systems of higher education to meet growing
demand for slots.

But it could also bring new revenue. Many illegal workers are paid in cash, and
taxes or other costs are not deducted. One congressional study found that the
Dream Act, a stalled proposal to grant legal residency to young immigrants who
graduate from high school and attend college or join the military, would add
$2.3 billion in tax revenue over 10 years.

"Texas and California will definitely benefit from this," said Marielena
Hincapie, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center in Los
Angeles, adding that the two states have large populations of Hispanic
immigrants who will now be able to open businesses, hire people and earn more.

Advocates for the change said it will create a more lawful atmosphere in
immigrant communities and reduce the fear of deportation, which often prevents
people from reporting crimes or seeking help with problems. But critics
predicted that it would have the opposite effect, proving difficult to enforce
and encouraging more illegal immigrants to use false identification documents to
fit within the amnesty's legal requirements.

It was not immediately clear how the policy would dovetail with state laws and
policies on illegal immigration. In the absence of a broad federal mandate,
states have passed a variety of laws ranging from the relatively lax to the
extremely strict. In the first three months of 2012, more than 860 bills and
resolutions concerning immigration were introduced in state legislatures.

California, Texas and eight other states have laws giving in-state tuition
benefits to illegal immigrants. Maryland passed such a law, but it has been
stalled by legal challenges. The new federal policy does not address this issue,
however. At the other end of the spectrum, Arizona and Alabama have passed tough
laws barring illegal immigrants from a range of activities and allowed police to
check their legal status. Other states have passed laws to limit various types
of public benefits available for illegal immigrants.

"The first thing that will make a difference to me is that now I can drive
legally," said Victor Palafox, 20, a Mexican immigrant and high school graduate
who was visiting Washington from Alabama on Friday. "It gives me my humanity
back."

Immigration advocates as well as critics said the new policy is far from an
adequate substitute for an overhaul of the entire federal immigration system.
The issue is highly emotional and partisan, and lawmakers have repeatedly failed
to agree on a broad policy to deal with the estimated 11.2 million illegal
immigrants in the United States.

"Due to congressional inaction, we have seen a lot of laws passed at the state
level that in many cases only add chaos," said Clarissa Martinez, an official of
the National Council of La Raza in Washington. "Where the administration is
justified and able, they should intervene, as they have done in this case. But
it only intensifies the need for Congress to act."

The most significant and contentious aspect of the new policy is that it
automatically grants hundreds of thousands of people in their teens and 20s -
most of them from Mexico and Central America - the right to work in the United
States. Many may have already been working, but as undocumented laborers they
often had to accept low wages and poor conditions.

"For hundreds of thousands of young people, the immediate effect will be that
they can exhale and go out and look for a job," said Gustavo Andrade, an
official of the pro-immigrant group CASA of Maryland.

Effect on low-wage jobs?

But Steven Camarota, a researcher with the nonprofit Center for Immigration
Studies in Washington, said that the Obama administration was not taking into
account the new measure's probable impact on competition for jobs at the low end
of the economic scale, where chronic unemployment is highest. Among Americans
with less than a high school education, he said, the jobless rate is 13 percent.

"It doesn't seem the administration is considering the cascading consequences,"
Camarota said. "What does this mean for unemployed Americans who will be
competing for jobs with a million-plus people who can now apply for work
authorization? Is this really a good idea?"

constablep@washpost.com

Staff writers Krissah Thompson and Peter Whoriskey contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Policy shift gives reprieve to some illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1156 words


President Obama said Friday his administration would stop deporting some illegal
immigrants who were brought to the country as children and have gone on to be
productive and otherwise law-abiding residents, forcing the emotional
immigration policy debate into the forefront of the presidential campaign.

Obama described his decision as the "right thing to do for the American people,"
but many Democrats and immigration advocates also saw it as the right strategic
move to boost his reelection chances.

The policy puts political pressure on Obama's Republican challenger, Mitt
Romney, by highlighting past GOP opposition to legislation designed to help
young immigrants and by forcing Romney to confront his party's sharp divisions
over the issue.

But the shift also carried some danger for the president, who risks alienating
centrist swing voters who tend to be more conservative on immigration issues and
could see the move as politically opportunistic.

Several conservative Republican lawmakers quickly denounced Obama's move as
"backdoor amnesty."

One Republican, Rep. Steve King of Iowa, said he planned to sue to block the
president's policy.

The announcement followed a years-long dispute between the president and
immigration advocates, who had warned in a series of private encounters that he
would lose credibility with Hispanic voters if he did not use his power to help
a group of young people that had become the most visible and sympathetic target
of his administration's aggressive deportation policies.

The president had long insisted that he lacked the legal authority to halt the
removals, calling instead for passage of the Dream Act, the stymied legislation
intended to put many illegal immigrant students and veterans on a path to
citizenship.

But the White House began to feel more pressure from advocates this spring when
a prominent Hispanic Republican, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, began working with
activists on a scaled-back version of the bill.

On Friday, Obama seemed to find a middle ground, granting a two-year reprieve
from deportation for certain eligible immigrants but not granting them legal
status.

"These are young people who study in our schools, they play in our
neighborhoods, they're friends with our kids, they pledge allegiance to our
flag," Obama said during an afternoon Rose Garden appearance. "They are
Americans in their heart, in their minds, in every single way but one: on
paper."

Romney has opposed the Dream Act in the past and staked out other hard-line
positions on immigration. He has come under fire from some party leaders who say
he is turning off Hispanic voters.

Polls show Obama holds a wide lead among Hispanics, but Republican strategists
think Romney can win the election even if he peels only a fraction of Hispanic
voters away from the president.

Romney issued a careful statement, telling reporters during a campaign bus tour
in New Hampshire that he favored a more permanent legislative fix.

"I think the action that the president took today makes it more difficult to
reach that long-term solution because an executive order is, of course, just a
short-term matter," Romney said.

Romney's tightrope walk was made clearer when he said that he agreed with a
statement issued Friday by Rubio gently criticizing the Obama policy, only to be
followed later by aides clarifying that Romney was not endorsing Rubio's
potential legislation.

Former Mississippi governor Haley Barbour, a top GOP strategist, told reporters
that Romney's past statements on immigration allowed Democrats to label him
anti-immigrant. "I would just have a different policy from what he has
espoused," Barbour said of Romney.

Eligible immigrants will now receive "deferred action," which essentially means
a two-year reprieve from deportation along with the chance to apply for a work
permit. The decisions will be made on a case-by-case basis, and officials said
Friday that not everyone granted the reprieve will immediately gain the right to
work.

The deferral will be available to immigrants who can prove that they came to the
United States when they were younger than 16, have lived in the country
continuously for at least five years and are currently in the country. They must
be in school, have graduated from high school, have obtained a general education
development certificate, or be honorably discharged veterans of the military or
the Coast Guard.

They also must not be older than 30 and must never have been convicted of a
felony, a significant misdemeanor or multiple misdemeanor offenses or otherwise
pose a threat to national security or public safety.

The change was not imposed by executive order. Instead, it effectively extends
an existing policy of "prosecutorial discretion," in which immigration officials
last year were instructed to prioritize the removal of felons, repeat border
crossers and others considered to be security risks. Officials said the
government would continue its aggressive enforcement policies but with greater
care not to remove young people who came as children.

The administration announced the new policy a week before Obama was scheduled to
address the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials'
annual conference near Orlando. Romney is scheduled to speak to the group
Thursday, as are Rubio and former Florida governor Jeb Bush, a Dream Act
supporter who has urged the GOP to soften its rhetoric on immigration. It also
comes in advance of a Supreme Court ruling on the controversial Arizona
immigration law.

Arturo Vargas, executive director of the NALEO group, said Friday he was unsure
whether the policy would have the effect that advocates had hoped for, noting
that immigrants would have to step forward to apply with no guarantee of
success.

"People are getting more excited than what really is there," Vargas said.

Still, the response Friday was overwhelmingly positive from immigration
advocates, particularly those who had personally sparred with Obama over the
past two years.

"If what we heard [Friday] is exactly what happens, it was about time," said
Angelica Salas, a Los Angeles-based activist who first confronted Obama about
the deportations during a March 2010 meeting in the Roosevelt Room.

Obama is "putting his political power behind this," said Gaby Pacheco, 27, an
activist who came to the United States from Ecuador when she was 7 and went on
to graduate from college and prepare for a career in teaching. "We're close to
an election, and so I don't think that they're going to mess this up."

Pacheco, who had been working with Rubio on his legislation, said she planned on
applying for the "deferred action" reprieve. She hoped the policy would pressure
Congress to act.

"It's inevitable for us to eventually become citizens of this country," she
said.

And if that happens, said Pacheco, who lives in Miami, she might just run for
Congress someday.

wallstenp@washpost.com

Staff writer Philip Rucker contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Passage would create an immigration nightmare

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 227 words


The June 11 front-page article "A question of merit" didn't tell the whole story
about the Dream Act.

It's true that when people don't know the facts, the Dream Act has some appeal.
After all, we are all naturally sympathetic when children are involved. But the
descriptions of the Dream Act often voiced by its supporters are not accurate.
And the consequences are never told.

Dream Act supporters claim that only children would benefit from such a bill,
but the facts tell another story. Under most Dream Act proposals, amnesty would
be given to individuals up to the age of 30 - not exactly children. Other
proposals don't even have an age limit.

The Dream Act also rewards the illegal immigrant parents who knowingly violated
our laws. Once children become U.S. citizens, they can petition for their
illegal immigrant parents and adult siblings to be legalized. Those adults will
then bring in others in an endless chain, which only encourages more illegal
immigration.

Dream Act proposals are also a magnet for fraud. Many illegal immigrants will
falsely claim that they came here as children or that they are under 30, and the
federal government has no way to check whether their claims are true. The facts
show that the Dream Act is riddled with loopholes.

Lamar Smith, Washington

The writer, a Texas Republican, is the chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 17, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Out of the shadows

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 460 words


THROUGH NO FAULT of their own, a generation of children of undocumented
immigrants who came to the United States as young children has lived in the
shadows of American life. President Obama's announcement Friday that the
government will give them a two-year reprieve from possible deportation will
ease fears that long have haunted many of them. Those who take advantage of the
offer and are approved can then seek official work permits.

The reprieve is aimed at those who might be described as most likely to succeed:
an estimated 800,000 people, under 30 years old, in school or having graduated
or served in the armed forces, without a significant criminal record, who pose
no threat to national security or public safety. In many cases they are strivers
who have known only America as home. Deporting them to countries they left as
children makes no sense.

So on policy grounds, the action is right; we have strongly supported
legislation that would accomplish a similar purpose. But there's the rub.
Congress chose not to act on that legislation. In December 2010 the Dream Act,
which would have created a pathway toward citizenship for young, undocumented
immigrants, died in the Senate. Mr. Obama's announcement does not go as far as
that bill; it does not provide a path to citizenship. Instead the president is
choosing to selectively enforce existing law. Is this how our system is supposed
to work?

Janet Napolitano, secretary of homeland security, said that the government
determined that prosecution of these young, undocumented immigrants is a low
priority compared to pursuing other cases of criminals or people who pose a risk
to national security. The immigration laws must be enforced, the secretary
insisted, but "they are not designed to be blindly enforced." What does that
mean? Sure, prosecutors always have to make choices and set priorities. But it
is unsettling to see the president and his administration openly declare that
they will not enforce a law on the books because they don't think it's a good
law. The obvious political ramifications so close to an election, with Mr. Obama
hoping to attract Latino votes, only heighten the unease.

Mr. Obama's announcement offers a temporary reprieve to these young immigrants,
but after the celebrations, another worry looms. While no longer threatened with
deportation, they could find themselves still in a twilight zone, an underclass
without a map toward a full role in American society.

For the 11 million undocumented immigrants who are in the United States today,
as well as for the nation's economy and law enforcement system, the best and
only sustainable solution is a comprehensive overhaul of the law.

The president's action should not be another excuse for bickering and delay.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 17, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Obama to block deportation of young illegal immigrants

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 256 words


President Obama said Friday that his administration will block deportations of
hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants who had been brought to the
country as children, declaring that it was "the right thing to do" for those
affected and for the country.

"Effective immediately, the Department of Homeland Security is taking steps to
lift the shadow of deportation from these young people," Obama said during the
announcementin the White House Rose Garden. "Over the next few months, eligible
individuals who do not present a risk to national security or public safety will
be able to request temporary relief from deportation proceedings and apply for
work authorization."

He said the action was being taken in the absence of any move in Congress "to
fix our broken immigration system." He described the step as a "temporary"
measure and urged lawmakers to pass more permanent solutions such as the DREAM
Act and comprehensive immigration reform.

"This is not amnesty," Obama declared. "This is not immunity. This is not a path
to citizenship. It's not a permanent fix. This is a temporary stopgap measure
that lets us focus our resources wisely, while giving a degree of relief and
hope to talented, driven, patriotic young people. It is the right thing to do."

The policy change, first announced by Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano in a statement Friday morning, effectively ends a years-long standoff
with Hispanic activists who are crucial to the president's reelection campaign.

- Peter Wallsten and William Branigin

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2012 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Alabama law casts a long shadow

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1816 words

DATELINE: IN ALBERTVILLE, ALA.


Hidden behind the Banco del Sol and the Tienda El Nio is the economic pillar of
this rural town: a massive factory that processes 130,000 chickens a day.
Inside, headless plucked birds move along conveyor belts while 300 workers, in
repeated deft strokes, slice each passing carcass into chunks of kitchen-ready
meat.

For years, most poultry workers here were Mexican immigrants, including some who
were in the country illegally. But last fall, after a tough state law against
illegal immigrants took effect, many vanished overnight, rattling the town's
large Hispanic community and leaving the poultry business scrambling to find
workers willing to stand for hours in a wet, chilly room, cutting up dead
chickens.

"Even someone born and raised in Albertville may not have the necessary skills
or be able to pass a background check," said Frank Singleton, a spokesman for
Wayne Farms, which owns the slaughterhouse. The firm held a job fair that
attracted about 250 local residents, but few were hired, and some soon quit,
daunted by the demanding work. Since the law took effect, he said, "our turnover
rate has gone through the roof."

Sponsors of the law say it has done exactly what they had hoped, driving tens of
thousands of illegal immigrants from the state. The U.S. Justice Department has
challenged some parts of the law, and President Obama's announcement Friday of a
temporary legal amnesty for more than 1 million young undocumented immigrants
nationwide clashes directly with Alabama's legislation.

"All our activities will be for naught if the president grants amnesty to
everyone," state Sen. Scott Beason, the chief sponsor of the Alabama law, said
Friday. Still, with the U.S. Supreme Court expected to rule shortly on a similar
law in Arizona, champions of the Alabama measure hope that their legal position
will be largely vindicated. "If Arizona is a success, then Alabama will be a
success, too," Beason said.

The state senator said he had "absolutely no doubt" that the law, and the
resulting exodus of illegal workers, has started putting more Alabamans to work.
Beason noted that the state's unemployment rate has fallen sharply since last
fall, from 9.8 percent to 7.2 percent, and he said the new law was "a big part"
of the reason. "I get phone calls from people thanking me all the time," he
said.

Nevertheless, a variety of employers in Alabama said they have not been able to
find enough legal residents to replace the seasoned Hispanic field pickers,
drywall hangers, landscapers and poultry workers who fled the state. There was
an initial rush of job applications, they said, but many new employees quit or
were let go.

Wayne Smith, 56, raises tomatoes on a family farm in the misty hills of Chandler
Mountain, a 40-minute drive from Albertville. Last fall, he said, his entire
Mexican crew ran off, and Smith and his neighbors scoured the area for new
workers. The growers pay $2 for every large box of picked tomatoes, and a worker
must be able to pluck fast all day, bent over in the hot sun, to fill two or
three dozen boxes.

"The whites lasted half a day, and the blacks wouldn't come at all. The work was
just too hot and hard for them," Smith said. He dismissed the argument, often
made by critics of illegal immigration, that Americans might do the work if
offered a higher and hourly wage. "We've been using Mexicans for 30 years, and
now they've been run off," he said. "Everyone is worried about Arizona. If this
law sticks, what'll we do then?"

'A chilling effect'

Alabama's law makes it a crime for illegal immigrants to buy a house, pay a
utility bill or sign a contract. It also penalizes those who employ them, allows
police to ask drivers at roadside checkpoints or routine traffic stops about
their immigration status, and requires schools to ask about the legal status of
all new students.

Although there is no doubt that many illegal immigrants have left Alabama since
October, studies by economists at the University of Alabama indicate that the
drop in unemployment is partly due to other factors. They report that the number
of workers overall has been shrinking, in part from baby-boomer retirements and
in part from discouraged workers suspending their job searches.

At the Wayne Farms plant in Albertville, officials said that since the law took
effect, they have spent more than $5 million to train new workers and compensate
for lost production. Singleton said the factory had also lost some legal
Hispanic workers, who left the state rather than be separated from their
illegal-immigrant spouses. "This law has created a chilling effect on the whole
Latino community," he said.

Today, the factory's workforce of about 1,000 is a diverse and unstable mix. It
includes Hispanics who have passed federal ID checks, local whites and blacks,
and even a group of refugees from Ethiopia and Burma, provided by an employment
agency whose Web site offers, "We will help you clean house before ICE does it
for you."

In interviews in the factory parking lot, a few white and black workers said
they had been hired recently. One middle-aged black man, who gave his name only
as William, said he had been through some hard times and was grateful to have
landed steady work. "A lot of Americans don't want to do manual labor, but it's
an honest living, and it pays the bills," he said.

Half a dozen Latino workers said they had legal papers, but several others said
they had "borrowed" someone else's ID. One young immigrant from Central America,
who gave his name only as Juan, said he was making a decent wage at the factory
but was afraid to drive his car, because his license had expired and he was not
legally permitted to renew it.

"So many neighbors have left," he said. "Nobody goes out at night. Nobody is
calm. Nothing is certain." At his workplace, he added, "there are more Americans
now, Africans, even Asians. . . . Little by little, they are getting rid of us
all."

Hispanic leaders in Alabama said Friday that they are not certain how Obama's
amnesty for many illegal immigrants younger than 30 would affect the situation
in Alabama. Salvador Cervantes, an activist who organized protests against the
state law, called the president's action "a great relief for all of us," but he
added that it was not clear how state officials would respond.

A town in upheaval

On the surface, Albertville, a busy town of 22,000, does not seem much changed
by the new law. Its Hispanic community, which surged from near zero in 1990 to
almost 30 percent of the populace in 2010, is still very much in evidence. On
almost every street, there are signs in Spanish - taquerias, peluquerias,
Iglesia de Dios, Reyna Novedades.

But several trailer parks once fully occupied by Hispanics lie half empty, and
Hispanic store owners said there is less demand for items such as fresh
tortillas and discount phone cards to Mexico, partly because some customers left
and some of the others who stayed behind are reluctant to shop. They also said
social interaction between Hispanics and others is stiffer.

"People who know me suddenly ask me whether I am legal," said Mireya Bonilla,
who has owned La Orquidea, a large Hispanic grocery and diner, since the early
1990s. Both white and Hispanic families still come in for lunch, but Bonilla
said she feels less comfortable than before. "What's hard is the way people look
at you now," she said.

Across the room, a white-haired diner, who gave his name only as Bruce, said he
had visited Central America and helped raise money through his church to fight
poverty there. Yet he also said he supported the state law.

"I hate to see what's happening to the Hispanics. Their community is suffering,
and so is the economy," he said. "But if the laws had been enforced 20 years
ago, we wouldn't be having these problems. Now we have this new law, so we need
to give it time to work."

Albertville Mayor Lindsey Lyons said the Hispanic influx had been a
"double-edged sword" for the town, bringing crime and social problems as well as
a source of labor and revenue. Since many illegal immigrants left, he said,
there had been a drop in illegal drug activity, prostitution and car accidents.
But he also acknowledged that some businesses had suffered.

"The bill has done what was intended, but it is not the permanent answer," he
said. "We need Congress to compromise and come up with a better immigration
system. We want these people to learn English and become citizens." If all the
illegal immigrants left the area, Lyons added, "our industries would shut down."

No one really knows how many of the state's estimated 180,000 illegal immigrants
have left or been replaced, but the rash of criticism from employers that depend
on immigrant labor was so intense by this spring that Beason, the state senator,
sponsored a revised version of the law to ease penalties for businesses that
employ illegal immigrants.

Asked about employers' recruitment difficulties, Beason said it would take time
for Alabama natives to return to the kind of menial jobs they did before
immigrants crowded out the field, accepting work for lower wages. He said he
hoped that the law would improve the "work ethic" of young people and give
jobless dropouts a chance to start over. "Using illegals has warped the job
market and taken unfair advantage of them, too," Beason said.

Living in constant fear

The outcry from legal Hispanic residents has been another unforeseen
complication. Mexican communities here are a dense mix of legal and illegal
residents, often within the same families. Some breadwinners who fled to
neighboring states have returned to their wives and children, using fake work
IDs or trying to stay invisible at home. Their legal relatives live in a shared
state of tension, fearful of having family cars confiscated by police or
documents rejected by suspicious clerks.

A few miles outside Albertville, Armando Macias, 43, lives in a trailer with his
wife, Nora, and their two small children. The rooms are decorated with prayers
and a candlelit shrine to the Virgin of Guadalupe.

Macias, who came to the United States in 1989, has a work permit. Both children
are U.S. citizens, and the family has spent thousands of dollars on lawyers so
Nora can become a legal resident. The parents said the new law has left them
confused and scared, reluctant even to seek public vaccination cards for the
children.

"People think we are illegal now because of our skin," said Macias, who often
drives up Chandler Mountain to work in the tomato fields. The family has had
domestic problems and brushes with the law; Macias was once arrested for being
drunk, and welfare workers removed the children until the trailer was
refurbished. Still, the couple seem determined and united.

"We have made mistakes, but we are not criminals or terrorists," Macias said.
"We came here to work, and Alabama is our home, but now we're not wanted."

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

BYLINE: - Aaron Blake

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 394 words

Latino vote could boost Obama, but turnout will be a challenge

President Obama's announcement Friday that he would stop the deportation of some
800,000 young illegal immigrants who were brought here by their parents isn't
likely to increase his share of the Latino vote much.

But there is still plenty for him to gain: turnout and enthusiasm in a community
in which both are severely lacking.

Polling on the matter has long shown Obama taking about the same portion of the
Latino vote as he did in the 2008 election - around two-thirds. And he will be
hard pressed to exceed that performance this year.

But even as his advantage has stayed largely the same, there were plenty of
signs that Latinos might just stay home this year. Record deportations of
illegal immigrants by the Obama administration and lack of action on immigration
reform have made Latinos much less enthusiastic about Obama.

A report from the Pew Hispanic Center in December, in fact, showed Obama's
approval rating among Latinos dropping to 49 percent, even as 68 percent said
they still preferred him over Mitt Romney. Obama's decline in this community has
been bigger than almost any other demographic group.

Similarly, a Latino Decisions poll conducted earlier this year showed 53 percent
of Latinos said they were less enthusiastic about voting for Obama this year
than in 2008, compared with 30 percent who were more enthusiastic.

That gap is particularly troubling for Obama given the fact that Latino turnout
often lags behind that of other demographics. Despite the historic Latino
support for Obama in 2008, America's largest minority group still has big
turnout problems, and it's a distinct possibility that many Latinos will simply
sit this one out.

Latino turnout reached new heights in both the 2008 and 2010 elections, but
basically all of that increase was a result of population growth. Meanwhile,
Latino leaders have struggled to turn out their increasingly powerful voter
bloc.

Latino voter registration has dropped by 5 percent since the 2008 election. Some
dropoff is normal after a presidential election, but the size of the decrease in
Latino registration was bigger than at any point in the last four decades.

In other words, there is a huge untapped resource out there for Obama. He tapped
it to a large extent in 2008, but there's still plenty of motivating to do.

- Aaron Blake

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 22, 2012 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Romney tries to soften image among Latinos

BYLINE: Felicia Sonmez;Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1220 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO


ORLANDO - Mitt Romney, who courted conservative Republican primary voters with
hard-line opposition to illegal immigration, took a first step Thursday toward
trying to soften his image among skeptical Hispanic voters - pledging to speak
in a "civil and resolute manner" and that he would loosen some restrictions on
the flow of legal foreign workers.

But the presumed GOP presidential nominee showed in his appearance before a
major Hispanic group that he is not prepared to back down from many of the
positions that have put him at odds with some immigrants, advocacy groups and
members of his party.

He did not say what should happen to the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants
in the United States, nor did he mention the Dream Act, the stalled legislation
he previously vowed to veto that would legalize many young people brought to the
country as children.

Instead, Romney told about 1,000 attendees at the the National Association of
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials meeting at Disney World that President
Obama had not fulfilled his promises for Hispanics. Obama is scheduled to
address the group on Friday - the first time he has attended the NALEO annual
gathering, as Romney pointed out, since 2008.

"He may admit that he has not kept every promise, and he'll probably say that
even though you aren't better off than you were four years ago, things could be
worse," Romney said. "He will imply that you don't really have an alternative. I
believe he's taking your vote for granted. I come here today with a very simple
message: You do have an alternative."

The back-to-back appearances here underscore the growing importance of Hispanic
voters, particularly in battleground states such as Colorado, Nevada and
Virginia that are vital to the president's reelection strategy. Polls show that
among Latino adults, Obama holds a lead of 68 to Romney's 30, according to
Washington Post-ABC News surveys - but Republican strategists think that
increasing Romney's share to 40 percent could be enough to win the election.

In 2008, Obama won 67 percent of the Hispanic vote, compared with 31 percent for
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.).

Immigration has emerged in recent weeks as a flash point in the presidential
race, with Obama and Romney staking out sharply different positions.

Obama heightened the pressure on Romney last week with his administration's move
to halt the deportations of hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants
who might have been eligible for help under the Dream Act. The issue will return
to the fore next week, when the Supreme Court is expected to rule on the Obama
administration's challenge to Arizona's tough anti-illegal-immigration law,
which Romney and many Republicans supported.

In his speech Thursday, Romney ridiculed the president's action on deportations,
which grants "deferred action" to certain law-abiding immigrants younger than 30
who came to the United States as children. He said Obama, despite having
Democratic majorities in Congress for two years, "failed to act until facing a
tough reelection and trying to secure your vote."

But Romney stopped short of promising he would reverse the policy, saying he
would "put in place my own long-term solution that will replace and supercede
the president's temporary measure."

Romney reiterated his pledge to help illegal immigrants who are serving in the
military, saying he would push for a "path to legal status for anyone who is
willing to stand up and defend this great nation through military service." He
did not mention that illegal immigrants are barred from service, but his
campaign said later that Romney would support allowing certain immigrants
brought as children to join.

Democrats and liberal immigration advocates were quick to denounce Romney's
speech as a sign that he plans to hew closely to the wishes of the conservative
Republican base when it comes to immigration.

"Any chance Mitt Romney had of substantially improving his standing with Latino
voters in 2012 ended" with Thursday's speech, said Simon Rosenberg, president of
the liberal think tank NDN and an adviser to Democrats on the Hispanic vote. "He
had a chance to start fresh, but chose to double down on a set of policies
simply unacceptable to the vast majority of Latinos."

Romney, who has staked out a hard-line stance against illegal immigration since
his first presidential campaign in 2008, faces a steep political challenge.
Democrats are armed with multiple video clips from Republican primary debates in
which he hit his opponents for supporting measures such as charging in-state
college tuition for illegal immigrants.

Moreover, Romney's views on immigration have highlighted a potential divide
between him and other Republicans, including Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), who have
supported finding a way to legalize students and college graduates in addition
to those who serve in the military.

Other Republicans have criticized the tone of his past statements, saying he
risks portraying the GOP as anti-Hispanic.

http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/romneys-illegal-immigration-rhetoric-worr
ies-some-republicans/2011/12/15/gIQAvuwLzO_story.html?hpid=z1Romney appeared to
directly answer those concerns on Thursday, while tweaking Obama. "I'm going to
address the issue of illegal immigration in a civil and resolute manner," he
said. "We may not always agree, but when I make a promise to you, I will keep
it."

In the lead-up to his address, Romney sought to align himself more closely on
the issue with Rubio, a Cuban American who many conservatives hope will be
Romney's running mate. His criticism of Obama's deportation policy mirrored
Rubio's. And Rubio, asked by reporters at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast
in Washington hours before Romney's address to analyze Romney's approach on
immigration, described him as a "very mature and serious political leader"
seeking a balanced approach to a complicated issue.

One prominent GOP supporter of the Dream Act, former Florida governor Jeb Bush,
who has called on the party to soften its tone on immigration, praised Romney's
speech.

"I was very pleased with it," he said. "I heard a consistent message of border
control, but I think he expanded it out to talk about reforming the immigration
system itself."

Attendees who listened to the speech gave the presumptive GOP nominee a mixed
reaction as he spoke, highlighting the diverse views among Hispanic voters. Some
booed Romney, and others applauded, when he pledged to repeal Obama's
health-care law; and Romney's remarks on immigration reform in particular drew a
range of reactions.

Some, such as Trini Lopez, the mayor of Socorro, Tex., expressed cautious
optimism.

Lopez said that among the "enticing offers" to the Latino community Romney laid
out on Thursday was his proposal to reform the work visa system. Even so, Lopez
said, before he decides whom to vote for, he needs to hear personally from
Obama, who will address the group on Friday.

Others, such as Phoenix City Councilman Daniel Valenzuela, voiced skepticism.

"If that message was heard a few months ago, it would mean more today," he said
of Romney's advocacy for fixing immigration laws. "But if that message was heard
a few months ago, he probably would not be the Republican nominee."

sonmezf@washpost.com

wallstenp@washpost.com

Wallsten reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Romney's immigration problem

BYLINE: Dan Balz

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1125 words


Mitt Romney has had a lot to say about immigration over the past few days, but
what he has said adds up to a giant question mark. Rarely has a presidential
candidate had as many opportunities to clarify or recalibrate his position on a
vital issue, and rarely has a candidate passed up those opportunities as
consistently as the former governor.

It's not that Romney has mostly avoided talking about immigration during the
campaign. When it has been in his political interest, he has been more than
happy to state his views. He took on the issue repeatedly during the Republican
primaries, using it as a cudgel to attack Texas Gov. Rick Perry and former House
speaker Newt Gingrich (Ga.) and at a critical moment in his fight against former
senator Rick Santorum (Pa.).

When Perry appeared to be a threat, Romney was eager to blast the governor's
support of a long-standing Texas law that allows residents who are the children
of illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition at Texas colleges and
universities.

"It makes no sense," Romney said.

When Gingrich outlined a conciliatory approach to dealing with undocumented
immigrants who have been in the United States for a quarter-century or longer -
a policy that would have provided legal status but not a path to citizenship -
Romney attacked him, saying that any such policy would be a magnet for more
illegal immigrants. He called Gingrich's idea "a form of amnesty."

When Romney debated in Arizona and desperately needed to defeat Santorum there
and in Michigan, he appeared to say that Arizona's hard-line approach to
immigration -  including the law thatthe Supreme Court mostly struck down on
Tuesday - was a model for the nation. (The court upheld the legislation's most
contested provision, which requires law enforcement officials to check the
immigration status of people they detain and suspect to be illegal immigrants.)

Called on it by reporters, his campaign said at the time that, no, Romney didn't
say the Arizona law before the courts was a model for the nation. They said he
was talking about the state's e-verify law for businesses dealing with
applicants who might lack documentation, campaign officials said. Exactly what
the candidate thought of the strict anti-immigration  law was left to the
imagination, though he did win the endorsement of Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R)
before the primary.

Romney has long opposed a comprehensive immigration reform policy that would
include a path to citizenship for the roughly 12 million undocumented immigrants
living in the United States other than making them return to their native
countries and get in line. During one debate, he famously described this policy
as "self-deportation." He has been consistent on this through both of his
campaigns for the White House.

That brings us to the past two weeks, when the former governor went fuzzy in
public on immigration. It began when President Obama, in a move that was as
political as it was substantive, issued an order that halted the deportation of
illegal immigrants who came to the United States as children if they met certain
criteria.

Catching Romney off guard, the president put his rival in a tough spot, because
Romney had promised earlier to veto the Dream Act, which was designed to do what
Obama had just ordered. Romney could hardly have been less forthcoming when he
responded to a series of questions about whether he supported the new policy.

All he was willing to say was that he opposed the process by which the president
acted. Pressed to explain his position by Bob Schieffer on CBS's "Face the
Nation," Romney ducked the question. One exchange went as follows:

Schieffer: "But would you repeal this?"

Romney: "Well, it would be overtaken by events, if you will. . . ."

By that, Romney said he meant that he would replace the president's temporary
policy with his own permanent policy. The contents of that policy remain
unclear. Romney has said nothing to reverse his opposition to the Dream Act. He
offered little encouragement to earlier efforts by Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) to
find compromise legislation.

Romney had another chance to clarify his views on immigration when he spoke at
the meeting of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials in Florida on Thursday. There, he laid out a solid critique of Obama
for not fulfilling his 2008 campaign promise to enact comprehensive immigration
reform. But Romney again declined to say how he felt about the president's
latest action to help young illegal immigrants.

Romney said that he would deal with immigration reform as president and that
when he makes a promise, he will keep it. The next day, Obama reminded the
Hispanic audience of Romney's vow to veto the Dream Act, which Romney didn't
mention in his address.

Romney told the NALEO audience that his priorities include tightening border
controls and speeding up the visa process for highly skilled immigrants who are
studying in the United States. The closest he came to alluding to his usual
positions was when he told audience members that they wouldn't always agree with
him. On the question of illegal immigration, the most he would say was that he
would deal with the issue in a "civil but resolute manner."

On Monday, Romney was equally vague in his initial comments about the Supreme
Court decision. On a coincidental campaign stop in Arizona, he slammed the
president for what he called inaction on immigration reform. And he said that
the court should recognize that each state has the right and duty to secure its
borders, especially if the federal government does not do so. But he offered no
hint as to whether he agrees with the court's decision, and his spokesman
declined to answer repeated questions from reporters.

Later, at a fundraiser in Scottsdale, Romney said he wished the court had given
states more latitude, not less, to deal with immigration. He again accused the
president of not acting on the matter when Democrats had majorities in the House
and Senate. He vowed that he would take up the issue in his first year as
president. He pledged that he would work across the aisle, but he did not
promise specific comprehensive reform.

In all that, Romney avoided any mention of the illegal immigrants who already
are in the country, an issue that has held up comprehensive reform since the
George W. Bush administration. He did not talk about the opposition within his
own party, which scuttled reform efforts when Bush sought a bipartisan solution.
He did not allude to any of the positions he staked out during the primaries.

He promised to lead but hasn't done so. It will be up to voters to decide in
which direction they think he would go.

balzd@washpost.com

For previous columns by Dan Balz, go to postpolitics.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 394 words

ARIZONA

Sheriff denies use of ethnic profiling

Veteran Arizona lawman Joe Arpaio, who calls himself "America's toughest
sheriff," denied  Tuesday that his deputies targeted people because of the color
of their skin in a controversial crackdown on illegal immigration.

Arpaio, sheriff of Arizona's Maricopa County, was testifying in a class-action
lawsuit to test whether police can target illegal immigrants without racially
profiling Hispanic citizens and legal residents.

"I am against anyone racial profiling . . .  today as in my 50 years in law
enforcement," Arpaio said during cross-examination.

The sheriff, who is seeking re-election to a sixth term in November, has been a
lightning rod for controversy over his aggressive enforcement of immigration
laws in the border state with Mexico, as well as his investigation into the
validity of President Obama's birth certificate.

- Reuters

NEW HAMPSHIRE

More charges likely in hepatitis C case

A federal prosecutor said Tuesday that he expects to bring more charges against
a traveling medical technician accused of infecting 30 patients with hepatitis C
in New Hampshire, and health officials said they are casting a wider net as they
look for more victims.

The technician, David Kwiatkowski, was charged last week with fraudulently
obtaining drugs and tampering with a consumer product. He is accused of stealing
anesthetic drugs from the cardiac catheterization lab at Exeter Hospital where
he worked, injecting himself and contaminating syringes that were later used on
patients.

Although authorities haven't identified the other states involved, health
officials in Michigan, Maryland, Kansas and New York confirmed his employment.

- Associated Press

TEXAS

Death toll grows to 15 in pickup truck crash

Federal immigration officials say a 15th person involved in a pickup truck crash
in South Texas has died.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Greg Palmore said Tuesday
that another man died after the Sunday crash on a rural highway about 90 miles
southeast of San Antonio. That means 12 men were killed. Three females,
including two juveniles, also died. The deceased are from Mexico, Honduras and
Guatemala. Eight people remain hospitalized.

Officials say the 23 suspected illegal immigrants were traveling toward Houston
when their Ford F-250 truck veered off the road and hit trees.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Obama deportation reprieve expands

BYLINE: Sarah Parnass

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 437 words


About 350,000 more illegal immigrants than previously thought could earn an
additional two years in the United States when President Obama's new policy
takes effect next week, according to the Migration Policy Institute.

Under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, students age 30 or
younger who are enrolled in school on the day they apply will be eligible for a
two-year reprieve from deportation if they demonstrate that they came to the
United States before their 16th birthday, lived here for the past five years and
have not been convicted of certain crimes or pose a national security threat.

Before the new rule was announced last week, the program was to be open to
students enrolled in school as of June 15, 2012, or those who have graduated
high school or received a high school equivalency or honorably left the armed
services, including the Coast Guard.

The program takes effect Aug. 15, when the government will begin accepting
applications for deferral.

The application includes a fee of $465, used to fund the program, although
exemptions will be provided for minors, homeless youths, those with chronic
disabilities and those who fall below 150 percent of the poverty level.

Applicants who are denied deferral will not have the option to appeal. Those
approved will be able to separately apply for work authorization in the United
States.

The institute estimated in June that 1.4 million illegal immigrants could
benefit from the program. Those estimates included only students who were
enrolled in school as of that date.

Speaking Tuesday at a panel at the Carnegie Institution for Science, Doris
Meissner, director of the institute's U.S. Immigration Policy Program, said as
many as 1.76 million people could now be eligible, based on new guidance
released Friday by the Department of  Homeland Security.

Jeanne Batalova, an author of the report, said the program is "a powerful
incentive to go back to school" for young people who previously were not
continuing their education.

Alejandro Mayorkas, director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
emphasized that the program only serves to delay deportation for successful
applicants, without excusing "past unlawful presence."

"It does not provide a pathway to permanent residence or citizenship," Mayorkas
said.

DHS previously said that it may need to hire more than 1,400 full-time
employees, as well as contractors, to handle the volume of requests. Mayorkas
said both the number of applications and the pace at which they come in will
determine how long it takes service centers throughout the United States to
process them.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 16, 2012 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Reform changes little for many

BYLINE: Steve Hendrix;Luz Lazo

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 849 words


For thousands of undocumented immigrants who rushed to apply for new protections
from deportation, Wednesday was the life-changing day many had dreamed of for
years.

But for most, it was just Wednesday.

"I will be working today, that's all, if I can get work," said Ricardo Cruz, 22,
a Salvadoran day laborer gathered with other job seekers in a parking lot on New
Hampshire Avenue in Langley Park. "I have heard of this program, but they said
it was not for me."

Advocates hailed President Obama's offer of temporary residency and work status
to some young immigrants as the most significant reform in a generation. But, as
some have learned as the details became clear, it is a narrowly tailored one.

Fewer than 2 million of the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the
country are eligible for the program, known as deferred action, which began
accepting applications Wednesday.

That leaves life in the shadows to continue unchanged for the rest. For many who
have been waiting to learn the final details of the program, its launch brought
crushing disappointment.

"It was devastating to hear I didn't qualify," said a sobbing Elsi Hernandez
after her visit to Carecen of Columbia Heights. Hernandez, 25, came to the
United States when she was 17 and graduated from high school in 2008. She only
learned while gathering documents to apply that she was too old when she arrived
from El Salvador to be eligible. "I just want to study and be a good example to
my daughters."

The program, hewing closely to the goals of the long-debated Dream Act, targets
those who were brought here as children. It is open to immigrants ages 15 to 31
who arrived before they were 16 and have lived here continuously for the past
five years or more. Among other restrictions, they must be free of serious
criminal convictions and be in school or have a high school diploma or
equivalent.

That amounts to about 1.7 million immigrants, about 15 percent of the illegal
immigrant population, although no one knows how many of those will actually
apply.

"It's a lot of people, but it does leave the vast majority of the undocumented
population still undocumented," said Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer of the
Pew Hispanic Center. "Most of the undocumented immigrants in the country now are
people who came here as adults on their own."

At legal clinics and workshops around the region Wednesday, families and young
adults came by the hundreds to learn if they would qualify for the program. The
biggest group who won't are those who are too old: An estimated 6.8 million
undocumented immigrants are 31 or older.

But many of those have children and showed up eager to find out how to sign them
up. Even as advocates explained that many of the youngsters were eligible, they
were counseling families to mix their joy with practical thinking.

"This is an extension of the split families we've had under our immigration
system for a long time, where you have children who are citizens and parents who
are not," said Jeanne Atkinson, head of immigration services at Catholic
Charities D.C. More than 50 people showed up at the group's Mount Pleasant
office Wednesday to talk to volunteer attorneys about the program. "You have to
have a plan. What are you going to do if you are deported? Who is going to be
the guardian of your children?"

Antonio Aleman, 43, of Suitland, planned to apply immediately for his children,
Beatriz, 21, and Erick, 15. The former police officer from Chalatenango, El
Salvador, brought a neat stack of documents to a workshop Wednesday evening at
CASA of Maryland in Langley Park. But his excitement was tempered by the
realization the system would now treat him and his wife differently than their
two children.

"I am happy because our children may be eligible to get a work permit and be
here legally," he said. "But it would be devastating to us to be away from our
children."

Many immigrants learned that they were in the right age bracket but fell short
on educational requirements. An estimated 320,000 of them would qualify for the
program if they could get their diploma through GED courses, according to Pew
statistics. Some were scrambling to find documents proving they hadn't left the
country for any significant periods in the past five years.

"Controlled elation," is how Thai Nguyen described the first day of application
counseling at the USA Immigration Services Group office in Falls Church.

Back in Maryland, at the parking lot on New Hampshire Avenue, none of the 14 men
gathered in hopes of picking up work had plans to apply for the program. Most
said they were older than 15 when they crossed the border, and some had traveled
back and forth several times with the ebbs and flows of the economy. None seemed
to have any sense that immigration reform, no matter how limited, had anything
to do with them.

"I'm happy if they can stay with their family," Cruz, the Salvadoran day
laborer, said of those eligible for the new program. He came here with his
brother five years ago and hopes to return soon. "That's where we all want to
be."

hendrixs@washpost.com

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 16, 2012 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 821 words

ARIZONA

Illegal immigrants to be refused benefits

Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R), in yet another clash with the White House, issued
an order on Wednesday barring illegal immigrants who qualify for temporary legal
status in the United States from receiving any state or local public benefits.

The action was a response to relaxed deportation rules issued by the Obama
administration on Wednesday.

Brewer, whose state has been at the center of the country's immigration debate,
issued an executive order denying state or local benefits to immigrants applying
under the new federal immigration rules. The order would bar them from obtaining
an Arizona driver's license or a state- issued identification card.

As many as 1.7 million people could qualify for the temporary federal program,
which enables certain illegal immigrants to apply for work permits, Social
Security cards and driver's licenses, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

Applying for "deferred action for child arrivals" permits will shield some young
illegal immigrants from being ousted from the United States for at least two
years. In Arizona, officials said an estimated 80,000 illegal immigrants were
eligible to apply.

Brewer wrote in the order that the new program "does not confer upon them any
lawful or authorized status and does not entitle them to any additional public
benefits."

She said she was reaffirming the intent of current Arizona laws, and preventing
"significant and lasting impacts on the Arizona budget, its health-care system
and additional public benefits that Arizona taxpayers fund."

Arizona passed a tough immigration crackdown in 2010 to try to drive illegal
immigrants from the state. In June, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld its most
controversial provision, requiring police to check the immigration status of
people they stop if they suspect they are in the country illegally. The law has
yet to be implemented.

- Reuters

California

Hypersonic aircraft fails in test flight

A closely watched test flight of an experimental unmanned aircraft designed to
travel up to 3,600 mph ended in disappointment when a part failed, causing the
craft to plummet into the Pacific Ocean, the Air Force revealed.

The X-51A WaveRider was launched Tuesday over the Pacific from above the Point
Mugu Naval Air Test Range in a key test to fine-tune its hypersonic scramjet
engine.

The aircraft was designed to hit Mach 6, or six times the speed of sound, and
fly for five minutes. But that didn't happen. The engine never even lit.

About 15 seconds into the flight, a fault was identified in one of the
WaveRider's control fins, and the aircraft was not able to maintain control and
was lost.

"It is unfortunate that a problem with this subsystem caused a termination
before we could light the scramjet engine," Charlie Brink, program manager for
the Air Force Research Laboratory, said in a statement.

This is the third time a WaveRider has flown. Not one flight has gone the
distance.

In its first flight, in May 2010, the aircraft sped westward for 143 seconds at
3,500 mph before plunging into the ocean, as planned. But in another WaveRider
flight in June 2011, an interruption in the airflow to the jet engine caused a
premature shutdown.

The WaveRider program is estimated to cost $140 million, according to
GlobalSecurity.org, a Web site for military policy research. One of the four
WaveRider aircraft remains. But officials have not decided when, or if, that
vehicle will fly.

- Los Angeles Times

Arsonist convicted in heart-attack deaths

A jury on Wednesday found a California man guilty of murdering five people who
had heart attacks after he deliberately started a blaze that ballooned into a
massive wildfire.

Jurors in San Bernardino found 30-year-old Rickie Fowler guilty of setting the
Old Fire in the foothills above San Bernardino in October 2003 that burned
91,000 acres and torched 1,000 buildings over nine days.

Prosecutors charged Fowler with the murders of five men, ranging in age from 54
to 93, who died from heart attacks after their homes burned to the ground or as
they rushed to obey evacuation orders. Fowler also was convicted of two counts
of arson, along with special circumstances that make him eligible for the death
penalty.

That phase of the proceedings is scheduled to begin Monday.

Fowler became a suspect when witnesses reported seeing a passenger in a white
van tossing burning objects into dry brush. Investigators acting on a tip
interviewed Fowler several months later but didn't have enough evidence to file
charges until six years after the fire, when he was in jail on a burglary
conviction.

Prosecutors said Fowler was angry after a man who had given shelter to his
family kicked Fowler out of the home, citing thefts and mistreatment.

The charges against Fowler signaled a tough new standard for arson cases in a
region plagued by wildfires that sometimes claim the lives of firefighters and
civilians.

- Associated Press

New york

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 19, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Reform changes little for many

BYLINE: Steve Hendrix;Luz Lazo

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 849 words


For thousands of undocumented immigrants who rushed to apply for new protections
from deportation, Wednesday was the life-changing day many had dreamed of for
years.

But for most, it was just Wednesday.

"I will be working today, that's all, if I can get work," said Ricardo Cruz, 22,
a Salvadoran day laborer gathered with other job seekers in a parking lot on New
Hampshire Avenue in Langley Park. "I have heard of this program, but they said
it was not for me."

Advocates hailed President Obama's offer of temporary residency and work status
to some young immigrants as the most significant reform in a generation. But, as
some have learned as the details became clear, it is a narrowly tailored one.

Fewer than 2 million of the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the
country are eligible for the program, known as deferred action, which began
accepting applications Wednesday.

That leaves life in the shadows to continue unchanged for the rest. For many who
have been waiting to learn the final details of the program, its launch brought
crushing disappointment.

"It was devastating to hear I didn't qualify," said a sobbing Elsi Hernandez
after her visit to Carecen of Columbia Heights. Hernandez, 25, came to the
United States when she was 17 and graduated from high school in 2008. She only
learned while gathering documents to apply that she was too old when she arrived
from El Salvador to be eligible. "I just want to study and be a good example to
my daughters."

The program, hewing closely to the goals of the long-debated Dream Act, targets
those who were brought here as children. It is open to immigrants ages 15 to 31
who arrived before they were 16 and have lived here continuously for the past
five years or more. Among other restrictions, they must be free of serious
criminal convictions and be in school or have a high school diploma or
equivalent.

That amounts to about 1.7 million immigrants, about 15 percent of the illegal
immigrant population, although no one knows how many of those will actually
apply.

"It's a lot of people, but it does leave the vast majority of the undocumented
population still undocumented," said Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer of the
Pew Hispanic Center. "Most of the undocumented immigrants in the country now are
people who came here as adults on their own."

At legal clinics and workshops around the region Wednesday, families and young
adults came by the hundreds to learn if they would qualify for the program. The
biggest group who won't are those who are too old: An estimated 6.8 million
undocumented immigrants are 31 or older.

But many of those have children and showed up eager to find out how to sign them
up. Even as advocates explained that many of the youngsters were eligible, they
were counseling families to mix their joy with practical thinking.

"This is an extension of the split families we've had under our immigration
system for a long time, where you have children who are citizens and parents who
are not," said Jeanne Atkinson, head of immigration services at Catholic
Charities D.C. More than 50 people showed up at the group's Mount Pleasant
office Wednesday to talk to volunteer attorneys about the program. "You have to
have a plan. What are you going to do if you are deported? Who is going to be
the guardian of your children?"

Antonio Aleman, 43, of Suitland, planned to apply immediately for his children,
Beatriz, 21, and Erick, 15. The former police officer from Chalatenango, El
Salvador, brought a neat stack of documents to a workshop Wednesday evening at
CASA of Maryland in Langley Park. But his excitement was tempered by the
realization the system would now treat him and his wife differently than their
two children.

"I am happy because our children may be eligible to get a work permit and be
here legally," he said. "But it would be devastating to us to be away from our
children."

Many immigrants learned that they were in the right age bracket but fell short
on educational requirements. An estimated 320,000 of them would qualify for the
program if they could get their diploma through GED courses, according to Pew
statistics. Some were scrambling to find documents proving they hadn't left the
country for any significant periods in the past five years.

"Controlled elation," is how Thai Nguyen described the first day of application
counseling at the USA Immigration Services Group office in Falls Church.

Back in Maryland, at the parking lot on New Hampshire Avenue, none of the 14 men
gathered in hopes of picking up work had plans to apply for the program. Most
said they were older than 15 when they crossed the border, and some had traveled
back and forth several times with the ebbs and flows of the economy. None seemed
to have any sense that immigration reform, no matter how limited, had anything
to do with them.

"I'm happy if they can stay with their family," Cruz, the Salvadoran day
laborer, said of those eligible for the new program. He came here with his
brother five years ago and hopes to return soon. "That's where we all want to
be."

hendrixs@washpost.com

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Gays, Latinos seek unity

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 729 words


As a gay, undocumented immigrant from Guatemala, Edwin Guil, 22, says he is used
to being discriminated against. But when a gay friend recently said he was not
going to vote for President Obama because of his program to stop deporting some
undocumented immigrant youths, Guil, a student at Montgomery College, decided it
was time for some cross-cultural education.

"I confessed to him my situation, that I came here when I was 14, that my mom
brought me into the U.S. illegally." Living in the shadows was something that
both undocumented immigrants and generations of lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender Americans had in common, he told his friend.

"He completely changed his mind about the whole situation, so it made me feel
great about educating somebody about it. Now I want to do more," Guil said.

And so on Tuesday, Guil, who lives in Silver Spring, joined Latino and LGBT
community leaders and elected officials in Hyattsville to launch Familia es
Familia, a campaign to bring together Latinos and LGBT members in advance of the
November election.

Both groups have groundbreaking - and controversial - initiatives on the ballot
in Maryland: one that would allow civil marriage for gays and lesbians, and
another that would make undocumented immigrants eligible for in-state tuition at
community colleges and four-year public universities in Maryland.

The two causes might seem to be unlikely bedfellows, especially considering the
negative feelings toward homosexuality among some conservative Latinos. But the
organizations behind the campaign - Casa de Maryland, Equality Maryland and
Latino GLBT History Project - say they see more commonalities than differences
between the two groups.

"Marriage equality is from our viewpoint a civil rights issue, very similar to
immigration reform," said Gustavo Torres, Casa's executive director, adding that
more than 60 percent of Latino Catholics support people's right to marry someone
of the same gender.

Some compared the alliance with the coming together of blacks and Jews during
the civil rights movement - a strength-through-unity approach.

"Opponents . . . have tried to use these issues to divide us," said Ruben
Gonzales, deputy vice president for resource development at the National Council
of La Raza. The Hispanic  organization co-released a report earlier this year
showing 54 percent of Hispanics support marriage equality compared with 53
percent of the general population.

"I hear, 'Well, Latinos aren't supportive' - you wonder where all that comes
from," Gonzales said.

In California four years ago, after voters supported Proposition 8, which banned
same-sex marriage, exit polls showed that many blacks and Latinos had voted for
it. That played a part in the decision to launch the campaign, said Kim
Propeack, political director for Casa de Maryland.

"We consider it particularly important in Maryland to show mutual support, given
the historic opportunity with the two referendums," she said.

But the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian
Leadership Conference, questioned the approach.

"I think the two issues are totally unrelated," he said by phone from Tampa,
where he is attending the Republican Convention. "To connect the two dilutes
each individual platform. Each of them has valid points and they should stand on
their own merits."

With town meetings, fliers and film screenings planned, proponents of the
campaign hope that each of the two communities will educate its members about
the concerns of the other community - and send the message to the broader
society.

"We see that the Latino and LGBT communities, for a long time they existed in
different silos," said George Boe Ramirez, a Puerto Rican who lives in Rockville
and attended the launch with his partner of 17 years, German Roa.

Ramirez, 43, who grew up in a strict religious household in Brooklyn, said his
family  came around to accepting his sexual orientation after making a discovery
about a certain traditional family value: "We're probably out of my siblings the
only ones who never went through a divorce," he said. "Because of that, we have
their full support now."

Montgomery County Council member Nancy Navarro (D-Mid-County), whose brother is
gay, also called the merging of the two causes "a family values issue."

"For the Latino community, supporting family is paramount."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 3, 2012 Monday
                                 Every Edition

Unleashing immigrants' potential

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 488 words


ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS are entitled to a free public education through high school.
Thanks to President Obama's executive order this spring, more than 1 million of
them are now eligible for temporary work permits. But even as America slouches
toward recognition that undocumented youngsters are here to stay, most states
continue to bar them from receiving in-state tuition benefits at public
colleges. That self-defeating stance saps their ability to realize their
ambitions and to contribute more to the U.S. economy.

Voters in Maryland are in a position to right that wrong by ratifying the
state's Dream Act at referendum this fall. Doing so is critical to the hopes of
youngsters graduating from Maryland high schools and to the state's economic
vitality.

The legislation, enacted in 2011, would extend in-state tuition rates, which are
much cheaper than those for out-of-staters, to undocumented students who entered
the country as children, graduated from Maryland high schools and hail from
families that file tax returns. Native-born students would suffer no increased
competition for admission, since undocumented applicants would compete with
out-of-state students,

If the debate over Maryland's Dream Act once seemed abstract, it shouldn't now
that the federal government is accepting applications from undocumented
youngsters to stay and work legally in this country. Tens of thousands of them
lined up in Chicago, in Los Angeles and elsewhere, seeking guidance and
discussing their hopes for a productive, upwardly mobile future in the only
country they consider their own.

In most cases, it was absurd to classify them as "undocumented," an irony not
lost on a New York Times reporter who noted that they came with "school
transcripts, awards for academic achievements and sports victories, high school
and college diplomas, letters of recommendation, pay stubs, bank statements,
rent checks, tax returns." That was a useful reminder that the immigrants,
though they entered the country illegally as children or overstayed their visas,
are integrated into American life.

A new report from the Partnership for a New American Economy, a bipartisan group
of mayors and business leaders, found that immigrants are more than twice as
likely to start businesses than are native-born Americans, and were responsible
for more than a quarter of all new businesses started in 2011. Collectively, the
study found, immigrant-founded businesses employ a tenth of the private-sector
work force.

Unleashing and encouraging that work ethic and entrepreneurial drive should be
the task of government at all levels. Some states don't get that - think of
Arizona, where Gov. Jan Brewer (R) issued an order barring driver's licenses to
illegal immigrants even if they receive work permits. Other states, like
Maryland, have a chance to unlock the potential of a class of immigrants ready
and willing to contribute to the nation's future success.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 11, 2012 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

material for issues package on immigration

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 984 words

Where they stand

President Obama

Obama has urged Congress to pass the Dream Act, which would give young illegal
immigrants who were brought to the United States as children a path to
citizenship if they attend college or serve in the military. The Senate blocked
the bill in 2010.

In June, Obama said his administration would grant a two-year work permit and
deferral of deportation to young illegal immigrants who arrived as children, are
students or veterans, and meet certain other conditions.

Up to 1.7 million people could be eligible for the program. Tens of thousands
have applied since August.

At the same time, the president has pursued an aggressive policy of deporting
others, especially those who break U.S. laws. Since 2009, his administration has
deported about 1.5 million illegal immigrants, more than the administrations of
George W. Bush and Bill Clinton.

More than half of the 397,000 who were deported in 2011 had been convicted of
drug offenses or crimes such as drunken driving. Others were repeat
border-crossers from Mexico or were deemed threats to national security.

Obama's position has been that the government should focus on sending back
criminals and recent arrivals rather than minors and families who are settled.

MITT ROMNEY

As governor of Massachusetts, Romney vetoed a state law similar to the Dream
Act, and during the primaries he said that as president he would veto the
legislation if Congress were to pass it. But he later endorsed a path to legal
status for those who serve in the military.

Regarding Obama's deferred-action plan, he has said he would not continue it.
Instead, he has said that there should be a "permanent solution" to the problem
of illegal immigration, but he has not detailed what that solution would be.

The Republican suggested in January that illegal immigrants should
"self-deport," meaning that they would leave the country of their own accord if
they were unable to find jobs or obtain driver's licences. He later backtracked
from his comments and told a Latino audience at a campaign event in Florida in
June that he favored a long-term, comprehensive solution to illegal immigration.

â[#x20ac][#x192]Romney has always said he supports strong enforcement of U.S.
border controls. He has consistently said that he opposes providing "amnesty" or
"magnets" for illegal immigrants such as driver's licenses, jobs and in-state
college tuition. He also has said that he is uncomfortable with the idea of
rounding up and deporting people en masse.

President Obama

Obama has repeatedly said he supports legislation, backed by some business
sectors, that would increase the number of highly skilled foreign workers and
entrepreneurs who can enter the United States on special visas or apply to
immigrate. The issue has been bogged down in congressional divisions, and Obama
has said his options are limited.

The issue has been complicated by the high rate of joblessness in the United
States. Obama says he is committed to training 2 million Americans to meet
high-tech business demands, while also helping U.S. businesses hire more skilled
foreign workers.

â[#x20ac][#x192]Administration officials say Obama is committed to attracting
skilled foreign workers in various ways, including support for measures that
would grant permanent legal residency to foreign students who receive advanced
U.S. degrees in science and technology.

Mitt Romney

Romney has said consistently that he favors legal immigration, especially by
skilled and highly educated workers who are sought by American high-tech firms
and other industries. He has criticized the current annual limit on the number
of high-skilled visas, saying it is a barrier to the kinds of immigrants the
country needs to remain innovative.

â[#x20ac][#x192]Romney, a former business executive, has argued that private
industry should be allowed to determine the number of skilled foreign workers
needed to do jobs if Americans cannot be found to do them. He has often
criticized the Obama administration for keeping limits on skilled foreigners
while not taking action against illegal immigrants.

President Obama

Obama says he opposes "a patchwork of 50 states with 50 different immigration
laws." He has labeled as "misguided" the 2010 Arizona law that, among other
provisions, requires police to check the status of anyone they suspect is in the
country illegally.

His administration filed a federal lawsuit against Arizona, saying the state law
thwarted federal laws. In June, the Supreme Court threw out several of the law's
provisions but left standing the one on status checks, although it did reinforce
the federal government's primacy in immigration policy.

Obama has similarly called "a bad law" an Alabama statute that requires police
to try to determine a person's legal status if they suspect that he or she is
here illegally. The law prohibits illegal immigrants from receiving state or
local benefits and requires that schools ascertain whether students are here
legally. It prohibits landlords from renting to illegal immigrants and requires
businesses to validate workers' status using the E-Verify program. In August,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit struck down major provisions of
the law. Alabama has challenged the panel's ruling and asked for a new hearing.

Mitt Romney

Romney has not said outright that he supports the laws enacted in Arizona,
Alabama and other states, but he has called on the Justice Department to drop
its lawsuit against the Arizona legislation. Kansas Secretary of State Kris
Kobach, his informal adviser, is a key architect of the measures.

Romney has called Arizona "a model" for the nation, for another
immigrant-related law that requires employers to check the legal status of
workers through the E-Verify system. He has remained relatively quiet on the
Alabama law, and more recently he has deflected questions on whether the country
should follow Arizona's immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 11, 2012 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 381 words

About Issues Week

The Post sjkdgh asjk dg asdga sdgasdgasdgasdg asgasjdgsgh asjkdgh asjk dg asdga
sdgasdgasdgasdg asasdg asgkdgh asjk dg a sgh. The schedule:
Monday   Tuesday   #######   #######   #######   #######   #######
Economy  Health    Xsadgasgs Xsadgasgs Xsadgasgs Xsadgasgs Xsadgasgs
         Care      ag        ag        ag        ag        ag


Contributors

Immigration was a major issue in the presidential campaign when Republicans were
battling one another for the party's nomination. It's still an issue, but not
one that President Obama or Mitt Romney talks about much, except in front of
Hispanic audiences.

During the primaries, Romney tacked to the right on immigration to outflank his
conservative rivals. He went after Texas Gov. Rick Perry over a long-standing
state law that allows illegal immigrants who live in Texas to pay in-state
tuition at colleges and universities there.

Romney later attacked former House speaker Newt Gingrich (Ga.) for suggesting
that illegal immigrants who have lived in the United States for a
quarter-century or longer and who have roots in their communities eventually
should have an opportunity to gain legal status, although not citizenship.
Romney said he believed in "self-deportation" for the millions of illegal
immigrants in the country.

The Hispanic vote will be critically important in the general election, and
Romney is fighting an uphill battle. He has done little during the campaign to
move toward the middle on immigration issues. Rather, he has tried to win Latino
votes by talking economics and saying he would promote immigration reform. Obama
has acknowledged that his inability to achieve such reform is his "biggest
failure."

Romney needs to hold Obama at or below 65 percent of the Hispanic vote, but most
polls show the president above that level. That puts Romney at a disadvantage in
the competition for the fastest-growing share of the population. - Dan Balz

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 21, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Stewart says move is political

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. T01

LENGTH: 491 words


As Prince William County grapples with the sudden loss of a controversial
program to identify and deport illegal immigrants who commit crimes, the
immigration debate has been renewed just ahead of Election Day.

County officials were surprised that a partnership allowing Prince William to
enforce federal immigration laws, known as 287 (g), is being renewed only until
year's end by the Department of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. County
officials had thought they were negotiating a new three-year deal.

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors,
considers the program the crux of its anti-illegal immigration efforts, passed
in 2007, mandating that police check the immigration status of people arrested.

Stewart (R-At Large) said he thinks ICE and the Obama administration are playing
politics.

"Frankly, I didn't think they'd have the guts to do it," Stewart said of the
Obama administration. "It's going to hurt them in Virginia, and it's going to
hurt them in Prince William County. I really didn't think they'd be foolish . .
. from a political perspective to terminate the program right before the
November elections."

ICE has remained mostly mum about the reasons for the change. The Obama
administration has instructed federal immigration offices across the country to
focus on border security and people who commit serious crimes. It plans to phase
out 287 (g) in favor of the Secure Communities program.

"The Secure Communities screening process, coupled with federal officers, is
more consistent, efficient and cost effective in identifying and removing
criminal and other priority aliens," ICE spokeswoman Danielle Bennett said in a
statement.

The department has declined to answer further questions.

Under Secure Communities, suspects' names are run through an ICE database, which
contains records of people who have come into contact with federal immigration
authorities. After this year, Prince William law enforcement authorities would
no longer be able to investigate the immigration status of people they arrest.

County officials say they won't be able to identify nearly as many illegal
immigrants. In a statement, they said that 5,000 people arrested in the county
so far have been found to be here illegally. With the change, they estimated
that  number would drop by 60 percent.

The change was welcomed by people who say the 287 (g) program can lead to racial
profiling and distract police from their core responsibilities.

Claire G. Gastanaga, executive director of the Virginia American Civil Liberties
Union, said the ACLU has opposed the program from the beginning because ICE
already detains and deports dangerous criminals.

"We think it's antithetical to good, effective community policing," she said.
"You confuse the roles of local police and federal immigration authorities. You
end up being less safe because people are not willing to cooperate with the
police."

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 7, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Md. voters approve Question 4

BYLINE: Nick Anderson;and Luz Lazo

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A49

LENGTH: 673 words


A Maryland law that grants an in-state tuition discount to undocumented college
students won voter approval Tuesday in a referendum that set a precedent in the
national debate over illegal immigration.

By 1 a.m. Wednesday, Question 4 had built an insurmountable lead in unofficial
returns, with 93 percent of precincts reporting.

"This is going to be a tremendous victory," Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) said in
Baltimore as results were coming in, capping support for the measure that
included spirited rallies and marches.

Del. Neil C. Parrott (R-Washington), a leading opponent of the law, acknowledged
that his side was trailing significantly. No matter what the outcome, he said,
it was a victory for voters to be able to consider the question.

Preelection polling showed broad support for the law, known as Maryland's
version of the "Dream Act," which grants in-state public tuition rates to
certain undocumented immigrants who attended Maryland high schools for at least
three years and meet other conditions.

The law won approval last year from the Democrat-controlled General Assembly and
O'Malley. But the issue landed on the ballot after critics collected enough
petition signatures to force a referendum on whether to uphold the statute or
strike it down.

About a dozen other states have laws or policies that echo Maryland's version.
But the outcome of Question 4 set a precedent. No other state has approved such
a law through a popular vote.

Francisco Javier Mercado, 42, a Silver Spring resident and native of El
Salvador, said the prominence of immigration issues led him to vote Tuesday for
the first time. "I am 100 percent in favor of the Dream Act," Mercado said. "It
is another opportunity for the students that want to better themselves. We can't
deny them an education."

In Upper Marlboro, Sandra Bossard, 62, said she voted against the referendum. "I
know young people who are citizens who have difficulty getting into college,"
Bossard said. "We need to support our own and take care of our own."

Under the law, students who qualify for the tuition benefit must first attend
community college. Those who receive an associate degree or at least 60 credits
at the two-year school can then qualify for a tuition discount at a four-year
university.

For students from families of modest means, the subsidy is crucial to hopes of
getting a bachelor's degree. At the University of Maryland in College Park,
in-state tuition is $7,175 a year. For out-of-state students, it is $25,554.

Critics called the law an unjustified giveaway of taxpayer funding. They also
said it would leave fewer slots available at U-Md. and other selective public
schools for U.S. citizens. Proponents called that argument unfounded.

U-Md. President Wallace D. Loh, a supporter of the law, said the number of
undocumented students who would qualify for the benefit at College Park would be
minimal, perhaps 20 a year.

"Yes, they are undocumented," Loh said. "But we're talking about people who came
here as children." He called the issue a matter of "fairness and justice" and
said that Maryland has a vested interest in providing higher education access,
at a low price, to all its high school graduates.

Maryland's law stands out among similar statutes across the country. Experts say
no other state that provides an in-state discount for undocumented immigrants
requires the students to attend community college first. Some analysts estimated
that the tuition subsidy could cost taxpayers $3.5 million a year. But there is
little consensus on the cost because it is unknown how many students would
qualify for the benefit.

Debate over tuition benefits for illegal immigrants arose in the Republican
presidential primary. Texas Gov. Rick Perry, a supporter of such benefits, drew
criticism for his stance from former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, the
eventual Republican nominee. The campaign on Question 4 in Maryland was largely
overshadowed by debate on ballot measures related to same-sex marriage and
gambling.

andersonn@washpost.com

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 9, 2012 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The way forward

BYLINE: Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 812 words


They lose and immediately the chorus begins. Republicans must change or die. A
rump party of white America, it must adapt to evolving demographics or forever
be the minority.

The only part of this that is even partially true regards Hispanics. They should
be a natural Republican constituency: striving immigrant community, religious,
Catholic, family-oriented and socially conservative (on abortion, for example).

The principal reason they go Democratic is the issue of illegal immigrants. In
securing the Republican nomination, Mitt Romney made the strategic error of
(unnecessarily) going to the right of Rick Perry. Romney could never
successfully tack back.

For the party in general, however, the problem is hardly structural. It requires
but a single policy change: Border fence plus amnesty. Yes, amnesty. Use the
word. Shock and awe - full legal normalization (just short of citizenship) in
return for full border enforcement.

I've always been of the "enforcement first" school, with the subsequent promise
of legalization. I still think it's the better policy. But many Hispanics fear
that there will be nothing beyond enforcement. So, promise amnesty right up
front. Secure the border with guaranteed legalization to follow on the day the
four border-state governors affirm that illegal immigration has slowed to a
trickle.

Imagine Marco Rubio advancing such a policy on the road to 2016. It would
transform the landscape. He'd win the Hispanic vote. Yes, win it. A problem
fixable with a single policy initiative is not structural. It is solvable.

The other part of the current lament is that the Republican Party consistently
trails among blacks, young people and (unmarried) women. (Republicans are plus-7
among married women.) But this is not for reasons of culture, identity or even
affinity. It is because these constituencies tend to be more politically liberal
- and Republicans are the conservative party.

The country doesn't need two liberal parties. Yes, Republicans need to weed out
candidates who talk like morons about rape. But this doesn't mean the country
needs two pro-choice parties either. In fact, more women are pro-life than are
pro-choice. The problem here for Republicans is not policy but delicacy -
speaking about culturally sensitive and philosophically complex issues with
reflection and prudence.

Additionally, warn the doomsayers, Republicans must change not just ethnically
but ideologically. Back to the center. Moderation above all!

More nonsense. Tuesday's exit polls showed that by an eight-point margin
(51-43), Americans believe that government does too much. And Republicans are
the party of smaller government. Moreover, onrushing economic exigencies -
crushing debt, unsustainable entitlements - will make the argument for smaller
government increasingly unassailable.

So, why give it up? Republicans lost the election not because they advanced a
bad argument but because they advanced a good argument not well enough. Romney
ran a solid campaign, but he is by nature a Northeastern moderate. He sincerely
adopted the new conservatism but still spoke it as a second language.

More Ford '76 than Reagan '80, Romney is a transitional figure, both
generationally and ideologically. Behind him, the party has an extraordinarily
strong bench. In Congress - Paul Ryan, Marco Rubio, Kelly Ayotte, (the incoming)
Ted Cruz and others. And the governors - Bobby Jindal, Scott Walker, Nikki
Haley, plus former governor Jeb Bush and the soon-retiring Mitch Daniels. (Chris
Christie is currently in rehab.)

They were all either a little too young or just not personally prepared to run
in 2012. No longer. There may not be a Reagan among them, but this generation of
rising leaders is philosophically rooted and politically fluent in the new
constitutional conservatism.

Ignore the trimmers. There's no need for radical change. The other party thinks
it owns the demographic future - counter that in one stroke by fixing the Latino
problem. Do not, however, abandon the party's philosophical anchor. In a world
where European social democracy is imploding before our eyes, the party of
smaller, more modernized government owns the ideological future.

Romney is a good man who made the best argument he could, and nearly won. He
would have made a superb chief executive, but he (like the Clinton machine)
could not match Barack Obama in the darker arts of public persuasion.

The answer to Romney's failure is not retreat, not aping the Democrats'
patchwork pandering. It is to make the case for restrained, rationalized and
reformed government in stark contradistinction to Obama's increasingly
unsustainable big-spending, big-government paternalism.

Republicans: No whimpering. No whining. No reinvention when none is needed. Do
conservatism but do it better. There's a whole generation of leaders ready to do
just that.

letters@charleskrauthammer.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 10, 2012 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Post-election, new momentum for a path to citizenship

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1270 words


A growing number of conservatives are softening their views on immigration in
the wake of President Obama's dominating performance among Hispanic voters,
giving new momentum to a years-long push by advocates to legalize millions of
undocumented immigrants.

Yet even as officials in both parties pledged to make overhauling immigration a
top goal in the coming months, it became clear Friday that the issue remains
thorny for each side.

House Speaker John A. Boehner was criticized by some in his party for a Thursday
interview in which he endorsed passing a "comprehensive" plan, adopting the
language of immigrant advocates pushing for citizenship.

By the time Boehner faced reporters for a Friday news conference, his remarks
were more tepid, focusing primarily on the border-security theme that is more
comfortable terrain for Republicans.

"I'm not talking about a 3,000-page bill," he said. "What I'm talking about is a
common sense, step-by-step approach [that] would secure our borders, allow us to
enforce the laws and fix a broken immigration system."

Pressed on whether he would ever support giving illegal immigrants the chance to
be citizens, the speaker demurred: "I'm not going to get into any of the details
of how you would get there. It's just time to get the job done."

The issue promises to also be complicated for Obama and his fellow Democrats,
who will face unprecedented pressure from a newly empowered political base to
secure a complete victory, citizenship path and all.

Hispanic leaders decided to cut Obama a break and support his reelection,
despite what they considered his broken 2008 campaign promise to push
immigration in his first term, but now several major organizations are planning
an extensive grass-roots push next year to pressure White House officials.

"They understand they can't make that promise twice in a lifetime," said Eliseo
Medina, secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union, which
spent millions recruiting new Hispanic voters this year. "For the White House
and the Democrats, we don't want to hear any more, 'We're with you but [the
Republicans] won't let me.' That ain't good enough anymore."

The Obama dilemma could come into focus early in the debate, if Republicans and
some advocates seek to negotiate smaller, scaled-back ideas as a starting point.


A key demographic

The sudden burst of activity on the right and left reflects what activists
describe as a sea change in the push for immigration legislation, which has been
stymied since conservatives thwarted efforts by former president George W. Bush
to pursue an overhaul following his 2004 reelection.

Unlike then, activists said Friday, many conservatives now see the danger of
alienating Hispanic voters. And, in contrast to the Bush strategy, which focused
on backroom negotiations on Capitol Hill, advocates have decided their best hope
now is to apply outside pressure on skittish politicians in both parties.

Supporters of a new law were thrilled Friday with the news that two prominent
conservative thinkers, talk show host Sean Hannity and columnist Charles
Krauthammer, both expressed support for legalizing illegal immigrants.

Hannity used the movement's chosen phrase, calling for a "pathway to
citizenship," saying he had "evolved" on the matter, while Krauthammer, in his
Friday Post column, described the GOP's hard-line stance on illegal immigration
as the single policy shift required to bring Hispanics back to the party.

"Border fence plus amnesty. Yes, amnesty," Krauthammer wrote, citing the word
long used by conservative opponents of a path to citizenship. "Use the word.
Shock and awe - full legal normalization (just short of citizenship) in return
for full border enforcement."

The post-election discussion on the right reflects a more fundamental shift that
has been happening for months among several core Republican constituencies, with
a growing number of evangelical leaders, business executives and law enforcement
officials expressing support for legalizing immigrants. The Southern Baptist
Convention voted last year to support a "just and compassionate path to legal
status."

Some of the movement has come about as part of a new campaign called "Bibles,
Badges and Businesses," orchestrated by the National Immigration Forum. The
group's executive director, Ali Noorani, said the program has targeted leaders
in both parties and has set the stage for Obama and lawmakers to feel a
"different kind of pressure" than they have in the past.

Grover Norquist, the anti-tax activist and a key conservative advocate for
citizenship, said he is convening a strategy session this month of like-minded
conservatives to begin hunting for more support on the right for a bill to be
passed soon.

"If you'd asked me a month ago, I'd have said we were five years out" from
immigration legislation passing, Norquist said. "Now I think we're 18 months
out."

How will he and others convince skeptical House Republicans? "The way it happens
is evangelicals will increasingly be louder, the business community will be
louder, the high-tech community will be louder," he said.

Conversation starter

Obama, at the moment, appears to be in a strong position to begin the
discussion. Exit polls showed he won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote, and that
Hispanics turned out in large numbers to boost his candidacy in the key states
of Colorado, Nevada and Florida. About two-thirds of voters - including most
independents and 51 percent of Republicans - said most illegal immigrants
working in the United States should be offered a chance to apply for legal
status, rather than being deported, according to the exit poll.

The president cited immigration in his victory speech early Wednesday as one of
his top policy priorities. He had predicted in the final weeks of the campaign
that GOP leaders would feel political pressure to compromise on the issue after
the election, telling Des Moines Register editors that "a big reason I will win
a second term is because the Republican nominee and the Republican Party have so
alienated the fastest-growing demographic group in the country, the Latino
community."

A White House spokesman declined to comment Friday on the administration's
legislative strategy.

The biggest questions swirled around Boehner and his always unpredictable
Republican caucus, which remains heavily influenced by tea-party conservatives.

A House GOP leadership aide said Friday that many rank-and-file members seemed
to be "getting it" and that Hannity's statement was "giving cover to those who
might ordinarily want to do it but wouldn't or couldn't." Still, the aide said,
"we're talking about a massive piece of legislation, and those are difficult to
do."

After Boehner's comments Thursday to ABC News' Diane Sawyer, in which he
endorsed a "comprehensive approach," conservative talk radio hummed with
frustrated conservatives worried he was too quick to speak on the issue.

U.S. Rep. John Fleming (R-La.) issued a statement calling on Boehner to "pull
back on this issue and stop negotiating in public."

In an interview Friday, Fleming said he had heard from a number of colleagues
supportive of his statement, and they planned on confronting Boehner during a
caucus meeting next week.

"This hasn't been discussed in the conference at all," Fleming said. "The issue
of immigration reform has not even been in the mix that I can recall for the
last two years."

He said the lawmakers planned to ask Boehner to "get some input" from his GOP
colleagues "before negotiating in public what we will not - will not - support."

wallstenp@washpost.com

Scott Clement contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 12, 2012 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Israel treats asylum-seekers well

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 236 words


Regarding the Nov. 3 news article "Israel closing its doors to illegal African
migrants":

The Post presented accusations that Israel is violating human rights by refusing
to distinguish between illegal immigrants and asylum seekers.

The charge is simply untrue. Israel, the only developed country with a common
border with Africa, has attracted many thousands of illegal migrants. The vast
majority of these are men seeking work, not asylum. Since Israel cannot easily
repatriate them - Sudan, for example, refuses to recognize our existence - they
are accommodated at centers that provide full health services and free
education, as well as humanitarian protection for those in need. Israel not only
meets U.N. requisites on illegal migrants but exceeds them.

Some 65,000 migrants are currently in Israel, posing serious social and economic
challenges for a country of 8 million. Still, we welcome those Africans who
genuinely seek asylum, just as we formerly sheltered refugees from Bosnia and
Vietnam.

Over the past six months, The Post has published two other pieces on this
subject - the July 24 news story "In Israel, African migrants face backlash over
assaults" and the July 25 op-ed column "Israel confronts a flood." Like this
month's article, they were similarly misleading. Such focus is odd if not
disturbing.

Aaron Sagui, Washington

The writer is the spokesman for the Israeli embassy in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 243 words

Where he stands on . . .

Education

Romney has praised the federal No Child Left Behind law for its focus on
standardized testing and teacher evaluations. He is a critic of teachers unions.
He would like state and local governments to assume more power over education
policy.

Tax code

Romney says taxes must be lowered to grow the economy. He recommends making the
George W. Bush-era tax cuts permanent, lowering corporate tax rates; eliminating
taxes on interest, dividends and capital gains for people who earn less than
$200,000 a year; and getting rid of estate taxes.

Social Security

Romney has said he would work to save Social Security. For future generations,
he would raise the retirement age and slow the growth of benefits for
higher-income retirees, partly changing the formula for cost-of-living
adjustments. He supports allowing personal retirement accounts.

Immigration

Romney opposes in-state college tuition for illegal immigrants, would crack down
on employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants and would build a fence along
the nation's southern border. It's unclear what he would do with the illegal
immigrants who are already in the country.

Afghanistan

Romney has said U.S. forces should remain in Afghanistan until U.S. commanders
say the job is done. But he has contradicted himself on the war at times, saying
that the United States should not fight another nation's battle for freedom
while insisting that America should nurture democracy.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 525 words

Immigration

Undocumented get support from bishops

The United States' 33 Hispanic Roman Catholic bishops released a strongly worded
letter Monday suggesting that illegal immigrants deserve thanks from Americans
and calling for "denunciation of the forces which oppress them."

The bishops have called before for a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants,
but the letter goes further in supporting the immigrants.

It was released by San Antonio Archbishop Gustavo Garcia-Siller and Los Angeles
Archbishop Jose Gomez, the highest-ranking Mexican Americans in the U.S.
Catholic Conference of Bishops.

"In imitation of Jesus and the great prophets, we ought to denounce the forces
which oppress them," the bishops said of illegal immigrants. "â[#x20ac][#x160].
. . Let us pray and struggle to make it possible for these brothers and sisters
of ours to have the same opportunities from which we have benefited."

- Reuters

West Coast

Occupy protesters disrupt ports

More than 1,000 Occupy Wall Street protesters blocked cargo trucks at some of
the West Coast's busiest ports Monday, forcing terminals in Oakland, Calif.,
Portland, Ore., and Longview, Wash., to halt operations.

While the protests attracted far fewer people than a Nov. 2 demonstration to
shut down Oakland's port, organizers declared victory.

They called for the protests in hopes of cutting into the profits of the
corporations that run the docks and send a message that their movement was not
dead.

The closures' economic impact, however, wasn't immediately clear.

There were a handful of arrests at the protests, but no major clashes with
police.

- Associated Press

Illinois

House approves tax-relief package

The Illinois House approved a package of tax relief on Monday for families and
businesses, including some big names such as Sears and the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange that are threatening to leave the state.

When phased in, the tax cuts would cost state government roughly $320 million a
year. Chicago-based financial exchanges operated by CME Group and CBOE Holding
would get about $85 million of that tax relief. Sears Holdings would receive
about $15 million.

- Associated Press

A minimum wage over $10: On Jan. 1, San Francisco will become the first city in
the nation to set the minimum wage over $10. The hourly wage for the city's
lowest-paid workers will hit $10.24, nearly $3 more than the working wage set by
the federal government.

Flight makes emergency landing: Authorities say a JetBlue flight from New York
City to Salt Lake City had to make an emergency landing in Upstate New York
after the crew reported smoke in the cockpit. Officials say the burning odor was
caused by a faulty fan on a heater, and there was no fire.

Guitar stolen: Police in Vermont say a stolen 1972 Fender Telecaster electric
guitar autographed by members of Pearl Jam for a teenager with a brain tumor has
been recovered - but the signatures are gone. The Burlington Free Press reports
two men have been jailed on charges of possession of stolen property. Police say
the autographs were sanded off. Ben Hardy said his ailing brother Josh received
the guitar in 1991 in Seattle, shortly before he died.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 240 words

Where she stands on . . .

Education

Bachmann has promised that she would "turn off the lights" at the Education
Department, saying education works best with local control. But she has
supported at least one bill that allowed federal funding for school-choice
programs in school districts struggling with low achievement levels.

Tax code

Bachmann, who was a tax-litigation lawyer for the Internal Revenue Service for
five years, has argued for a flat income tax and the elimination of the estate
and capital gains taxes. The congresswoman also has pushed for a Taxpayers' Bill
of Rights for Minnesota and for the federal government.

Social Security

Bachmann has vowed that she would reform the Social Security system, allowing
people 55 and older to collect their expected benefits, while letting younger
generations invest in personal retirement accounts. She has said she would "look
at" raising the retirement age.

Immigration

Bachmann has taken a hard-line approach to illegal immigration, advocating the
construction of a fence along the entire U.S.-Mexico border and curtailing all
"taxpayer-funded benefits" to illegal immigrants and their children.

Afghanistan

Bachmann recommends staying the course. She opposes President Obama's plan to
withdraw troops sooner than many generals advised, saying his decision was based
on politics. "The commanders on the field feel that we can take out 30,000 to
40,000 troops sometime by the end of next year."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

GOP wary of Romney's rhetoric

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1304 words


Republicans are increasingly worried that their party's efforts to win a
competitive slice of the fast-growing Hispanic vote in important presidential
battleground states are being undermined by Mitt Romney's heated rhetoric on
illegal immigration.

Several leading GOP strategists say Romney's sharp-tongued attacks have gained
wide attention in Hispanic media and are eroding the party's already fragile
standing in that community.

The leaders of one Republican-leaning group, the Hispanic Leadership Fund, are
so upset with Romney that if he wins the nomination, they might withhold an
endorsement and curtail plans for an extensive voter-contact campaign in
Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico and Florida to bolster the GOP presidential ticket.

Several Republican groups have spent the past three years trying to repair
damage from the 2008 campaign, when GOP nominee John McCain won just 31 percent
of the Hispanic vote after a bruising primary season in which he was forced to
back off his support for a plan that would have put many illegal immigrants on a
path to legalization.

Romney, one of McCain's 2008 rivals, attacked McCain as being soft on the issue.
Now party strategists are fretting as Romney - once again - stakes out
conservative turf by accusing his opponents of supporting policies that go easy
on illegal immigration.

"Romney's tin ear on this topic, on immigration, will hurt him should he be the
nominee, is hurting the Republican Party and is hurting every conservative who
cares about passing conservative legislation in the future," said Mario H.
Lopez, president of the Hispanic Leadership Fund.

Another Hispanic strategist on the right, Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of
the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, added: "It pains me to say
this, but if we have a negative narrative on immigration, it's because of Mitt
Romney."

And Ed Gillespie, former chairman of the Republican National Committee and a
leading voice in the party for expanding outreach to Hispanic voters, said
Romney's attacks threaten to overshadow more positive comments the candidate has
made - such as in an August debate when he called the United States a "nation of
immigrants" and said, "We love legal immigration."

"It's good that he said that in one of the debates," Gillespie said. "It'd be
better if he said it in more than one of the debates."

A spokeswoman for Romney, Andrea Saul, did not respond directly to the question
of whether the former Massachusetts governor's approach might hurt the party
among Hispanic voters.

In an e-mail, she pointed to Romney's remark in Thursday night's Iowa debate
that "those who are here illegally have to get in line with everybody else."
Saul called Romney "a great proponent of legal immigration."

Still, Romney's most memorable lines, GOP critics say, have come during attacks
on rivals, most notably Texas Gov. Rick Perry and former House speaker Newt
Gingrich.

In a September debate, as Perry was rising in the polls, Romney blasted the
Texan's support for granting in-state college tuition to illegal immigrants as a
"magnet" drawing people over the border. "If you're an illegal alien, you get an
in-state tuition discount," Romney charged.

Perry, in a response widely praised by Hispanic activists but panned by
conservatives, said: "If you say that we should not educate children who have
come into our state for no other reason than they've been brought there by no
fault of their own, I don't think you have a heart."

Later, after Gingrich expressed support for legalizing some longtime immigrants
who have children in the country or other deep ties, Romney waved it off as
"amnesty." He said the 11 million illegal immigrants estimated to be living in
the United States need to "get in line behind everyone else" by returning to
their native countries and applying for legal status.

Romney's rhetoric, party strategists worry, risks sending a signal to Hispanics
- even those conservatives who are opposed to illegal immigration - that the GOP
is not welcoming to their culture.

"It's critically important for any Republicans who hope to get Hispanic votes
that they talk about illegal immigration in a way that does not seem
anti-Hispanic," said GOP pollster Whit Ayers who, with Gillespie, advises the
group Resurgent Republic in its efforts to design strategies to help Republicans
win over Hispanics.

"Rick Perry does it. Newt Gingrich does it," Ayers added. "But Mitt Romney is
getting very, very close to going over the line."

Ayers also works for a political action committee supporting a Romney rival,
former Utah governor Jon Huntsman Jr.

The concerns offer a counterpoint to the argument made by Romney and his allies
that he is the best-positioned candidate to defeat President Obama next year.

Polls back up Romney's contention, largely because of his strength among
independents. Critics, however, fear that Obama's campaign will use video clips
of Romney's recent statements in ads targeted at Hispanics and thwart the GOP's
hopes of making gains.

Republican strategists see opportunities to win over more Hispanics - many of
whom tend to be religious and socially conservative. The strategists cite
disappointment with Obama among some Hispanics because he did not deliver an
immigration overhaul and his administration has stepped up deportations.
Hispanic communities in Nevada and Florida, to name two key battleground states,
have been hit hard by the economy.

Surveys of Hispanic voters in Florida, Colorado and New Mexico by the Resurgent
Republic group showed softened support for Obama. The same surveys, however,
point to the Republicans' challenge, showing that Obama remains largely
well-liked in the community.

The president, who won two-thirds of the Hispanic vote in 2008, holds a 52
percent approval rating among Hispanics, according to Gallup data from this
month - nine points higher than his overall rating and up from as low as 44
percent among Hispanics in late summer and fall.

GOP leaders have hoped that victories in 2010 by several high-profile Hispanic
Republicans - Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez and
Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval - might portray the party as a potential home for
Hispanic voters or even offer a roster of potential Hispanic running mates for
the eventual presidential nominee.

Figures such as former Florida governor Jeb Bush, a fluent Spanish speaker whose
wife is Mexican American, have called on the party to temper its language on
immigration. Bush is hosting a Hispanic issues summit for the GOP in Miami next
month, just days before Florida's primary.

Party leaders' goal for the election is to match their 2004 performance, when
President George W. Bush used what some of his advisers called an "I love you"
strategy to win about 40 percent of the Hispanic vote - unusually high for a
Republican. Bush had taken pains to push an immigration overhaul plan that
included a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, drawing fierce opposition
from conservatives in his party. In the campaign, Bush used targeted appeals to
Hispanics to play up his love of their culture and food, distributing a video to
Hispanic voters showing the president waving a Mexican flag.

The GOP strategist who produced that video, Lionel Sosa, now works for Gingrich.
He said that Romney's stance on Perry's tuition legislation implied that many
illegal immigrants "are takers and not givers," and that his support for forcing
all illegal immigrants to leave the country sounds like an unfair blanket
policy.

If Romney is the nominee, "I don't see how Latinos could identify with that,"
Sosa said. "It makes it hard for a Latino to be able to warm up to a person that
seems to come off unfriendly to a whole population of people."

wallstenp@washpost.com

Polling analyst Scott Clement contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 28, 2011 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

A doomed presidential power grab

BYLINE: David B. Rivkin Jr.;Joe Jacquot

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 953 words


The Obama administration has taken federal-state relations to a new low in its
quest for an unprecedented expansion of presidential power. In response to
Arizona's efforts to identify and arrest undocumented immigrants, the president
claims that he can preempt state law whenever its enforcement might irritate a
foreign government. This unconstitutional power grab cannot stand.

While the challenge by 26 states to the 2010 Affordable Care Act seeks limits on
Congress's powers, the Arizona law defends the fundamental authority of states
to act in contravention of the president's preferences. There is genuine
controversy over the Arizona immigration policy of penalizing illegal
immigrants, designed to drive down their numbers and reduce the burdens on the
state budgets and institutions, but the case the Supreme Court recently agreed
to hear poses broader legal questions that go to our Constitution's most
fundamental principles, executive power and state sovereignty.

Under the Constitution, some powers are exclusive to the federal government or
the states, while others are shared. By limiting the federal government's reach
to authorities found in specific, enumerated grants of power, the Constitution
reserves broad authority for individual states. States retain traditional
"police power" to legislate on issues of public safety and welfare.

Arizona relied on its police power in passing the immigration-related law the
Obama administration has challenged. That law's most controversial provisions
make Arizona state and local law enforcement responsible for investigating
possible violations of  federal immigration law. If an officer has reasonable
suspicion that a person encountered during a police stop or detention is in this
country illegally, the officer must check the person's immigration status. If
immigration authorities confirm that the person is illegal, the officer must
arrest him or her.

No one disagrees that Congress could preempt state efforts to enforce
immigration law, under its constitutional power to "establish a uniform rule of
naturalization." But Congress actually rejected that approach. Instead in a 1996
statute, it afforded the states broad flexibility to address immigration-related
matters consistent with federal statutory requirements. The Supreme Court held
as much last year when it approved another Arizona law that revokes the permits
of businesses that hire illegal workers.

Nevertheless, the Obama administration claims that federal power preempts
Arizona's law in two ways. First,  it has argued, in court filings intended to
strike down the Arizona law under the Constitution's "supremacy clause," that
federal law prevails when state law conflicts with it. The administration argues
that, as Congress has authorized the executive branch to identify and detain
illegal immigrants, the president's decision not to enforce the law creates a
conflict.

But no precedent suggests that the president's refusal to carry out Congress's
wishes, as expressed in law, somehow prevents a state from doing so or renders
its actions contrary to congressional intent, which is the appropriate standard
for preemption. And that argument is especially ludicrous in this instance,
where Congress specifically required federal officials to inform state and local
law enforcement of a person's immigration status when requested. In this way,
federal law actually supports and facilitates Arizona's enforcement approach.
Congress's intentions could hardly be clearer.

The administration's fallback argument is simply that the president has
unilateral power under the Constitution to nullify Arizona's law respecting
immigration. Mexico, the administration explains, has lodged complaints
regarding Arizona's law, and this implicates the president's power over foreign
affairs, which in turn trumps Arizona's immigration-related actions.

This is a stunning and audacious power grab, far more expansive than the legal
theories that prompted critics of President George W. Bush to argue that he
established an "imperial presidency." It simply cannot be that, despite all the
Constitution's limitations on federal power and executive action, the
president's powers become absolute whenever another nation complains.

Indeed, the Supreme Court recently rejected even a more limited version of that
argument advanced by the Bush administration. In Medellin v.
Texasâ[#x2c6][#x161], the court rejected Bush's attempt to enforce U.S. treaty
obligations by blocking Texas's execution of a Mexican national who had not been
given his consular-notification rights. Yes, the court explained, the president
is well-placed to resolve sensitive foreign policy decisions, but that status
does not confer "unilateral authority to create domestic law" or override state
law.

Nearly 60 years ago, in the Youngstown case that famously reversed President
Harry S. Truman's efforts to seize the nation's steel mills during the Korean
War, Justice Robert Jackson explained that "when the President takes measures
incompatible with the expressed or implied will of Congress, his power is at its
lowest ebb." When those measures are also incompatible with the basic precepts
of federalism, his power is nonexistent. The fact that the Supreme Court granted
swift review of this case suggests that it will repudiate the Obama
administration's imperial power grab.

David Rivkin served in the Justice Department during the Reagan and George H.W.
Bush administrations. He represented the 26 states in their challenge to the
2010 Affordable Care Act before the trial and appellate courts. Joe Jacquot is a
former deputy attorney general of Florida and former chief counsel of the Senate
Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on immigration.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 1, 2012 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Does the 'American Great Wall' need to be longer?

BYLINE: Nick Miroff

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1291 words

DATELINE: IN CALEXICO, CALIF.


A decade ago, when illegal immigration from Mexico was at an all-time high, this
stretch of border was as good a place as any to sneak into the United States.

Migrants and smugglers could slip through the alfalfa fields outside town or
plow their pickup trucks through the desert, where the biggest worries were
stuck tires and getting safely across the irrigation canals.

But in the past five years, the international border here has become a harder,
tougher, taller barrier - an American Great Wall. Miles of steel fencing now
ride the desolate sand dunes west of Calexico. To the east, giant jack-shaped
"Normandy" barriers, named for their resemblance to the defenses that once lined
the beaches of northern France in World War II, block off old smuggling routes.

Overall, the United States has added 513 miles of new fencing to its southern
boundary since 2006, raising to 649 miles the total length of border that has
some form of man-made barrier to people or vehicles. The Rio Grande creates a
natural partition along another 1,252 miles, and the government has been putting
new fencing there, too.

Now the question is: How much more should be built?

Border Patrol officials say their current plans are to construct just one more
mile of fence, in Texas. But as illegal immigration takes an increasingly
central role in Republican campaign debates, several GOP candidates have renewed
calls to fence the entire 1,969-mile boundary.

President Obama has made light of such proposals, saying fence advocates won't
be satisfied until the United States builds "a moat" stocked with "alligators."
But leading Republican candidates Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich have vowed to
barricade the entire U.S.-Mexico divide, with Gingrich signing a pledge to
install a "double fence" while campaigning in Iowa in early December.

With such an endeavor projected to cost tens of billions of dollars, this
stretch of California desert might be as good a place as any to assess how the
existing border fence actually works.

The new barriers have been particularly effective at stopping vehicles from
coming across, Border Patrol agents say. Along one stretch of desert here, the
number of drive-through incursions plunged from 350 in 2007 to four so far in
2011.

But agents also say it is not the case that smugglers and illegal migrants on
foot simply go to the place in the desert where the fence ends, and walk around
it.

"Anywhere is a good place to sneak across if we're not watching," said Special
Agent Jonathan Creiglow, a Border Patrol officer assigned to the agency's El
Centro sector here.

But there are also sections of 18-foot fencing right in the middle of downtown
Calexico, opposite its sprawling sister city of Mexicali, where border jumpers
can be up and over the wall in a matter of seconds, melting into shops and
residential streets once they land on the other side.

At night, smugglers toss Hail Marys of pot-stuffed footballs and fling
golf-ball-size heroin nuggets over to waiting receivers. Stealthy ultra-light
aircraft bomb the lettuce fields outside town with bundles of dope, then swoop
back into Mexico, well below radar but high above the fence.

Then there are rugged sections in the desert where fencing is porous or
nonexistent, but crossings rare. And those who do try to slip through are
tracked by the Border Patrol's growing array of sensors, high-powered
night-vision cameras and surveillance drones.

In short, agents say, fencing is a tool and a first line of defense, but it does
not bestow border security by its mere existence. "Without the fencing we
wouldn't have as much time, but nothing is going to stop them from going over or
cutting through it," explained Creiglow, who, at 26, is one of the many recent
hires at the Border Patrol, which has doubled in size since 2002, with 18,500 of
its 21,500 agents now deployed along the U.S.-Mexico frontier.

A costly barrier

Most of the barrier does not sit on the actual international boundary, but
slightly north of it, allowing maintenance workers to access both sides without
technically crossing into Mexico. Upkeep for the existing 649 miles of fencing
is projected to cost $6.5 billion over the next 20 years, according to a 2009
report by the Government Accountability Office, and U.S. Homeland Security
officials say the fence was breached 4,037 times in the government's 2010 fiscal
year, at an average cost of $1,800 per repair.

With most of the remaining unfenced stretch of border in Texas, the debate has
shifted to the question of walling off the Rio Grande. Even in areas where the
river can be shallow enough to wade across, putting a fence along the river's
sinuous levees is both costly and unpopular with local ranchers who want to
preserve riparian access for thirsty cattle.

In Arizona, where Border Patrol agents catch more illegal migrants than anywhere
else, lawmakers are soliciting public donations to put barriers along the
remaining unfenced 82 miles of the state's 370-mile boundary with Mexico. Such a
structure would need to climb up and over steep mountain areas where
construction costs are exorbitant and the deterrent value is questionable,
enforcement experts say.

"I think the question is: What are you trying to achieve? Just to be able to say
that you built a fence on top of a mountain?" said Thad Bingle, who was the
Border Patrol's chief of staff from 2007 to 2009. "If someone climbs 10,000 feet
to the top of a mountain they aren't going to be deterred by a 10-foot fence."

Construction in rugged areas is made even more pricey because every stretch of
new fence needs an accompanying road for maintenance and patrols, he added.

Fewer arrests

While the agency tallies the number of migrants it catches, it does not plot the
locations of those apprehensions. But after hitting an all-time high of 1.64
million apprehensions in the government's 2000 fiscal year, the number of
arrests dropped to 327,577 in the 2011 period which ended Sept. 30, the lowest
level since 1972.

Migration experts attribute the decline primarily to the weak U.S. job market -
especially the lack of construction jobs - as well as growing fears of
kidnapping gangs in northern Mexico. At the same time, average family sizes have
fallen dramatically in Mexico, employment opportunities have improved, and the
United States is letting more Mexicans in through the front door.

Mexican workers received 516,000 temporary work visas in 2010, "the highest
number since the Bracero Program of the late 1950s," said Douglas Massey, an
expert on Mexican migration at Princeton University.

Tougher enforcement on the U.S. side has also been a factor, driving up the
costs of getting across as well as the difficulty. But migrant smugglers on the
Mexico side say the fence is hardly their biggest concern.

"There's too much surveillance now," said Luis, a husky guide-for-hire known as
a pollero, standing in the NiÃ±os Heroes park in downtown Mexicali, where recent
deportees and would-be border crossers gather. "The Migra [Border Patrol] has
cameras everywhere," he said.

Luis wouldn't give his last name, but he said for $500 smugglers will get
customers over the fence by creating elaborate diversions for the Border Patrol
and deploying teams of helpers with roll-up ladders and ropes, even forming
cheerleader-style human pyramids. Better yet, Luis said, for $3,000 a guide will
take you over the fence and through the desert at night, and $6,000 buys a
legitimate U.S. visa rented from a look-alike with legal status.

"There's always a way in," he said with a wily grin.

miroffn@washpost.com

More world news coverage:

- Contractor crackdown in Afghanistan

- U.S. democracy groups raided in Egypt

- Kim's son declared 'supreme leader'

- Read more headlines from around the world

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 7, 2012 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Obama to ease route to legal immigration by keeping families together

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 540 words


The Obama administration announced plans Friday to significantly shorten the
time that illegal immigrants would have to spend away from their U.S. citizen
spouses or parents while seeking legal status.

Currently, illegal immigrants must leave the United States for three to 10 years
before applying for legal entry, depending on how long they have been in the
country illegally. Tens of thousands apply each year for a waiver to that rule.
But they must still return to their home countries while waiting for the U.S.
government to decide on the request.

The waivers are granted to immigrants without criminal records who can prove
that their absence would cause "extreme hardship" for their U.S. citizen spouse
or parent. Last year, 23,000 people applied, and 17,000 were granted.

The procedural change would allow spouses and children of U.S. citizens to stay
in the United States while the government decides whether to issue a waiver,
significantly shortening the time families are separated. Immigrants would still
need to return to their country to apply for a visa once the waiver is granted.

The rules would not change regarding who is eligible to apply.

The proposal, posted Friday to the Federal Register, is slated to take effect
this year.

Advocates say the change will save time and money, taking pressure off U.S.
consular offices abroad that now must adjudicate the requests and send documents
back and forth to the U.S. State Department to process them. Waiver applications
currently take six months to a year to process, though some can take longer.

"We have seen cases of extreme hardship where the time of separation is quite
lengthy and where that length of time results in an enduring hardship," said
Alejandro Mayorkas, director of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
Under the new procedure, he said, "it will not be months; it will be days or
weeks."

The rule change could encourage more illegal immigrants to pursue legal status,
said David Leopold, a Cleveland immigration lawyer and past president of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Leopold said families frequently ask how long they will be separated if they
apply for the waiver.

"You can't give them an answer, and you're telling them to separate," he said,
adding that applicants are often sent back to dangerous places such as Ciudad
Juarez, Mexico, for lengthy stays.

Once the change goes through, Leopold said,"I think those folks are going to
come forward to legalize because they can do their waiver time sitting at home
with their family and being together, and that's why this little processing
change is huge."

Mark Krikorian, president of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates
tighter immigration controls, said the administration is circumventing Congress
to please Hispanic voters during an election year.

Krikorian said the rule change could encourage marriage fraud by taking the
risks out of applying for a waiver. "There's a reason to make people leave the
country when they're applying," he said. "If they get turned down, they've
already deported themselves."

The rule change, he said, "presupposes the approval of all applicants - and if
you don't get it, you just go back to what you were doing."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2012



CORRECTION: A Jan. 7 A-section article about a procedural change in immigration
law misidentified the agency that processes immigration waiver requests. It is
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, not the State Department.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 9, 2012 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Ending immigration cruelty

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 495 words


AMERICA'S HALF-BAKED immigration system is riddled with unfair, arbitrary and
inhumane provisions, but few are so senseless and cruel as those covering the
undocumented immigrant spouses and children of U.S. citizens. Now the Obama
administration is proposing a prudent rule change that would prevent thousands
of pointless family separations and prompt untold numbers of illegal immigrants
to seek legal status through lawful channels.

Currently, undocumented spouses and children of American citizens are eligible
for green cards if they return to their native countries to apply for U.S.
visas. But when they do, they are automatically barred from reentering the
United States for up to 10 years - the penalty for having been unlawfully
present here.

The way around those harsh measures is to prove that family separation would
cause a U.S. citizen "extreme hardship" - for instance, by depriving him of the
family income or help with child care that the immigrant spouse provided. The
catch is that while U.S. immigration authorities grant thousands of such waivers
annually, the process takes six months on average, and sometimes much longer,
stranding spouses and children far from their families. Given the long delays
and possibility of rejection - and prolonged family separations - many never
bother to apply.

In practice, most of those who apply for waivers are Mexicans, and the vast
majority of them are successful. Of some 17,000 waiver applications filed with
the U.S. Consulate in Ciudad Juarez, which handles the paperwork in Mexico,
about 90 percent were approved.

The rule change, proposed by the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, would allow such spouses and children to remain in this country while
they seek provisional waivers. Nothing else would change: Once a waiver is
granted, the immigrant would still be required to return to his home country to
apply for a visa. But the shift would streamline the process and cut family
separations to the days or weeks it takes to issue a visa, rather than the
months required for a waiver application.

It's possible that opponents of illegal immigration will cry "amnesty" - they
rarely miss an opportunity - but the proposal is little more than a tweak. After
all, it would favor people who are already members of American families and are
overwhelmingly eligible to receive green cards anyway. Why tear them from their
jobs, homes, spouses and parents for months on end? Nor is it likely to
encourage phony marriages, since immigration and visa authorities would apply
the same scrutiny to such arrangements as they do now.

Officials hope that the proposal - a change in administrative law that does not
require congressional approval - will go into effect after a comment period by
the end of this year. If it does, it could help tens or hundreds of thousands of
immigrants and their American families to lead normal lives, free of the burdens
imposed by a dysfunctional immigration system.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

To be exiled from home no longer

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 143 words


Regarding the Jan. 9 editorial "Ending immigration cruelty":

The proposed policy change that would allow unauthorized immigrants whose
spouses or children are U.S. citizens to stay in the United States while waiting
for decisions on their extreme-hardship waivers would also benefit American
citizens. They would no longer have to exile themselves from their country to
keep their families together.

I recently met a 10-year-old U.S.-born boy who had returned to this country
after spending a year in Mexico with his Mexican father, who was waiting for his
waiver to be approved. This boy, whose mother is an American, was as glad to be
back in his own country as any other U.S. citizen would be.

This policy change would not coddle illegal immigrants; it would provide
humanity and justice to Americans.

Roger Algase, New York

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 29, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

The 'self-deportation' fantasy

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 544 words


BY DECLARING that "self-deportation" is the solution to illegal immigration,
Mitt Romney gave voice to an idea in wide currency among Republicans - that
America's 11 million undocumented immigrants would simply go home if government
made their lives miserable enough. But even by the debased standards of
primary-season rhetoric, the idea is as simple-minded and absurd as it is
popular - as Mr. Romney's rival, Newt Gingrich, quickly pointed out.

"Self-deportation" is snappy and sound-biteable; hence its superficial appeal.
Slap together a water-tight employment verification law, issue IDs to legal
workers, add some harassment from state and local authorities, and watch the
unpapered immigrants stream south over the border whence they came. If they want
to return to the United States, said Mr. Romney, they can get to the "back of
the line."

The idea's inanity is masked by its allure for some who hate illegal immigration
but concede that mass roundups and deportations would be unseemly and
prohibitively expensive. Better, they say, that illegal immigrants leave under
their own steam - and pay their travel expenses, too.

The problems start with economics. Undocumented workers comprise more than  5
percent of America's labor force and much more in agriculture, hospitality,
landscaping and elsewhere. Their departure would be a blow to the economy - and
no, American-born workers,  generally better educated and geographically remote
from the jobs immigrants do, would not fill their shoes.

Mr. Romney also wrongly imagines that illegal immigrants, who are mostly
Mexicans, can be easily uprooted. In fact, nearly two-thirds have been here for
more than a decade, and more than 28 percent arrived more than 15 years ago.
Their roots here are deep: Almost half have children, and more than 80 percent
of those 5.5 million children were born here and are U.S. citizens. Does Mr.
Romney expect them to "self-deport" with their parents?

As for the idea of getting to "the back of the line," that assumes a line exists
for low-skilled Mexicans lacking family connections in the United States. There
is no such line that would realistically result in the issuance of a green card
to an unskilled Mexican with no relatives in the United States. Even if a
Mexican has, say, parents or siblings who are U.S. citizens, he would likely
wait 15 to 20 years or more just to get an interview with a U.S. consular
officer.

Undocumented immigrants in this country are highly resilient. During the
economic meltdown of 2008-09, the shrinking job market and beefed-up border
security helped cut the illegal population by about a million. But since then,
the numbers have leveled off - despite a still-sluggish economy, stepped-up
deportations, and hostile state and local legislation. The vast majority of
illegal immigrants are here to stay.

More broadly, the problem is a broken system and politicians who cannot bring
themselves to reconcile the hard reality of illegal immigration with their own
slogans. Sensible reform would include tight enforcement as well as adequate
admissions of guest workers for industries that need them and, critically, a
path to legalization for undocumented immigrants. They're not leaving,
notwithstanding the fantasy of "self-deportation."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                    September 5, 2012 Wednesday 10:44 PM EST

Undocumented immigrant to speak at convention;
Tonight, for the first time, an undocumented immigrant will speak at a national
political convention.

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 114 words


Tonight, for the first time, an undocumented immigrant will speak at a national
political convention. Benita Veliz, 27, was brought to Texas from Mexico by her
parents when she was 8 years old. She was threatened with deportation in 2009
after rolling through a stop sign and getting stopped by police.

An activist for the DREAM Act, which would grant permanent residency to some
immigrants who graduate from U.S. high schools, Veliz was spared deportation
last fall. President Obama, by executive order, subsequently stopped the
deportation of some illegal immigrants who were brought to the country as
children, who can now apply for work permits. That policy went into effect in
August.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     September 6, 2012 Thursday 1:34 AM EST

Benita Veliz, undocumented immigrant, speaks;
"President Obama fought for the DREAM Act to help people like me, and when
Congress refused to pass it he didn't give up, instead he took action," she
said.

BYLINE: Krissah Thompson

LENGTH: 221 words


Benita Veliz, 27, just made history.

An illegal immigrant who was brought to Texas as a child, she became the first
undocumented person to address a national political convention.

Actually, Veliz WAS an illegal immigrant. She now has temporary residential
status under President Obamas executive order granting a reprieve to people like
Veliz, the young woman said.

Veliz, who said she was valedictorian of her high school at the age of 16, said
she feels just as American as any of my friends or neighbors. According to her
biography on Dreamactivist.org, Veliz described herself this way: Ive never been
married. I dont have any children. I went straight from high school to college
and then to work. The only family I have left in Mexico is on my mothers side
and I have only seen them once or twice in my life, as a young child.

Ive had to live almost my entire life knowing I could be deported, she said on
the stage.

Velizs speech was preceded by a video about immigration with Obama saying, it
makes no sense to expel talented young people who have been raised as Americans.

Democrats have been making a full press for Latino voters, who are key in many
swing states. President Obama fought for my community, Veliz said.

Veliz was introducing Cristina Saralegui, an influential Hispanic talk show host
who endorsed Obama in June.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     October 3, 2012 Wednesday 9:32 PM EST

Mitt Romney would not revoke visas for young illegal immigrants;
Mitt Romney has come out against President Obama's executive order deferring
deportation for some young illegal immigrants. But in an interview with the
Denver Post, he promised not to deport those who have already received temporary
visas.

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 369 words


Mitt Romney has come out against President Obama's executive order deferring
deportation for some young illegal immigrants. But in an interview with the
Denver Post, he promised not to deport those who have already received temporary
visas.

"The people who have received the special visa that the president has put in
place, which is a two-year visa, should expect that the visa would continue to
be valid. I'm not going to take something that they've purchased," Romney told
the paper. "Before those visas have expired we will have the full immigration
reform plan that I've proposed."

Obama's executive order gives some illegal immigrants who came to the country as
children a two-year reprieve from deportation and the chance to apply for a work
permit.

"Romney's latest immigration pivot raises more questions than it answers," said
Gabriela Domenzain, a spokeswoman for the  Obama campaign. "What would he do
with those who qualify for deferred action but haven't received it? Would he
deport those who have received a deferment when the program expires after two
years?"

The Romney campaign told the Boston Globe that the candidate would not grant new
deportation exemptions once the ones granted by Obama expired.

After taking a hard line on immigration in the Republican primaries, Romney has
softened his stance, promising to loosen some restrictions on foreign workers.

Romney has repeatedly said that his plan isn't to "round people up" and "deport
people." Instead, he said at one January debate would encourage
"self-deportation" by making it harder for illegal immigrants to find work. In a
recent Univision interview, he defined that policy as letting "People make their
own choices as to whether they want to go hom."

But beyond that, the candidate has not said what he would do about the 11
million illegal immigrants already in the country. He has said he would veto the
DREAM Act, legislation that would create a path to citizenship for many illegal
immigrant students and members of the military.

About a fifth of Colorado's population is Hispanic; 13 percent of eligible
voters in the battleground state are Latino. Romney has consistently placed far
behind the president in polls of Hispanic voters.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                    November 17, 2012 Saturday 10:28 PM EST

Legalize it! The stark generational divide on pot, gay marriage and illegal
immigration;
Where the public stands on gay marriage, illegal immigration and pot depends
heavily on how old you are.

BYLINE: Peyton M. Craighill;Scott Clement

LENGTH: 504 words


Strong majorities of adults under age 30support gay marriage and a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants, and a majority supports legalizing small
amounts of marijuana according to a new Washington Post-ABC News poll.

The fact that younger Americans are consistently more supportive of these
measures than the oldest generation may signal change in the years to come. For
those under age 30, about two thirds support gay marriage and a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants. Support is shallower for legalizing
marijuana but a majority of young people still support it. Middle age Americans
(age 40 to 64) split more narrowly on each question while seniors (age 65 plus)
generally oppose gay marriage and marijuana and split on a "path to
citizenship."

Overall, Americans support a path to citizenship by 57 to 39 percent, while
splitting about evenly on gay marriage (51 percent support, 47 percent oppose)
and legalizing marijuana possession (48 support, 50 oppose).

The poll numbers are consistent with changing dynamics at the ballot box. After
a losing streak in over 30 statewide contests, gay marriage won approval at the
ballot box in Maryland, Maine and Washington last Tuesday. In Minnesota, a
proposal to ban gay marriage in the state constitution was rejected.Maryland
voters also approved their version of a "Dream Act", allowing qualified illegal
immigrants to pay in-state college tuition. Colorado and Washington voters
supported laws permitting possession, and in Colorado, consumption of small
amounts of marijuana. (Oregon voters rejected marijuana legalization, and
Arkansas rejected medically-approved marijuana).

Picking apart support within sub-groups in the polls reveals the ranging
dynamics at play. Women are 18 percentage points more supportive of gay marriage
than men (59 to 41 percent), but men are seven points more apt to support
legalizing marijuana. And racial diversity explains much of the generational gap
on immigration: Support for a "path to citizenship" is at 52 percent among
whites under age 50 and 49 percent among those who are older. But two-thirds of
both older and younger non-whites support a route to citizenship.

A bare 51 percentmajorityof African Americans oppose gay marriage while a
similarly slim 54 percent support marijuana. Hispanics tilt the other way with
53 percent in support of gay marriage and a much wider 65 percent in opposition
to marijuana.

The way forward on immigration issues appears to be most difficult for
Republicans. While a majority of Republicans oppose a path to citizenship for
illegals, 82 percent of Hispanics support it, with 56 percent supporting it
"strongly." President Obama increased his share of the Hispanic vote from 2008,
a growing and critical constituency.

This poll was conducted Nov. 7 to 11 among a random national sample of 1,023
adults, using conventional and cellular phones. The results from the full survey
have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points. Error
margins are larger for subgroups.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     December 13, 2012 Thursday 3:42 AM EST

AP: Menendez employed undocumented sex offender

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 401 words


The AP reports that Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) employed as an unpaid intern a
registered sex offender who was in the country illegally, and that the
Department of Homeland Security told federal agents not to arrest the teenager
until after Election Day.

Luis Abrahan Sanchez Zavaleta, an 18-year-old immigrant from Peru, was arrested
by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in front of his home in New
Jersey on Dec. 6, two federal officials said. Sanchez, who entered the country
on a now-expired visitor visa from Peru, is facing deportation and remains in
custody. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not
authorized to discuss details of Sanchez's immigration case.

The Homeland Security Department disputes the AP's report that the arrest was
delayed until after the election.

"The report is categorically false," DHS spokesman Peter Boogaard said in a
statement. "ICE followed standard process in coordination with its federal
partners and local prosecutors before taking appropriate enforcement action."

Menendez's office says they knew nothing about Sanchez's background; he was
intern in the Newark office for about two months.

"No staff member responsible for managing the internship program had reason to
believe, based on their interview process, that Sanchez had any criminal
background or immigration issues," spokeswoman Tricia Enright said in a
statement. "Senator Menendez was briefed on the situation today   and he is
appalled."

Menendez was elected to a second term in November, easily beating state Sen.
Joseph Kyrillos (R).

In an interview with MSNBC on Wednesday afternoon, Menendez said he had only
just heard of the situation.

"I didn't know anything about this young man's status until right before I came
on this program," the senator said. His staff, he said, learned of the issue on
Monday.

"There's no way we could know about his status," Menendez told MSNBC. "There's
no way we could know about his background" as a sex offender, he added, because
Sanchez was a juvenile when the offenses occured.

The senator was initially booked to discuss immigration reform, coincidentally.
He brought the arrest back to that topic, "It does speak volumes about why we
need comprehensive immigration reform, because we can't know who is here to
pursue the American dream versus who is here to do it damage," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 11, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 250 words


Where he stands on . . .

Education

Romney has praised the federal No Child Left Behind law for its focus on
standardized testing and teacher evaluations. He is a critic of teachers unions.
He would like state and local governments to assume more power over education
policy.

Tax code

Romney says taxes must be lowered to grow the economy. He recommends making the
George W. Bush-era tax cuts permanent, lowering corporate tax rates; eliminating
taxes on interest, dividends and capital gains for people who earn less than
$200,000 a year; and getting rid of estate taxes.

Social Security

Romney has said he would work to save Social Security. For future generations,
he would raise the retirement age and slow the growth of benefits for
higher-income retirees, partly changing the formula for cost-of-living
adjustments. He supports allowing personal retirement accounts.

Immigration

Romney opposes in-state college tuition for illegal immigrants, would crack down
on employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants and would build a fence along
the nation's southern border. It's unclear what he would do with the illegal
immigrants who are already in the country.

Afghanistan

Romney has said U.S. forces should remain in Afghanistan until U.S. commanders
say the job is done. But he has contradicted himself on the war at times, saying
that the United States should not fight another nation's battle for freedom
while insisting that America should nurture democracy.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 545 words


Immigration          Undocumented get support from bishops

The United States' 33 Hispanic Roman Catholic bishops released a strongly worded
letter Monday suggesting that illegal immigrants deserve thanks from Americans
and calling for "denunciation of the forces which oppress them."

The bishops have called before for a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants,
but the letter goes further in supporting the immigrants.

It was released by San Antonio Archbishop Gustavo Garcia-Siller and Los Angeles
Archbishop Jose Gomez, the highest-ranking Mexican Americans in the U.S.
Catholic Conference of Bishops.

"In imitation of Jesus and the great prophets, we ought to denounce the forces
which oppress them," the bishops said of illegal immigrants. "[#x200a]. . . Let
us pray and struggle to make it possible for these brothers and sisters of ours
to have the same opportunities from which we have benefited."

- Reuters

West Coast          Occupy protesters disrupt ports

More than 1,000 Occupy Wall Street protesters blocked cargo trucks at some of
the West Coast's busiest ports Monday, forcing terminals in Oakland, Calif.,
Portland, Ore., and Longview, Wash., to halt operations.

While the protests attracted far fewer people than a Nov. 2 demonstration to
shut down Oakland's port, organizers declared victory.

They called for the protests in hopes of cutting into the profits of the
corporations that run the docks and send a message that their movement was not
dead.

The closures' economic impact, however, wasn't immediately clear.

There were a handful of arrests at the protests, but no major clashes with
police.

- Associated Press

Illinois          House approves tax-relief package

The Illinois House approved a package of tax relief on Monday for families and
businesses, including some big names such as Sears and the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange that are threatening to leave the state.

When phased in, the tax cuts would cost state government roughly $320 million a
year. Chicago-based financial exchanges operated by CME Group and CBOE Holding
would get about $85 million of that tax relief. Sears Holdings would receive
about $15 million.

- Associated Press

A minimum wage over $10:On Jan. 1, San Francisco will become the first city in
the nation to set the minimum wage over $10. The hourly wage for the city's
lowest-paid workers will hit $10.24, nearly $3 more than the working wage set by
the federal government.

Flight makes emergency landing:Authorities say a JetBlue flight from New York
City to Salt Lake City had to make an emergency landing in Upstate New York
after the crew reported smoke in the cockpit. Officials say the burning odor was
caused by a faulty fan on a heater, and there was no fire.

Guitar stolen:Police in Vermont say a stolen 1972 Fender Telecaster electric
guitar autographed by members of Pearl Jam for a teenager with a brain tumor has
been recovered - but the signatures are gone. The Burlington Free Press reports
two men have been jailed on charges of possession of stolen property. Police say
the autographs were sanded off. Ben Hardy said his ailing brother Josh received
the guitar in 1991 in Seattle, shortly before he died.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 247 words


Where she stands on . . .

Education

Bachmann has promised that she would "turn off the lights" at the Education
Department, saying education works best with local control. But she has
supported at least one bill that allowed federal funding for school-choice
programs in school districts struggling with low achievement levels.

Tax code

Bachmann, who was a tax-litigation lawyer for the Internal Revenue Service for
five years, has argued for a flat income tax and the elimination of the estate
and capital gains taxes. The congresswoman also has pushed for a Taxpayers' Bill
of Rights for Minnesota and for the federal government.

Social Security

Bachmann has vowed that she would reform the Social Security system, allowing
people 55 and older to collect their expected benefits, while letting younger
generations invest in personal retirement accounts. She has said she would "look
at" raising the retirement age.

Immigration

Bachmann has taken a hard-line approach to illegal immigration, advocating the
construction of a fence along the entire U.S.-Mexico border and curtailing all
"taxpayer-funded benefits" to illegal immigrants and their children.

Afghanistan

Bachmann recommends staying the course. She opposes President Obama's plan to
withdraw troops sooner than many generals advised, saying his decision was based
on politics. "The commanders on the field feel that we can take out 30,000 to
40,000 troops sometime by the end of next year."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 17, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

GOP wary of Romney's rhetoric

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1315 words


Republicans are increasingly worried that their party's efforts to win a
competitive slice of the fast-growing Hispanic vote in important presidential
battleground states are being undermined by Mitt Romney's heated rhetoric on
illegal immigration.

Several leading GOP strategists say Romney's sharp-tongued attacks have gained
wide attention in Hispanic media and are eroding the party's already fragile
standing in that community.

The leaders of one Republican-leaning group, the Hispanic Leadership Fund, are
so upset with Romney that if he wins the nomination, they might withhold an
endorsement and curtail plans for an extensive voter-contact campaign in
Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico and Florida to bolster the GOP presidential ticket.

Several Republican groups have spent the past three years trying to repair
damage from the 2008 campaign, when GOP nominee John McCain won just 31 percent
of the Hispanic vote after a bruising primary season in which he was forced to
back off his support for a plan that would have put many illegal immigrants on a
path to legalization.

Romney, one of McCain's 2008 rivals, attacked McCain as being soft on the issue.
Now party strategists are fretting as Romney - once again - stakes out
conservative turf by accusing his opponents of supporting policies that go easy
on illegal immigration.

"Romney's tin ear on this topic, on immigration, will hurt him should he be the
nominee, is hurting the Republican Party and is hurting every conservative who
cares about passing conservative legislation in the future," said Mario H.
Lopez, president of the Hispanic Leadership Fund.

Another Hispanic strategist on the right, Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of
the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, added: "It pains me to say
this, but if we have a negative narrative on immigration, it's because of Mitt
Romney."

And Ed Gillespie, former chairman of the Republican National Committee and a
leading voice in the party for expanding outreach to Hispanic voters, said
Romney's attacks threaten to overshadow more positive comments the candidate has
made - such as in an August debate when he called the United States a "nation of
immigrants" and said, "We love legal immigration."

"It's good that he said that in one of the debates," Gillespie said. "It'd be
better if he said it in more than one of the debates."

A spokeswoman for Romney, Andrea Saul, did not respond directly to the question
of whether the former Massachusetts governor's approach might hurt the party
among Hispanic voters.

In an e-mail, she pointed to Romney's remark in Thursday night's Iowa debate
that "those who are here illegally have to get in line with everybody else."
Saul called Romney "a great proponent of legal immigration."

Still, Romney's most memorable lines, GOP critics say, have come during attacks
on rivals, most notably Texas Gov. Rick Perry and former House speaker Newt
Gingrich.

In a September debate, as Perry was rising in the polls, Romney blasted the
Texan's support for granting in-state college tuition to illegal immigrants as a
"magnet" drawing people over the border. "If you're an illegal alien, you get an
in-state tuition discount," Romney charged.

Perry, in a response widely praised by Hispanic activists but panned by
conservatives, said: "If you say that we should not educate children who have
come into our state for no other reason than they've been brought there by no
fault of their own, I don't think you have a heart."

Later, after Gingrich expressed support for legalizing some longtime immigrants
who have children in the country or other deep ties, Romney waved it off as
"amnesty." He said the 11 million illegal immigrants estimated to be living in
the United States need to "get in line behind everyone else" by returning to
their native countries and applying for legal status.

Romney's rhetoric, party strategists worry, risks sending a signal to Hispanics
- even those conservatives who are opposed to illegal immigration - that the GOP
is not welcoming to their culture.

"It's critically important for any Republicans who hope to get Hispanic votes
that they talk about illegal immigration in a way that does not seem
anti-Hispanic," said GOP pollster Whit Ayers who, with Gillespie, advises the
group Resurgent Republic in its efforts to design strategies to help Republicans
win over Hispanics.

"Rick Perry does it. Newt Gingrich does it," Ayers added. "But Mitt Romney is
getting very, very close to going over the line."

Ayers also works for a political action committee supporting a Romney rival,
former Utah governor Jon Huntsman Jr.

The concerns offer a counterpoint to the argument made by Romney and his allies
that he is the best-positioned candidate to defeat President Obama next year.

Polls back up Romney's contention, largely because of his strength among
independents. Critics, however, fear that Obama's campaign will use video clips
of Romney's recent statements in ads targeted at Hispanics and thwart the GOP's
hopes of making gains.

Republican strategists see opportunities to win over more Hispanics - many of
whom tend to be religious and socially conservative. The strategists cite
disappointment with Obama among some Hispanics because he did not deliver an
immigration overhaul and his administration has stepped up deportations.
Hispanic communities in Nevada and Florida, to name two key battleground states,
have been hit hard by the economy.

Surveys of Hispanic voters in Florida, Colorado and New Mexico by the Resurgent
Republic group showed softened support for Obama. The same surveys, however,
point to the Republicans' challenge, showing that Obama remains largely
well-liked in the community.

The president, who won two-thirds of the Hispanic vote in 2008, holds a 52
percent approval rating among Hispanics, according to Gallup data from this
month - nine points higher than his overall rating and up from as low as 44
percent among Hispanics in late summer and fall.

GOP leaders have hoped that victories in 2010 by several high-profile Hispanic
Republicans - Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez and
Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval - might portray the party as a potential home for
Hispanic voters or even offer a roster of potential Hispanic running mates for
the eventual presidential nominee.

Figures such as former Florida governor Jeb Bush, a fluent Spanish speaker whose
wife is Mexican American, have called on the party to temper its language on
immigration. Bush is hosting a Hispanic issues summit for the GOP in Miami next
month, just days before Florida's primary.

Party leaders' goal for the election is to match their 2004 performance, when
President George W. Bush used what some of his advisers called an "I love you"
strategy to win about 40 percent of the Hispanic vote - unusually high for a
Republican. Bush had taken pains to push an immigration overhaul plan that
included a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, drawing fierce opposition
from conservatives in his party. In the campaign, Bush used targeted appeals to
Hispanics to play up his love of their culture and food, distributing a video to
Hispanic voters showing the president waving a Mexican flag.

The GOP strategist who produced that video, Lionel Sosa, now works for Gingrich.
He said that Romney's stance on Perry's tuition legislation implied that many
illegal immigrants "are takers and not givers," and that his support for forcing
all illegal immigrants to leave the country sounds like an unfair blanket
policy.

If Romney is the nominee, "I don't see how Latinos could identify with that,"
Sosa said. "It makes it hard for a Latino to be able to warm up to a person that
seems to come off unfriendly to a whole population of people."

wallstenp@washpost.com

Polling analyst Scott Clement contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    December 28, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

A doomed presidential power grab

BYLINE: David B. Rivkin Jr.;Joe Jacquot

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 959 words


The Obama administration has taken federal-state relations to a new low in its
quest for an unprecedented expansion of presidential power. In response to
Arizona's efforts to identify and arrest undocumented immigrants, the president
claims that he can preempt state law whenever its enforcement might irritate a
foreign government. This unconstitutional power grab cannot stand.

While the challenge by 26 states to the 2010 Affordable Care Act seeks limits on
Congress's powers, the Arizona law defends the fundamental authority of states
to act in contravention of the president's preferences. There is genuine
controversy over the Arizona immigration policy of penalizing illegal
immigrants, designed to drive down their numbers and reduce the burdens on the
state budgets and institutions, but the case the Supreme Court recently agreed
to hear poses broader legal questions that go to our Constitution's most
fundamental principles, executive power and state sovereignty.

Under the Constitution, some powers are exclusive to the federal government or
the states, while others are shared. By limiting the federal government's reach
to authorities found in specific, enumerated grants of power, the Constitution
reserves broad authority for individual states. States retain traditional
"police power" to legislate on issues of public safety and welfare.

Arizona relied on its police power in passing the immigration-related law the
Obama administration has challenged. That law's most controversial provisions
make Arizona state and local law enforcement responsible for investigating
possible violations of  federal immigration law. If an officer has reasonable
suspicion that a person encountered during a police stop or detention is in this
country illegally, the officer must check the person's immigration status. If
immigration authorities confirm that the person is illegal, the officer must
arrest him or her.

No one disagrees that Congress could preempt state efforts to enforce
immigration law, under its constitutional power to "establish a uniform rule of
naturalization." But Congress actually rejected that approach. Instead in a 1996
statute, it afforded the states broad flexibility to address immigration-related
matters consistent with federal statutory requirements. The Supreme Court held
as much last year when it approved another Arizona law that revokes the permits
of businesses that hire illegal workers.

Nevertheless, the Obama administration claims that federal power preempts
Arizona's law in two ways. First,  it has argued, in court filings intended to
strike down the Arizona law under the Constitution's "supremacy clause," that
federal law prevails when state law conflicts with it. The administration argues
that, as Congress has authorized the executive branch to identify and detain
illegal immigrants, the president's decision not to enforce the law creates a
conflict.

But no precedent suggests that the president's refusal to carry out Congress's
wishes, as expressed in law, somehow prevents a state from doing so or renders
its actions contrary to congressional intent, which is the appropriate standard
for preemption. And that argument is especially ludicrous in this instance,
where Congress specifically required federal officials to inform state and local
law enforcement of a person's immigration status when requested. In this way,
federal law actually supports and facilitates Arizona's enforcement approach.
Congress's intentions could hardly be clearer.

The administration's fallback argument is simply that the president has
unilateral power under the Constitution to nullify Arizona's law respecting
immigration. Mexico, the administration explains, has lodged complaints
regarding Arizona's law, and this implicates the president's power over foreign
affairs, which in turn trumps Arizona's immigration-related actions.

This is a stunning and audacious power grab, far more expansive than the legal
theories that prompted critics of President George W. Bush to argue that he
established an "imperial presidency." It simply cannot be that, despite all the
Constitution's limitations on federal power and executive action, the
president's powers become absolute whenever another nation complains.

Indeed, the Supreme Court recently rejected even a more limited version of that
argument advanced by the Bush administration. In Medellin v. Texas-, the court
rejected Bush's attempt to enforce U.S. treaty obligations by blocking Texas's
execution of a Mexican national who had not been given his consular-notification
rights. Yes, the court explained, the president is well-placed to resolve
sensitive foreign policy decisions, but that status does not confer "unilateral
authority to create domestic law" or override state law.

Nearly 60 years ago, in the                 Youngstown case that famously
reversed President Harry S. Truman's efforts to seize the nation's steel mills
during the Korean War, Justice Robert Jackson explained that "when the President
takes measures incompatible with the expressed or implied will of Congress, his
power is at its lowest ebb." When those measures are also incompatible with the
basic precepts of federalism, his power is nonexistent. The fact that the
Supreme Court granted swift review of this case suggests that it will repudiate
the Obama administration's imperial power grab.

David Rivkin served in the Justice Department during the Reagan and George H.W.
Bush administrations. He represented the 26 states in their challenge to the
2010 Affordable Care Act before the trial and appellate courts. Joe Jacquot is a
former deputy attorney general of Florida and former chief counsel of the Senate
Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on immigration.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       January 1, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Does the 'American Great Wall' need to be longer?

BYLINE: Nick Miroff

SECTION: A section; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1314 words


A decade ago, when illegal immigration from Mexico was at an all-time high, this
stretch of border was as good a place as any to sneak into the United States.

Migrants and smugglers could slip through the alfalfa fields outside town or
plow their pickup trucks through the desert, where the biggest worries were
stuck tires and getting safely across the irrigation canals.

But in the past five years, the international border here has become a harder,
tougher, taller barrier - an American Great Wall. Miles of steel fencing now
ride the desolate sand dunes west of Calexico. To the east, giant jack-shaped
"Normandy" barriers, named for their resemblance to the defenses that once lined
the beaches of northern France in World War II, block off old smuggling routes.

Overall, the United States has added 513 miles of new fencing to its southern
boundary since 2006, raising to 649 miles the total length of border that has
some form of man-made barrier to people or vehicles. The Rio Grande creates a
natural partition along another 1,252 miles, and the government has been putting
new fencing there, too.

Now the question is: How much more should be built?

Border Patrol officials say their current plans are to construct just one more
mile of fence, in Texas. But as illegal immigration takes an increasingly
central role in Republican campaign debates, several GOP candidates have renewed
calls to fence the entire 1,969-mile boundary.

President Obama has made light of such proposals, saying fence advocates won't
be satisfied until the United States builds "a moat" stocked with "alligators."
But leading Republican candidates Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich have vowed to
barricade the entire U.S.-Mexico divide, with Gingrich signing a pledge to
install a "double fence" while campaigning in Iowa in early December.

With such an endeavor projected to cost tens of billions of dollars, this
stretch of California desert might be as good a place as any to assess how the
existing border fence actually works.

The new barriers have been particularly effective at stopping vehicles from
coming across, Border Patrol agents say. Along one stretch of desert here, the
number of drive-through incursions plunged from 350 in 2007 to four so far in
2011.

But agents also say it is not the case that smugglers and illegal migrants on
foot simply go to the place in the desert where the fence ends, and walk around
it.

"Anywhere is a good place to sneak across if we're not watching," said Special
Agent Jonathan Creiglow, a Border Patrol officer assigned to the agency's El
Centro sector here.

But there are also sections of 18-foot fencing right in the middle of downtown
Calexico, opposite its sprawling sister city of Mexicali, where border jumpers
can be up and over the wall in a matter of seconds, melting into shops and
residential streets once they land on the other side.

At night, smugglers toss Hail Marys of pot-stuffed footballs and fling
golf-ball-size heroin nuggets over to waiting receivers. Stealthy ultra-light
aircraft bomb the lettuce fields outside town with bundles of dope, then swoop
back into Mexico, well below radar but high above the fence.

Then there are rugged sections in the desert where fencing is porous or
nonexistent, but crossings rare. And those who do try to slip through are
tracked by the Border Patrol's growing array of sensors, high-powered
night-vision cameras and surveillance drones.

In short, agents say, fencing is a tool and a first line of defense, but it does
not bestow border security by its mere existence. "Without the fencing we
wouldn't have as much time, but nothing is going to stop them from going over or
cutting through it," explained Creiglow, who, at 26, is one of the many recent
hires at the Border Patrol, which has doubled in size since 2002, with 18,500 of
its 21,500 agents now deployed along the U.S.-Mexico frontier.

A costly barrier

Most of the barrier does not sit on the actual international boundary, but
slightly north of it, allowing maintenance workers to access both sides without
technically crossing into Mexico. Upkeep for the existing 649 miles of fencing
is projected to cost $6.5 billion over the next 20 years, according to a 2009
report by the Government Accountability Office, and U.S. Homeland Security
officials say the fence was breached 4,037 times in the government's 2010 fiscal
year, at an average cost of $1,800 per repair.

With most of the remaining unfenced stretch of border in Texas, the debate has
shifted to the question of walling off the Rio Grande. Even in areas where the
river can be shallow enough to wade across, putting a fence along the river's
sinuous levees is both costly and unpopular with local ranchers who want to
preserve riparian access for thirsty cattle.

In Arizona, where Border Patrol agents catch more illegal migrants than anywhere
else, lawmakers are soliciting public donations to put barriers along the
remaining unfenced 82 miles of the state's 370-mile boundary with Mexico. Such a
structure would need to climb up and over steep mountain areas where
construction costs are exorbitant and the deterrent value is questionable,
enforcement experts say.

"I think the question is: What are you trying to achieve? Just to be able to say
that you built a fence on top of a mountain?" said Thad Bingle, who was the
Border Patrol's chief of staff from 2007 to 2009. "If someone climbs 10,000 feet
to the top of a mountain they aren't going to be deterred by a 10-foot fence."

Construction in rugged areas is made even more pricey because every stretch of
new fence needs an accompanying road for maintenance and patrols, he added.

Fewer arrests

While the agency tallies the number of migrants it catches, it does not plot the
locations of those apprehensions. But after hitting an all-time high of 1.64
million apprehensions in the government's 2000 fiscal year, the number of
arrests dropped to 327,577 in the 2011 period which ended Sept. 30, the lowest
level since 1972.

Migration experts attribute the decline primarily to the weak U.S. job market -
especially the lack of construction jobs - as well as growing fears of
kidnapping gangs in northern Mexico. At the same time, average family sizes have
fallen dramatically in Mexico, employment opportunities have improved, and the
United States is letting more Mexicans in through the front door.

Mexican workers received 516,000 temporary work visas in 2010, "the highest
number since the Bracero Program of the late 1950s," said Douglas Massey, an
expert on Mexican migration at Princeton University.

Tougher enforcement on the U.S. side has also been a factor, driving up the
costs of getting across as well as the difficulty. But migrant smugglers on the
Mexico side say the fence is hardly their biggest concern.

"There's too much surveillance now," said Luis, a husky guide-for-hire known as
a pollero, standing in the Niños Heroes park in downtown Mexicali, where recent
deportees and would-be border crossers gather. "The Migra [Border Patrol] has
cameras everywhere," he said.

Luis wouldn't give his last name, but he said for $500 smugglers will get
customers over the fence by creating elaborate diversions for the Border Patrol
and deploying teams of helpers with roll-up ladders and ropes, even forming
cheerleader-style human pyramids. Better yet, Luis said, for $3,000 a guide will
take you over the fence and through the desert at night, and $6,000 buys a
legitimate U.S. visa rented from a look-alike with legal status.

"There's always a way in," he said with a wily grin.

miroffn@washpost.com

More world news coverage:

- Contractor crackdown in Afghanistan

- U.S. democracy groups raided in Egypt

- Kim's son declared 'supreme leader'

- Read more headlines from around the world

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      January 7, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Obama to ease route to legal immigration by keeping families together

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 544 words


The Obama administration announced plans Friday to significantly shorten the
time that illegal immigrants would have to spend away from their U.S. citizen
spouses or parents while seeking legal status.

Currently, illegal immigrants must leave the United States for three to 10 years
before applying for legal entry, depending on how long they have been in the
country illegally. Tens of thousands apply each year for a waiver to that rule.
But they must still return to their home countries while waiting for the U.S.
government to decide on the request.

The waivers are granted to immigrants without criminal records who can prove
that their absence would cause "extreme hardship" for their U.S. citizen spouse
or parent. Last year, 23,000 people applied, and 17,000 were granted.

The procedural change would allow spouses and children of U.S. citizens to stay
in the United States while the government decides whether to issue a waiver,
significantly shortening the time families are separated. Immigrants would still
need to return to their country to apply for a visa once the waiver is granted.

The rules would not change regarding who is eligible to apply.

The proposal, posted Friday to the Federal Register, is slated to take effect
this year.

Advocates say the change will save time and money, taking pressure off U.S.
consular offices abroad that now must adjudicate the requests and send documents
back and forth to the U.S. State Department to process them. Waiver applications
currently take six months to a year to process, though some can take longer.

"We have seen cases of extreme hardship where the time of separation is quite
lengthy and where that length of time results in an enduring hardship," said
Alejandro Mayorkas, director of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
Under the new procedure, he said, "it will not be months; it will be days or
weeks."

The rule change could encourage more illegal immigrants to pursue legal status,
said David Leopold, a Cleveland immigration lawyer and past president of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Leopold said families frequently ask how long they will be separated if they
apply for the waiver.

"You can't give them an answer, and you're telling them to separate," he said,
adding that applicants are often sent back to dangerous places such as Ciudad
Juarez, Mexico, for lengthy stays.

Once the change goes through, Leopold said,"I think those folks are going to
come forward to legalize because they can do their waiver time sitting at home
with their family and being together, and that's why this little processing
change is huge."

Mark Krikorian, president of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates
tighter immigration controls, said the administration is circumventing Congress
to please Hispanic voters during an election year.

Krikorian said the rule change could encourage marriage fraud by taking the
risks out of applying for a waiver. "There's a reason to make people leave the
country when they're applying," he said. "If they get turned down, they've
already deported themselves."

The rule change, he said, "presupposes the approval of all applicants - and if
you don't get it, you just go back to what you were doing."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       January 9, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Ending immigration cruelty

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 495 words


AMERICA'S HALF-BAKED immigration system is riddled with unfair, arbitrary and
inhumane provisions, but few are so senseless and cruel as those covering the
undocumented immigrant spouses and children of U.S. citizens. Now the Obama
administration is proposing a prudent rule change that would prevent thousands
of pointless family separations and prompt untold numbers of illegal immigrants
to seek legal status through lawful channels.

Currently, undocumented spouses and children of American citizens are eligible
for green cards if they return to their native countries to apply for U.S.
visas. But when they do, they are automatically barred from reentering the
United States for up to 10 years - the penalty for having been unlawfully
present here.

The way around those harsh measures is to prove that family separation would
cause a U.S. citizen "extreme hardship" - for instance, by depriving him of the
family income or help with child care that the immigrant spouse provided. The
catch is that while U.S. immigration authorities grant thousands of such waivers
annually, the process takes six months on average, and sometimes much longer,
stranding spouses and children far from their families. Given the long delays
and possibility of rejection - and prolonged family separations - many never
bother to apply.

In practice, most of those who apply for waivers are Mexicans, and the vast
majority of them are successful. Of some 17,000 waiver applications filed with
the U.S. Consulate in Ciudad Juarez, which handles the paperwork in Mexico,
about 90 percent were approved.

The rule change, proposed by the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, would allow such spouses and children to remain in this country while
they seek provisional waivers. Nothing else would change: Once a waiver is
granted, the immigrant would still be required to return to his home country to
apply for a visa. But the shift would streamline the process and cut family
separations to the days or weeks it takes to issue a visa, rather than the
months required for a waiver application.

It's possible that opponents of illegal immigration will cry "amnesty" - they
rarely miss an opportunity - but the proposal is little more than a tweak. After
all, it would favor people who are already members of American families and are
overwhelmingly eligible to receive green cards anyway. Why tear them from their
jobs, homes, spouses and parents for months on end? Nor is it likely to
encourage phony marriages, since immigration and visa authorities would apply
the same scrutiny to such arrangements as they do now.

Officials hope that the proposal - a change in administrative law that does not
require congressional approval - will go into effect after a comment period by
the end of this year. If it does, it could help tens or hundreds of thousands of
immigrants and their American families to lead normal lives, free of the burdens
imposed by a dysfunctional immigration system.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     January 11, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

To be exiled from home no longer

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 143 words


Regarding the Jan. 9 editorial "Ending immigration cruelty":

The proposed policy change that would allow unauthorized immigrants whose
spouses or children are U.S. citizens to stay in the United States while waiting
for decisions on their extreme-hardship waivers would also benefit American
citizens. They would no longer have to exile themselves from their country to
keep their families together.

I recently met a 10-year-old U.S.-born boy who had returned to this country
after spending a year in Mexico with his Mexican father, who was waiting for his
waiver to be approved. This boy, whose mother is an American, was as glad to be
back in his own country as any other U.S. citizen would be.

This policy change would not coddle illegal immigrants; it would provide
humanity and justice to Americans.

Roger Algase, New York

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      January 29, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

The 'self-deportation' fantasy

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 547 words


BY DECLARING that "self-deportation" is the solution to illegal immigration,
Mitt Romney gave voice to an idea in wide currency among Republicans - that
America's 11 million undocumented immigrants would simply go home if government
made their lives miserable enough. But even by the debased standards of
primary-season rhetoric, the idea is as simple-minded and absurd as it is
popular - as Mr. Romney's rival, Newt Gingrich, quickly pointed out.

"Self-deportation" is snappy and sound-biteable; hence its superficial appeal.
Slap together a water-tight employment verification law, issue IDs to legal
workers, add some harassment from state and local authorities, and watch the
unpapered immigrants stream south over the border whence they came. If they want
to return to the United States, said Mr. Romney, they can get to the "back of
the line."

The idea's inanity is masked by its allure for some who hate illegal immigration
but concede that mass roundups and deportations would be unseemly and
prohibitively expensive. Better, they say, that illegal immigrants leave under
their own steam - and pay their travel expenses, too.

The problems start with economics. Undocumented workers comprise more than  5
percent of America's labor force and much more in agriculture, hospitality,
landscaping and elsewhere. Their departure would be a blow to the economy - and
no, American-born workers,  generally better educated and geographically remote
from the jobs immigrants do, would not fill their shoes.

Mr. Romney also wrongly imagines that illegal immigrants, who are mostly
Mexicans, can be easily uprooted. In fact, nearly two-thirds have been here for
more than a decade, and more than 28 percent arrived more than 15 years ago.
Their roots here are deep: Almost half have children, and more than 80 percent
of those 5.5 million children were born here and are U.S. citizens. Does Mr.
Romney expect them to "self-deport" with their parents?

As for the idea of getting to "the back of the line," that assumes a line exists
for low-skilled Mexicans lacking family connections in the United States. There
is no such line that would realistically result in the issuance of a green card
to an unskilled Mexican with no relatives in the United States. Even if a
Mexican has, say, parents or siblings who are U.S. citizens, he would likely
wait 15 to 20 years or more just to get an interview with a U.S. consular
officer.

Undocumented immigrants in this country are highly resilient. During the
economic meltdown of 2008-09, the shrinking job market and beefed-up border
security helped cut the illegal population by about a million. But since then,
the numbers have leveled off - despite a still-sluggish economy, stepped-up
deportations, and hostile state and local legislation. The vast majority of
illegal immigrants are here to stay.

More broadly, the problem is a broken system and politicians who cannot bring
themselves to reconcile the hard reality of illegal immigration with their own
slogans. Sensible reform would include tight enforcement as well as adequate
admissions of guest workers for industries that need them and, critically, a
path to legalization for undocumented immigrants. They're not leaving,
notwithstanding the fantasy of "self-deportation."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     February 1, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Promoting self-deportation

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 140 words


The Jan. 29 editorial " The 'self-deportation' fantasy " overstated the case.
Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney has never suggested that all 11
million illegal immigrants in the United States would self-deport. He is correct
in saying that many   undocumented immigrants unable to work in the United
States would return to their home countries if things got too tough. There is
evidence that this is already occurring.

It will take a mix of methods to reduce the number of illegal immigrants in the
United States. Creating conditions that cause some of them to go back home of
their own volition is sensible and more humane than some other methods that have
been suggested.

This approach might not apply to the grandmother who has been here illegally for
25 years, but it could work for a 19-year-old male.

John Brinkerhoff, Burke

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


        Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      February 6, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

'Back of the line'? What line?

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 545 words


IN THE VENOMOUS debate over illegal immigration, there is a point of agreement
between President Obama and some of his would-be Republican rivals, including
former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney. They'd like to see undocumented
immigrants "get to the back of the line" for citizenship. Unfortunately, that
convergence of views distorts rather than illuminates the debate.

Granted, Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney have different ideas of how the "line" would
work. The president doesn't seem inclined to force unauthorized immigrants to
leave the country before applying for legal status. Mr. Romney thinks it would
be nice if they somehow "self deported," then lined up back home for legal
re-entry to America. In the end, the distinction is meaningless - because there
is no line, not even a relevant visa category, for millions of immigrants.

Here's why. A large majority of the 11 million illegal immigrants are unskilled
or low-skilled Mexicans. Many of them have no relatives over age 18 who are
either U.S. citizens or permanent residents in possession of green cards.

That makes them ineligible for any realistic visa category. They are barred in
most cases from employment-based visas, which favor skilled and well-educated
applicants, and from family-based visas, which require applicants to have
spouses, parents or siblings who are U.S. citizens or hold green cards. (Even
the "line" for those visas often takes 15 to 20 years or more.) There is simply
no immigrant visa category for which most unskilled Mexicans qualify and no
realistic prospect they could be legally admitted to the United States. About
half of the unauthorized adults in the country are Mexicans who probably have no
category for admission, according to Pew Hispanic Center senior demographer
Jeffrey S. Passel.

However, there will continue to be a demand for their labor. At least 7 million
illegal immigrants are in the American work force, in many cases doing jobs most
Americans consider  too dirty or unsuited to their educational attainment. (A
half-century ago, about half of American men dropped out of high school to seek
unskilled work; today just 10 percent do.)

There is a tiny number of "other worker" immigrant visas for which Mexicans may
apply. But those applications take several years and require employer
sponsorship. And no employer would go through the time and expense of
sponsorship for an unskilled worker.

It is possible to argue that the United States should shift away from
family-based visa preferences toward employment-based ones or that it should
create a new category of visas for skilled or unskilled "fortune seekers," who,
like millions  before them, want to come to America because of its record of
rewarding hard work and hustle.

Likewise, we would like to see an improved guest worker program, one that
offered American employers some reasonable prospect of filling jobs with
adequate numbers of immigrant employees in a timely way. But as things stand
now, those things don't exist.

On the campaign trail, it may sound tough or fair or common-sensical to demand
that illegal immigrants "get to the back of the line." In fact, it is a
convenient fiction, a trope designed more to obfuscate than resolve a policy
mess that politicians find too hard to tackle.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


        Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      February 20, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Some who fled crackdown on immigration returning to Ala.

BYLINE: Jay Reeves

SECTION: A section; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 716 words


BIRMINGHAM, Ala. - Ana Jimenez and her husband were so terrified of being sent
back to their native Mexico when Alabama's tough crackdown on illegal immigrants
took effect that they fled more than 2,000 miles to Los Angeles, cramming into a
two-bedroom apartment with more than 20 other relatives.

Now they are among the families coming back to cities such as Birmingham, as the
mass deportations never materialized and courts blocked parts of the law. No one
knows how many people initially left the state, so it's impossible to say how
many have returned. But some illegal immigrants are trickling back, unable to
find work elsewhere and missing the place that had been home for years.

As for Jimenez, she left Birmingham with her husband, father and brother three
days after the law took effect. All except her brother are back. Jimenez said
through a translator that not much has changed, though she can't reclaim her job
at a McDonald's restaurant because managers are checking citizenship papers.

"Everything is the same. I just can't work now," Jimenez said through a
translator. She said the family is living off the income of her husband, who
installs carpet and flooring.

The Obama administration, immigrant groups and others sued over Alabama's law,
and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit is set to consider arguments
about it on March 1. The Supreme Court will hear oral arguments a month later
over Arizona's crackdown on illegal immigration, which isn't considered as
strict as Alabama's.

Republicans who supported the crackdown had said they hoped the tough provisions
- which made it difficult if not impossible to legally find work and housing,
among other things - would force people to "self-deport" and move out of the
state.

Among those who self-deported were Verenece Flores and her husband. They sold
their home in  the Birmingham area and moved with their three young children to
Chicago. But the couple, originally from Mexico and living in the United States
without legal documents, also could not find work, and relatives told them
people weren't being deported after traffic stops as some had feared.

The family is staying with relatives and doesn't have their own place, and
Flores remains "a little scared" of the law. But she said she was happy to be
back. Flores had lived here for 15 years before the brief move to Chicago, and
her children are happier and her husband is back working construction jobs.

"I missed everything about it - friends, family, the weather," Flores said. She
knows two more families that left Alabama for Washington state only to return.

Estela Fuentes said friends of hers moved to Atlanta because the law required
that public schools verify the citizenship status of students, yet they returned
late last month after learning courts had put that section of the law on hold.
The family was sad throughout its exile to Georgia, she said through a
translator.

"One of their daughters cried and cried because she had no friends over there,"
said Fuentes, who is originally from El Salvador.

And while there are families returning, some officials say they haven't heard
anything to suggest that the numbers are huge. Zayne Smith, an immigration
lawyer with the nonprofit Alabama Appleseed legal center in Montgomery, said she
had been hearing that some people wanted to wait until after the 11th Circuit
considers the case in March.

State agriculture officials who say the new law led to a chronic shortage in
agricultural labor said they haven't seen evidence of large numbers of
immigrants returning to the state. Many immigrants worked in the state's
poultry-processing plants or in tomato fields, planting and harvesting crops.

Gwen Ferreti, a researcher and activist in the Hispanic community, said some
immigrants remain wary but are coming back because of their deep ties to the
state.

Some initially feared the law would mean that people would be rounded up, or
that "you'd be stopped just for being Hispanic," said Ferreti, an anthropologist
from the University of Texas who is living in Tuscaloosa, about 60 miles
southwest of Birmingham, for her studies. "That has not happened, but people are
aware that racial profiling is going on if you are Hispanic. They are still
uneasy."

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


        Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 21, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Romney seeks to attract Hispanic voters

BYLINE: Philip Rucker;Dan Balz

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1242 words


SCOTTSDALE, Ariz.- In his pursuit of the Republican nomination, Mitt Romney took
an aggressive position on immigration, denouncing the Dream Act, suggesting that
illegal immigrants should "self-deport" and attacking rivals who appeared to
show compassion for some undocumented immigrants.

That has left the presumptive nominee in a deep hole with Hispanic voters,
trailing President Obama by more than 40 points among this critically important
constituency in the latest NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll. The question is
whether Romney can credibly undo the damage from the primaries without igniting
a renewed debate about his consistency on the issues.

The problem is clearly on Romney's mind, so much so that he addressed it openly
Sunday at a Florida fundraiser. He told his audience that Republicans must do a
better job of attracting Hispanic votes and, according to NBC News and the Wall
Street Journal, said polling showing Obama far ahead among Hispanic voters
"spells doom for us."

The Hispanic vote will be crucial in many states this fall, from Mountain West
battlegrounds - Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico - where the election could be
determined, to such states as Florida and Virginia, which will be among the
nation's most competitive .

Romney's Friday schedule reflected those concerns. In Arizona to speak to state
chairs of the Republican Party, the former Massachusetts governor included on
his agenda a roundtable with Hispanic business leaders.

Immigration is a prime example of how Romney was forced to the right in his
battle for the nomination. Faced with a potentially strong challenge from Texas
Gov. Rick Perry, he attacked Perry for his support of a state law providing
in-state college tuition to children of illegal immigrants who are Texas
residents. "It makes no sense at all," he said in a Florida debate.

Later, he went after former House speaker Newt Gingrich for saying that illegal
immigrants who have lived in the United States for a quarter-century or more and
who have deep roots in a community should be given an opportunity to achieve
legal status but not citizenship. Romney called that a form of amnesty that
would "create another magnet" for more illegal immigrants.

Romney advisers say their candidate's focus on the economy will help boost his
standing with Latinos. "I think that our goal in this campaign is to focus very
intently on the economy," said Kevin Madden, an outside adviser to the campaign.
"When we do, I think that Hispanic voters are going to see that they have a
better chance for a brighter future for a President Romney than they have
witnessed the last four years under President Obama."

Obama campaign advisers are determined not to let Romney pivot away from some of
his past remarks without challenging him as inconsistent or insincere. They say
the record from the primary campaign will be difficult to erase or minimize. "I
think it's an impossible image to reverse," said Joel Benenson, the Obama
campaign's chief pollster.

Stephanie Cutter, Obama's deputy campaign manager, said Romney would have
trouble turning back the clock with Hispanic voters. "They tuned in at much
higher levels during the Republican primaries as a result of the harsh rhetoric,
and his positions on everything from the Arizona law to self-deportation didn't
go unnoticed," she said.

Arizona has been ground zero for a national debate over how to deal with illegal
immigration, particularly since the 2010 passage of legislation that requires
police officers to check the immigration status of anyone arrested or stopped if
there is reason to suspect that the person is in the country illegally.

The law generated national controversy, with supporters saying it was necessary
because the federal government had failed to secure borders. The Obama
administration sued the state of Arizona to block key provisions of the law.
Next week, the Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in the case.

On Thursday, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), a possible candidate to become Romney's
vice presidential running mate, said, "I do not believe that laws like Arizona's
should be a model for the nation." But Rubio said he believed that Arizona was
within its constitutional rights to enact the law.

Romney has said that he supports the law and that he would drop the federal
lawsuit if elected. It was widely reported after a Feb. 22 Republican
candidates' debate in Arizona that Romney had described the tough law as a model
for the nation. His campaign has since said his reference to Arizona as a model
was to a law calling for employers to use an electronic system to verify the
legal status of workers, not to the broader legislation.

Asked whether Romney thinks the controversial Arizona law also should be a
template for other states, a spokesman, who declined to be identified in order
to offer fuller comment, said: "The impact of illegal immigration differs from
state to state, as do questions of how to allocate scarce law enforcement
resources. Decisions on whether to adopt such laws should be left to the states,
so the Arizona law is not a model for the nation."

When it was passed, Romney said the law should be implemented with care. Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer (R), who endorsed Romney just before the Feb. 28 primary, said
Thursday that she had never spoken with Romney about his views on the law. "I've
never asked him," she said. "I know what he has said at the presidential
debates, I've read a few comments and stuff, so you know, I believe what he says
is that he understands the issues and that he realizes that we've got to get a
secure border," she said.

"What Governor Romney has said is that model seems to have worked for Arizona,
but that doesn't mean it's a model for the country or other states," said Jose
Fuentes, co-chair of Romney's National Hispanic Steering Committee. Fuentes said
Romney has had a deliberate strategy to be supportive of Arizona's efforts
without endorsing the law outright or ever suggesting that it is a model for the
nation.

The GOP's inability to win stronger support from Hispanics is a long-running
problem. Rubio, a Cuban American, is one of a number of Republicans who have
argued that the party needs a new strategy to overcome a deficit that has
long-term implications.

He is drafting what he hopes will be a compromise version of the Dream Act,
which would be more restrictive than the Democrats' plan but would give illegal
immigrants' children a chance to achieve legal status.

Romney is on record saying he would veto the Democratic-sponsored Dream Act. "I
would hope we could convince him to support a concept like this," Rubio said at
a forum hosted by National Journal on Thursday.

Romney's campaign advisers reacted cautiously to Rubio's efforts, saying the
candidate will carefully study any such proposals. "We must work together on
protecting and strengthening legal immigration, securing our borders, ending
illegal immigration in a civil but resolute manner, and ensuring that any
reforms do not encourage further illegal immigration," spokeswoman Andrea Saul
said in a statement.

Rubio's efforts could put Romney in a political bind by forcing him to back away
from his stated opposition to giving any legal status to those covered by the
bill - or Rubio might be throwing him a political lifeline in a competition for
voters destined to play a critical role in November and beyond.

ruckerp@washpost.com

balzd@washpost.com

Balz reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 22, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Politics to test justices again

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1337 words


The Supreme Court will conclude one of its most significant and controversial
terms in decades by taking on one more issue that has divided the nation:
Arizona's crackdown on illegal immigrants.

The court's final oral argument on Wednesday - Arizona v. United States -
provides yet another chance for the justices to confront fundamental questions
about the power of the federal government. And the rulings the court will issue
between now and the end of June could dramatically alter the nation's
election-year landscape.

The court has considered President Obama's health-care law, has taken its first
look at the political redistricting battles being fought across the nation and
will decide whether federal regulators still hold the authority to police the
nation's airwaves.          The Obama administration has moved aggressively
against Arizona's SB 1070, which directs law enforcement to play a much more
active role in identifying illegal immigrants and makes it a crime for them to
seek work. The administration has persuaded courts to put aside key parts of the
law.

And, as with last month's hearings on the health-care law,  in the Arizona case
the government is asking the court to recognize that the Constitution gives the
federal government vast powers to confront national problems, such as illegal
immigration. "As the framers understood, it is the national government that has
the ultimate responsibility to regulate the treatment of aliens while on
American soil, because it is the nation as a whole - not any single state - that
must respond to the international consequences of such treatment," Solicitor
General Donald B. Verrilli Jr. told the court in the government's brief.

Immigration is one of the nation's thorniest political issues. Obama and his
administration have been accused of not properly securing the nation's borders
and criticized for not delivering comprehensive immigration reform. Presumptive
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney's tough stance against illegal
immigration has angered some interest groups and is said to have cost him among
increasingly influential Latino voters.          And even as the pace of illegal
immigration has slowed, it has left a changed picture of undocumented immigrants
in the United States. According to the liberal Center for American Progress, 63
percent of illegal immigrants have been in the country for more than 10 years
and more than 16.6 million people in the United States have at least one
undocumented family member.

Tom Saenz, president and general counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Education Fund, said that while the legal issues inArizona v. United States
"relate to the  structure of government, it is still very much a civil rights
case."          Beyond Arizona

The decision will have implications well beyond Arizona. Several states have
copied - and toughened - Arizona's law, and more are considering such steps.

"This debate is not just about SB 1070," Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R) said in a
statement when the state filed its brief in the case. "Rather, it is for the
constitutional principle that every state has a duty and obligation to protect
its people, especially when the federal government has failed in upholding its
core responsibilities.

"SB 1070 is Arizona's way of saying 'enough!'[#x200a]"

The Obama administration opposed Arizona's efforts from the start, as it has
similar laws passed in Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, Utah and elsewhere.
"Arizona has adopted its own immigration policy, which focuses solely on maximum
enforcement and pays no heed to the multifaceted judgments" that Congress
intends for the executive branch to make, Verrilli wrote in the government's
brief. "For each State, and each locality, to set its own immigration policy in
that fashion would wholly subvert Congress's goal: a single, national approach."

The Obama administration persuaded a federal judge and then the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 9th Circuit to keep four sections of the law from taking effect,
and they will be at the heart of the Supreme Court's review. Those sections:

l Require state and local law enforcement to verify the citizenship status of
anyone stopped, detained or arrested when there is "reasonable suspicion" that
the person is in the United States unlawfully.

l Authorize law enforcement officials to make and arrest without a warrant when
an officer has "probable cause to believe . . . [t]he person to be arrested has
committed any public offense that makes the person removable from the United
States."

l Make it a state crime to be in the United States unlawfully and require
non-citizens to carry documents to prove they are legally in the country.

l Make it a state crime for a person who is not lawfully in the country to work
or seek work. Federal law puts the burden on employers to verify the legality of
those seeking work.

Familiar faces

The case before the court offers a rematch of the lawyers who last month argued
the constitutionality of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act:
Verrilli for the government and Paul D. Clement, president George W. Bush's
solicitor general, representing Arizona.

Clement's brief opens with page after page of costs and crimes that have
accompanied a wave of illegal immigration across Arizona's borders: Schools,
hospitals and jails are overtaxed. Home invasions related to drug smuggling and
human trafficking have soared. "Incredibly," Clement writes, the federal
government has even posted signs warning travelers: "Danger - Public Warning -
Travel Not Recommended." "Active Drug and Human Smuggling Area." "Visitors May
Encounter Armed Criminals and Smuggling Vehicles Traveling at High Rates of
Speed."          Clement says SB 1070 is not imposing new immigration standards
but merely directing its own officials to make sure federal laws are respected.

"Such cooperative law enforcement is the norm, not something that requires
affirmative congressional authorization," Clement writes.

Verrilli responds that the Arizona law's "very design discards cooperation and
embraces confrontation."

He describes a complex federal policy of detaining and deporting illegal
immigrants prioritized on criminal activity and other factors. The Department of
Homeland Security receives funding to remove annually about 400,000 of the
approximately 11 million people in the country illegally, he says, and it is up
to federal officials - not Arizona's - to decide who they should be.

And he says Arizona's decision to impose criminal sanctions on those who seek
work is an idea Congress debated and rejected in passing immigration legislation
in 1986.

The Supreme Court in its previous term signaled that immigration enforcement is
not solely the province of the federal government. In a 5 to 3 vote, it agreed
that Arizona could revoke the business licenses of companies that knowingly
employ undocumented workers.The court in that case said Arizona was in line with
an exception in the 1986 law that allows states leeway in the licensing of
businesses, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote.

The same eight justices will hear Wednesday's Arizona case - Justice Elena Kagan
recused herself in both, presumably because of her work on the issue in her
previous job as Obama's solicitor general.

If they split evenly, the 9th Circuit's injunction of those aspects of the
Arizona law would stand and the larger issue of federal authority would need to
wait for a challenge to one of the other states' laws.

As with health care, the case has attracted a raft of amicus briefs. Sixteen
states, including Virginia, are supporting Arizona; 11, including Maryland, say
the federal government must play the dominant role in immigration.

The stance of each state follows less the number of immigrants within its
borders and more the political party of its leadership.

barnesr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 25, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

A test for architects of bills on migrants

BYLINE: David A. Fahrenthold

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1750 words


They were a mismatched pair who somehow managed to rearrange the national
immigration debate and the half-shadow world in which illegal immigrants live
and work in the United States.

One, Kris Kobach, was a telegenic law professor who was worried about foreign
terrorists. The other, Michael Hethmon, was a bookish lawyer afraid that
immigrants would overburden the environment.           Over the past six years,
the two have become the most successful propagators of a powerful idea: that
state and local governments can make life so miserable for illegal immigrants
that they would choose to deport themselves.

During this year's Republican presidential primary contest, the notion of
self-deportation began to take on new legitimacy. Mitt Romney, the party's
presumed nominee, praised the idea and has pledged that he would drop the Obama
administration's challenges to state laws in places such as Alabama and Arizona.

Kobach and Hethmon have helped six states and at least seven cities and counties
write tough legislation that allows local police or bureaucrats to crack down on
illegal immigrants. Usually, that's a function reserved for the federal
government, but these two lawyers said they knew the "magic words" of legalese
to make local laws work.

"We are constantly told that the only two options are massive roundups [of
illegal immigrants] or an amnesty. But attrition through enforcement is the
third way," said Kobach, the better-known of the pair. "Change the individual
decisions of particular illegal aliens, and they will decide to leave the
country."

Hethmon worries about cultural shifts that could result.

Immigration is "on track to change the demographic makeup of the entire country.
You know, what they call 'minority-majority,' " said Hethmon, who is general
counsel at the Washington-based Immigration Reform Law Institute. "How many
countries have gone through a transition like that - peacefully, carefully? It's
theoretically possible, but we don't have any examples."

Now, however, is their time of trial. Judges have blocked some of the
legislation, resulting in a pile of legal bills for the governments they helped,
and on Wednesday the U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments about the law in
Arizona that has become the centerpiece achievement of the self-deportation
movement.           Supporters say the idea would never have advanced this far
without Kobach and Hethmon, who have been editors, advisers, ghostwriters and
legal defenders for politicians nationwide.

"They're the wizards behind the curtain," said Oklahoma state Rep. Randy Terrill
(R), whose bill they rewrote. "They were the face and the muscle behind the
effort that really synthesized it into a movement. Do I think it would have
happened without them? Most certainly it would not have."

Their role behind the curtain began in 2006, with a phone call from Hazleton,
Pa.          That old coal town had swelled with thousands of Latino immigrants.
Then-Mayor Lou Barletta blamed illegal residents for a surge in crime, saying he
was paying for the failures of the federal immigration system. That year, the
United States had an estimated 11.6 million "unauthorized immigrants." The
federal system deported about 272,000 people.

Barletta wrote an ordinance that punished people who hired illegal immigrants or
rented apartments to them. In the furor that followed, he noticed a supportive
quote in a newspaper from a law professor at the University of Missouri at
Kansas City.          His secretary placed the call. Kobach picked up: "What
took you so long?"

Kobach, 46, has a strong chin, a quarterback's build, and degrees from Harvard,
Oxford and Yale. He says his focus on immigration came from working in the
Justice Department on Sept. 11, 2001. Kobach fixated on the fact that some
hijackers had been living in the United States illegally.

What if they had been caught? "The 9/11 attack could have been stopped," Kobach
said.

While in Washington, he had connected with Hethmon - a very different man with
the same goals. Hethmon, 58, is a former hippie who left the United States
during the Vietnam War. He works for a group that opposes large-scale
immigration: It believes that, given how much food, fuel and space the average
American consumes, the environment can't take many more people.

The two complemented each other. Kobach was astounded by Hethmon's intricate
knowledge of law and precedent. Hethmon, whose parent organization, the IRLI,
was designated a "hate group" by the Southern Poverty Law Center, was delighted
to have an ally with political influence.           Mayor Barletta had called
the right people. But he had the wrong law.

"We can definitely win in court," Kobach told him. "But the ordinance is going
to need to be redrafted."

It needed the magic words. Illegal immigration is generally a federal matter, so
the mayor didn't have the power to go hunting for people without papers. But
there was a loophole: The law allows towns to control "licensing" matters.

So Hazleton eventually decreed that everybody in town needed a license to rent
an apartment. Using these licenses, the city could find illegal immigrants - and
order landlords to evict them.

This was a lesson: It wasn't necessary to catch illegal immigrants. It was
necessary only to make them uncomfortable.

"What are you going to say to the people who say that you're creating a climate
of fear?" Hethmon recalled someone asking him recently. "I say: 'Well, yeah,
it's not great. But it's the best choice.' "

It grew from there. Hethmon helped write an ordinance that passed in Prince
William County in 2007. The two of them helped write legislation that made it
harder to hire illegal immigrants; Alabama said businesses could lose their
licenses.And they helped with laws on police powers, such as one in Arizona that
requires officers to check immigration status during any lawful stop if they
have reasonable suspicion that the person is in the United States illegally.

These laws redrew the map of an underground nation, turning some places into
avoided zones. The University of Virginia found that more than 2,000 illegal
immigrants left Prince William County. In Georgia, which passed a tough measure
last May, migrant farm labor dropped by 30 to 40 percent. The workers skipped
Georgia in their usual East Coast swing, and agriculture officials said $140
million was lost as fruit rotted in fields.

In Arizona, Hethmon and Kobach became involved after GOP state Sen. Russell
Pearce wrote the first draft of a bill - offering small revisions and in some
cases rewriting whole sections - during a series of phone calls and e-mails.
They stressed that it was Pearce who provided the bill's direction. Their job
was to show him a legal way to do it.

Immigrant groups said the laws created the danger of police misconduct and
racial profiling. In many places, however, politicians saw the results they
wanted. Barletta became a congressman. Kobach was elected as a Republican to be
Kansas's secretary of state.

"People's neighborhoods have gotten better, and the improvement in the
neighborhoods has been most dramatic in the parts of the county that have
heavier concentrations of minorities," said Republican Corey Stewart, a champion
of the Prince William law who chairs the county's Board of Supervisors and wants
to be lieutenant governor. The Virginia study found that that most crime
statistics were unchanged but that the county's hit-and-run accidents were
reduced by nearly half.But in court, the duo's magic words began to fail them.

"We conclude that the ordinance's sole purpose is not to regulate housing but to
exclude undocumented aliens," wrote Thomas M. Reavley, a federal appellate
judge, in blocking a 2008 license-to-rent law in Farmers Branch, Tex. "It is an
impermissible regulation of regulation."

The duo has won some legal victories: The Supreme Court last year upheld an
Arizona law that limits the employment of illegal immigrants. But judges have
blocked all or parts of immigration laws in Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, Indiana,
South Carolina and Utah, as well as in several cities.

In Farmers Branch, it has cost about $4.5 million to defend the law. And it
hasn't been in force for a day.

"How do you get out of those things? You know, if we just walk away from it,
we've got the other people's legal fees that would fall on top," said Mayor Bill
Glancy, who notes that the suspended law still seems to have driven away illegal
residents, reducing turnover in  schools. "You run legal expenses way up, to
where it's almost impossible to back down from it."Now, it all hangs on the
Supreme Court. After Wednesday's oral arguments, it could take weeks for the
justices to decide whether Arizona's broader immigration law is an unlawful
overstep onto federal turf.

If they win, "copycat legislation will explode," Hethmon said. "This is the
classic environment for, if you will, sort of nativist-type sentiment. . . . It
should explode at the states or - even better - [Congress] will be provoked to
take action."

In the meantime, Hethmon had an up-close and unpleasant experience with the same
kind of local police he had done so much to empower.

The problem began with graffiti on a highway overpass in Bowie. Police there
suspected that Hethmon's teenage son might be involved and obtained a search
warrant. They arrived at 7 a.m. on March 9 with a heavily armed team of county
officers.

"Come in with masks, guns, screaming. You know, knocking everybody down,"
Hethmon recalled. "I tried to explain to them, you know: 'Look, I'm a lawyer,
this is outrageous.' [The reply was:] 'Shut up and lie down on the floor.' "

Police said they found 2.5 grams of marijuana in the house. They filed charges
against Hethmon, his son and his wife - all for the same drugs. The charges
against Hethmon will be dropped, prosecutors said last week.

Hethmon said the experience has not changed his work.

"The fact that a law is legitimate and serving a purpose doesn't mean that it
can't be abused," he said. "Human beings are flawed people."

And so, for the lesser-known of this duo, there has been a personal test. After
he did so much to place greater trust in local police officers nationwide,
police in Prince George's County sent a SWAT team to his house to look for . . .
spray paint.

"It's ironic, you know," Hethmon said.

fahrenthold@washpost.com

Staff researcher Lucy Shackelford contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 25, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Crossing the line?

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 588 words


"ARIZONA AND its 370-mile border are a conduit for rampant illegal entries and
cross-border smuggling to a degree unparalleled in any other State." So argue
lawyers for Arizona in a case the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear Wednesday.
Although immigration has in fact declined, the state says that the "public
safety and economic strains" created by a porous border "have created an
emergency situation, which demanded a response."          The response was
Arizona's S.B. 1070, a 2010 immigration bill that empowers state and local law
enforcement officers to detain those suspected of being in the country
illegally. It also provides for criminal charges against illegal immigrants who
seek or secure employment in the state.

The Obama administration pushed back hard and early, arguing even before the law
was implemented that it unconstitutionally trod on the federal government's
exclusive rights to enforce immigration laws and conduct foreign policy. A
federal trial judge and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit blocked
implementation of the provisions. Now the Supreme Court will hear arguments on
whether the Arizona provisions are forbidden, or "pre-empted," because they
incur on legal territory that is the exclusive domain of the federal government.
Although Arizona has been widely - and we believe, rightly - criticized for a
law that threatens the constitutional rights of legal and illegal immigrants
alike, such questions are not at play in this case.

The state went too far when it essentially overrode Congress, which had decided
to penalize those who hire unauthorized workers, rather than the workers
themselves. Workers are governed by different aspects of federal immigration law
and can face penalties for providing false documentation to assert their legal
status. Congress, in other words, spoke directly to this issue, and Arizona's
law is a direct affront to that considered judgment.

The provisions pertaining to local and state law enforcement's power to verify a
suspect's immigration status or to detain those suspected of being in the
country illegally represent a closer call. The federal government - through such
programs as "Secure Communities" - often requires local officials to verify the
immigration status of those arrested on state or local charges. Arizona's law
goes further, directing officers to check the status of those who they believe
"have committed any public offense that makes the person removable from the
United States." This arbitrary and unnecessarily invasive measure would surely
offend the Constitution's Fourth Amendment if this question were before the
court. But does federal law clearly prohibit what Arizona says is its effort to
be an aggressive partner in ensuring that federal immigration standards are
enforced - especially when the federal government retains exclusive authority
over removal or deportation? Not so clear.What is certain is that immigration
policy would be even more dysfunctional if states were given the green light to
craft and enforce their own laws. This legislative hodgepodge would sow
confusion, invite abuse and encroach on the president's constitutional
prerogative to be the authoritative voice of the country on foreign affairs. Of
course, the best way to keep states out would be for Congress and the White
House to pass legislation that explicitly rejects state interference on the
immigration front while addressing legitimate security concerns and paving a
path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 26, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Early on, Rubio took a softer line on immigration

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 660 words


Marco Rubio ran for Senate as an immigration hard-liner, but the lawmaker from
Florida struck a very different tone in the early years of his political career,
championing the plight of farmworkers and undocumented college students,
according to a forthcoming biography.          As a state legislator, the
Republican teamed up with a prominent Democrat to introduce a bill to protect
field workers, many of them illegal immigrants. He promoted legislation to
extend in-state college tuition to illegal immigrants. But his rhetoric shifted
when he ran for the U.S. Senate a few years later with the backing of the tea
party movement.

The shift underscores the tension inherent along Rubio's unusual path to
political prominence, detailed by Washington Post staff writer Manuel
Roig-Franzia in the book "The Rise of Marco Rubio," set for release June 19.
Rubio's autobiography, "An American Son," also will hit bookstores that day.
Roig-Franzia's unauthorized biography paints a picture of a politician torn
between the overtures expected of a Hispanic politician and the demands of a
conservative base that made him its darling.

But the book also traces the trajectory of a savvy political figure who did not
hesitate to leverage, and in some cases misstate, his family's Cuban American
roots. Rubio was so focused on his political future that he hired a public
relations firm to uncover any skeletons that could threaten his plans.

Rubio's name remains on the shortlist of potential Republican vice presidential
nominees. At the same time, he is attempting again to add more nuance to his
public stance on illegal immigration.

Rubio has been trying to build support for a Republican version of the Dream
Act, which would have created a path to citizenship for college students and
military members who had been brought to the country illegally as children.
Rubio opposed the original bill and has sketched out an alternative that would
allow visas but not citizenship.

His opposition to the original measure stems in part from the ability of the
beneficiaries to sponsor their relatives for citizenship. But the book shows
that Rubio's own family, including his parents and grandparents, benefited from
"chain migration" policies.

Documents obtained by Roig-Franzia show that Irma and Luis Lastres, Rubio's aunt
and uncle, completed "affidavits of support" to help multiple relatives gain
legal entrance to the United States. Rubio's parents also applied for an
immigrant visa and alien registration, noting that they were "destined to" his
aunt Dolores Denis.

On Wednesday, a Rubio spokesman said that the senator generally supports family
reunification and legal chain migration but that the original Dream Act was too
broad.

As the book details, Rubio's family history clashed with his harsh rhetoric on
illegal immigration in another way: His grandfather Pedro Victor Garcia entered
the country illegally in 1962 and remained in violation of a deportation order.
Garcia, who left Cuba because of the Fidel Castro regime and personal reasons,
later may have gained retroactive refugee status.

The book delves into a revelation last year that the story Rubio had long told
of his parents fleeing Castro's regime was untrue. Documents obtained by
Roig-Franzia showed that Rubio's parents came to the United States in 1956,
2[#x200a]1 / 2 years before Castro's rise.          Rubio has said that he was
relying on "family lore" and that the gist of the story remains true. Rubio
spokesman Alex Conant, who said the senator did not previously know that his
grandfather had been in the country illegally, said Garcia's story proves that
Rubio "grew up in the exile community, and clearly this story adds new details
to that compelling story."

sandhya@washpost.com

More from PostPolitics:

- Rubio goes bipartisan in foreign policy address

- What Rubio would bring to the GOP ticket          - Pick Mitt Romney's vice
president

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 27, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

What crisis?

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 761 words


Now that the immigration "crisis" has solved itself, this is the perfect time
for Congress and the president to agree on a package of sensible, real-world
reforms.

Yeah, right, and it's also the perfect time for pigs to grow wings and take
flight.

Perhaps this week's most significant news was a report from the nonpartisan Pew
Hispanic Center showing that net migration from Mexico to the United States has
slowed to a halt and may actually have reversed. That's right: There may be more
people leaving this country to live in Mexico than leaving Mexico to live here.
End of the "crisis" - which wasn't really a crisis at all, except in overwhelmed
border-state cities such as Phoenix. There's no longer the slightest excuse for
histrionics about the alleged threat to our way of life from invading hordes
intent on - shudder - working hard and raising their families.

Why the turnaround? The report cites "many factors, including the weakened U.S.
job and housing construction markets, heightened border enforcement, a rise in
deportations, the growing dangers associated with illegal border crossings, the
long-term decline in Mexico's birth rates and broader economic conditions in
Mexico."

To me, all of that makes perfect sense. Whether they have papers or not,
immigrants are rational. As a general rule, they don't come here to commit
crimes; they could do that at home if they wanted. They don't come here to laze
around and enjoy government benefits because, well, what benefits would those
be? They come to work.

But the U.S. economy fell off a cliff, meaning there is less work to be had.
Mexico's economy, while not unscathed, is improving. And the Obama
administration has dramatically stepped up border enforcement while carrying out
a record number of deportations. Suddenly, both for Mexicans who considered
immigrating legally and those who might have been tempted to come without
documents, the risk-reward equation has changed.According to the Pew report,
there are an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States; six
out of 10 are Mexican. The number of immigrants without papers has actually been
falling. Wouldn't this be a perfect time to take a deep breath and start talking
about reasonable ways to engineer a more rational immigration policy?

Yes it would, but don't hold your breath. Apparently, we're going to have a lot
of shouting without actually trying to find a solution. On Wednesday, the
Supreme Court heard arguments on the constitutionality of Arizona's "driving
while brown" law, which instructs police to challenge and, if necessary,
apprehend anyone they suspect of being an illegal immigrant. The law forbids
racial profiling, but the truth is that it effectively guarantees profiling.

The administration argues that the state law usurps the federal government's
prerogative to set immigration policy. The court is expected to decide the case
this summer, and the ruling's impact may be less practical - since illegal
immigration, I repeat, is already on the decline - than political.
Democrats will react with thunderous outrage if the court upholds the Arizona
law - but if you stand outside the back room where the pollsters and campaign
strategists work, you might hear the slapping of high-fives. Anything that draws
attention to the Republican Party's extremist position on immigration will only
reinforce a tendency that Mitt Romney recently characterized as "doom" - the
headlong rush of Latino voters into a waiting Democratic embrace.

Barack Obama won a remarkable two-thirds of the Latino vote in 2008. This year,
according to the polls, he's running even stronger among the biggest minority
group in the country. If Republicans don't find a way to win more Latino
support, Obama will be hard to beat. In the long term, if Latinos become a more
or less permanent Democratic constituency like African Americans have, the GOP
will inexorably go the way of the Whigs.          So that is what this year's
immigration "debate" will be about: how to reap political gain and avoid
political loss.

What should our elected officials be talking about? I'd suggest they start with
the obvious solution.

We don't need to build a giant wall along the Rio Grande; Obama has already
"hardened" the border. We need a Reagan-style amnesty that would allow the great
majority of undocumented immigrants to stay, along with reforms that give
Mexicans and others a realistic hope of being able to come here someday.

Assuming they want to.

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 29, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 814 words


ARIZONA          Hundreds rally for embattled sheriff

As many as 200 activists, some chanting "go Joe, go Joe," rallied in Arizona on
Saturday to support Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who is facing a federal
racial-profiling probe for his police sweeps against illegal immigrants.

"Sheriff Joe is one of the very few guys who will enforce the immigration laws
across this nation," said Randy Hatch, who used a megaphone to rally supporters
at a park in Fountain Hills. Arpaio, who styles himself "America's toughest
sheriff," is a resident of the town.

Earlier this month, the Obama administration said it was preparing to sue Arpaio
and his department "for violating civil rights laws by improperly targeting
Latinos."

The sheriff has denied any wrongdoing and lashed out at the federal government
for targeting his department while failing to confront the more than 11 million
illegal immigrants who live and work throughout the nation.

The rally came amid heightened tension over immigration in Arizona after the
Supreme Court heard arguments last week over a partially blocked state law
targeting illegal immigrants.

- Reuters

INDIANA          Police: Remains from man's yard identified

Police say human remains found in a southern Indiana man's back yard have been
identified as a woman who has been missing for about a month.

New Albany police Maj. Keith Whitlow said the remains found in William Gibson's
back yard Friday night are those of Stephanie M. Kirk, 35, of Charlestown, Ind.,
who was last seen March 25. Medical examiners in neighboring Kentucky used
dental records and other means to identify her.

Gibson is being held without bond at the Floyd County jail in connection with
the death last week of 75-year-old Christine Whitis of Clarksville, Ind., and
the death of Florida hairdresser Karen Hodella, 44, whose body was found in
Clarksville in 2003.

Gibson was arrested on drunk-driving charges last week after police spotted him
driving Whitis's car.

- Associated Press

MISSOURI          Tent collapse in wind kills 1, injures dozens

St. Louis media outlets were reporting Saturday evening that one person was
killed and up to 100 were hurt when high winds knocked down a large tent south
of Busch Stadium.

KSDK reported that five people were in critical condition Saturday afternoon
after the tent, at Kilroy's bar, collapsed during a thunderstorm that blew
through the area.

The report said that the St. Louis fire department took 17 people to a hospital
and that 100 received medical treatment at the scene.

KMOX reported that Fire Chief Dennis Jenkerson said a few hundred people were
celebrating in the tent after the Cardinals' victory over the Milwaukee Brewers
when the storm hit.

- Associated Press

COLORADO          Bear that fell from tree returns to wild

A 200-pound black bear that wandered onto the University of Colorado campus and
caused a stir before falling 15 feet from a tree has returned to the wild,
officials said Friday.

State wildlife official Jennifer Churchill said that the male bear was tagged
and taken to a remote Rocky Mountain area west of Boulder. The bear has become a
celebrity since it wandered around a university residence hall in Boulder and
climbed a tree Thursday. Wildlife officers eventually tranquilized it, and the
bear dropped from its perch onto pads placed on the ground.

A photographer with the CU Independent online student newspaper captured a shot
of the bear, its arms and legs akimbo, as it fell.

"It was really a perfect landing," campus police spokesman Ryan Huff told the
Daily Camera.- Associated Press

Ga. inmate gives birth in cell; baby dies:Authorities say an inmate in Georgia
gave birth to a child in her jail cell and the baby later died at a hospital.
Capt. Brian Crisp, spokesman for the Clayton County sheriff's office, said
Saturday that the birth is under investigation. He said authorities are not
releasing more information about the birth or the woman. Sheriff Kem Kimbrough
told WSB-TV that the mother and newborn were taken to a hospital, where the
child died. Kimbrough said his office is looking into whether jail staff did
anything wrong. Representatives of Southern Regional Hospital declined to
release any information.

Toddler fatally struck by backing SUV:The wife of the police chief in the
central Florida community of Titusville accidentally ran over a family friend's
22-month-old son in a parking lot, authorities said. Pamela Bodenheimer, 51, was
backing up from a parking spot Friday night at Titusville High School when she
drove over Brady Hutto. She told police that she did not see the boy. No charges
have been filed. A witness tried to perform CPR on the boy before he was taken
by ambulance to a hospital, police said. He was pronounced dead soon after
arrival.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 29, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Mexico on the move

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 538 words


THE WAVE of immigration from Mexico that began four decades ago, most of it
unauthorized, has ended, possibly for good. As a report from the Pew Hispanic
Center confirms, net migration from Mexico to the United States
sank to about zero in  the past five years. The number of Mexicans living in the
United States without documents shrank from 7 million in 2007 to 6.1 million
last year. Causes include tougher U.S. border enforcement and fewer U.S. jobs,
especially in construction. Did the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
play a role? President Bill Clinton pushed the controversial pact through
Congress in 1993, arguing that slashing tariffs would create jobs and increase
incomes in Mexico, resulting in "much less pressure on them to come to this
country in the form of illegal immigration." Has NAFTA finally fulfilled this
promise?

Yes and no. Actually, the number of Mexicans living illegally in the United
States shot up from 2.5 million in 1995, the year after NAFTA took effect, to 11
million in 2005. The main reason was the booming U.S. economy, which generated
huge demand for labor just as the share of Mexico's population aged 15  to 39 -
prime migration years - was peaking at about 75 percent.

Migration plummeted after 2005 because of reduced U.S. demand for labor and the
slowing of Mexican population growth - but also because NAFTA started to pay off
in the form of dynamic new export industries in Mexico such as automobile
manufacturing. Analysts suggest the gap in wages between the United States and
its southern neighbor, while still wide, has narrowed to the point where staying
home is economically rational for a growing number of Mexican workers.

NAFTA encouraged both the United States and Mexico to make optimal use of their
scarce resources. In the short run, this shifted jobs and income within each
society and between them. This inherently disruptive process doubtless caused
Mexicans who lost out to seek opportunity in the United States.

But over time, NAFTA helped make Mexico more efficient and, hence, wealthier. It
formed part of a broader restructuring that has transformed Mexico from the
underdeveloped, authoritarian country it was 30 years ago to the increasingly
middle-class democracy it is now.

The gross domestic product per capita in Mexico was $12,400 in 2010, up about 21
percent in real terms since 1980. Infant mortality is down from 79.4 per 1,000
live births in 1970 to 14.7 in 2009.

Practically every Mexican home has electricity; only 41.5 percent  did in 1970.
As educational levels have risen, the birth rate has dwindled to roughly that of
the United States. There may never again be legions of Mexican jobless desperate
to migrate, as  in the '80s  and '90s.

Yes, Mexico is wracked by drug-related violence; income inequality remains high.
Yet in addition to being richer, Mexico is more politically developed than
before NAFTA; its current problems can't overturn what has become one of the
most vibrant multiparty systems in the Americas.

The waning of unauthorized migration may ease a perennial sore point in
U.S.-Mexican relations, enabling both countries to deepen their  cooperation, of
which NAFTA is, on balance, a worthy example.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

Health-care funds found for undocumented immigrants

BYLINE: Tim Craig

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 630 words


D.C. Council member David A. Catania has found an additional $20 million in the
budget to continue offering free health insurance to 19,000 undocumented
immigrants, reversing a proposal by Mayor Vincent C. Gray (D) that could have
restricted them from receiving emergency care.

Catania (I-At Large), chairman of the council's Health Committee, has made full
funding of the Alliance Insurance program a chief priority as the council
prepares for final budget deliberations.

But the council would be restoring the health insurance program at the same time
it is scaling back other government services, including millions in services for
the poor, potentially sparking fresh debate about whether city benefits for
undocumented immigrants are too generous.          When the Health Committee
convened on the budget Thursday, Catania announced that he and his staff had
found $20.5 million in savings by eliminating some vacant positions,
recalculating Medicaid enrollment and transferring some funds between Health
Department units.

The five-member Health Committee unanimously approved Catania's plan to transfer
the money to immigrant health care. The full council is expected to accept the
agreement when it votes on the budget later this month.

"The mayor's proposal would have treated immigrants differently," Catania said
in an interview. "I believe, for us in this city, it was critically important we
reject that."

Gray had proposed scaling back the Alliance program to balance his 2013 spending
plan by shifting some of the burden for immigrant care onto hospitals and
federal programs for uncompensated care.

Created in 2001 after D.C. General Hospital closed, the Alliance Insurance
program provides coverage to residents who earn too much to qualify for Medicaid
but not enough to be able to afford private insurance.          But following
the 2010 passage of President Obama's health-care legislation, which boosted
Medicaid eligibility, the city was able to transfer thousands of residents into
the federal program.

Now, about 99 percent of residents covered by locally funded insurance are
undocumented immigrants who are not eligible for federal benefits.

Catania said preserving the program this year was a crucial and symbolic step in
the nationwide battle over immigration and health care.

"It's big America versus small America," Catania said. "I gravitate toward the
notion of big America. Big America is one who welcomes people who want to work."

If the program is cut, Catania said, undocumented immigrants would not be
covered for specialty or emergency care at many area hospitals. But Gray had
argued the patients would still receive care through funds hospitals establish
to provide services to the uninsured.

A Gray spokesman said the administration is reviewing Catania's proposal.

Catania's decision comes as the council has been struggling over whether the
city can afford to repay its employees a combined $22 million for furlough days
they were forced to take last year. By fully funding the Alliance program,
public employee unions are likely to put renewed pressure on the council to come
up with the money.For Catania, however, cutting Alliance would be a setback to
his long-held goal of offering universal health insurance in the District.

In 2010, the city estimated that only 6.2 percent of District residents were
uninsured, less than half the national average and lagging behind only
Massachusetts in total percentage of uninsured residents.

The District was only able to achieve those rates by extending coverage to
undocumented immigrants, Catania said.

"This is a rich city, and we have the resources," said Catania. "We ought to be
a leader, and not a follower, and showing the rest of the country this is
America."

craigt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                         May 6, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Mobilizing in Maryland for a dream

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 488 words


ACRUCIAL TEST on illegal immigration will appear on Maryland's ballot this fall
- whether undocumented students shall be eligible for in-state college tuition
providing they graduate from a state high school, have a record of filing tax
returns and commit to pursuing legal status. That's the thrust of the state's
so-called Dream Act, the first state law of its kind (not counting a much
broader measure in California, in 1994) to get a vote at referendum.

The General Assembly approved the Dream Act last year, but opponents collected
enough signatures to put it before voters. It's critical that it be approved,
and not only because teenagers brought to this country as children, through no
fault of their own, deserve compassionate treatment. The vote will also send an
important signal to supporters of the federal Dream Act, so far spurned by
Congress, that would lay out a path to citizenship for unauthorized youngsters
who go to college or serve in the military.

For years most of the energy on the immigration debate - on talk radio, in state
legislatures, and in Congress - has been monopolized by opponents of reform.
With twisted facts and overheated rhetoric, they have stalled progress on
overhauling the broken immigration system, while pushing measures designed to
harass the 11 million illegal immigrants already in the country.

There will be no shortage of money or activists to oppose the Maryland Dream
Act. The question is whether the advocates will put up a fight. That's why the
leadership of Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) is essential - but, by itself,
inadequate. He must be joined by other prominent supporters, such as Sen.
Barbara A. Mikulski (D); Lt. Gov. Anthony G. Brown (D); or Laurene Powell Jobs,
widow of Steve Jobs. They could help overcome skeptics in Baltimore and the
Washington suburbs. So could local technology executives, who need immigrant
engineers for their companies to thrive.Already, the Dream Act's foes  are
distorting the facts. They warn it would make Maryland a magnet for
illegal-immigrant families seeking tuition breaks for their kids. But there is
no evidence for that in any of the other 11 states that grant in-state tuition
to undocumented students.

They argue that native-born students would be displaced from state colleges. But
undocumented students would compete with out-of-state applicants, not
Marylanders. Opponents contend it's a waste to encourage unauthorized students
to attend college, since they cannot be legally employed - an argument that
overlooks the  fact that legally or not, 7 million undocumented immigrants have
jobs, and the nation depends on them.

It makes no sense for Maryland to educate bright, ambitious youngsters through
high school, then deny them a realistic shot at higher education. Maryland will
be a litmus test of the proposition that compassion as well as self-interest
justify the Dream Act. The state's leaders have to make the sale.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 9, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

BYLINE: Jason Samenow

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 390 words


Immigration          Border Patrol targets repeat offenders

With illegal border crossings at a 40-year low, the U.S. Border Patrol announced
a new strategy Tuesday that targets repeat crossers and tries to find out why
they keeping coming.

For nearly two decades, the Border Patrol has relied on a strategy that
blanketed heavily trafficked immigration corridors with agents, pushing migrants
to more remote areas where they would be easier to capture.

Under the new approach, agents will draw on intelligence to identify repeat
crossers, said Border Patrol Chief Michael J. Fisher.

Conditions on the border have changed dramatically. A hiring boom more than
doubled the number of agents, to 21,000, since 2004, accompanied by heavy
spending on fencing, cameras and sensors.

At the same time, illegal migration from Mexico has slowed significantly. Last
year, the Border Patrol made 327,577 apprehensions on the Mexican border, down
80 percent from more than 1.6 million in 2000. It was the slowest year since
1971.

- Associated Press

Weather           U.S. experiences its hottest year on record

The 12-month period from May 2011 through April 2012 was the warmest in the
continental United States since 1895, when such records were first kept,
according to data released Tuesday.

According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National
Climatic Data Center, the record-setting period edged out November 1999-October
2000 by a tenth of a degree.

In the past year, the United States has experienced its second-hottest summer,
fourth-warmest winter  and warmest March on record. April 2012 was the
third-warmest April ever recorded.

This year's record-breaking warm weather is related to a jet stream pattern that
has locked up cold air in high latitudes and favored heat domes over the
country's midsection, which have moved east and west at times.

- Jason Samenow

Artist Kinkade died of accidental overdose:The Santa Clara County, Calif.,
Medical Examiner-Coroner's Office said artist Thomas Kinkade died of an
accidental overdose of alcohol and prescription tranquilizers. Before his April
6 death, the 54-year-old Kinkade produced sentimental scenes of country gardens
and pastoral landscapes.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 6, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

In D.C., no warm welcome for immigration crackdown

BYLINE: Mihir Zaveri

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 808 words


Federal officials on Tuesday launched a controversial program in the District
that targets illegal immigration, but not without a fight from some city
officials who argue the effort undermines trust between police and local
immigrant communities.

The program, Secure Communities, requires that arrestee fingerprints collected
by local governments be shared with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement so
the federal government can identify illegal immigrants and potentially move to
detain or deport them. All other localities in the metropolitan area have been
participating.           But the D.C. Council on Tuesday quickly voted to limit
the program's reach, saying it could discourage immigrants who are crime victims
or witnesses from working with police, ultimately making the city less safe.

_blankSecure Communities calls for local jurisdictions to hold a suspected
illegal immigrant who has been arrested for 48 hours so ICE can interview the
detainee and decide whether to seek deportation.

The D.C. Council unanimously passed a bill to detain only those who have been
previously convicted of a "dangerous" crime and only for an additional 24 hours
beyond the time they would otherwise be held. Under the legislation, the city
would hold people only if the federal government paid for the additional day of
incarceration. And it would prohibit city officials from participating in a
"generalized search of or inquiry about inmates" conducted by federal
authorities. Mayor Vincent C. Gray (D) is expected to sign the bill.
Danielle Bennett, spokeswoman for ICE, said in a statement that the agency
"anticipates that law enforcement agencies will comply" with the 48-hour
detainer, though "ICE has not sought to compel compliance through legal
proceedings. Jurisdictions that ignore detainers bear the risk of possible
public safety risks."

Council member Phil Mendelson (D-At Large), chairman of the council's public
safety and judiciary committee, said the legislation is needed to keep the
federal government from "using local government for federal immigration
enforcement."

"That works against community policing," Mendelson said. "We want people who are
victims to report crime, and we want witnesses to report crime."

Kristopher Baumann, head of the D.C. police union, disagreed, calling
Mendelson's and others' comments about the program "fear mongering."

"This was a program in place that would actually help keep people safe and keep
bad folks out of the streets," Baumann said.

Bennett said the implementation of Secure Communities, started by the federal
government in 2008, has been staggered so the agency can cope with the new data.

From March 2009, when Fairfax County activated the program, through March 2012,
1,246 people were removed from the county through the initiative, and 408 of
them had committed serious crimes, such as murder or drug trafficking, or were
considered threats to national security, according to ICE. Prince George's
County, which started the program in December 2009, has removed 493 people.
Since the program's start in Montgomery County in February, there have been no
deportations there.D.C. politicians have long opposed Secure Communities.

In October, Gray signed an executive order that bars D.C. police and corrections
officials from asking those they come in contact with about their immigration
status. They also will not enforce an ICE detainer or warrant issued against
someone who has not committed another crime. Bennett said the program does not
put any additional requirements - such as forcing police to actively check
someone's immigration status - on local governments. She said ICE does not
direct local police on how or when to collect the fingerprints, which are sent
to the FBI and then ICE.

D.C. Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier said in a statement that the onset of Secure
Communities would not change the way officers interact with people in the
community.

"The members of the police department will not be involved in the identification
of undocumented foreign nationals or the enforcement of civil immigration laws,"
Lanier said. "Additionally, we will continue to proactively protect witnesses
and victims of crime through all available means."

According to Pedro Ribeiro, a Gray spokesman, the problem with the program is
when undocumented people worry that they will run into trouble with ICE, whether
or not they would actually be subject to removal. For instance, he said, an
undocumented domestic-abuse victim may be reluctant to report the crime, fearing
deportation.

"It's one of these things where local law enforcement and local elected
officials know what's best for their communities, not the secretary of homeland
security," Ribeiro said.

mihir.zaveri@washpost.com

Staff writers Mike DeBonis and Tim Craig contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 16, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Opened doors spark fears of job competition

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: A section; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1128 words


President Obama has just opened a floodgate of opportunity for young illegal
immigrants in the United States, but could it squeeze the aspirations of legal
Americans in the process?

Across the nation Friday, immigrant advocates and Hispanic youth groups hailed
Obama's decision to offer legal status to some undocumented immigrants under 30
as a watershed in U.S. immigration history and a long-sought victory for
ambitious youths denied a chance to realize the American dream.

"I thank God for this day. It has changed my whole life," Jorge Acuna, 19, a
college student in Silver Spring who came to the United States with his family
as a child, told a cheering crowd outside the White House on Friday afternoon,
minutes after Obama announced the new policy. Last spring, the community college
student was nearly deported to his native Colombia. Now, under the amnesty, he
will be able to pursue his degree in engineering.

But opponents of illegal immigration warned that the policy could create
significant new competition for jobs and university slots at a time of
nationwide recession and numerous states' efforts to curb public spending.

"I see a tidal wave coming," said Brad Botwin, president of Help Save Maryland,
a group that opposes legalization for undocumented immigrants. "Half of our
college graduates today can't find jobs, and the unemployment rate for
high-school-aged Americans is extremely high. This is unfair to U.S. citizens
and legal immigrants who are out there struggling to get ahead."

Residency not provided

Under the new policy, as many as 1.4 million undocumented immigrants under age
30 will be able to apply for the amnesty, allowing them to work and attend
college legally. To be eligible, they must have been in the United States for
five years, have no criminal record, and attend high school or college or be a
military veteran.          The policy does not provide permanent legal
residency, but it protects those who qualify from being deported and gives them
a chance to renew their new status every two years. It also does not grant any
public benefits, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Federal law already grants all
undocumented immigrants the right to a public-school education and emergency
hospital care.

The new policy could entail additional costs for administration and enforcement,
however, and put pressure on state systems of higher education to meet growing
demand for slots.

But it could also bring new revenue. Many illegal workers are paid in cash, and
taxes or other costs are not deducted. One congressional study found that the
Dream Act, a stalled proposal to grant legal residency to young immigrants who
graduate from high school and attend college or join the military, would add
$2.3 billion in tax revenue over 10 years.

"Texas and California will definitely benefit from this," said Marielena
Hincapie, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center in Los
Angeles, adding that the two states have large populations of Hispanic
immigrants who will now be able to open businesses, hire people and earn more.

Advocates for the change said it will create a more lawful atmosphere in
immigrant communities and reduce the fear of deportation, which often prevents
people from reporting crimes or seeking help with problems. But critics
predicted that it would have the opposite effect, proving difficult to enforce
and encouraging more illegal immigrants to use false identification documents to
fit within the amnesty's legal requirements.

It was not immediately clear how the policy would dovetail with state laws and
policies on illegal immigration. In the absence of a broad federal mandate,
states have passed a variety of laws ranging from the relatively lax to the
extremely strict. In the first three months of 2012, more than 860 bills and
resolutions concerning immigration were introduced in state legislatures.

California, Texas and eight other states have laws giving in-state tuition
benefits to illegal immigrants. Maryland passed such a law, but it has been
stalled by legal challenges. The new federal policy does not address this issue,
however. At the other end of the spectrum, Arizona and Alabama have passed tough
laws barring illegal immigrants from a range of activities and allowed police to
check their legal status. Other states have passed laws to limit various types
of public benefits available for illegal immigrants.

"The first thing that will make a difference to me is that now I can drive
legally," said Victor Palafox, 20, a Mexican immigrant and high school graduate
who was visiting Washington from Alabama on Friday. "It gives me my humanity
back."

Immigration advocates as well as critics said the new policy is far from an
adequate substitute for an overhaul of the entire federal immigration system.
The issue is highly emotional and partisan, and lawmakers have repeatedly failed
to agree on a broad policy to deal with the estimated 11.2 million illegal
immigrants in the United States.

"Due to congressional inaction, we have seen a lot of laws passed at the state
level that in many cases only add chaos," said Clarissa Martinez, an official of
the National Council of La Raza in Washington. "Where the administration is
justified and able, they should intervene, as they have done in this case. But
it only intensifies the need for Congress to act."          The most significant
and contentious aspect of the new policy is that it automatically grants
hundreds of thousands of people in their teens and 20s - most of them from
Mexico and Central America - the right to work in the United States. Many may
have already been working, but as undocumented laborers they often had to accept
low wages and poor conditions.

"For hundreds of thousands of young people, the immediate effect will be that
they can exhale and go out and look for a job," said Gustavo Andrade, an
official of the pro-immigrant group CASA of Maryland.

Effect on low-wage jobs?

But Steven Camarota, a researcher with the nonprofit Center for Immigration
Studies in Washington, said that the Obama administration was not taking into
account the new measure's probable impact on competition for jobs at the low end
of the economic scale, where chronic unemployment is highest. Among Americans
with less than a high school education, he said, the jobless rate is 13
percent."It doesn't seem the administration is considering the cascading
consequences," Camarota said. "What does this mean for unemployed Americans who
will be competing for jobs with a million-plus people who can now apply for work
authorization? Is this really a good idea?"

constablep@washpost.com

Staff writers Krissah Thompson and Peter Whoriskey contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 16, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Policy shift gives reprieve to some illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A section; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1161 words


President Obama said Friday his administration would stop deporting some illegal
immigrants who were brought to the country as children and have gone on to be
productive and otherwise law-abiding residents, forcing the emotional
immigration policy debate into the forefront of the presidential campaign.

Obama described his decision as the "right thing to do for the American people,"
but many Democrats and immigration advocates also saw it as the right strategic
move to boost his reelection chances.

The policy puts political pressure on Obama's Republican challenger, Mitt
Romney, by highlighting past GOP opposition to legislation designed to help
young immigrants and by forcing Romney to confront his party's sharp divisions
over the issue.

But the shift also carried some danger for the president, who risks alienating
centrist swing voters who tend to be more conservative on immigration issues and
could see the move as politically opportunistic.

Several conservative Republican lawmakers quickly denounced Obama's move as
"backdoor amnesty."

One Republican, Rep. Steve King of Iowa, said he planned to sue to block the
president's policy.

The announcement followed a years-long dispute between the president and
immigration advocates, who had warned in a series of private encounters that he
would lose credibility with Hispanic voters if he did not use his power to help
a group of young people that had become the most visible and sympathetic target
of his administration's aggressive deportation policies.          The president
had long insisted that he lacked the legal authority to halt the removals,
calling instead for passage of the Dream Act, the stymied legislation intended
to put many illegal immigrant students and veterans on a path to citizenship.

But the White House began to feel more pressure from advocates this spring when
a prominent Hispanic Republican, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, began working with
activists on a scaled-back version of the bill.

On Friday, Obama seemed to find a middle ground, granting a two-year reprieve
from deportation for certain eligible immigrants but not granting them legal
status.

"These are young people who study in our schools, they play in our
neighborhoods, they're friends with our kids, they pledge allegiance to our
flag," Obama said during an afternoon Rose Garden appearance. "They are
Americans in their heart, in their minds, in every single way but one: on
paper."

Romney has opposed the Dream Act in the past and staked out other hard-line
positions on immigration. He has come under fire from some party leaders who say
he is turning off Hispanic voters.

Polls show Obama holds a wide lead among Hispanics, but Republican strategists
think Romney can win the election even if he peels only a fraction of Hispanic
voters away from the president.

Romney issued a careful statement, telling reporters during a campaign bus tour
in New Hampshire that he favored a more permanent legislative fix.

"I think the action that the president took today makes it more difficult to
reach that long-term solution because an executive order is, of course, just a
short-term matter," Romney said.

Romney's tightrope walk was made clearer when he said that he agreed with a
statement issued Friday by Rubio gently criticizing the Obama policy, only to be
followed later by aides clarifying that Romney was not endorsing Rubio's
potential legislation.

Former Mississippi governor Haley Barbour, a top GOP strategist, told reporters
that Romney's past statements on immigration allowed Democrats to label him
anti-immigrant. "I would just have a different policy from what he has
espoused," Barbour said of Romney.

Eligible immigrants will now receive "deferred action," which essentially means
a two-year reprieve from deportation along with the chance to apply for a work
permit. The decisions will be made on a case-by-case basis, and officials said
Friday that not everyone granted the reprieve will immediately gain the right to
work.

The deferral will be available to immigrants who can prove that they came to the
United States when they were younger than 16, have lived in the country
continuously for at least five years and are currently in the country. They must
be in school, have graduated from high school, have obtained a general education
development certificate, or be honorably discharged veterans of the military or
the Coast Guard.

They also must not be older than 30 and must never have been convicted of a
felony, a significant misdemeanor or multiple misdemeanor offenses or otherwise
pose a threat to national security or public safety.

The change was not imposed by executive order. Instead, it effectively extends
an existing policy of "prosecutorial discretion," in which immigration officials
last year were instructed to prioritize the removal of felons, repeat border
crossers and others considered to be security risks. Officials said the
government would continue its aggressive enforcement policies but with greater
care not to remove young people who came as children.

The administration announced the new policy a week before Obama was scheduled to
address the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials'
annual conference near Orlando. Romney is scheduled to speak to the group
Thursday, as are Rubio and former Florida governor Jeb Bush, a Dream Act
supporter who has urged the GOP to soften its rhetoric on immigration. It also
comes in advance of a Supreme Court ruling on the controversial Arizona
immigration law.

Arturo Vargas, executive director of the NALEO group, said Friday he was unsure
whether the policy would have the effect that advocates had hoped for, noting
that immigrants would have to step forward to apply with no guarantee of
success.

"People are getting more excited than what really is there," Vargas said.

Still, the response Friday was overwhelmingly positive from immigration
advocates, particularly those who had personally sparred with Obama over the
past two years.

"If what we heard [Friday] is exactly what happens, it was about time," said
Angelica Salas, a Los Angeles-based activist who first confronted Obama about
the deportations during a March 2010 meeting in the Roosevelt Room.

Obama is "putting his political power behind this," said Gaby Pacheco, 27, an
activist who came to the United States from Ecuador when she was 7 and went on
to graduate from college and prepare for a career in teaching. "We're close to
an election, and so I don't think that they're going to mess this up."

Pacheco, who had been working with Rubio on his legislation, said she planned on
applying for the "deferred action" reprieve. She hoped the policy would pressure
Congress to act.

"It's inevitable for us to eventually become citizens of this country," she
said.

And if that happens, said Pacheco, who lives in Miami, she might just run for
Congress someday.

wallstenp@washpost.com

Staff writer Philip Rucker contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 16, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Passage would create an immigration nightmare

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 227 words


The June 11 front-page article "A question of merit" didn't tell the whole story
about the Dream Act.It's true that when people don't know the facts, the Dream
Act has some appeal. After all, we are all naturally sympathetic when children
are involved. But the descriptions of the Dream Act often voiced by its
supporters are not accurate. And the consequences are never told.

Dream Act supporters claim that only children would benefit from such a bill,
but the facts tell another story. Under most Dream Act proposals, amnesty would
be given to individuals up to the age of 30 - not exactly children. Other
proposals don't even have an age limit.

The Dream Act also rewards the illegal immigrant parents who knowingly violated
our laws. Once children become U.S. citizens, they can petition for their
illegal immigrant parents and adult siblings to be legalized. Those adults will
then bring in others in an endless chain, which only encourages more illegal
immigration.

Dream Act proposals are also a magnet for fraud. Many illegal immigrants will
falsely claim that they came here as children or that they are under 30, and the
federal government has no way to check whether their claims are true. The facts
show that the Dream Act is riddled with loopholes.

Lamar Smith, Washington

The writer, a Texas Republican, is the chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 17, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Out of the shadows

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 463 words


THROUGH NO FAULT of their own, a generation of children of undocumented
immigrants who came to the United States as young children has lived in the
shadows of American life. President Obama's announcement Friday that the
government will give them a two-year reprieve from possible deportation will
ease fears that long have haunted many of them. Those who take advantage of the
offer and are approved can then seek official work permits.           The
reprieve is aimed at those who might be described as most likely to succeed: an
estimated 800,000 people, under 30 years old, in school or having graduated or
served in the armed forces, without a significant criminal record, who pose no
threat to national security or public safety. In many cases they are strivers
who have known only America as home. Deporting them to countries they left as
children makes no sense.

So on policy grounds, the action is right; we have strongly supported
legislation that would accomplish a similar purpose. But there's the rub.
Congress chose not to act on that legislation. In December 2010 the Dream Act,
which would have created a pathway toward citizenship for young, undocumented
immigrants, died in the Senate. Mr. Obama's announcement does not go as far as
that bill; it does not provide a path to citizenship. Instead the president is
choosing to selectively enforce existing law. Is this how our system is supposed
to work?

Janet Napolitano, secretary of homeland security, said that the government
determined that prosecution of these young, undocumented immigrants is a low
priority compared to pursuing other cases of criminals or people who pose a risk
to national security. The immigration laws must be enforced, the secretary
insisted, but "they are not designed to be blindly enforced." What does that
mean? Sure, prosecutors always have to make choices and set priorities. But it
is unsettling to see the president and his administration openly declare that
they will not enforce a law on the books because they don't think it's a good
law. The obvious political ramifications so close to an election, with Mr. Obama
hoping to attract Latino votes, only heighten the unease.

Mr. Obama's announcement offers a temporary reprieve to these young immigrants,
but after the celebrations, another worry looms. While no longer threatened with
deportation, they could find themselves still in a twilight zone, an underclass
without a map toward a full role in American society.

For the 11 million undocumented immigrants who are in the United States today,
as well as for the nation's economy and law enforcement system, the best and
only sustainable solution is a comprehensive overhaul of the law.

The president's action should not be another excuse for bickering and delay.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 17, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Obama to block deportation of young illegal immigrants

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 256 words


President Obama said Friday that his administration will block deportations of
hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants who had been brought to the
country as children, declaring that it was "the right thing to do" for those
affected and for the country.

"Effective immediately, the Department of Homeland Security is taking steps to
lift the shadow of deportation from these young people," Obama said during the
announcement in the White House Rose Garden. "Over the next few months, eligible
individuals who do not present a risk to national security or public safety will
be able to request temporary relief from deportation proceedings and apply for
work authorization."He said the action was being taken in the absence of any
move in Congress "to fix our broken immigration system." He described the step
as a "temporary" measure and urged lawmakers to pass more permanent solutions
such as the DREAM Act and comprehensive immigration reform.

"This is not amnesty," Obama declared. "This is not immunity. This is not a path
to citizenship. It's not a permanent fix. This is a temporary stopgap measure
that lets us focus our resources wisely, while giving a degree of relief and
hope to talented, driven, patriotic young people. It is the right thing to do."

The policy change, first announced by Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano in a statement Friday morning, effectively ends a years-long standoff
with Hispanic activists who are crucial to the president's reelection campaign.

- Peter Wallsten and William Branigin

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 18, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Alabama law casts a long shadow

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1826 words


Hidden behind the Banco del Sol and the Tienda El Nio is the economic pillar of
this rural town: a massive factory that processes 130,000 chickens a day.
Inside, headless plucked birds move along conveyor belts while 300 workers, in
repeated deft strokes, slice each passing carcass into chunks of kitchen-ready
meat.

For years, most poultry workers here were Mexican immigrants, including some who
were in the country illegally. But last fall, after a tough state law against
illegal immigrants took effect, many vanished overnight, rattling the town's
large Hispanic community and leaving the poultry business scrambling to find
workers willing to stand for hours in a wet, chilly room, cutting up dead
chickens.

"Even someone born and raised in Albertville may not have the necessary skills
or be able to pass a background check," said Frank Singleton, a spokesman for
Wayne Farms, which owns the slaughterhouse. The firm held a job fair that
attracted about 250 local residents, but few were hired, and some soon quit,
daunted by the demanding work. Since the law took effect, he said, "our turnover
rate has gone through the roof."

Sponsors of the law say it has done exactly what they had hoped, driving tens of
thousands of illegal immigrants from the state. The U.S. Justice Department has
challenged some parts of the law, and President Obama's announcement Friday of a
temporary legal amnesty for more than 1 million young undocumented immigrants
nationwide clashes directly with Alabama's legislation.

"All our activities will be for naught if the president grants amnesty to
everyone," state Sen. Scott Beason, the chief sponsor of the Alabama law, said
Friday. Still, with the U.S. Supreme Court expected to rule shortly on a similar
law in Arizona, champions of the Alabama measure hope that their legal position
will be largely vindicated. "If Arizona is a success, then Alabama will be a
success, too," Beason said.

The state senator said he had "absolutely no doubt" that the law, and the
resulting exodus of illegal workers, has started putting more Alabamans to work.
Beason noted that the state's unemployment rate has fallen sharply since last
fall, from 9.8 percent to 7.2 percent, and he said the new law was "a big part"
of the reason. "I get phone calls from people thanking me all the time," he
said.

Nevertheless, a variety of employers in Alabama said they have not been able to
find enough legal residents to replace the seasoned Hispanic field pickers,
drywall hangers, landscapers and poultry workers who fled the state. There was
an initial rush of job applications, they said, but many new employees quit or
were let go.

Wayne Smith, 56, raises tomatoes on a family farm in the misty hills of Chandler
Mountain, a 40-minute drive from Albertville. Last fall, he said, his entire
Mexican crew ran off, and Smith and his neighbors scoured the area for new
workers. The growers pay $2 for every large box of picked tomatoes, and a worker
must be able to pluck fast all day, bent over in the hot sun, to fill two or
three dozen boxes.

"The whites lasted half a day, and the blacks wouldn't come at all. The work was
just too hot and hard for them," Smith said. He dismissed the argument, often
made by critics of illegal immigration, that Americans might do the work if
offered a higher and hourly wage. "We've been using Mexicans for 30 years, and
now they've been run off," he said. "Everyone is worried about Arizona. If this
law sticks, what'll we do then?"

'A chilling effect'

Alabama's law makes it a crime for illegal immigrants to buy a house, pay a
utility bill or sign a contract. It also penalizes those who employ them, allows
police to ask drivers at roadside checkpoints or routine traffic stops about
their immigration status, and requires schools to ask about the legal status of
all new students.

Although there is no doubt that many illegal immigrants have left Alabama since
October, studies by economists at the University of Alabama indicate that the
drop in unemployment is partly due to other factors. They report that the number
of workers overall has been shrinking, in part from baby-boomer retirements and
in part from discouraged workers suspending their job searches.

At the Wayne Farms plant in Albertville, officials said that since the law took
effect, they have spent more than $5 million to train new workers and compensate
for lost production. Singleton said the factory had also lost some legal
Hispanic workers, who left the state rather than be separated from their
illegal-immigrant spouses. "This law has created a chilling effect on the whole
Latino community," he said.

Today, the factory's workforce of about 1,000 is a diverse and unstable mix. It
includes Hispanics who have passed federal ID checks, local whites and blacks,
and even a group of refugees from Ethiopia and Burma, provided by an employment
agency whose Web site offers, "We will help you clean house before ICE does it
for you."

In interviews in the factory parking lot, a few white and black workers said
they had been hired recently. One middle-aged black man, who gave his name only
as William, said he had been through some hard times and was grateful to have
landed steady work. "A lot of Americans don't want to do manual labor, but it's
an honest living, and it pays the bills," he said.

Half a dozen Latino workers said they had legal papers, but several others said
they had "borrowed" someone else's ID. One young immigrant from Central America,
who gave his name only as Juan, said he was making a decent wage at the factory
but was afraid to drive his car, because his license had expired and he was not
legally permitted to renew it.

"So many neighbors have left," he said. "Nobody goes out at night. Nobody is
calm. Nothing is certain." At his workplace, he added, "there are more Americans
now, Africans, even Asians. . . . Little by little, they are getting rid of us
all."

Hispanic leaders in Alabama said Friday that they are not certain how Obama's
amnesty for many illegal immigrants younger than 30 would affect the situation
in Alabama. Salvador Cervantes, an activist who organized protests against the
state law, called the president's action "a great relief for all of us," but he
added that it was not clear how state officials would respond.

A town in upheaval

On the surface, Albertville, a busy town of 22,000, does not seem much changed
by the new law. Its Hispanic community, which surged from near zero in 1990 to
almost 30 percent of the populace in 2010, is still very much in evidence. On
almost every street, there are signs in Spanish - taquerias, peluquerias,
Iglesia de Dios, Reyna Novedades.

But several trailer parks once fully occupied by Hispanics lie half empty, and
Hispanic store owners said there is less demand for items such as fresh
tortillas and discount phone cards to Mexico, partly because some customers left
and some of the others who stayed behind are reluctant to shop. They also said
social interaction between Hispanics and others is stiffer.

"People who know me suddenly ask me whether I am legal," said Mireya Bonilla,
who has owned La Orquidea, a large Hispanic grocery and diner, since the early
1990s. Both white and Hispanic families still come in for lunch, but Bonilla
said she feels less comfortable than before. "What's hard is the way people look
at you now," she said.

Across the room, a white-haired diner, who gave his name only as Bruce, said he
had visited Central America and helped raise money through his church to fight
poverty there. Yet he also said he supported the state law.

"I hate to see what's happening to the Hispanics. Their community is suffering,
and so is the economy," he said. "But if the laws had been enforced 20 years
ago, we wouldn't be having these problems. Now we have this new law, so we need
to give it time to work."

Albertville Mayor Lindsey Lyons said the Hispanic influx had been a
"double-edged sword" for the town, bringing crime and social problems as well as
a source of labor and revenue. Since many illegal immigrants left, he said,
there had been a drop in illegal drug activity, prostitution and car accidents.
But he also acknowledged that some businesses had suffered.

"The bill has done what was intended, but it is not the permanent answer," he
said. "We need Congress to compromise and come up with a better immigration
system. We want these people to learn English and become citizens." If all the
illegal immigrants left the area, Lyons added, "our industries would shut down."

No one really knows how many of the state's estimated 180,000 illegal immigrants
have left or been replaced, but the rash of criticism from employers that depend
on immigrant labor was so intense by this spring that Beason, the state senator,
sponsored a revised version of the law to ease penalties for businesses that
employ illegal immigrants.

Asked about employers' recruitment difficulties, Beason said it would take time
for Alabama natives to return to the kind of menial jobs they did before
immigrants crowded out the field, accepting work for lower wages. He said he
hoped that the law would improve the "work ethic" of young people and give
jobless dropouts a chance to start over. "Using illegals has warped the job
market and taken unfair advantage of them, too," Beason said.

Living in constant fear

The outcry from legal Hispanic residents has been another unforeseen
complication. Mexican communities here are a dense mix of legal and illegal
residents, often within the same families. Some breadwinners who fled to
neighboring states have returned to their wives and children, using fake work
IDs or trying to stay invisible at home. Their legal relatives live in a shared
state of tension, fearful of having family cars confiscated by police or
documents rejected by suspicious clerks.

A few miles outside Albertville, Armando Macias, 43, lives in a trailer with his
wife, Nora, and their two small children. The rooms are decorated with prayers
and a candlelit shrine to the Virgin of Guadalupe.

Macias, who came to the United States in 1989, has a work permit. Both children
are U.S. citizens, and the family has spent thousands of dollars on lawyers so
Nora can become a legal resident. The parents said the new law has left them
confused and scared, reluctant even to seek public vaccination cards for the
children.

"People think we are illegal now because of our skin," said Macias, who often
drives up Chandler Mountain to work in the tomato fields. The family has had
domestic problems and brushes with the law; Macias was once arrested for being
drunk, and welfare workers removed the children until the trailer was
refurbished. Still, the couple seem determined and united.

"We have made mistakes, but we are not criminals or terrorists," Macias said.
"We came here to work, and Alabama is our home, but now we're not wanted."

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 19, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

BYLINE: Aaron Blake

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 404 words


Latino vote could boost Obama, but turnout will be a challenge

President Obama's announcement Friday that he would stop the deportation of some
800,000 young illegal immigrants who were brought here by their parents isn't
likely to increase his share of the Latino vote much.

But there is still plenty for him to gain: turnout and enthusiasm in a community
in which both are severely lacking.

Polling on the matter has long shown Obama taking about the same portion of the
Latino vote as he did in the 2008 election - around two-thirds. And he will be
hard pressed to exceed that performance this year.

But even as his advantage has stayed largely the same, there were plenty of
signs that Latinos might just stay home this year. Record deportations of
illegal immigrants by the Obama administration and lack of action on immigration
reform have made Latinos much less enthusiastic about Obama.

A report from the Pew Hispanic Center in December, in fact, showed Obama's
approval rating among Latinos dropping to 49 percent, even as 68 percent said
they still preferred him over Mitt Romney. Obama's decline in this community has
been bigger than almost any other demographic group.

Similarly, a Latino Decisions poll conducted earlier this year showed 53 percent
of Latinos said they were less enthusiastic about voting for Obama this year
than in 2008, compared with 30 percent who were more enthusiastic.

That gap is particularly troubling for Obama given the fact that Latino turnout
often lags behind that of other demographics. Despite the historic Latino
support for Obama in 2008, America's largest minority group still has big
turnout problems, and it's a distinct possibility that many Latinos will simply
sit this one out.

Latino turnout reached new heights in both the 2008 and 2010 elections, but
basically all of that increase was a result of population growth. Meanwhile,
Latino leaders have struggled to turn out their increasingly powerful voter
bloc.

Latino voter registration has dropped by 5 percent since the 2008 election. Some
dropoff is normal after a presidential election, but the size of the decrease in
Latino registration was bigger than at any point in the last four decades.

In other words, there is a huge untapped resource out there for Obama. He tapped
it to a large extent in 2008, but there's still plenty of motivating to do.

- Aaron Blake

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 22, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

Romney tries to soften image among Latinos

BYLINE: Felicia Sonmez;Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1209 words


ORLANDO - Mitt Romney, who courted conservative Republican primary voters with
hard-line opposition to illegal immigration, took a first step Thursday toward
trying to soften his image among skeptical Hispanic voters - pledging to speak
in a "civil and resolute manner" and that he would loosen some restrictions on
the flow of legal foreign workers.

But the presumed GOP presidential nominee showed in his appearance before a
major Hispanic group that he is not prepared to back down from many of the
positions that have put him at odds with some immigrants, advocacy groups and
members of his party.

He did not say what should happen to the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants
in the United States, nor did he mention the Dream Act, the stalled legislation
he previously vowed to veto that would legalize many young people brought to the
country as children.

Instead, Romney told about 1,000 attendees at the the National Association of
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials meeting at Disney World that President
Obama had not fulfilled his promises for Hispanics. Obama is scheduled to
address the group on Friday - the first time he has attended the NALEO annual
gathering, as Romney pointed out, since 2008.

"He may admit that he has not kept every promise, and he'll probably say that
even though you aren't better off than you were four years ago, things could be
worse," Romney said. "He will imply that you don't really have an alternative. I
believe he's taking your vote for granted. I come here today with a very simple
message: You do have an alternative."

The back-to-back appearances here underscore the growing importance of Hispanic
voters, particularly in battleground states such as Colorado, Nevada and
Virginia that are vital to the president's reelection strategy. Polls show that
among Latino adults, Obama holds a lead of 68 to Romney's 30, according to
Washington Post-ABC News surveys - but Republican strategists think that
increasing Romney's share to 40 percent could be enough to win the election.
In 2008, Obama won 67 percent of the Hispanic vote, compared with 31 percent for
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.).

Immigration has emerged in recent weeks as a flash point in the presidential
race, with Obama and Romney staking out sharply different positions.

Obama heightened the pressure on Romney last week with his administration's move
to halt the deportations of hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants
who might have been eligible for help under the Dream Act. The issue will return
to the fore next week, when the Supreme Court is expected to rule on the Obama
administration's challenge to Arizona's tough anti-illegal-immigration law,
which Romney and many Republicans supported.

In his speech Thursday, Romney ridiculed the president's action on deportations,
which grants "deferred action" to certain law-abiding immigrants younger than 30
who came to the United States as children. He said Obama, despite having
Democratic majorities in Congress for two years, "failed to act until facing a
tough reelection and trying to secure your vote."

But Romney stopped short of promising he would reverse the policy, saying he
would "put in place my own long-term solution that will replace and supercede
the president's temporary measure."

Romney reiterated his pledge to help illegal immigrants who are serving in the
military, saying he would push for a "path to legal status for anyone who is
willing to stand up and defend this great nation through military service." He
did not mention that illegal immigrants are barred from service, but his
campaign said later that Romney would support allowing certain immigrants
brought as children to join.

Democrats and liberal immigration advocates were quick to denounce Romney's
speech as a sign that he plans to hew closely to the wishes of the conservative
Republican base when it comes to immigration.

"Any chance Mitt Romney had of substantially improving his standing with Latino
voters in 2012 ended" with Thursday's speech, said Simon Rosenberg, president of
the liberal think tank NDN and an adviser to Democrats on the Hispanic vote. "He
had a chance to start fresh, but chose to double down on a set of policies
simply unacceptable to the vast majority of Latinos."

Romney, who has staked out a hard-line stance against illegal immigration since
his first presidential campaign in 2008, faces a steep political challenge.
Democrats are armed with multiple video clips from Republican primary debates in
which he hit his opponents for supporting measures such as charging in-state
college tuition for illegal immigrants.

Moreover, Romney's views on immigration have highlighted a potential divide
between him and other Republicans, including Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), who have
supported finding a way to legalize students and college graduates in addition
to those who serve in the military.

Other Republicans have criticized the tone of his past statements, saying he
risks portraying the GOP as anti-Hispanic.                       Romney appeared
to directly answer those concerns on Thursday, while tweaking Obama. "I'm going
to address the issue of illegal immigration in a civil and resolute manner," he
said. "We may not always agree, but when I make a promise to you, I will keep
it."

In the lead-up to his address, Romney sought to align himself more closely on
the issue with Rubio, a Cuban American who many conservatives hope will be
Romney's running mate. His criticism of Obama's deportation policy mirrored
Rubio's. And Rubio, asked by reporters at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast
in Washington hours before Romney's address to analyze Romney's approach on
immigration, described him as a "very mature and serious political leader"
seeking a balanced approach to a complicated issue.

One prominent GOP supporter of the Dream Act, former Florida governor Jeb Bush,
who has called on the party to soften its tone on immigration, praised Romney's
speech.

"I was very pleased with it," he said. "I heard a consistent message of border
control, but I think he expanded it out to talk about reforming the immigration
system itself."

Attendees who listened to the speech gave the presumptive GOP nominee a mixed
reaction as he spoke, highlighting the diverse views among Hispanic voters. Some
booed Romney, and others applauded, when he pledged to repeal Obama's
health-care law; and Romney's remarks on immigration reform in particular drew a
range of reactions.Some, such as Trini Lopez, the mayor of Socorro, Tex.,
expressed cautious optimism.

Lopez said that among the "enticing offers" to the Latino community Romney laid
out on Thursday was his proposal to reform the work visa system. Even so, Lopez
said, before he decides whom to vote for, he needs to hear personally from
Obama, who will address the group on Friday.

Others, such as Phoenix City Councilman Daniel Valenzuela, voiced skepticism.

"If that message was heard a few months ago, it would mean more today," he said
of Romney's advocacy for fixing immigration laws. "But if that message was heard
a few months ago, he probably would not be the Republican nominee."

sonmezf@washpost.com

wallstenp@washpost.com

Wallsten reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 24, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

5 Myths about the Dream generation

BYLINE: Roberto G. Gonzales

SECTION: Outlook; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1135 words


1. The Dream generation is Latino.

Young undocumented Americans come from a cross-section of countries in Asia,
Europe, Africa and Latin America. There are growing numbers of non-Latino, Dream
Act-eligible students on university campuses across the country. In the
University of California system, for example, more than 40 percent of the
undocumented students are Asian. And Dreamers from 15 countries, including
Nigeria, Germany and Israel, appeared on the cover of Time magazine this month.
According to research from the University of California at Irvine, the countries
that send the most undocumented immigrants to the United States also send the
largest numbers of legal immigrants. Following Mexicans and Central Americans,
Filipinos, Indians and Koreans round out the top five . The communities that the
Dream Act would help don't all speak Spanish.

2. If we make it tough for these students and their families, they will
self-deport.

Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney supports self-deportation - the
idea that stricter immigration laws will make life for undocumented immigrants
so unbearable that they will leave. Arizona, which allows local police officers
to make routine stops of anyone they suspect is undocumented, has embraced this
view.          But self-deportation is unrealistic. Young immigrants' lives are
rooted in the United States. They speak English. They go to American schools.
Alongside their U.S.-born peers, they watch "SpongeBob SquarePants," read
"Twilight" and "The Hunger Games," and love Lady Gaga. While they may have had
little choice in their parents' decision to migrate, they are here to stay.

Unsurprisingly, few of America's 11 million undocumented immigrants have lined
up to leave. The Pew Research Center estimates that the number of Mexicans here
is declining, but to my knowledge there is no data on Dreamers returning to
their countries of origin.

3. All Dream Act students came here illegally.

According to the Pew Hispanic Center , up to 45 percent of undocumented
immigrants entered the United States legally with valid visas. Still, after
someone overstays a visa, U.S. immigration law makes becoming a legal immigrant
difficult. Without a "hardship waiver," immigrants must return to their country
of origin to reapply for visas. And upon departure, they risk incurring bars on
reentry of up to 10 years. This process encourages undocumented people to remain
in the shadows - and encourages those who do leave the country after overstaying
their visas to reenter illegally.

Several years ago, I met a young Korean man in New York who has been in the
United States since he was a baby; his parents came here for college, then
overstayed their student visas. Though he graduated from college and dreamed of
being a federal judge, he works in his parents' grocery store partly because he
can't apply for a white-collar job without papers. Because he is 32, he would
not benefit from the Obama administration's new policy, which covers people
under 30.

4. The Obama administration's new immigration policy means we don't need the
Dream Act.

Obama's new policy grants deserving youth a kind of second-class citizenship.
The greater stability that the Dream Act would provide, including a path to full
citizenship, would be better.

For the Dream generation, life is fraught with mental and emotional stress. As
its members reach the end of high school, they are often unable to participate
in the rites of passage that their friends experience - learning to drive,
working part time and applying to college. Many choose not to share their secret
with their friends or teachers, separating themselves from critical support
networks. To help their parents, many turn to low-wage jobs, risking
deportation. Learning to be "illegal" takes its toll.

In more than 10 years of research, I've met hundreds of Dreamers across the
country. I've talked with dozens who suffer from chronic headaches, ulcers,
difficulty sleeping and trouble getting out of bed. Last November, an
undocumented high school senior in South Texas took his life. "I've realized
that I have no chance in becoming a civil engineer the way I've always dreamed
of here," he wrote in a goodbye note.

5. The Dream generation can get in line, join the military or marry a U.S.
citizen.

Immigration law makes the pathways to citizenship very rocky. Many noncitizens
do not qualify for refugee status or asylum. Many do not have a family member
who is a U.S. citizen and can petition for them. For those who do, quotas are so
small that it can take decades to make it to the front of the line. Employer
sponsorship is also difficult, as too few visas are available for skilled
workers, and visas for unskilled workers are limited to 5,000 per year. And the
price tag of immigration is high - filing fees, medical examinations and lawyers
can cost thousands.

Meanwhile, marrying a U.S. citizen is a common path to legal status, but it's
not a guarantee. There are many exceptions. If the noncitizen entered the
country illegally, for example, a marriage will not result in permanent
residency.  And while noncitizens can enlist in the military, they must have a
valid alien registration card.

People who come here illegally do so because there's no easy legal path. For
most, there is no line to join.

rggonzales@uchicago.edu                          Roberto G. Gonzales is an
assistant professor at the University of Chicago. He is writing a book on
undocumented immigrant youth and their difficult transitions to adulthood.

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on
Twitter.President Obama's recent decision to halt the deportation of some
undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children wasn't
far ahead of public opinion. A recent Gallup poll indicated that a majority of
Americans support legislation to allow such immigrants to stay if they serve in
the military or go to college. But 11 years after the introduction of the
federal Dream (Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors) Act, which
has never been passed, misconceptions about the Dream generation remain. Where
are they coming from? Are they freeloaders taking advantage of America's
generosity?

Name                                               Blurb
Flag             true                                 Variable Size Panel Image
Panel Image
Background Image

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      June 27, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Romney's immigration problem

BYLINE: Dan Balz

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1216 words


Mitt Romney has had a lot to say about immigration over the past few days, but
what he has said adds up to a giant question mark. Rarely has a presidential
candidate had as many opportunities to clarify or recalibrate his position on a
vital issue, and rarely has a candidate passed up those opportunities as
consistently as the former governor.

It's not that Romney has mostly avoided talking about immigration during the
campaign. When it has been in his political interest, he has been more than
happy to state his views. He took on the issue repeatedly during the Republican
primaries, using it as a cudgel to attack Texas Gov. Rick Perry and former House
speaker Newt Gingrich (Ga.) and at a critical moment in his fight against former
senator Rick Santorum (Pa.).

When Perry appeared to be a threat, Romney was eager to blast the governor's
support of a long-standing Texas law that allows residents who are the children
of illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition at Texas colleges and
universities.

"It makes no sense," Romney said.

When Gingrich outlined a conciliatory approach to dealing with undocumented
immigrants who have been in the United States for a quarter-century or longer -
a policy that would have provided legal status but not a path to citizenship -
Romney attacked him, saying that any such policy would be a magnet for more
illegal immigrants. He called Gingrich's idea "a form of amnesty."

When Romney debated in Arizona and desperately needed to defeat Santorum there
and in Michigan, he appeared to say that Arizona's hard-line approach to
immigration -  including the law that  the Supreme Court mostly struck down  on
Tuesday - was a model for the nation. (The court upheld the legislation's most
contested provision, which requires law enforcement officials to check the
immigration status of people they detain and suspect to be illegal immigrants.)
Called on it by reporters, his campaign said at the time that, no, Romney didn't
say the Arizona law before the courts was a model for the nation. They said he
was talking about the state's e-verify law for businesses dealing with
applicants who might lack documentation, campaign officials said. Exactly what
the candidate thought of the strict anti-immigration  law was left to the
imagination, though he did win the endorsement of Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R)
before the primary.

Romney has long opposed a comprehensive immigration reform policy that would
include a path to citizenship for the roughly 12 million undocumented immigrants
living in the United States other than making them return to their native
countries and get in line. During one debate, he famously described this policy
as "self-deportation." He has been consistent on this through both of his
campaigns for the White House.

That brings us to the past two weeks, when the former governor went fuzzy in
public on immigration. It began when President Obama, in a move that was as
political as it was substantive, issued an order that halted the deportation of
illegal immigrants who came to the United States as children if they met certain
criteria.

Catching Romney off guard, the president put his rival in a tough spot, because
Romney had promised earlier to veto the Dream Act, which was designed to do what
Obama had just ordered. Romney could hardly have been less forthcoming when he
responded to a series of questions about whether he supported the new policy.

All he was willing to say was that he opposed the process by which the president
acted. Pressed to explain his position by Bob Schieffer on CBS's "Face the
Nation," Romney ducked the question. One exchange went as follows:

Schieffer: "But would you repeal this?"

Romney: "Well, it would be overtaken by events, if you will. . . ."

By that, Romney said he meant that he would replace the president's temporary
policy with his own permanent policy. The contents of that policy remain
unclear. Romney has said nothing to reverse his opposition to the Dream Act. He
offered little encouragement to earlier efforts by Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) to
find compromise legislation.

Romney had another chance to clarify his views on immigration when he spoke at
the meeting of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials in Florida on Thursday. There, he laid out a solid critique of Obama
for not fulfilling his 2008 campaign promise to enact comprehensive immigration
reform. But Romney again declined to say how he felt about the president's
latest action to help young illegal immigrants.Romney said that he would deal
with immigration reform as president and that when he makes a promise, he will
keep it. The next day, Obama reminded the Hispanic audience of Romney's vow to
veto the Dream Act, which Romney didn't mention in his address.

Romney told the NALEO audience that his priorities include tightening border
controls and speeding up the visa process for highly skilled immigrants who are
studying in the United States. The closest he came to alluding to his usual
positions was when he told audience members that they wouldn't always agree with
him. On the question of illegal immigration, the most he would say was that he
would deal with the issue in a "civil but resolute manner."

On Monday, Romney was equally vague in his initial comments about the Supreme
Court decision. On a coincidental campaign stop in Arizona, he slammed the
president for what he called inaction on immigration reform. And he said that
the court should recognize that each state has the right and duty to secure its
borders, especially if the federal government does not do so. But he offered no
hint as to whether he agrees with the court's decision, and his spokesman
declined to answer repeated questions from reporters.

Later, at a fundraiser in Scottsdale, Romney said he wished the court had given
states more latitude, not less, to deal with immigration. He again accused the
president of not acting on the matter when Democrats had majorities in the House
and Senate. He vowed that he would take up the issue in his first year as
president. He pledged that he would work across the aisle, but he did not
promise specific comprehensive reform.

In all that, Romney avoided any mention of the illegal immigrants who already
are in the country, an issue that has held up comprehensive reform since the
George W. Bush administration. He did not talk about the opposition within his
own party, which scuttled reform efforts when Bush sought a bipartisan solution.
He did not allude to any of the positions he staked out during the primaries.

He promised to lead but hasn't done so. It will be up to voters to decide in
which direction they think he would go.

balzd@washpost.com

For previous columns by Dan Balz, go to postpolitics.com.

Name                                               Blurb
Flag             true                                 Variable Size Panel Image
Panel Image
Background Image

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      July 25, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 416 words


ARIZONA          Sheriff denies use of ethnic profiling

Veteran Arizona lawman Joe Arpaio, who calls himself "America's toughest
sheriff," denied  Tuesday that his deputies targeted people because of the color
of their skin in a controversial crackdown on illegal immigration.

Arpaio, sheriff of Arizona's Maricopa County, was testifying in a class-action
lawsuit to test whether police can target illegal immigrants without racially
profiling Hispanic citizens and legal residents.

"I am against anyone racial profiling . . .  today as in my 50 years in law
enforcement," Arpaio said during cross-examination.

The sheriff, who is seeking re-election to a sixth term in November, has been a
lightning rod for controversy over his aggressive enforcement of immigration
laws in the border state with Mexico, as well as his investigation into the
validity of President Obama's birth certificate.

- Reuters

NEW HAMPSHIRE          More charges likely in hepatitis C case

A federal prosecutor said Tuesday that he expects to bring more charges against
a traveling medical technician accused of infecting 30 patients with hepatitis C
in New Hampshire, and health officials said they are casting a wider net as they
look for more victims.

The technician, David Kwiatkowski, was charged last week with fraudulently
obtaining drugs and tampering with a consumer product. He is accused of stealing
anesthetic drugs from the cardiac catheterization lab at Exeter Hospital where
he worked, injecting himself and contaminating syringes that were later used on
patients.

Although authorities haven't identified the other states involved, health
officials in Michigan, Maryland, Kansas and New York confirmed his employment.

- Associated Press

TEXAS          Death toll grows to 15 in pickup truck crash

Federal immigration officials say a 15th person involved in a pickup truck crash
in South Texas has died.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Greg Palmore said Tuesday
that another man died after the Sunday crash on a rural highway about 90 miles
southeast of San Antonio. That means 12 men were killed. Three females,
including two juveniles, also died. The deceased are from Mexico, Honduras and
Guatemala. Eight people remain hospitalized.

Officials say the 23 suspected illegal immigrants were traveling toward Houston
when their Ford F-250 truck veered off the road and hit trees.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 8, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Obama deportation reprieve expands

BYLINE: Sarah Parnass

SECTION: A section; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 441 words


About 350,000 more illegal immigrants than previously thought could earn an
additional two years in the United States when President Obama's new policy
takes effect next week, according to the Migration Policy Institute.

Under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, students age 30 or
younger who are enrolled in school on the day they apply will be eligible for a
two-year reprieve from deportation if they demonstrate that they came to the
United States before their 16th birthday, lived here for the past five years and
have not been convicted of certain crimes or pose a national security threat.

Before the new rule was announced last week, the program was to be open to
students enrolled in school as of June 15, 2012, or those who have graduated
high school or received a high school equivalency or honorably left the armed
services, including the Coast Guard.

The program takes effect Aug. 15, when the government will begin accepting
applications for deferral.

The application includes a fee of $465, used to fund the program, although
exemptions will be provided for minors, homeless youths, those with chronic
disabilities and those who fall below 150 percent of the poverty level.

Applicants who are denied deferral will not have the option to appeal. Those
approved will be able to separately apply for work authorization in the United
States.

The institute estimated in June that 1.4 million illegal immigrants could
benefit from the program. Those estimates included only students who were
enrolled in school as of that date.

Speaking Tuesday at a panel at the Carnegie Institution for Science, Doris
Meissner, director of the institute's U.S. Immigration Policy Program, said as
many as 1.76 million people could now be eligible, based on new guidance
released Friday by the Department of  Homeland Security.

Jeanne Batalova, an author of the report, said the program is "a powerful
incentive to go back to school" for young people who previously were not
continuing their education.

Alejandro Mayorkas, director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
emphasized that the program only serves to delay deportation for successful
applicants, without excusing "past unlawful presence."

"It does not provide a pathway to permanent residence or citizenship," Mayorkas
said.

DHS previously said that it may need to hire more than 1,400 full-time
employees, as well as contractors, to handle the volume of requests. Mayorkas
said both the number of applications and the pace at which they come in will
determine how long it takes service centers throughout the United States to
process them.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 16, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Reform changes little for many

BYLINE: Steve Hendrix;Luz Lazo

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 849 words


For thousands of undocumented immigrants who rushed to apply for new protections
from deportation, Wednesday was the life-changing day many had dreamed of for
years.

But for most, it was just Wednesday.

"I will be working today, that's all, if I can get work," said Ricardo Cruz, 22,
a Salvadoran day laborer gathered with other job seekers in a parking lot on New
Hampshire Avenue in Langley Park. "I have heard of this program, but they said
it was not for me."

Advocates hailed President Obama's offer of temporary residency and work status
to some young immigrants as the most significant reform in a generation. But, as
some have learned as the details became clear, it is a narrowly tailored one.

Fewer than 2 million of the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the
country are eligible for the program, known as deferred action, which began
accepting applications Wednesday.That leaves life in the shadows to continue
unchanged for the rest. For many who have been waiting to learn the final
details of the program, its launch brought crushing disappointment.

"It was devastating to hear I didn't qualify," said a sobbing Elsi Hernandez
after her visit to Carecen of Columbia Heights. Hernandez, 25, came to the
United States when she was 17 and graduated from high school in 2008. She only
learned while gathering documents to apply that she was too old when she arrived
from El Salvador to be eligible. "I just want to study and be a good example to
my daughters."

The program, hewing closely to the goals of the long-debated Dream Act, targets
those who were brought here as children. It is open to immigrants ages 15 to 31
who arrived before they were 16 and have lived here continuously for the past
five years or more. Among other restrictions, they must be free of serious
criminal convictions and be in school or have a high school diploma or
equivalent.

That amounts to about 1.7 million immigrants, about 15 percent of the illegal
immigrant population, although no one knows how many of those will actually
apply.

"It's a lot of people, but it does leave the vast majority of the undocumented
population still undocumented," said Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer of the
Pew Hispanic Center. "Most of the undocumented immigrants in the country now are
people who came here as adults on their own."

At legal clinics and workshops around the region Wednesday, families and young
adults came by the hundreds to learn if they would qualify for the program. The
biggest group who won't are those who are too old: An estimated 6.8 million
undocumented immigrants are 31 or older.

But many of those have children and showed up eager to find out how to sign them
up. Even as advocates explained that many of the youngsters were eligible, they
were counseling families to mix their joy with practical thinking.

"This is an extension of the split families we've had under our immigration
system for a long time, where you have children who are citizens and parents who
are not," said Jeanne Atkinson, head of immigration services at Catholic
Charities D.C. More than 50 people showed up at the group's Mount Pleasant
office Wednesday to talk to volunteer attorneys about the program. "You have to
have a plan. What are you going to do if you are deported? Who is going to be
the guardian of your children?"

Antonio Aleman, 43, of Suitland, planned to apply immediately for his children,
Beatriz, 21, and Erick, 15. The former police officer from Chalatenango, El
Salvador, brought a neat stack of documents to a workshop Wednesday evening at
CASA of Maryland in Langley Park. But his excitement was tempered by the
realization the system would now treat him and his wife differently than their
two children.

"I am happy because our children may be eligible to get a work permit and be
here legally," he said. "But it would be devastating to us to be away from our
children."

Many immigrants learned that they were in the right age bracket but fell short
on educational requirements. An estimated 320,000 of them would qualify for the
program if they could get their diploma through GED courses, according to Pew
statistics. Some were scrambling to find documents proving they hadn't left the
country for any significant periods in the past five years.

"Controlled elation," is how Thai Nguyen described the first day of application
counseling at the USA Immigration Services Group office in Falls Church.

Back in Maryland, at the parking lot on New Hampshire Avenue, none of the 14 men
gathered in hopes of picking up work had plans to apply for the program. Most
said they were older than 15 when they crossed the border, and some had traveled
back and forth several times with the ebbs and flows of the economy. None seemed
to have any sense that immigration reform, no matter how limited, had anything
to do with them.

"I'm happy if they can stay with their family," Cruz, the Salvadoran day
laborer, said of those eligible for the new program. He came here with his
brother five years ago and hopes to return soon. "That's where we all want to
be."

hendrixs@washpost.com

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 16, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 861 words


ARIZONA          Illegal immigrants to be refused benefits

Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R), in yet another clash with the White House, issued
an order on Wednesday barring illegal immigrants who qualify for temporary legal
status in the United States from receiving any state or local public benefits.

The action was a response to relaxed deportation rules issued by the Obama
administration on Wednesday.

Brewer, whose state has been at the center of the country's immigration debate,
issued an executive order denying state or local benefits to immigrants applying
under the new federal immigration rules. The order would bar them from obtaining
an Arizona driver's license or a state- issued identification card.

As many as 1.7 million people could qualify for the temporary federal program,
which enables certain illegal immigrants to apply for work permits, Social
Security cards and driver's licenses, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

Applying for "deferred action for child arrivals" permits will shield some young
illegal immigrants from being ousted from the United States for at least two
years. In Arizona, officials said an estimated 80,000 illegal immigrants were
eligible to apply.

Brewer wrote in the order that the new program "does not confer upon them any
lawful or authorized status and does not entitle them to any additional public
benefits."

She said she was reaffirming the intent of current Arizona laws, and preventing
"significant and lasting impacts on the Arizona budget, its health-care system
and additional public benefits that Arizona taxpayers fund."

Arizona passed a tough immigration crackdown in 2010 to try to drive illegal
immigrants from the state. In June, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld its most
controversial provision, requiring police to check the immigration status of
people they stop if they suspect they are in the country illegally. The law has
yet to be implemented.

- Reuters

California          Hypersonic aircraft fails in test flight

A closely watched test flight of an experimental unmanned aircraft designed to
travel up to 3,600 mph ended in disappointment when a part failed, causing the
craft to plummet into the Pacific Ocean, the Air Force revealed.

The X-51A WaveRider was launched Tuesday over the Pacific from above the Point
Mugu Naval Air Test Range in a key test to fine-tune its hypersonic scramjet
engine.

The aircraft was designed to hit Mach 6, or six times the speed of sound, and
fly for five minutes. But that didn't happen. The engine never even lit.

About 15 seconds into the flight, a fault was identified in one of the
WaveRider's control fins, and the aircraft was not able to maintain control and
was lost.

"It is unfortunate that a problem with this subsystem caused a termination
before we could light the scramjet engine," Charlie Brink, program manager for
the Air Force Research Laboratory, said in a statement.

This is the third time a WaveRider has flown. Not one flight has gone the
distance.

In its first flight, in May 2010, the aircraft sped westward for 143 seconds at
3,500 mph before plunging into the ocean, as planned. But in another WaveRider
flight in June 2011, an interruption in the airflow to the jet engine caused a
premature shutdown.

The WaveRider program is estimated to cost $140 million, according to
GlobalSecurity.org, a Web site for military policy research. One of the four
WaveRider aircraft remains. But officials have not decided when, or if, that
vehicle will fly.

- Los Angeles Times

Arsonist convicted in heart-attack deaths

A jury on Wednesday found a California man guilty of murdering five people who
had heart attacks after he deliberately started a blaze that ballooned into a
massive wildfire.

Jurors in San Bernardino found 30-year-old Rickie Fowler guilty of setting the
Old Fire in the foothills above San Bernardino in October 2003 that burned
91,000 acres and torched 1,000 buildings over nine days.

Prosecutors charged Fowler with the murders of five men, ranging in age from 54
to 93, who died from heart attacks after their homes burned to the ground or as
they rushed to obey evacuation orders. Fowler also was convicted of two counts
of arson, along with special circumstances that make him eligible for the death
penalty.

That phase of the proceedings is scheduled to begin Monday.

Fowler became a suspect when witnesses reported seeing a passenger in a white
van tossing burning objects into dry brush. Investigators acting on a tip
interviewed Fowler several months later but didn't have enough evidence to file
charges until six years after the fire, when he was in jail on a burglary
conviction.

Prosecutors said Fowler was angry after a man who had given shelter to his
family kicked Fowler out of the home, citing thefts and mistreatment.

The charges against Fowler signaled a tough new standard for arson cases in a
region plagued by wildfires that sometimes claim the lives of firefighters and
civilians.

- Associated Press

New york

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 19, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Reform changes little for many

BYLINE: Steve Hendrix;Luz Lazo

SECTION: Metro; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 849 words


For thousands of undocumented immigrants who rushed to apply for new protections
from deportation, Wednesday was the life-changing day many had dreamed of for
years.

But for most, it was just Wednesday.

"I will be working today, that's all, if I can get work," said Ricardo Cruz, 22,
a Salvadoran day laborer gathered with other job seekers in a parking lot on New
Hampshire Avenue in Langley Park. "I have heard of this program, but they said
it was not for me."

Advocates hailed President Obama's offer of temporary residency and work status
to some young immigrants as the most significant reform in a generation. But, as
some have learned as the details became clear, it is a narrowly tailored one.

Fewer than 2 million of the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the
country are eligible for the program, known as deferred action, which began
accepting applications Wednesday.That leaves life in the shadows to continue
unchanged for the rest. For many who have been waiting to learn the final
details of the program, its launch brought crushing disappointment.

"It was devastating to hear I didn't qualify," said a sobbing Elsi Hernandez
after her visit to Carecen of Columbia Heights. Hernandez, 25, came to the
United States when she was 17 and graduated from high school in 2008. She only
learned while gathering documents to apply that she was too old when she arrived
from El Salvador to be eligible. "I just want to study and be a good example to
my daughters."

The program, hewing closely to the goals of the long-debated Dream Act, targets
those who were brought here as children. It is open to immigrants ages 15 to 31
who arrived before they were 16 and have lived here continuously for the past
five years or more. Among other restrictions, they must be free of serious
criminal convictions and be in school or have a high school diploma or
equivalent.

That amounts to about 1.7 million immigrants, about 15 percent of the illegal
immigrant population, although no one knows how many of those will actually
apply.

"It's a lot of people, but it does leave the vast majority of the undocumented
population still undocumented," said Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer of the
Pew Hispanic Center. "Most of the undocumented immigrants in the country now are
people who came here as adults on their own."

At legal clinics and workshops around the region Wednesday, families and young
adults came by the hundreds to learn if they would qualify for the program. The
biggest group who won't are those who are too old: An estimated 6.8 million
undocumented immigrants are 31 or older.

But many of those have children and showed up eager to find out how to sign them
up. Even as advocates explained that many of the youngsters were eligible, they
were counseling families to mix their joy with practical thinking.

"This is an extension of the split families we've had under our immigration
system for a long time, where you have children who are citizens and parents who
are not," said Jeanne Atkinson, head of immigration services at Catholic
Charities D.C. More than 50 people showed up at the group's Mount Pleasant
office Wednesday to talk to volunteer attorneys about the program. "You have to
have a plan. What are you going to do if you are deported? Who is going to be
the guardian of your children?"

Antonio Aleman, 43, of Suitland, planned to apply immediately for his children,
Beatriz, 21, and Erick, 15. The former police officer from Chalatenango, El
Salvador, brought a neat stack of documents to a workshop Wednesday evening at
CASA of Maryland in Langley Park. But his excitement was tempered by the
realization the system would now treat him and his wife differently than their
two children.

"I am happy because our children may be eligible to get a work permit and be
here legally," he said. "But it would be devastating to us to be away from our
children."

Many immigrants learned that they were in the right age bracket but fell short
on educational requirements. An estimated 320,000 of them would qualify for the
program if they could get their diploma through GED courses, according to Pew
statistics. Some were scrambling to find documents proving they hadn't left the
country for any significant periods in the past five years.

"Controlled elation," is how Thai Nguyen described the first day of application
counseling at the USA Immigration Services Group office in Falls Church.

Back in Maryland, at the parking lot on New Hampshire Avenue, none of the 14 men
gathered in hopes of picking up work had plans to apply for the program. Most
said they were older than 15 when they crossed the border, and some had traveled
back and forth several times with the ebbs and flows of the economy. None seemed
to have any sense that immigration reform, no matter how limited, had anything
to do with them.

"I'm happy if they can stay with their family," Cruz, the Salvadoran day
laborer, said of those eligible for the new program. He came here with his
brother five years ago and hopes to return soon. "That's where we all want to
be."

hendrixs@washpost.com

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     August 29, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Gays, Latinos seek unity

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 729 words


As a gay, undocumented immigrant from Guatemala, Edwin Guil, 22, says he is used
to being discriminated against. But when a gay friend recently said he was not
going to vote for President Obama because of his program to stop deporting some
undocumented immigrant youths, Guil, a student at Montgomery College, decided it
was time for some cross-cultural education.

"I confessed to him my situation, that I came here when I was 14, that my mom
brought me into the U.S. illegally." Living in the shadows was something that
both undocumented immigrants and generations of lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender Americans had in common, he told his friend.

"He completely changed his mind about the whole situation, so it made me feel
great about educating somebody about it. Now I want to do more," Guil said.

And so on Tuesday, Guil, who lives in Silver Spring, joined Latino and LGBT
community leaders and elected officials in Hyattsville to launch Familia es
Familia, a campaign to bring together Latinos and LGBT members in advance of the
November election.

Both groups have groundbreaking - and controversial - initiatives on the ballot
in Maryland: one that would allow civil marriage for gays and lesbians, and
another that would make undocumented immigrants eligible for in-state tuition at
community colleges and four-year public universities in Maryland.

The two causes might seem to be unlikely bedfellows, especially considering the
negative feelings toward homosexuality among some conservative Latinos. But the
organizations behind the campaign - Casa de Maryland, Equality Maryland and
Latino GLBT History Project - say they see more commonalities than differences
between the two groups.

"Marriage equality is from our viewpoint a civil rights issue, very similar to
immigration reform," said Gustavo Torres, Casa's executive director, adding that
more than 60 percent of Latino Catholics support people's right to marry someone
of the same gender.

Some compared the alliance with the coming together of blacks and Jews during
the civil rights movement - a strength-through-unity approach.

"Opponents . . . have tried to use these issues to divide us," said Ruben
Gonzales, deputy vice president for resource development at the National Council
of La Raza. The Hispanic  organization co-released a report earlier this year
showing 54 percent of Hispanics support marriage equality compared with 53
percent of the general population."I hear, 'Well, Latinos aren't supportive' -
you wonder where all that comes from," Gonzales said.

In California four years ago, after voters supported Proposition 8, which banned
same-sex marriage, exit polls showed that many blacks and Latinos had voted for
it. That played a part in the decision to launch the campaign, said Kim
Propeack, political director for Casa de Maryland.

"We consider it particularly important in Maryland to show mutual support, given
the historic opportunity with the two referendums," she said.

But the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian
Leadership Conference, questioned the approach.

"I think the two issues are totally unrelated," he said by phone from Tampa,
where he is attending the Republican Convention. "To connect the two dilutes
each individual platform. Each of them has valid points and they should stand on
their own merits."

With town meetings, fliers and film screenings planned, proponents of the
campaign hope that each of the two communities will educate its members about
the concerns of the other community - and send the message to the broader
society.

"We see that the Latino and LGBT communities, for a long time they existed in
different silos," said George Boe Ramirez, a Puerto Rican who lives in Rockville
and attended the launch with his partner of 17 years, German Roa.

Ramirez, 43, who grew up in a strict religious household in Brooklyn, said his
family  came around to accepting his sexual orientation after making a discovery
about a certain traditional family value: "We're probably out of my siblings the
only ones who never went through a divorce," he said. "Because of that, we have
their full support now."

Montgomery County Council member Nancy Navarro (D-Mid-County), whose brother is
gay, also called the merging of the two causes "a family values issue."

"For the Latino community, supporting family is paramount."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 26, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

What's the big idea?

BYLINE: Justin Moyer

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 375 words


By  November's elections, the Supreme Court will have heard challenges
toPresident Obama's health-care overhaul,Arizona's immigration law and, as
announced this past week, the consideration of race in college admissions. If
the court preserves "Obamacare" or affirmative action, conservatives will cry
judicial activism. If Arizona's immigration statute survives, liberals will take
up the charge, just as they did after the court's Citizens United campaign
finance decision in 2010.

But is judicial activism a problem if, as a recent study found, the high court's
views mirror those of the American public?

"Despite its intentional isolation from popular pressure, the Court's decisions
are not out of line with public preferences," write Stephen Jessee of the
University of Texas and Neil Malhotra of Stanford University in "Ideological
Proximity and Support for the Supreme Court," an unpublished paper. "This
contrasts with popular images of judges as rogue activists."

Of course, there's no shortage of ideologues on the court. The authors found
that Justice Clarence Thomas, for instance, is more conservative than 97 percent
of the 1,500people they surveyed, and that Justice Antonin Scalia is more
conservative than 89 percent.

Meanwhile, the authors estimate that Justice Sonia Sotomayor, who has cast
relatively few votes, is more liberal than about 85 percent of Americans, while
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is to the left of 83 percent.

How does such a polarized bench chart a middle course? The justices cancel one
another out.

"Many of the Court's individual justices have staked out positions that are near
the extremes of the distribution of ideology in the public," the authors
explain. But "the Supreme Court as a whole appears quite representative of the
ideological center."

However, the study also found that America's political center doesn't approve of
the court - an unelected body with limited responsibilities to the executive and
legislative branches or, for that matter, to voters.

"Extremists on both ends of the distribution exhibit more institutional support
for the Court than those in the center," according to the paper.

-Justin Moyer

moyerj@washpost.com

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

One country, one law

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 751 words


By throwing out most of the anti-Latino Arizona immigration law and neutering
the rest, the Supreme Court struck a rare blow for fairness and justice on
Monday. Let's hope this is the beginning of a streak.

Let's also hope that Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who sided with the 5 to
3 majority in this case, likes the view from the liberals' end of the bench.
They could use his vote on the health-care-reform ruling, expected to be
announced Thursday.

In a perfect world, the court would have definitively eliminated the most
notorious section of the Arizona law: the requirement that police check the
immigration status of anyone who is detained. Because of its chilling invocation
of police-state tactics, this became known as the "papers, please" provision.

The court ruled that it is too soon to invalidate this part of the law but
significantly narrowed the measure's scope - and practically dared Arizona
officials to step out of line. "This opinion does not foreclose other preemption
and constitutional challenges to the law as interpreted and applied after it
goes into effect," the court wrote. Translation: We'll be watching closely.

Other parts of the law were less publicized but equally onerous and un-American.
These provisions, happily, are now history.

Even more gratifying is the court's reinforcement of an obvious principle: The
federal government has the responsibility for setting immigration policy, not
the states. We do not need - and, thanks to this ruling, will not have - 50 sets
of laws specifying who gets to live in this country and who doesn't.

The Arizona law sought to make it a state crime to fail to have proper
immigration papers; in other words, failing to produce the right documents when
asked could have subjected a person not just to deportation but to criminal
penalties. The court ruled that this was preempted by federal law, which imposes
no such sanctions.

Arizona's draconian statute also made it against the law for an undocumented
immigrant to look for work. The court noted that existing federal law already
addresses the employment issue but specifically puts the onus on employers, not
workers.

It is "illegal for employers to knowingly hire, recruit, refer, or continue to
employ unauthorized workers . . . and requires employers to verify prospective
employees' employment authorization status," the court said. "The correct
instruction to draw . . . is that Congress decided it would be inappropriate to
impose criminal penalties on unauthorized employees."

And in a provision that, to my thinking, was even more oppressive than "papers,
please," the Arizona statute gave police the authority to arrest anyone -
without a warrant - suspected of some "public offense" that makes the person
liable to deportation. The court recognized, quite logically, that this is a
license for police to arrest suspected illegal immigrants indiscriminately,
based solely on the possibility that they might be here without the proper
documents.

As the court noted in striking down this provision, "The result could be
unnecessary harassment of some aliens (for instance, a veteran, college student,
or someone assisting with a criminal investigation) whom federal officials
determine should not be removed."

The majority opinion, written by Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, points out
something that many who seek to participate in the immigration debate fail to
understand: "As a general rule, it is not a crime for a removable alien to
remain present in the United States."

That's right. It's not a crime for "illegal" immigrants to live and work here
without the proper documents. By "here" I mean all 50 states. The United States
is one country with one immigration policy, and the Supreme Court means to keep
it this way.

That's why analysts who see this as a split ruling with "something for both
sides" are wrong. The Obama administration won across the board on its central
contention, which is that Arizona was trying to usurp a federal prerogative.
This has huge implications for the other states, such as South Carolina and
Georgia, that are also trying to design their own immigration policies.

There are political implications as well. Mitt Romney, who is struggling to
reduce President Obama's huge lead among Latino voters, once referred to the
Arizona law as "a model." Romney reacted to Monday's decision by reiterating
that "each state has the duty and the right" to protect the nation's borders.

Actually, no. Romney should read the ruling.

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      February 26, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

What's the big idea?

BYLINE: Justin Moyer

SECTION: Outlook; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 391 words


By  November's elections, the Supreme Court will have heard challenges
toPresident Obama's health-care overhaul,               Arizona's immigration
law and, as announced this past week, the consideration of race in college
admissions. If the court preserves "Obamacare" or affirmative action,
conservatives will cry judicial activism. If Arizona's immigration statute
survives, liberals will take up the charge, just as they did after the court's
Citizens United              campaign finance decision in 2010.

But is judicial activism a problem if, as a recent study found, the high court's
views mirror those of the American public?

"Despite its intentional isolation from popular pressure, the Court's decisions
are not out of line with public preferences," write Stephen Jessee of the
University of Texas and Neil Malhotra of Stanford University in "Ideological
Proximity and Support for the Supreme Court," an unpublished paper. "This
contrasts with popular images of judges as rogue activists."

Of course, there's no shortage of ideologues on the court. The authors found
that Justice Clarence Thomas, for instance, is more conservative than 97 percent
of the 1,500people they surveyed, and that Justice Antonin Scalia is more
conservative than 89 percent.

Meanwhile, the authors estimate that Justice Sonia Sotomayor, who has cast
relatively few votes, is more liberal than about 85 percent of Americans, while
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is to the left of 83 percent.

How does such a polarized bench chart a middle course? The justices cancel one
another out.

"Many of the Court's individual justices have staked out positions that are near
the extremes of the distribution of ideology in the public," the authors
explain. But "the Supreme Court as a whole appears quite representative of the
ideological center."

However, the study also found that America's political center doesn't approve of
the court - an unelected body with limited responsibilities to the executive and
legislative branches or, for that matter, to voters.

"Extremists on both ends of the distribution exhibit more institutional support
for the Court than those in the center," according to the paper.

-Justin Moyer

moyerj@washpost.com

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


        Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 26, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

One country, one law

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 758 words


By throwing out most of the anti-Latino Arizona immigration law and neutering
the rest, the Supreme Court struck a rare blow for fairness and justice on
Monday. Let's hope this is the beginning of a streak.          Let's also hope
that Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who sided with the 5 to 3 majority in
this case, likes the view from the liberals' end of the bench. They could use
his vote on the health-care-reform ruling, expected to be announced Thursday.

In a perfect world, the court would have definitively eliminated the most
notorious section of the Arizona law: the requirement that police check the
immigration status of anyone who is detained. Because of its chilling invocation
of police-state tactics, this became known as the "papers, please" provision.

The court ruled that it is too soon to invalidate this part of the law but
significantly narrowed the measure's scope - and practically dared Arizona
officials to step out of line. "This opinion does not foreclose other preemption
and constitutional challenges to the law as interpreted and applied after it
goes into effect," the court wrote. Translation: We'll be watching closely.

Other parts of the law were less publicized but equally onerous and un-American.
These provisions, happily, are now history.

Even more gratifying is the court's reinforcement of an obvious principle: The
federal government has the responsibility for setting immigration policy, not
the states. We do not need - and, thanks to this ruling, will not have - 50 sets
of laws specifying who gets to live in this country and who doesn't.

The Arizona law sought to make it a state crime to fail to have proper
immigration papers; in other words, failing to produce the right documents when
asked could have subjected a person not just to deportation but to criminal
penalties. The court ruled that this was preempted by federal law, which imposes
no such sanctions.

Arizona's draconian statute also made it against the law for an undocumented
immigrant to look for work. The court noted that existing federal law already
addresses the employment issue but specifically puts the onus on employers, not
workers.

It is "illegal for employers to knowingly hire, recruit, refer, or continue to
employ unauthorized workers . . . and requires employers to verify prospective
employees' employment authorization status," the court said. "The correct
instruction to draw . . . is that Congress decided it would be inappropriate to
impose criminal penalties on unauthorized employees."

And in a provision that, to my thinking, was even more oppressive than "papers,
please," the Arizona statute gave police the authority to arrest anyone -
without a warrant - suspected of some "public offense" that makes the person
liable to deportation. The court recognized, quite logically, that this is a
license for police to arrest suspected illegal immigrants indiscriminately,
based solely on the possibility that they might be here without the proper
documents.

As the court noted in striking down this provision, "The result could be
unnecessary harassment of some aliens (for instance, a veteran, college student,
or someone assisting with a criminal investigation) whom federal officials
determine should not be removed."

The majority opinion, written by Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, points out
something that many who seek to participate in the immigration debate fail to
understand: "As a general rule, it is not a crime for a removable alien to
remain present in the United States."

That's right. It's not a crime for "illegal" immigrants to live and work here
without the proper documents. By "here" I mean all 50 states. The United States
is one country with one immigration policy, and the Supreme Court means to keep
it this way.

That's why analysts who see this as a split ruling with "something for both
sides" are wrong. The Obama administration won across the board on its central
contention, which is that Arizona was trying to usurp a federal prerogative.
This has huge implications for the other states, such as South Carolina and
Georgia, that are also trying to design their own immigration policies.

There are political implications as well. Mitt Romney, who is struggling to
reduce President Obama's huge lead among Latino voters, once referred to the
Arizona law as "a model." Romney reacted to Monday's decision by reiterating
that "each state has the duty and the right" to protect the nation's borders.
Actually, no. Romney should read the ruling.

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    September 5, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Judge unlinks tuition, parents' status Judge unlinks tuition, parents' status

BYLINE: Curt Anderson

SECTION: A section; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 1257 words


MIAMI - Students at Florida's public colleges and universities cannot be charged
higher out-of-state tuition simply because their parents are in the country
illegally, a federal judge has ruled.

U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore determined that the policy violates the
equal protection clause of the Constitution by forcing those students to
unfairly pay three times as much as Florida residents. Children born in this
country are citizens, whether or not their parents have legal immigration
status.

"The state regulations deny a benefit and create unique obstacles to attain
public post-secondary public education for U.S. citizen children who would
otherwise qualify for in-state tuition," Moore wrote.

The ruling Friday came in a lawsuit filed by the Montgomery, Ala.-based Southern
Poverty Law Center on behalf of several Florida students who were denied
in-state tuition because they could not prove that their parents were in the
United States legally.

The center's deputy legal director, Jerri Katzerman, said Tuesday that Moore's
ruling could give thousands of students greater access to higher education.

"He has said in no uncertain terms that these youngsters are citizens and they
have been discriminated against," she said.

State education officials said lawyers are reviewing the ruling and no decision
has been made on an appeal. There are 28 public two-year colleges and 11
four-year universities in Florida.

Children of illegal immigrants have won similar battles in other states.

Last month in New Jersey, a state appeals court ruled that an American-born
student whose parents could not prove legal status was wrongly denied financial
aid. The American Civil Liberties Union said that ruling could affect thousands
of New Jersey students seeking state assistance to attend college.

In California, a challenge was resolved in favor of students. And in Colorado,
the attorney general issued an opinion in 2007 determining that legal state
residents are eligible for in-state tuition, even if their parents are residing
in the country illegally.

The Florida policy, which has been in effect for several years, applies to
students under age 24 who are claimed as dependents by parents. According to a
Florida International University law professor's analysis of census figures,
nearly 9,000 children of illegal-immigrant parents are enrolled in Florida
public colleges and universities in a given year.

Attorneys for the state argued mainly that making children of illegal immigrants
eligible for in-state tuition would cost financially strapped colleges and
universities millions of dollars each year. That argument, however, assumed that
Florida would be forced to offer in-state tuition to all students who live out
of state.

"This is simply incorrect," Moore wrote, adding that his ruling "would not
prevent the state from continuing to distinguish between in-state residents and
out-of-state non-residents."

Moore also noted that undocumented parents help pay for education through state
sales taxes and other taxes, just as parents who are U.S. citizens do.

New pathways to work and education have recently been opened at the federal
level for young people who are in the United States illegally.

This year, President Obama's administration expanded the rights of more than 1
million young illegal immigrants by giving them work permits, though not legal
residency or a path to citizenship.

The policy applies to immigrants who are 30 or younger, who arrived in the
United States before they turned 16, who have been living in the country for at
least five years, and who are in school, graduated or served in the military.
They cannot have been convicted of certain crimes or otherwise pose a safety
threat.

- Associated Press

MIAMI - Students at Florida's public colleges and universities cannot be charged
higher out-of-state tuition simply because their parents are in the country
illegally, a federal judge has ruled.

U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore determined that the policy violates the
equal protection clause of the Constitution by forcing those students to
unfairly pay three times as much as Florida residents. Children born in this
country are citizens, whether or not their parents have legal immigration
status.

"The state regulations deny a benefit and create unique obstacles to attain
public post-secondary public education for U.S. citizen children who would
otherwise qualify for in-state tuition," Moore wrote.

The ruling Friday came in a lawsuit filed by the Montgomery, Ala.-based Southern
Poverty Law Center on behalf of several Florida students who were denied
in-state tuition because they could not prove that their parents were in the
United States legally.

The center's deputy legal director, Jerri Katzerman, said Tuesday that Moore's
ruling could give thousands of students greater access to higher education.

"He has said in no uncertain terms that these youngsters are citizens and they
have been discriminated against," she said.

State education officials said lawyers are reviewing the ruling and no decision
has been made on an appeal. There are 28 public two-year colleges and 11
four-year universities in Florida.

Children of illegal immigrants have won similar battles in other states.

Last month in New Jersey, a state appeals court ruled that an American-born
student whose parents could not prove legal status was wrongly denied financial
aid. The American Civil Liberties Union said that ruling could affect thousands
of New Jersey students seeking state assistance to attend college.

In California, a challenge was resolved in favor of students. And in Colorado,
the attorney general issued an opinion in 2007 determining that legal state
residents are eligible for in-state tuition, even if their parents are residing
in the country illegally.

The Florida policy, which has been in effect for several years, applies to
students under age 24 who are claimed as dependents by parents. According to a
Florida International University law professor's analysis of census figures,
nearly 9,000 children of illegal-immigrant parents are enrolled in Florida
public colleges and universities in a given year.

Attorneys for the state argued mainly that making children of illegal immigrants
eligible for in-state tuition would cost financially strapped colleges and
universities millions of dollars each year. That argument, however, assumed that
Florida would be forced to offer in-state tuition to all students who live out
of state.

"This is simply incorrect," Moore wrote, adding that his ruling "would not
prevent the state from continuing to distinguish between in-state residents and
out-of-state non-residents."

Moore also noted that undocumented parents help pay for education through state
sales taxes and other taxes, just as parents who are U.S. citizens do.

New pathways to work and education have recently been opened at the federal
level for young people who are in the United States illegally.

This year, President Obama's administration expanded the rights of more than 1
million young illegal immigrants by giving them work permits, though not legal
residency or a path to citizenship.

The policy applies to immigrants who are 30 or younger, who arrived in the
United States before they turned 16, who have been living in the country for at
least five years, and who are in school, graduated or served in the military.
They cannot have been convicted of certain crimes or otherwise pose a safety
threat.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Judge unlinks tuition, parents' status

BYLINE: Curt Anderson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 1245 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


MIAMI - Students at Florida's public colleges and universities cannot be charged
higher out-of-state tuition simply because their parents are in the country
illegally, a federal judge has ruled.

U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore determined that the policy violates the
equal protection clause of the Constitution by forcing those students to
unfairly pay three times as much as Florida residents. Children born in this
country are citizens, whether or not their parents have legal immigration
status.

"The state regulations deny a benefit and create unique obstacles to attain
public post-secondary public education for U.S. citizen children who would
otherwise qualify for in-state tuition," Moore wrote.

The ruling Friday came in a lawsuit filed by the Montgomery, Ala.-based Southern
Poverty Law Center on behalf of several Florida students who were denied
in-state tuition because they could not prove that their parents were in the
United States legally.

The center's deputy legal director, Jerri Katzerman, said Tuesday that Moore's
ruling could give thousands of students greater access to higher education.

"He has said in no uncertain terms that these youngsters are citizens and they
have been discriminated against," she said.

State education officials said lawyers are reviewing the ruling and no decision
has been made on an appeal. There are 28 public two-year colleges and 11
four-year universities in Florida.

Children of illegal immigrants have won similar battles in other states.

Last month in New Jersey, a state appeals court ruled that an American-born
student whose parents could not prove legal status was wrongly denied financial
aid. The American Civil Liberties Union said that ruling could affect thousands
of New Jersey students seeking state assistance to attend college.

In California, a challenge was resolved in favor of students. And in Colorado,
the attorney general issued an opinion in 2007 determining that legal state
residents are eligible for in-state tuition, even if their parents are residing
in the country illegally.

The Florida policy, which has been in effect for several years, applies to
students under age 24 who are claimed as dependents by parents. According to a
Florida International University law professor's analysis of census figures,
nearly 9,000 children of illegal-immigrant parents are enrolled in Florida
public colleges and universities in a given year.

Attorneys for the state argued mainly that making children of illegal immigrants
eligible for in-state tuition would cost financially strapped colleges and
universities millions of dollars each year. That argument, however, assumed that
Florida would be forced to offer in-state tuition to all students who live out
of state.

"This is simply incorrect," Moore wrote, adding that his ruling "would not
prevent the state from continuing to distinguish between in-state residents and
out-of-state non-residents."

Moore also noted that undocumented parents help pay for education through state
sales taxes and other taxes, just as parents who are U.S. citizens do.

New pathways to work and education have recently been opened at the federal
level for young people who are in the United States illegally.

This year, President Obama's administration expanded the rights of more than 1
million young illegal immigrants by giving them work permits, though not legal
residency or a path to citizenship.

The policy applies to immigrants who are 30 or younger, who arrived in the
United States before they turned 16, who have been living in the country for at
least five years, and who are in school, graduated or served in the military.
They cannot have been convicted of certain crimes or otherwise pose a safety
threat.

- Associated Press

MIAMI - Students at Florida's public colleges and universities cannot be charged
higher out-of-state tuition simply because their parents are in the country
illegally, a federal judge has ruled.

U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore determined that the policy violates the
equal protection clause of the Constitution by forcing those students to
unfairly pay three times as much as Florida residents. Children born in this
country are citizens, whether or not their parents have legal immigration
status.

"The state regulations deny a benefit and create unique obstacles to attain
public post-secondary public education for U.S. citizen children who would
otherwise qualify for in-state tuition," Moore wrote.

The ruling Friday came in a lawsuit filed by the Montgomery, Ala.-based Southern
Poverty Law Center on behalf of several Florida students who were denied
in-state tuition because they could not prove that their parents were in the
United States legally.

The center's deputy legal director, Jerri Katzerman, said Tuesday that Moore's
ruling could give thousands of students greater access to higher education.

"He has said in no uncertain terms that these youngsters are citizens and they
have been discriminated against," she said.

State education officials said lawyers are reviewing the ruling and no decision
has been made on an appeal. There are 28 public two-year colleges and 11
four-year universities in Florida.

Children of illegal immigrants have won similar battles in other states.

Last month in New Jersey, a state appeals court ruled that an American-born
student whose parents could not prove legal status was wrongly denied financial
aid. The American Civil Liberties Union said that ruling could affect thousands
of New Jersey students seeking state assistance to attend college.

In California, a challenge was resolved in favor of students. And in Colorado,
the attorney general issued an opinion in 2007 determining that legal state
residents are eligible for in-state tuition, even if their parents are residing
in the country illegally.

The Florida policy, which has been in effect for several years, applies to
students under age 24 who are claimed as dependents by parents. According to a
Florida International University law professor's analysis of census figures,
nearly 9,000 children of illegal-immigrant parents are enrolled in Florida
public colleges and universities in a given year.

Attorneys for the state argued mainly that making children of illegal immigrants
eligible for in-state tuition would cost financially strapped colleges and
universities millions of dollars each year. That argument, however, assumed that
Florida would be forced to offer in-state tuition to all students who live out
of state.

"This is simply incorrect," Moore wrote, adding that his ruling "would not
prevent the state from continuing to distinguish between in-state residents and
out-of-state non-residents."

Moore also noted that undocumented parents help pay for education through state
sales taxes and other taxes, just as parents who are U.S. citizens do.

New pathways to work and education have recently been opened at the federal
level for young people who are in the United States illegally.

This year, President Obama's administration expanded the rights of more than 1
million young illegal immigrants by giving them work permits, though not legal
residency or a path to citizenship.

The policy applies to immigrants who are 30 or younger, who arrived in the
United States before they turned 16, who have been living in the country for at
least five years, and who are in school, graduated or served in the military.
They cannot have been convicted of certain crimes or otherwise pose a safety
threat.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 10, 2011 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Settlers? More like illegal immigrants.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 212 words


It was stunning to read Christopher Hewitt's insinuation [Free for All, Dec. 3]
that "settlers" from Europe in the 17th century arrived in lands where there
were no existing societies. The implication is that Massachusetts, Maryland and
Virginia were unoccupied or otherwise unclaimed territories free for the taking.

The truth is that the East Coast of North America had been home to a wide range
of rich and diverse societies for more than 10,000 years. Indeed, the capitals
of two powerful chiefdoms - the Patawomeck and the Piscataway - were located
along the Potomac River just downstream from Washington. The Europeans who came
to America in the 17th century were immigrants, settlers and, make no mistake
about it, invaders.

Julia A. King,St. Mary's City, Md.

l

Christopher Hewitt wrote that the Pilgrims were not immigrants because America
did not exist when they came here. But the land was inhabited by native peoples
who had well-developed societies and religious beliefs. It seems to me the
Pilgrims were immigrants who moved to a new home without permission of the
existing society and with no intention of assimilating or adopting its language
and culture. And that describes everything about an "illegal immigrant" that
offends many people.Jerry Hyman,Sterling

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Sense, and nonsense, on the border

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 566 words


WHEN PRESIDENT OBAMA announced his decision to deploy 1,200 National Guard
troops to the Mexican border last year, his hand was forced at least as much by
politics as by border security. The president acted under pressure from
border-state governors shortly after Arizona passed a draconian law targeting
illegal immigrants. At the time, the number of illegal border crossings was
already plummeting in the face of a beefed-up U.S. Border Patrol and wilting
demand for cheap labor among recession-wracked U.S. companies.

So it is no surprise that the modest force of guardsmen, who lack the power to
make arrests or pursue illegal border crossers, has been little more than window
dressing. Though they have provided some help with logistics, intelligence and
surveillance, their overall contribution to the clampdown on the southwestern
frontier - on top of 18,500 Border Patrol officers plus personnel from an
alphabet soup of other federal agencies - has been slight.

Mr. Obama is now reported to have decided to slash the number of guardsmen on
the border, whose deployment was paid for by the Pentagon. His decision is
sensible. The deployment was intended to be temporary, and at $10 million a
month, it was a luxury the Pentagon, facing billions of dollars in cuts, could
hardly justify.

Still, the logic of the president's decision has not dampened an outcry from
Republicans who see political advantage in fanning hysteria on the issue of
illegal immigration. Texas Gov. Rick Perry, whose collapse in the polls this
fall owed much to his supposed softness on illegal immigration, was especially
quick to pounce. Mr. Obama's move, said the governor, "is proof that this
administration has no intention to truly secure the border."

Facts are always the first casualty of political crossfire, but Mr. Perry's
misuse of them is especially cynical. The border today is more tightly sealed
than at any point in decades. Illegal border crossings, as measured by
apprehensions along the 2,000-mile Mexican border, fell in the latest fiscal
year to their lowest level since 1972. The number of crossers captured, about
327,000, was down 50 percent since 2008; 70 percent since 2006; and 80 percent
since 2000, when the Border Patrol picked up 1.64 million illegal immigrants
along the border.

Mr. Perry, as with many Republicans, prefers to dwell on the specter of border
insecurity - the facts be damned - because he has no solution for the real
challenge: the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants already living in
the United States. Still trying to recover from his self-inflicted wound in
suggesting that Americans were heartless if they wanted to deny higher education
to illegal immigrants, Mr. Perry speaks of adding "boots on the ground" and
boosting technology at the border. Of course, he never mentions that the Border
Patrol has already doubled its forces on the Mexican frontier in the last
decade, and billions of dollars worth of technology has also been deployed.

Even if the U.S. economy stages a muscular recovery, illegal immigration is
unlikely to surge to previous levels, given the Border Patrol's strength and a
combination of Mexico's declining birth rate and relatively strong economy.
Nonetheless, Republican rhetoric might well lead a GOP administration to spend
billions of unneeded dollars fortifying a border that is already more watertight
than it's been in decades.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                    December 12, 2012 Wednesday 11:31 PM EST

Sen. Menendez's office employed undocumented sex offender as intern, report
says;
The AP reported that the Democratic senator from New Jersey employed as an
unpaid intern an illegal immigrant who was also a registered sex offender.

BYLINE: Sean Sullivan

LENGTH: 655 words


Make sure to sign up to receive "Afternoon Fix" every day in your e-mail inbox
by 5(ish) p.m.!

EARLIER ON THE FIX:

The political year on Twitter, by the numbers

Why Congress is so partisan - in 2 charts

Who is the next Jim DeMint?

Rick Snyder: The Scott Walker of 2014

5 ways the GOP can do better with Latinos

'The Daily Show' rap about the Michigan right-to-work battle (VIDEO)

John Boehner getting bad reviews on 'fiscal cliff' talks

WHAT YOU MIGHT HAVE MISSED:

* The wife of former Democratic congressman Jesse Jackson Jr. of Illinois says
she does not plan to run for his seat. "No. I am not a candidate for Congress,"
Alderman Sandi Jackson said. "I intend to remain an alderman." Jesse Jackson Jr.
resigned from the House in November amid a federal probe and health issues.

* Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said in an interview set to air Wednesday
night that she doesn't think she will make another bid for the White House. "I
really don't believe that that's something I will do again," said Clinton, who
remains widely popular in public opinion polls.

* The AP reported that Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) employed a registered sex
offender who was in the country illegally as an unpaid intern in his office, and
that the Department of Homeland Security told federal agents not to arrest the
teenager until after Election Day. A DHS spokesman denies that the arrest was
delayed until after the election. "The report is categorically false," DHS
spokesman Peter Boogaard said. For his part, Menendez said in a Wednesday TV
interview that he "didn't know anything about this young man's status until
right before I came on this program."

* Sen. Scott Brown (R-Mass.) hinted at a possible future run at the Senate in
his farewell speech on Wednesday. "Victory and defeat is temporary," Brown said
with a smile. "Depending on what happens and where we go, all of us, we may
obviously meet again." If Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.) leaves the Senate for
Obama's cabinet next year, Brown would likely be the early frontrunner for the
GOP nomination in a special election.

* New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) remains widely popular in New York, according
to a new Quinnipiac University survey. Fully 74 percent of New York voters
approve of the job Cuomo is doing. Even among Republicans, Cuomo's approval
rating is 68 percent. Meanwhile, New York voters are optimistic about the new
power sharing agreement in the state Senate, with 53 percent saying it will be
effective and 30 percent calling it a power grab.

WHAT YOU SHOULDN'T MISS:

* 2012 has been a bad year for Patrick Moran, the son of Rep. Jim Moran (D-Va.).
He pleaded guilty on Wednesday to assaulting his girlfriend earlier this month.
In late-October, he resigned from his father's campaign after undercover video
showing him discussing how to commit voter fraud was released.

* New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) said it's "ridiculous" to think that he is
too heavy to be president.

* Sen.-elect Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has been assigned a seat on the Senate
Banking Committee. Warren has been an outspoken critic of Wall Street.

* Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.) said that if House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio)
"wants to come back to my district, he's not going to be met with very much
welcome." Amash was one of several GOP congressman who had crossed GOP leaders
and were recently stripped of plum committee assignments.

* In his farewell speech on the Senate floor, Sen. Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.) said:
"When I started here in the Senate, the blackberry was a fruit, and tweeting was
something only birds did."

THE FIX MIX:

It doesn't get him out of homework.

With Aaron Blake

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 10, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

Settlers? More like illegal immigrants.

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 225 words


It was stunning to read Christopher Hewitt's insinuation [Free for All, Dec. 3]
that "settlers" from Europe in the 17th century arrived in lands where there
were no existing societies. The implication is that Massachusetts, Maryland and
Virginia were unoccupied or otherwise unclaimed territories free for the taking.

The truth is that the East Coast of North America had been home to a wide range
of rich and diverse societies for more than 10,000 years. Indeed, the capitals
of two powerful chiefdoms - the Patawomeck and the Piscataway - were located
along the Potomac River just downstream from Washington. The Europeans who came
to America in the 17th century were immigrants, settlers and, make no mistake
about it, invaders.

Julia A. King, St. Mary's City, Md.

l

Christopher Hewitt wrote that the Pilgrims were not immigrants because America
did not exist when they came here. But the land was inhabited by native peoples
who had well-developed societies and religious beliefs. It seems to me the
Pilgrims were immigrants who moved to a new home without permission of the
existing society and with no intention of assimilating or adopting its language
and culture. And that describes everything about an "illegal immigrant" that
offends many people.                       Jerry Hyman, Sterling

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    December 14, 2011 Wednesday 8:11 PM EST

Sense, and nonsense, on the border

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 569 words


WHEN PRESIDENT OBAMA announced his decision to deploy 1,200 National Guard
troops to the Mexican border last year, his hand was forced at least as much by
politics as by border security. The president acted under pressure from
border-state governors shortly after Arizona passed a draconian law targeting
illegal immigrants. At the time, the number of illegal border crossings was
already plummeting in the face of a beefed-up U.S. Border Patrol and wilting
demand for cheap labor among recession-wracked U.S. companies.

So it is no surprise that the modest force of guardsmen, who lack the power to
make arrests or pursue illegal border crossers, has been little more than window
dressing. Though they have provided some help with logistics, intelligence and
surveillance, their overall contribution to the clampdown on the southwestern
frontier - on top of 18,500 Border Patrol officers plus personnel from an
alphabet soup of other federal agencies - has been slight.

Mr. Obama is now reported to have decided to slash the number of guardsmen on
the border, whose deployment was paid for by the Pentagon. His decision is
sensible. The deployment was intended to be temporary, and at $10 million a
month, it was a luxury the Pentagon, facing billions of dollars in cuts, could
hardly justify.

Still, the logic of the president's decision has not dampened an outcry from
Republicans who see political advantage in fanning hysteria on the issue of
illegal immigration. Texas Gov. Rick Perry, whose collapse in the polls this
fall owed much to his supposed softness on illegal immigration, was especially
quick to pounce. Mr. Obama's move, said the governor, "is proof that this
administration has no intention to truly secure the border."

Facts are always the first casualty of political crossfire, but Mr. Perry's
misuse of them is especially cynical. The border today is more tightly sealed
than at any point in decades. Illegal border crossings, as measured by
apprehensions along the 2,000-mile Mexican border, fell in the latest fiscal
year to their lowest level since 1972. The number of crossers captured, about
327,000, was down 50 percent since 2008; 70 percent since 2006; and 80 percent
since 2000, when the Border Patrol picked up 1.64 million illegal immigrants
along the border.

Mr. Perry, as with many Republicans, prefers to dwell on the specter of border
insecurity - the facts be damned - because he has no solution for the real
challenge: the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants already living in
the United States. Still trying to recover from his self-inflicted wound in
suggesting that Americans were heartless if they wanted to deny higher education
to illegal immigrants, Mr. Perry speaks of adding "boots on the ground" and
boosting technology at the border. Of course, he never mentions that the Border
Patrol has already doubled its forces on the Mexican frontier in the last
decade, and billions of dollars worth of technology has also been deployed.

Even if the U.S. economy stages a muscular recovery, illegal immigration is
unlikely to surge to previous levels, given the Border Patrol's strength and a
combination of Mexico's declining birth rate and relatively strong economy.
Nonetheless, Republican rhetoric might well lead a GOP administration to spend
billions of unneeded dollars fortifying a border that is already more watertight
than it's been in decades.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

In case you missed it

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 233 words


Alabama immigration law casts a long shadow

Sponsors of Alabama's tough new immigration law say it has done exactly what
they had hoped, driving tens of thousands of illegal immigrants from the state.
But a variety of employers in Alabama said they have not been able to find
enough legal residents to replace the seasoned workers who have fled.

washingtonpost.com/nation

U.S., Israel developed Flame computer virus

The United States and Israel jointly developed a sophisticated computer virus
nicknamed Flame that collected intelligence in preparation for cyber-sabotage
aimed at slowing Iran's ability to develop a nuclear weapon, according to
Western officials.

washingtonpost.com/world

Bain invested in firms that moved jobs overseas

Mitt Romney's financial company, Bain Capital, invested in a series of firms
that specialized in relocating jobs done by American workers to new facilities
in low-wage countries such as China and India.

washingtonpost.com/business

James is worthy MVP, but Miami Heat won as team

As the confetti rained at American Airlines Arena early Friday and LeBron James
held the gold NBA trophy aloft, a champion at last, maybe the game's greatest
player just wanted to join a deep and balanced team, a team that could give him
a night like this. His dream happened because five players and one basketball
appeared to become one player and five basketballs.

washingtonpost.com/sports

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 23, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

In case you missed it

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 233 words


Alabama immigration law casts a long shadow

Sponsors of Alabama's tough new immigration law say it has done exactly what
they had hoped, driving tens of thousands of illegal immigrants from the state.
But a variety of employers in Alabama said they have not been able to find
enough legal residents to replace the seasoned workers who have fled.

washingtonpost.com/nation

U.S., Israel developed Flame computer virus

The United States and Israel jointly developed a sophisticated computer virus
nicknamed Flame that collected intelligence in preparation for cyber-sabotage
aimed at slowing Iran's ability to develop a nuclear weapon, according to
Western officials.

washingtonpost.com/world

Bain invested in firms that moved jobs overseas

Mitt Romney's financial company, Bain Capital, invested in a series of firms
that specialized in relocating jobs done by American workers to new facilities
in low-wage countries such as China and India.

washingtonpost.com/business

James is worthy MVP, but Miami Heat won as team

As the confetti rained at American Airlines Arena early Friday and LeBron James
held the gold NBA trophy aloft, a champion at last, maybe the game's greatest
player just wanted to join a deep and balanced team, a team that could give him
a night like this. His dream happened because five players and one basketball
appeared to become one player and five basketballs.

washingtonpost.com/sports

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 22, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Suburban Md. voters key to referendums' passage

BYLINE: Carol Morello;Ted Mellnik

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 972 words


Voters in the Washington suburbs were instrumental in the passage of Maryland
ballot measures for same-sex marriage and in-state tuition for undocumented
immigrants, and they were a bastion of support for the expansion of gambling.

A Washington Post analysis of census and voting data shows marked differences in
support for the three referendum questions. The precinct-by-precinct analysis
shows that the state was as divided as the country is on some issues, varying by
race and ethnicity, income and geography.

Votes in favor of gay marriage, for example, were concentrated in Montgomery and
Howard counties as well as in and around Baltimore. The measure won in precincts
that are predominantly white or so diverse that no racial or ethnic group
predominates. Support was highest in neighborhoods where the median household
income tops $180,000.

Conversely, the gay marriage question failed, although by small margins, in
precincts that are predominantly black or Hispanic and in the exurbs and rural
stretches of the state. It lost in most parts of socially conservative, affluent
Prince George's County and in neighborhoods where the median household income
dips below $50,000.

The Dream Act measure, granting in-state tuition to the children of immigrants
who did not come to this country with proper documents, passed handily in almost
all neighborhoods except those that are largely non-Hispanic white. It won in
white precincts in the suburbs around Washington, however.

And the measure that expanded gambling was supported broadly across the state,
faltering only in some of the state's more rural reaches.

Del. Neil Parrott (R-Washington County), who led online petition drives to bring
several measures before voters, said the analysis shows how the ballot questions
transcended traditional political boundaries.

"Prince George's County was strongly for Obama, yet it came out against changing
the definition of marriage," he said.

"Anne Arundel County was pro-Romney, and it went for changing the definition of
marriage. What we see are people voting values that don't necessarily match up
with what their party affiliation is."

Exit polling done in Maryland on Election Day showed that same-sex marriage was
overwhelmingly supported by voters younger than 40 and rejected by every other
older group of voters. It won among white men and women and among black women,
but it was rejected by black men. Voters who are college graduates, liberal,
unmarried, high-income and do not regularly attend religious services were far
more likely to support gay marriage than voters who are conservative, have
incomes below $100,000 or are weekly church-goers.

Both opponents and proponents of legalizing same-sex marriage pointed to
advertising as key to the outcome.

"We made significant inroads in the African American vote," said Kevin Nix, a
spokesman for Marylanders for Marriage Equality, which promoted same-sex
marriage. "Though it did come up a little short, I think there was significant
progress made in Prince George's and the Baltimore area."

Nix cited ads touting the support of prominent voices in the African American
community, such as the Rev. Delman Coates of Mount Ennon Baptist, the megachurch
in Prince George's, and the Rev. Donte Hickman Sr., pastor of Southern Baptist
Church in East Baltimore. The measure also was supported by the NAACP in Prince
George's and President Obama.

"As our opponents said, we inundated the airways with messages of equality," Nix
said. "Our message got through. That's why our numbers shifted."

In early spring, support for same-sex marriage hovered around 40 percent.
Ultimately, it won almost 52 percent of the vote. The Post's analysis shows that
its strongest support came from white and diverse neighborhoods in the
Washington suburbs. Even in predominantly black and Hispanic precincts, where it
lost, it got 47 percent of the vote.

Derek McCoy, chairman of the Maryland Marriage Alliance, said many voters who
believe marriage is only between a man and a woman voted in favor of same-sex
marriage. He attributed it to ads promoting marriage equality, portraying it as
an issue of fairness. Several, he said, cited the support of the president and
first lady Michelle Obama.

"The message of civil rights resonated," he said, citing its passage in the city
of Baltimore, which is 64 percent black.

"But you have a very divided state on this issue," he added. "I don't think it
shows, in no way shape or form, that people are overwhelmingly in support of the
issue. They spent $6 million and threw in everything  . . . including the
president, in order to slightly sway people on this issue."

The ballot measure granting in-state tuition to the children of illegal
immigrants drew widespread support in every type of precinct across the state
except those in predominantly white neighborhoods. Statewide, voters in white
precincts opposed it by 52 percent.

In the Washington suburbs, however, it drew 54 percent of the vote in
predominantly white neighborhoods, compared with 82 percent in Hispanic
precincts and 76 percent in black precincts. That was more than enough to offset
the opposition to it in exurban and rural precincts, where barely a quarter of
all voters live.

The gambling question won popular support in large swaths of the state,
including most of the Washington region. It lost, however, by narrow margins in
parts of Montgomery County, including Silver Spring, Takoma Park, Chevy Chase
and areas of Bethesda.

Valerie Ervin, the Montgomery County Council member who represents some of the
areas where expanded gambling was rejected, said she was not surprised by the
vote.

"That community has never supported gambling, going way back," she said. "They
see it as a tax on the poor. It's a very progressive area of the county."

morelloc@washpost.com

mellnikt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Suburban Md. voters key to referendums' passage

BYLINE: Carol Morello;Ted Mellnik

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 971 words


Voters in the Washington suburbs were instrumental in the passage of Maryland
ballot measures for same-sex marriage and in-state tuition for undocumented
immigrants, and they were a bastion of support for the expansion of gambling.

A Washington Post analysis of census and voting data shows marked differences in
support for the three referendum questions. The precinct-by-precinct analysis
shows that the state was as divided as the country is on some issues, varying by
race and ethnicity, income and geography.

Votes in favor of gay marriage, for example, were concentrated in Montgomery and
Howard counties as well as in and around Baltimore. The measure won in precincts
that are predominantly white or so diverse that no racial or ethnic group
predominates. Support was highest in neighborhoods where the median household
income tops $180,000.

Conversely, the gay marriage question failed, although by small margins, in
precincts that are predominantly black or Hispanic and in the exurbs and rural
stretches of the state. It lost in most parts of socially conservative, affluent
Prince George's County and in neighborhoods where the median household income
dips below $50,000.

The Dream Act measure, granting in-state tuition to the children of immigrants
who did not come to this country with proper documents, passed handily in almost
all neighborhoods except those that are largely non-Hispanic white. It won in
white precincts in the suburbs around Washington, however.

And the measure that expanded gambling was supported broadly across the state,
faltering only in some of the state's more rural reaches.

Del. Neil Parrott (R-Washington County), who led online petition drives to bring
several measures before voters, said the analysis shows how the ballot questions
transcended traditional political boundaries.

"Prince George's County was strongly for Obama, yet it came out against changing
the definition of marriage," he said.

"Anne Arundel County was pro-Romney, and it went for changing the definition of
marriage. What we see are people voting values that don't necessarily match up
with what their party affiliation is."

Exit polling done in Maryland on Election Day showed that same-sex marriage was
overwhelmingly supported by voters younger than 40 and rejected by every other
older group of voters. It won among white men and women and among black women,
but it was rejected by black men. Voters who are college graduates, liberal,
unmarried, high-income and do not regularly attend religious services were far
more likely to support gay marriage than voters who are conservative, have
incomes below $100,000 or are weekly church-goers.

Both opponents and proponents of legalizing same-sex marriage pointed to
advertising as key to the outcome.

"We made significant inroads in the African American vote," said Kevin Nix, a
spokesman for Marylanders for Marriage Equality, which promoted same-sex
marriage. "Though it did come up a little short, I think there was significant
progress made in Prince George's and the Baltimore area."

Nix cited ads touting the support of prominent voices in the African American
community, such as the Rev. Delman Coates of Mount Ennon Baptist, the megachurch
in Prince George's, and the Rev. Donte Hickman Sr., pastor of Southern Baptist
Church in East Baltimore. The measure also was supported by the NAACP in Prince
George's and President Obama.

"As our opponents said, we inundated the airways with messages of equality," Nix
said. "Our message got through. That's why our numbers shifted."

In early spring, support for same-sex marriage hovered around 40 percent.
Ultimately, it won almost 52 percent of the vote. The Post's analysis shows that
its strongest support came from white and diverse neighborhoods in the
Washington suburbs. Even in predominantly black and Hispanic precincts, where it
lost, it got 47 percent of the vote.

Derek McCoy, chairman of the Maryland Marriage Alliance, said many voters who
believe marriage is only between a man and a woman voted in favor of same-sex
marriage. He attributed it to ads promoting marriage equality, portraying it as
an issue of fairness. Several, he said, cited the support of the president and
first lady Michelle Obama.

"The message of civil rights resonated," he said, citing its passage in the city
of Baltimore, which is 64 percent black.

"But you have a very divided state on this issue," he added. "I don't think it
shows, in no way shape or form, that people are overwhelmingly in support of the
issue. They spent $6 million and threw in everything  . . . including the
president, in order to slightly sway people on this issue."

The ballot measure granting in-state tuition to the children of illegal
immigrants drew widespread support in every type of precinct across the state
except those in predominantly white neighborhoods. Statewide, voters in white
precincts opposed it by 52 percent.

In the Washington suburbs, however, it drew 54 percent of the vote in
predominantly white neighborhoods, compared with 82 percent in Hispanic
precincts and 76 percent in black precincts. That was more than enough to offset
the opposition to it in exurban and rural precincts, where barely a quarter of
all voters live.

The gambling question won popular support in large swaths of the state,
including most of the Washington region. It lost, however, by narrow margins in
parts of Montgomery County, including Silver Spring, Takoma Park, Chevy Chase
and areas of Bethesda.

Valerie Ervin, the Montgomery County Council member who represents some of the
areas where expanded gambling was rejected, said she was not surprised by the
vote.

"That community has never supported gambling, going way back," she said. "They
see it as a tax on the poor. It's a very progressive area of the county."

morelloc@washpost.com

mellnikt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 28, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

Thailand is halting worker abuse

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 246 words


The Sept. 22 news article "In Thai shrimp sheds, exploited labor" unfairly
sensationalized the issue of migrant labor in Thailand. Improving the welfare of
migrant workers and combating human trafficking are high on Thailand's agenda.

Through migrant-worker registration over the past several years, our law
enforcers have become more aware of where these workers are and what risks they
face. The Ministry of Labor inspects at-risk workplaces regularly and is working
to raise awareness about the dangers of trafficking. The U.S. Labor Department
has funded a project through the International Labor Organization to combat the
worst forms of child labor in the shrimp- and seafood-processing areas of
Thailand. After surveying four provinces at risk, few instances of child labor
have been found.

Thailand's Immigration Bureau is cooperating with relevant agencies to ensure
that migrant workers are working legally in Thailand. More cases of human
trafficking have been investigated and prosecuted. Thai agencies also work with
nongovernmental organizations and international groups to protect workers.

It is impossible to deny that some instances of abuse continue to arise. But it
is also misleading to suggest that the Thai shrimp industry is overrun by labor
abuse. The overwhelming majority of the industry abides by the law and runs
their businesses responsibly.

Arjaree Sriratanaban, Washington

The writer is minister counselor at Thailand's embassy to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 28, 2012 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Thailand is halting worker abuse

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 246 words


The Sept. 22 news article "In Thai shrimp sheds, exploited labor" unfairly
sensationalized the issue of migrant labor in Thailand. Improving the welfare of
migrant workers and combating human trafficking are high on Thailand's agenda.

Through migrant-worker registration over the past several years, our law
enforcers have become more aware of where these workers are and what risks they
face. The Ministry of Labor inspects at-risk workplaces regularly and is working
to raise awareness about the dangers of trafficking. The U.S. Labor Department
has funded a project through the International Labor Organization to combat the
worst forms of child labor in the shrimp- and seafood-processing areas of
Thailand. After surveying four provinces at risk, few instances of child labor
have been found.

Thailand's Immigration Bureau is cooperating with relevant agencies to ensure
that migrant workers are working legally in Thailand. More cases of human
trafficking have been investigated and prosecuted. Thai agencies also work with
nongovernmental organizations and international groups to protect workers.

It is impossible to deny that some instances of abuse continue to arise. But it
is also misleading to suggest that the Thai shrimp industry is overrun by labor
abuse. The overwhelming majority of the industry abides by the law and runs
their businesses responsibly.

Arjaree Sriratanaban, Washington

The writer is minister counselor at Thailand's embassy to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Democrats plan fallback in case Ariz. law is upheld

BYLINE: Rosalind S. Helderman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 835 words


Senate Democrats are making plans to force a floor vote on legislation that
would invalidate Arizona's controversial immigration statute if the Supreme
Court upholds the law this summer.

Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) will announce the fallback legislation at a
hearing on the Arizona law Tuesday, a day before the Supreme Court hears oral
argumentsin a suit to determine whether Arizona had the authority to enact the
2010 state crackdown.

The legislation would have little chance of passing in a stalemated Senate or
being approved by a GOP-held House, but it would allow Democrats to push their
electoral advantage with Latino voters just as the presidential campaign heats
up in July.

The plan is to allow Democrats a route to express displeasure with the Arizona
law if the court allows it to stand, and it would force Republicans to take a
clear position on the law during the height of the presidential campaign. The
immigration law is deeply unpopular with Latino voters, who could be key to the
outcome of the presidential and Senate races in several Western states.

"If the court upholds the Arizona law, Congress can make it clear that what
Arizona is doing goes beyond what the federal government and what Congress ever
intended," Schumer said in an interview.

He called the Arizona law an "assault on the domain of the federal government"
that Congress will need to address if the court allows it to stand.

As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on immigration,
Schumer will hold a hearing Tuesday on the impact of the Arizona law. The state
senator who wrote the statute will appear, as will opponents of the law. Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer (R), the law's chief proponent, was invited but declined to
attend.

The Obama administration sued to prevent implementation of the Arizona law -
which included a provision requiring local law enforcement to check the
immigration status of anyone stopped or arrested who they suspect is in the
country illegally - arguing that the Constitution gives the federal government
jurisdiction over immigration laws and that the state's statute interferes with
federal efforts.

In response, federal courts have blocked key portions of the law from going into
effect. Arizona appealed to the Supreme Court, arguing that the state has the
power to pass the legislation because Washington has failed to deal with the
illegal-immigration problem.

Schumer said he believes the court will side with the federal government. But if
it does not, he will propose a new law requiring federal approval for new state
immigration laws, essentially blocking implementation of Arizona's law and
others like it that have passed elsewhere.

The legislation would also bar states from imposing their own penalties, beyond
federal sanctions, for employers who hire illegal immigrants. Some business
leaders have said they are concerned new state rules on hiring could lead to a
patchwork of conflicting employment rules across the country.

Presumed Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romneyhas said he opposes the
federal lawsuit filed by the Obama administration to block the Arizona law.

But he has been working to improve his popularity with Hispanic voters, who
according to the latest NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll favor President Obama
by more than 40 points.

Those numbers come after Romney took a hard line on immigration during the
Republican primary season, opposing the Dream Act - which would provide a path
to citizenship for some young adults brought to the country illegally by their
parents as children - and indicating that he supports making life in America
tough enough for illegal immigrants that they voluntarily "self-deport."

His campaign has protested that his February comments describing the Arizona law
as a "model" for the nation were misinterpreted.

Campaign officials have insisted that Romney meant only a provision requiring
employers to use an electronic database to check the immigration status of
potential employees. They have said recently that he believes states should be
able to decide whether Arizona-style laws are appropriate.

A congressional debate on the issue would probably force Romney to take a more
definitive position on Arizona's statute and the broader issue of the proper
balance of state and federal power in immigration enforcement.

At the same time, Republicans would surely cite the proposed legislation as
another example of Democratic attempts to expand the federal government and
squash state power.

"It's a calculated decision," said Steven Schwinn, a professor at the John
Marshall Law School who has been following the case. "It would keep focus on an
issue, but in a way that may or may not be a winner for Democrats."

heldermanr@washpost.com

Read more from PostPolitics:

Obama to sidestep gay rights issue in N.C.

Romney punts on Rubio's DREAM Act

Klein: 'Scandals' don't predict election results, but this formula might

The John Edwards trial: A final public flogging

Interactive: Pick Mitt Romney's running mate

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 24, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Democrats plan fallback in case Ariz. law is upheld

BYLINE: Rosalind S. Helderman

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 871 words


Senate Democrats are making plans to force a floor vote on legislation that
would invalidate Arizona's controversial immigration statute if the Supreme
Court upholds the law this summer.

Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) will announce the fallback legislation at a
hearing on the Arizona law Tuesday, a day before the Supreme Court hears oral
arguments in a suit to determine whether Arizona had the authority to enact the
2010 state crackdown.          The legislation would have little chance of
passing in a stalemated Senate or being approved by a GOP-held House, but it
would allow Democrats to push their electoral advantage with Latino voters just
as the presidential campaign heats up in July.

The plan is to allow Democrats a route to express displeasure with the Arizona
law if the court allows it to stand, and it would force Republicans to take a
clear position on the law during the height of the presidential campaign. The
immigration law is deeply unpopular with Latino voters, who could be key to the
outcome of the presidential and Senate races in several Western states."If the
court upholds the Arizona law, Congress can make it clear that what Arizona is
doing goes beyond what the federal government and what Congress ever intended,"
Schumer said in an interview.

He called the Arizona law an "assault on the domain of the federal government"
that Congress will need to address if the court allows it to stand.

As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on immigration,
Schumer will hold a hearing Tuesday on the impact of the Arizona law. The state
senator who wrote the statute will appear, as will opponents of the law. Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer (R), the law's chief proponent, was invited but declined to
attend.

The Obama administration sued to prevent implementation of the Arizona law -
which included a provision requiring local law enforcement to check the
immigration status of anyone stopped or arrested who they suspect is in the
country illegally - arguing that the Constitution gives the federal government
jurisdiction over immigration laws and that the state's statute interferes with
federal efforts.

In response, federal courts have blocked key portions of the law from going into
effect. Arizona appealed to the Supreme Court, arguing that the state has the
power to pass the legislation because Washington has failed to deal with the
illegal-immigration problem.Schumer said he believes the court will side with
the federal government. But if it does not, he will propose a new law requiring
federal approval for new state immigration laws, essentially blocking
implementation of Arizona's law and others like it that have passed elsewhere.

The legislation would also bar states from imposing their own penalties, beyond
federal sanctions, for employers who hire illegal immigrants. Some business
leaders have said they are concerned new state rules on hiring could lead to a
patchwork of conflicting employment rules across the country.

Presumed Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney has said he opposes the
federal lawsuit filed by the Obama administration to block the Arizona law.

But he has been working to improve his popularity with Hispanic voters, who
according to the latest NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll favor President Obama
by more than 40 points.          Those numbers come after Romney took a hard
line on immigration during the Republican primary season, opposing the Dream Act
- which would provide a path to citizenship for some young adults brought to the
country illegally by their parents as children - and indicating that he supports
making life in America tough enough for illegal immigrants that they voluntarily
"self-deport."

His campaign has protested that his February comments describing the Arizona law
as a "model" for the nation were misinterpreted.

Campaign officials have insisted that Romney meant only a provision requiring
employers to use an electronic database to check the immigration status of
potential employees. They have said recently that he believes states should be
able to decide whether Arizona-style laws are appropriate.

A congressional debate on the issue would probably force Romney to take a more
definitive position on Arizona's statute and the broader issue of the proper
balance of state and federal power in immigration enforcement.

At the same time, Republicans would surely cite the proposed legislation as
another example of Democratic attempts to expand the federal government and
squash state power.

"It's a calculated decision," said Steven Schwinn, a professor at the John
Marshall Law School who has been following the case. "It would keep focus on an
issue, but in a way that may or may not be a winner for Democrats."

heldermanr@washpost.com

Read more from PostPolitics:                       Obama to sidestep gay rights
issue in N.C.

Romney punts on Rubio's DREAM Act                                 Klein:
'Scandals' don't predict election results, but this formula might

The John Edwards trial: A final public flogging
Interactive: Pick Mitt Romney's running mate

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 4, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

The only country she's known

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1149 words


Back in 2000, Lundy Khoy was just another young person who had made a stupid
mistake.

The George Mason University freshman, a green card holder, had a boyfriend who
was dabbling in Ecstasy. He gave her some pills, and during a night of partying
she was arrested and charged with possession with intent to distribute the drug.
She pleaded guilty, served three months and was on probation for four years.

End of story, for most people. But for Khoy, now 31, it was the beginning of a
12-year saga of incarcerations, deportation proceedings and the specter of being
sent to live in a country she has never even visited.

The difference between Khoy and others whose youthful indiscretions led to
criminal charges is that she was not born in America. The consequences can be
catastrophic.

"There is a misconception among some immigrants that once they have a green card
they can no longer be deported, and that's simply not true," said Ben Winograd,
staff attorney at the American Immigration Council, an immigrant advocacy
organization in the District. "All it takes is one criminal conviction.
Regardless of whether it results in jail time, it can be the basis for
deportation."

In 1996, Congress passed laws that limited judicial discretion for immigration
judges and broadened the scope of what is considered an aggravated felony for
the purposes of federal immigration law. The category includes a wide range of
crimes, from murder to nonviolent offenses such as theft or fraud.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates for stricter immigration controls, acknowledged that the law can
unfairly target less serious offenders but added that it was necessary because
otherwise the government would allow more serious criminals to evade
deportation.

"The abuse of discretion makes it impossible to give the executive this kind of
wiggle room, because they can't be trusted," he said.

Last year, the government deported nearly 400,000 people, the largest number
ever. It's unclear how many among that number had been green-card holders.

Unlike illegal immigrants, many of whom try to keep a low profile in order to
evade detention, legal permanent residents who commit a crime are often
cavalier, unaware that the stakes are starkly different for them than for their
citizen peers.

This presumption that they cannot be deported appears to be especially true of
young green-card holders such as Khoy, who grew up here.

Khoy's story is not unusual in Southeast Asian communities. Her Cambodian mother
gave birth to her in a Thai refugee camp a year before they moved here. She and
her parents received green cards; her siblings, born after they arrived, are
U.S. citizens.

Often, Southeast Asians who came in the 1970s and 1980s escaped war or genocide,
and worked long hours in low-paying jobs.

"They are traumatized, shell-shocked, and can't understand how to effectively
raise adolescents in impoverished America," said Jay Stansell, an assistant
federal public defender in Seattle who has defended many Cambodians in this
situation.

A spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said that 1,894
Cambodians are in deportation proceedings. Before 2002, Cambodia accepted
deportees only on rare occasions. Since then, it has taken only about 500. More
were deported last year than ever before: 97 compared with 55 in 2010 and 48 in
2009.

Often the deportation proceedings don't begin until years after they immigrants
have served sentences and cleaned up their lives, getting jobs and starting
families.

"Years later . . . ICE would catch up with them and say, 'Hey, you were supposed
to have been deported years ago,' and send them back to Cambodia, which many of
these youngsters had never been to," said Pang Houa Toy, deputy director of the
D.C.-based Southeast Asia Resource Action Center.

Many don't speak the language, and don't have friends or relatives in their
parents' homeland. They also face discrimination. "They're stigmatized," Toy
said.

Khoy says she was obedient and responsible while growing up as the eldest child
of strict parents who forbade nighttime events during high school. By the time
she started college, she was thirsting for more freedom and took up with a "bad
crowd," she said, adding that because she didn't want her mother to think she
was using drugs, she falsely told the arresting officer that she planned to sell
the pills to her friends, a statement that resulted in a more serious charge.

Because her crime was an aggravated felony, she lost her green card and was put
into deportation proceedings.

"I didn't believe it," said Khoy, a delicate-featured woman perched on her
living room couch in the Southwest Washington townhouse she shares with three
roommates. "I was like, 'There's no way that my country could just kick me out.'
"

Her entire adult life has been colored by the arrest and its consequences. Men
she dated were often scared off by her situation. She was arrested again in
2004, as her probation was ending, during a sweep targeting "removable aliens"
on probation, according to ICE records. After several  months in jail, her
request for voluntary departure, asylum or withholding of removal was denied by
a judge, who ordered her deported.

Cambodia accepts only a few requests for travel documents each year, however, so
she was released from prison and put on an order of suspension, reporting
regularly to the ICE office in Fairfax. She did so for the next eight years,
while studying at Northern Virginia Community College, getting a job as an
enrollment adviser at the University of Phoenix's Northern Virginia campus and
working toward her bachelor's degree in communications and cultural diversity
there. She moved to the District in December because it was easier there for
someone in her situation to get a driver's license.

From the outside, her life seemed normal. Few people knew about her situation -
until April, when she went in for a routine visit to ICE. There, she said, she
was told to re-apply immediately for a travel document from the Cambodian
embassy.

She was also fitted with an electronic ankle monitor. She had to stay close to
an electric outlet for hours at a time to keep it charged.

With the help of her sister, Linda, a U.S. citizen, Khoy has gotten more than
3,000 signatures on a petition to stop her deportation. She has letters of
support from Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) and from longtime friends. On Wednesday
night, SEARAC hosted an event at Busboys and Poets to raise awareness about her
case and played a nine-minute film about her situation.

On Sept. 21, her request for deferred action was denied. That day, the ankle
monitor was removed because of the low likelihood that she  would be deported in
the future, according to ICE spokeswoman Gillian Christensen.

If eventually deported to Cambodia, Khoy  said, "I wouldn't know where to
start."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 28, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Hunt for a new chief revs up

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: Metro; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 701 words


The search for a new police chief for Prince William County has begun in
earnest, with the county recently accepting its last applications. A committee
will begin reviewing candidates, and county supervisors are beginning to paint a
portrait of the kind of person they would like to replace now-retired Charlie T.
Deane, a community fixture for decades.

Meanwhile, community leaders who are not officially part of the hiring process
are also weighing in - with the issue of illegal immigration at the forefront.
When county officials moved to require the police to ask residents about their
immigration status, Deane was seen as a moderating force in 2007, helping to
persuade the board to change the policy and require a check only after an
arrest.

"You've got to be a big supporter of local immigration . . . enforcement" to be
the county's new chief, Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart
(R-At Large) said in an interview. "We're not going to revisit that, and we want
the new chief to be on board with that policy."

U.S. immigration authorities announced earlier this month that a partnership
allowing local police officers to enforce federal immigration law may be coming
to an end this year. Stewart has vowed to push measures that circumvent the
effect of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement decision.

Supervisor Frank J. Principi (D-Woodbridge) said the job is a complex one.
Prince William is Northern Virginia's sole "majority-minority" county, and a
diverse community often has its own challenges; illegal immigration is again on
the front burner; and the new chief must be able to deal with increasingly
complex crime with limited resources.

"We need someone who can come in and do that on day one," Principi said.

County Executive Melissa S. Peacor declined to discuss the number and names of
any candidates or the criteria by which they will be evaluated. County leaders
have said they hope to have someone selected around the beginning of the new
year.

The position closed Oct. 17. An eight-member panel - which Principi said was
nominated by Peacor and approved by the board - is sorting through the résumés.
That panel will narrow the candidate pool for Peacor, who will then recommend at
least three names to the board. The board has the final say.

The panel's membership has not been publicly named. According to a county
official familiar with the search, it consists of Peacor, two deputy county
executives, Fire and Rescue Chief Kevin McGee, Commonwealth's Attorney Paul B.
Ebert (D), Sheriff Glendell Hill (R) and county residents Donna Widawski and W.
Ralph Basham. The official who provided the list requested anonymity because
supervisors have not made it public.

Widawski was a prominent voice in support of Prince William's anti-illegal
immigration efforts in 2007. Basham, a county resident, is the former
commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and head of the U.S. Secret
Service. He now runs a private consulting group.

Widawski declined to comment. Basham could not be reached.

Carlos Castro, the owner of Todos Supermarket in Dumfries, said the county
should select a chief not for political reasons but on his or her merits.
Castro, who played an active role in the debate over immigration and police in
2007, said internal candidates - such as acting Chief Barry Barnard and
assistant chiefs Steve Hudson, Mike Crosbie and Jay Lanham - should be
considered because "they know the community and they have grown with it."

"I definitely would like to see somebody have the same personality as Chief
Deane and somebody who doesn't play politics," Castro said.

Deane departed in September after a 42-year career that spanned dramatic growth
and change in Prince William. The county doubled in population, the police
department more than doubled in size, and the nature of law enforcement in the
Virginia suburb changed as the county grew more populous, denser and more
diverse.

Prince William also saw some of the region's most brutal and perplexing crimes,
among them the Washington area sniper shootings, an attack by the "East Coast
Rapist" and the 1993 Lorena Bobbitt case.

Today, the county's police department has about 600 officers.

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 2, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration courts faulted as inefficient

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A section; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 342 words


U.S. immigration courts are inefficient and beset by delays, falling behind in
processing proposed deportations in recent years despite having more judges
hearing the cases, the Justice Department's inspector general said Thursday.

The courts completed 324,000 proceedings in fiscal 2006 but only 287,000 in
fiscal 2010, a report from Inspector General Michael Horowitz said. The number
of immigration judges grew from 211 to 238 in that period, according to the
report.

The Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration Review, which runs the
courts, "should take all possible steps to maximize the use of the resources it
has received," the report said.

The immigration office said in response that it has not had the money to study
ways to improve efficiency but that it will begin a study soon.

It also said that it would give new training to judges on how to respond to
foreign nationals' requests for case delays - a major cause of slower
proceedings, according to the report.

The immigration office said numbers in 2011 showed improvement, but the
inspector general's office said it has not verified those statistics.

Immigration judges hear deportation cases in about 120 locations nationwide.
They prioritize cases in which a foreign national is detained for a crime or
other reason, and such cases lasted 48 days on average, according to a sample
reviewed by the inspector general. Cases in which the person was not detained
went on for an average of 526 days, the report said. The non-detainee cases
included people asking for asylum.

"Cases, especially those for non-detained aliens, can take long periods to
complete, which crowds court calendars and delays processing of new cases," the
report said.

The issue of illegal immigration is hotly debated in the United States, which
has about 12 million undocumented immigrants, most of them Hispanics.

Hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who were brought into the United
States as children will be able to avoid deportation and get work permits under
an order in June by President Obama.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 9, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

Latinos urge Obama to focus on immigration

BYLINE: Candace Wheeler

SECTION: A section; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 498 words


Latino voters who turned out to the polls in unprecedented numbers on Election
Day and helped propel President Obama to a second term are calling his
reelection a victory - and a starting point for more permanent solutions to the
nation's immigration policies.

About 100 people representing immigrant groups gathered in front of the White
House on Thursday with a message for the president:

"We got your back," they chanted. "Now it's time for you to have ours."

The crowd was there to celebrate the passage of the "Dream Act" in Maryland and
to push elected officials to pass comprehensive immigration reform immediately.

Veronica Sarvia, 17, said that as an undocumented immigrant, she has struggled
to pay rising out-of-state tuition costs. She came to the United States from El
Salvador at age 10.  With the passage of the Maryland law, she now can pay
in-state fees.

Sarvia said she now wants to see immigration reform. Her younger sister is a
U.S. citizen and her grandmother is a permanent legal resident.

"I don't want to leave my sister or my grandmother because I am undocumented,"
she said. "Please, Mr. Obama, pass permanent immigration reform now because our
families deserve happiness."

Earlier in the day, organizers with United We Dream, a youth-led immigrant
group, held a national call-in news conference in which they asked Republican
and Democratic elected officials to work together to create a path to
citizenship for the 11 million undocumented Latino immigrants in the country.

"We know the Latino vote was crucial in the president's reelection," said
Cristina Jimenez, managing director of United We Dream. "The president and both
Democrats and Republicans need to come together to create change in immigration
policy - and Dreamers will hold the president accountable on this."

National exit polls showed that 10 percent of voters in Tuesday's election were
Hispanic, up from 9 percent fours years ago. Seventy-one percent of Hispanic
voters backed Obama on Tuesday.

The president's announcement in June that he would stop deporting some
undocumented immigrants who were brought to the country as children was a great
mobilizer for Latino voters, said Daniel Rodriguez, who works with United We
Dream in Arizona and came to the United States at age 7.

But deferred action isn't enough, said Rodriguez, now 26 and a law student at
Arizona State University.

Advocates said they will focus on permanent solutions for citizenship.

"Tearing families apart and deporting members of our community is
irresponsible," said Lorella Praeli, advocacy and policy director with United We
Dream.

Organizers said they will begin reaching out to elected officials in both
parties and that they will have a formal message to direct to Obama at the
beginning of January.

"We proved what we can do with our movement at the polls," Rodriguez said. "We
now have a check to cash in 2013. We are expecting our elected officials to do
something to unify our Latino families."

candace.wheeler@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 16, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

GOP, look to your roots

BYLINE: Anne Applebaum

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 729 words


A Texan friend of mine heard Karl Rove a couple of days ago talking angrily
about President Obama winning by "suppressing the vote." Not long after that,
she read that Sean Hannity wants to create a "pathway to citizenship" for
illegal immigrants. She wrote to me that she was compiling a list: "ways in
which the Republicans are now stealing Democrats' language."

She was right to find it amusing. But, if you step back, it's also tragic. The
Republican Party doesn't need to steal Democrats' language, let alone Democrats'
ideas. Like Dorothy in "The Wizard of Oz," all the Republican leadership needs
to do is click its collective heels together and start looking for answers much
closer to home.

If Republican leaders really want to appeal to Hispanic voters, for example,
they don't need clever Spanish-language marketing or better slogans. Nor do they
need to steal political positions from across the aisle. Instead, they could
resurrect the only sensible comprehensive immigration reform bill not passed
into law - a bill largely written by Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.). The
McCain-Kennedy Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007 was a grand
compromise: It attempted to win support from immigrants' rights groups, which
tend to be on the left of the political spectrum, and business leaders who
employ immigrants, who tend to be on the right. It created not only a sensible
path to citizenship for illegal immigrants but also a "guest worker" status for
people who want to work for short periods, and it enhanced border security. The
Bush White House supported the bill, which was defeated by congressional
Republicans.

Maybe it's time for those same Republicans to take seriously something that
several observers have noted recently: For millions of people on the lower end
of the pay scale, health-care expenditures take a bigger chunk of income than do
taxes. For Republicans, this problem ought not to come as a surprise, since
their elected representatives have been discussing it for two decades. As The
Post's Ezra Klein (among others) has beautifully documented, the Heritage
Foundation came up with the idea of individual mandates in 1989; Sen. John
Chafee (R-R.I.) wrote a bill - with 19 Republican co-sponsors - proposing
comprehensive health-care reform in 1993. In the mid-2000s, Sen. John Breaux
(D-La.) told me he reckoned that bipartisan agreement on the basic elements of
health-care reform already existed in the Senate: All that was needed, he told
me, was the political willpower to make it happen.

Republican leaders might also consider the writings of conservative columnists
and think tanks more carefully. For many years, The Post's Charles Krauthammer
has advocated a hefty gasoline tax, offset by an equivalent payroll tax cut.
Steve Hayward at the American Enterprise Institute has been arguing for years
that "conservation" is a word with the same roots as "conservative."

The conservative movement is a broad church, and its worshipers include even a
few sympathetic foreigners. Republicans could certainly do worse than to consult
their counterparts across the Atlantic.

The British Conservative Party spent 12 years out of office after the 1997
elections that brought the Labor Party and Tony Blair to power. After two
attempts to win by running well to the right of Blair, David Cameron led a group
of Tory "modernizers" into power by, among other things, embracing
"conservative" notions of conservation and budgetary austerity - and by deciding
that the state should have no role in dictating private morality: Intolerance,
one once told me, is "unconservative." One Tory minister, Iain Duncan-Smith,
spent his years in the political wilderness creating a think tank, the Centre
for Social Justice, dedicated to the study of long-term poverty and welfare
reform. He's now in a position to put some of its proposals into practice. So is
his colleague Michael Gove, another Tory modernizer, who spent his years out of
power thinking about education and is now hard at work reforming British
schools.

The British Conservatives didn't merely hire new speechwriters to carry out this
change, or ape their opponents in the Labor Party. They simply looked to their
history and to their roots. There is no reason the Republican Party can't do the
same: There's no place like home, there's no place like home . . .

applebaumletters@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 17, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Thinking outside the box to get a debt deal done

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 216 words


With President Obama and House Republicans claiming dueling mandates from the
election, it is hard to see how they will reach a deal averting the fiscal cliff
with negotiations constrained to tax rates and spending. Our leaders need to
think outside the box to strike a deal and save the economy.

The GOP wants to stop    $55 billion in defense cuts while the Democrats want to
stop $55 billion in domestic cuts. Since we need to cut spending, why not slice
these figures in half, leading to more manageable $28 billion reductions? Next,
Mr. Obama should accept an extension of all Bush-era tax rates, including those
for the wealthiest Americans, to give both sides a full year to pass meaningful
tax reform. In exchange, the GOP should agree to a framework on immigration
reform whereby the border is secured and undocumented immigrants who have been
here 10 years or more get full legal resident status, with their children
achieving citizenship in exchange for military service.

Passing this comprehensive bill gets the Republicans a big win on taxes while
Mr. Obama can claim victory on immigration reform. It would also provide a down
payment on the deficit through realistic spending cuts while giving Washington
all of 2013 to reform entitlements and the tax code.

Scott Ruesterholz, Washington

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 7, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

Ex-Nazi camp guard fights deportation

BYLINE: Matthew Barakat

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 560 words


A former Nazi concentration-camp guard who has lived quietly in western
Pennsylvania for more than 50 years took his fight against deportation to the
nation's highest immigration court Thursday, arguing that he should not be
punished because he served in Hitler's army against his will.

The Board of Immigration Appeals in Falls Church heard the appeal from
88-year-old Anton Geiser of Sharon, Pa., who acknowledges serving in the Nazi SS
as a guard in the Sachsenhausen and Buchenwald concentration camps. A federal
judge ordered him deported in 2010.

But his attorney, Adrian Roe, argued that the court should have considered that
Geiser was forced to join the SS against his will, as a 17-year-old.

Government lawyers argued to uphold the deportation. They said federal law
places former Nazis in a harsher immigration category, and no exceptions should
be made because of compulsory service.

Roe acknowledged that Congress did indeed place Nazis in a harsher category when
it comes to determining their rights to immigrate to and live in the United
States. But he said that not everyone conscripted into the Hitler war machine is
truly a Nazi.

"The label Nazi itself sort of goes to belief," Roe said. "If they were a true
believer, we don't want them here. If they were a forced participant, are they
really a Nazi?"

Geiser, who was recently hospitalized, did not attend Thursday's hearing. He
came to the United States in 1956 and was naturalized in 1962. He lived in
Sharon, about 75 miles north of Pittsburgh, where he worked in a steel mill for
decades and raised five children.

Justice Department lawyer Susan Siegal questioned whether Geiser's service as a
guard was truly involuntary. She said that he could have requested a transfer
back to the Russian front, where he was initially serving, or that he could have
walked away from service or defied immoral orders. She said the Nuremberg trials
after World War II and military code established the precedent that following
immoral orders is not an adequate defense.

"I'm sorry - Mr. Geiser did engage in crimes against humanity," Siegal said.

Roe took exception to the portrayal of Geiser as a war criminal. Geiser says
that he was forced to join the SS in 1942 and that he never killed anyone,
though tens of thousands are believed to have died at Buchenwald and
Sachsenhausen.

Geiser does not dispute that the Nazi camps were horrific, and he previously
told prosecutors he was ashamed of his service. "I was not proud where I served,
and I didn't like it then, and I didn't like it now," he said.

Most of the hearing, however, dealt not with Geiser's actions during the war but
on narrow questions of legal precedent. Roe argued that a 2009 Supreme Court
decision requires immigration judges to consider whether an alleged perpetrator
of persecution was doing so voluntarily. More broadly, he said U.S. law in
nearly all aspects takes into account whether a person was forced to act against
his will, and he said the same principles should be extended to Geiser's case.

The three board members that heard the case - two appointed by Republicans, one
by a Democrat - are expected to issue their ruling in a few months. While it is
the highest immigration court, it is an administrative body and its rulings are
subject to review by federal judges and the Supreme Court.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 10, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Hall of Fame ceremony offers reminder of who helped build Washington

BYLINE: Dan Beyers

SECTION: ; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 325 words


I confess I'm not a student of immigration policy.

What I know is that there seems to be broad support for handing out more green
cards to the super-smart foreign nationals who graduate from our universities,
so they can remain in this country and help build companies that will produce
the jobs of the future.

I also know that legislative proposals to help people stay here have so far
failed to pass,  in part because supporters of immigration reform worry that
helping a select few will rob the movement of important leverage for assisting
even more.

I found myself reflecting on the consequences of the stalemate last week as I
listened to the testimonials for this year's inductees into the Washington
Business Hall of Fame.

The honorees included  Giuseppe Cecchi, an engineer from Milan sent to
Washington to scout business opportunities. He found a good one: The Watergate
complex. That project ultimately led him to establish his own development
company, now known as the IDI Group Cos., which went on to create Leisure World
and other communities. His proudest? The conversion of the 1,684-unit
Parkfairfax complex in Alexandria from apartments to condominiums, a
transformation accomplished without forcing tenants to move, allowing renters to
be homeowners.

Next up: John R. Darvish, originally from Iran. He came to the United States to
be a doctor, and decided he liked selling cars more. Darcars Automotive Group
now runs 32 franchises in the Washington area, and employs more than 1,900
people.

Following Darvish was a Bolivian who grew up in Argentina, M. Charito Kurvant,
now president of Creative Associates International, a D.C. firm specializing in
community development issues overseas. She's been a stalwart of local civic and
charity organizations.

You learn as a child that immigrants built this country. The Hall of Fame
ceremony showed that still to be true.

beyersd@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2012 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Lobbying for respect

BYLINE: Luz Lazo

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1060 words


That April 10 nearly six years ago was one of Jaime Contreras's defining
moments.

People arrived on the Mall by the tens of thousands, waving American flags and
chanting in Spanish, "Yes, we can!"

Contreras, 37, still vividly remembers the vigorof more than a quarter of a
million people demanding immigration reform.

"I was proud. . . . The thing that made me the most nervous was [thinking],
'Where do we go from here?' " Contreras said.

Contreras, who chairs the Capital Area District of 32BJ, an affiliate of the
Service Employees International Union, has become one of Washington's most
active advocates for immigrant rights. At congressional and local government
hearings, he has lobbied for the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in
the country.

He is leading efforts this year in Maryland to win approval, in a referendum, of
the state's version of a Dream Act, which would grant in-state college tuition
discounts to undocumented immigrants.

"He is sort of what the union leader of today needs to be," said Eliseo Medina,
SEIU's international secretary-treasurer. "He sees his mission as being broader
than just simply the workplace but really being able to help deal with the
issues in the broader society where our members live - not just where they
work."

Contreras was 17, in high school and working nights as a cleaner at 1800 M
Street when he started his career as a unionist in 1992.

He was one of a handful of part-time workers who spoke English and Spanish and
quickly became the go-to person when someone needed help communicating with
supervisors or co-workers. The workforce at the time was half Hispanic and half
black, he said. They were paid about 10 cents above the $4.75 minimum wage and
had no benefits, Contreras said.

"Somebody would call out sick, and the next day they wouldn't have a job," he
said. "But what probably got me more upset at that age was when people were
being  . . . mistreated for no reason. They weren't treated with dignity or
respect."

Contreras was energetic, unafraid of losing his job and "really interested in
making things right," said Valarie Long, a union organizer at the time and now
executive vice president of SEIU.

After six months of training and organizing, Contreras led his co-workers on a
two-day strike, which led to an agreement for salary increases, vacation time
and sick days. He was soon working part time as a union organizer while
attending Bell Multicultural High School in the District.

After high school, Contreras served three years in the Navy, then returned to
the union to become the youngest Latino, at age 27, to hold a full-time elected
position in an SEIU local. He also is the first Latino president of SEIU
Maryland and DC State Council, a political arm of SEIU.

The local union membership has grown from about 7,000 in 2006 when Contreras was
elected district chairman to more than 16,000. The majority are Hispanic
immigrants.

"Their families are suffering because of the current broken immigration system,
and that's why this is personal for me," said Contreras, who illegally
immigrated to the United States from his native El Salvador in 1988.

Illegal immigrant

At age 13, Contreras crossed the U.S.-Mexican border with a younger brother and
a couple dozen other Salvadoran immigrants, who each had paid about $3,000 to a
smuggler.

"For us, it was an adventure," said Contreras, recalling the 24-day trip along
Mexico's mountains.

His father, Victor Contreras, an ambulance driver in El Salvador's
second-largest city of San Miguel, had arrived in the United States a few years
earlier, fleeing a bloody civil war in the early 1980s. He had saved up to bring
his six children to the District two at a time.

Once here, Jaime Contreras started to show an aptitude for activism.

"Jaime was my interpreter," said Victor Contreras, recalling how the boy helped
when his father organized tenants at a building on T Street NW.

His son remembers that the landlord would raise the rent and wouldn't fix things
when they broke.

"I had no idea I was being an activist. I was just helping my dad out," said
Contreras, who lives in College Park with his wife and two of his four children.
He earned U.S. citizenship in 1996 after receiving political asylum.

Controversial figure

Widely admired in Washington's immigrant community, Contreras has vocal critics.

"One of the surprising things for me is that he brings in all of these workers
who cannot legally be employed to work as janitors and then complains . . .
that they don't earn enough," said Greg Letiecq of the anti-illegal-immigration
group Help Save Manassas. "And then he goes and does these outrageous protests
to try to make sure they can earn a living."

The mass rallies Contreras led in the area in the mid-2000s weakened chances for
reform, Letiecq said.

"He got a bunch of people upset, and he didn't get amnesty for his illegal
aliens," he said. "People like him have polluted the dialogue so badly."

Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County), who is leading opposition to the
in-state tuition bill, said that any success Contreras has had is because of
allies in Annapolis.

"He is talking to friendly people, to people who are advocates for illegal
immigration. It is not like Contreras has to use his talent or some special
power to convince them," McDonough said.

But before Contreras, immigrant rallies in the Washington region were organized
by groups from outside the capital area, said Gustavo Torres, executive director
of CASA of Maryland. None had been as massive as the April 10, 2006, event, he
said.

"He took the leadership to organize all of us. I remember he went one by one to
different organizations," said Torres, who believes it is going to take
leadership from someone like Contreras to reignite the reform effort.

Since that rally, several states have enacted laws targeting illegal
immigration, and the Obama administration has deported people at a record rate:
an average of nearly 400,000 per year.

Contreras said he remains optimistic.

"My hope is that if we elect the right people . . . that we will be able to
press forward as a community hard enough to get the immigration reform done so
people are not being scapegoated and families are not separated and children
left without parents and parents being deported," he said.

"Hopefully, we can change that in the next couple of years."

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. laws a lifeline from abuse

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1271 words


Teresa Gomez, a Salvadoran woman in her 20s, and Margaret Ashong, a grandmother
from Ghana, endured regular beatings, threats and insults by the fathers of
their children. Like many battered immigrant women in the Washington area, they
mostly suffered in silence, fearful that if they went to the police they could
lose their right to remain in the United States and their source of economic
support.

It was not until both women ended up in emergency rooms - Teresa with her face
slashed and bloodied from a knife attack, Margaret bruised and traumatized from
another beating - that they discovered a network of support that eventually
helped them obtain legal immigration status as well as psychological and
financial help.

"He treated me like a slave, and there was no one I could tell," said Ashong,
62, who lives in Arlington County. "He told the police I was not his wife and
that they should send me back to my country. But [the police] said to me, 'Don't
weep, madam, this is not an immigration matter. It is a case of domestic
violence. We will get help for you.' "

In the past decade, several new laws have allowed abused foreign-born women,
including those who entered the United States illegally and those whose
immigration status depends on their spouse, to obtain legal residency on their
own.

Lawyers at two area nonprofit legal agencies, Ayuda in Takoma Park and the
Tahirih Justice Center in Arlington County, said that in the past several years,
they have helped hundreds of foreign-born women win the right to remain in the
United States after they were able to prove to immigration authorities that they
had been abused or assaulted by a boyfriend, husband, employer or acquaintance.

But, the lawyers said, a far larger number of abused immigrant women -
especially those who entered illegally - never find out that they are entitled
to such relief. Instead, they remain isolated and trapped in a terrible dilemma:
afraid of men who subject them to emotional and physical harm, yet equally
afraid of the consequences of turning them in.

"In many cases, the threat of deportation is part of the abuse," said Paula
Fitzgerald, a lawyer at Ayuda, which means "help" in Spanish. When immigrant
women from poor countries come to the United States to join husbands who are
legal residents or citizens, she said, they often do not speak English or
understand American laws. "The sponsor holds their legal status over their head
and uses it to control them," she said.

For victims who do come forward, there are two forms of relief that allow them
to obtain legal status on their own. One is the Violence Against Women Act,
enacted in 1994 and widely used in the past several years, which permits
battered women to apply for work permits and later for legal residency. The
other is the "U visa," in use since 2007, which allows victims of sexual assault
and other crimes to win legal residency if they cooperate with police and the
judicial system to help prosecute the offender.

Laura Cortez, 30, an illegal immigrant from Central America who lives in
Alexandria, told police that she was molested by a man from her church who
convinced her that she was possessed by demons and that he had to exorcise them.
Law enforcement officials, eager to prosecute the man for other suspected
offenses, supported her application for a U visa after she agreed to help them.
She now has a work permit and within four years can become a permanent resident.

"What happened to me was very ugly, but it had a happy ending," Cortez said. "I
was scared I was going to be deported, but I had to do something. I was so sick
and upset that I couldn't sleep or eat. I helped the police uncover what was
inside the tamale," she said, using a Spanish metaphor. "Maybe that saved some
other victims, too."

An extra advantage of a U visa is that it entitles women to sponsor their
children for immigration to the United States. That's a strong inducement for
them to cooperate with law enforcement authorities, especially for the Hispanic
community, where thousands of women from Mexico and Central America migrate
illegally to the United States to work, leaving their children behind for years
in the care of relatives.

Yadira Gonzalez, 30, a dishwasher from Nicaragua, entered the United States
illegally in 2007 and left two young children with her parents. In Northern
Virginia, she became involved with a man, and they had a baby. The man grew
increasingly violent, and she obtained a court protection order. Eventually,
with her testimony, he was prosecuted and deported. As a reward for her
cooperation, Gonzalez won the right not only to remain here, but also to send
for her kids back home.

"The U visa was created strictly to benefit law enforcement. They were tired of
undocumented people not cooperating against crime, of victims and witnesses
being deported," said Layli Miller-Muro, director of the Tahirih Justice Center.
Even if the law may seem to generously reward illegal immigrants, she added, "it
can work the other way. I have seen horrible cases of abuse, but the police
didn't want to pursue the case, so the woman didn't get the visa."

Sometimes, women who enter the United States illegally are fleeing domestic
abuse in their home countries. In such cases, there is another potential source
of legal relief in the American asylum system, which was established to provide
a haven for foreigners who can show they have a "well-founded fear" of
persecution or harm if forced to return home.

Although asylum is most often granted to individuals who have suffered for
political, religious or social reasons, it has also been awarded to a handful of
women who faced sexual or domestic abuse. The groundbreaking case was that of
Fauziya Kasinga, a woman from Togo who was subjected to genital mutilation as
part of a tribal ritual. She was granted asylum in 1996.

Since then, most immigration judges have found that being beaten in their home
country is insufficient grounds for asylum, but women's rights activists keep
pushing to change this thinking.

"There has been this fear that if judges started granting asylum because of
domestic violence, it would open up the floodgates," said Morgan Wiebel, an
attorney for a woman in Frederick who fled to the states from her abusive
husband, a police officer in Honduras. She applied for asylum several years ago,
but her case is still on appeal.

Even when battered immigrant women win full legal protection, painful memories
can persist long after the abuse. Each of 10 women interviewed for this article
wept repeatedly as they described the humiliation and helplessness they felt,
even years later.

Ashong, an effusive woman who works as a live-in aide for an elderly invalid,
burst into tears and clutched a tissue to her face. "What did I ever do wrong to
him, that he should beat me like that?" she asked over and over. "I am happy now
that I got my life back, but the pain is still there."

Gomez, a petite woman of 24, uses a different last name in public but asked that
it not be published. She said her entire life changed on April 3, 2007, when her
estranged boyfriend dragged her into the kitchen and began to punch and stab her
in a frenzied rage. Two days later, she awoke in a hospital room.

"I got up and went to the bathroom. When I saw my face in the mirror, it was the
face of a monster. It wasn't me at all," she recounted, sobbing. Her former
boyfriend was arrested and deported. He later died overseas.

But Gomez, who won full legal residency, said she still has nightmares that he
will find her. "I am even afraid to close my eyes in the shower," she said.

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 25, 2012 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Former Salvadoran defense minister can be deported, judge rules

BYLINE: Curt Anderson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


MIAMI - In a groundbreaking decision, a federal immigration judge has ruled that
a former defense minister of El Salvador can be deported from the United States
for his role in killings and human rights abuses in the 1980s.

The ruling by the Orlando-based judge, James K. Grim, marks the first time a
2004 law aimed at stopping human rights abusers from taking refuge in the United
States has been successfully used against a nation's top military official,
according to the San Francisco-based Center for Justice and Accountability
(CJA).

The judge found that Gen. Eugenio Vides Casanova can be deported for the torture
of Salvadoran citizens, the 1980 killings of four U.S. churchwomen and the 1981
killings of two Americans and a Salvadoran land reformer. Two of those who were
tortured, Juan Romagoza and Daniel Alvarado, have also sued Vides Casanova for
damages in U.S. courts.

"This victory is not just my own. It is a victory for the entire country of El
Salvador," Romagoza said in a written statement after Grim's ruling, issued
Thursday. "The torture I suffered was not unique to me. It was the suffering of
many innocent Salvadorans."

Vides Casanova's attorney, Diego Handel, declined to comment Friday. A final
decision on Vides Casanova will come later, but the latest ruling for the first
time makes him eligible for removal from the United States.

In Washington, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) spokeswoman Nicole
Navas said the agency places a "high priority" on ferreting out suspected war
crimes and human rights abusers. The removal case against Vides Casanova was
brought by ICE's Human Rights Violators and War Crimes Center.

"We will use every tool at our disposal to ensure that those who have committed
such acts abroad never evade justice and accountability for their crimes by
hiding among their victims here in the U.S.," Navas said.

Vides Casanova, El Salvador's defense minister from 1983 to 1989, was a U.S.
ally during his government's armed struggle with Marxist guerrillas during much
of that decade. He later moved to South Florida and became a permanent legal
resident.

Other former Salvadoran officials from that era living in the United States
could be targeted for deportation for similar abuses, said the CJA's Carolyn
Patty Blum.

"The decision represents the successful use of one more weapon in the
accountability arsenal," Blum said. "We hope the [Homeland Security Department]
will continue to pursue vigorously other Salvadoran military commanders residing
in the U.S."

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

How to deal with immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 224 words


Although the April 9 editorial "Immigration muddle" noted President Obama's
reneging on his campaign promise to make immigration reform a priority in his
first year, it gave him a quick pass by stating that reform "almost surely would
have been a losing battle, since virtually every Republican - including some who
supported reform in 2007 - opposed by 2009 any real overhaul."

Wait a minute. For two years, didn't the Democrats have majorities in the House
and Senate that could have rammed through any immigration policy regardless of
the lack of support from Republicans, as they did for Obamacare?

Since fixing the illegal immigration issue transcends all political persuasions,
I suspect the reason Mr. Obama did not offer immigration reform was because he
did not have the full support of his fellow Democrats in Congress. Blaming the
Republicans for the president's failure to lead on immigration reform is
shallow, to say the least.

Ron Wirsing, Havre de Grace, Md.

l

Regarding the April 15 editorial "Alabama, fortress of intolerance":

The Post acknowledged that the state's immigration law had the desired effect of
causing thousands of people who were working and residing in the state illegally
to leave. But it then labeled the law as hostile and intolerant. However,
another word fits even better: Effective.

Allen Stegall, Frederick

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

A Dream deal deferred

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 164 words


In his April 22 column, "Immigration reform? Dream on," Dana Milbank derided
members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus for rejecting the alternative to
the Dream Act proposed by Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), saying the lawmakers'
actions would place immigration children in a perpetual state of limbo.

The point of the Dream Act - formerly sponsored by Republican Sens. John McCain
(Arizona) and Orrin Hatch (Utah) - was to acknowledge that although there was no
comprehensive immigration reform on the table, there could be consensus that
children who came to the United States when they were young deserve a path to
citizenship.

Until Republican standard-bearer Mitt Romney reverses his promise to veto the
Dream Act, and the vast majority of the GOP stops targeting immigrants, the
Hispanic caucus is right to decline to work with Mr. Rubio.

Mark J. Shmueli, Takoma Park

The writer is an immigration attorney and a member of the Commission to Study
the Impact of Immigrants in Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Report finds sexual abuse of female farmworkers is prevalent

BYLINE: Tracie Cone

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 438 words

DATELINE: FRESNO, CALIF.


FRESNO, Calif. - Female farmworkers across the United States are commonly
sexually  harassed and assaulted, in part because their immigration status makes
them fearful of calling police, according to a report being released Wednesday
by Human Rights Watch.

The survey by the international rights group mirrors two previous reports on the
risks facing women and girls that had focused on California, where most of the
nation's farmworkers reside.

"Our research confirms what farmworker advocates across the country believe:
sexual violence and sexual harassment experienced by farmworkers is common
enough that some farmworker women see these abuses as an unavoidable condition
of agricultural work," the report said.

An estimated 630,000 of the 3 million people who perform migrant and seasonal
farm work are female. The federal government estimates that 60 percent of them
are illegal aliens.

"It's easiest for abusers to get away with sexual harassment where there's an
imbalance of power, and the imbalance of power is particularly stark on farms,"
the report's author, Grace Meng, said.

The report calls on Congress to pass laws protecting immigrant female
farmworkers, and for the Department of Homeland Security to repeal rules that
encourage local police to report federal immigration violations.

The report describes incidences of rape, stalking, fondling and vulgar language
used against women, who say they often don't report it because they are afraid
of being fired or, worse, deported.

Meng interviewed 52 farmworkers and 110 attorneys, social service providers, law
enforcement officials and members of the agriculture industry in New York, North
Carolina, Florida, Texas, Colorado, Ohio, Arizona, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and
the state of Washington, but focused primarily on California because of its
large farmworker population.

Women who work for labor contractors are more vulnerable than those who work
directly for a farmer, the report said.

"The goal of our report was to show that this was a national problem and to show
the governmental barriers that exist to reporting these crimes and abuses. And
to demonstrate it's a human rights problem," Meng said.

While previous studies have said that up to 80 percent of women who work in the
fields have been harassed or assaulted, a counselor in the heart of California's
agricultural region says her experience puts it at closer to half. She said the
problem exists in all businesses where immigrant women may lack English language
skills and trust in law enforcement, but that farms are the biggest employers so
the abuses occur more frequently there.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 12, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Virginia teen can remain in country

BYLINE: Eli Saslow

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 316 words


A Virginia teenager who was scheduled to be deported a few days after her high
school graduation earned a last-minute reprieve Monday afternoon. Heydi Mejia,
18, and her mother, Dora Aldana, 40, were granted a one-year deferral by the
Department of Homeland Security.

Mejia and Aldana, the subjects of a story in The Washington Post on Monday, were
prepared to leave for Guatemala this week. Mejia was 4 when her mother brought
her to the United States across the Rio Grande, and she graduated with honors
from Meadowbrook High School in Richmond on Friday. She had planned to go to
college, until immigration officials came to her family's two-bedroom apartment
in December, turning her senior year into a countdown to deportation.

The one-year reprieve allows her a chance to enroll in college and get a
part-time job in cosmetology, as she had planned. Her attorney, Ricky Malik, has
filed a motion with Immigration and Customs Enforcement to reopen her case,
which could lead to a dismissal of the deportation order or a longer deferral.

"It has been an overwhelming week, for sure," Mejia said Monday. "I've had every
emotion, and now I just feel so relieved and so lucky.

Politicians continue to argue over immigration reform this election year, and
both Democrats and Republicans have proposed laws that would grant legal
residency to top students.

In the meantime, President Obama has instructed immigration officials to be
lenient with students who came to the country illegally as minors.

A valedictorian in Miami was granted a two-year extension this year after
100,000 students signed a petition against her deportation.

Mejia's reprieve came unannounced in a fax that arrived at her attorney's office
in the late afternoon. It represented the first step in what could be a long
legal process, Malik said.

"The Deferred Action will expire June 11, 2013," the memo read.

saslowe@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Evangelicals converge in accord on immigration

BYLINE: Lisa Miller

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 836 words


Americans believe there's too much religion talk in the public sphere, and these
days, it's especially easy to be cynical. Scratch the surface of any
passionately held faith-based position between April and November of an election
year, and find a political agenda.  That's because issues like gay marriage and
religious liberty motivate voters in the right and left base who might otherwise
be lackadaisical or unmoved by their choice of candidates.

Too often politically motivated religious leaders say "souls" when they really
mean "votes."

What is one to make, then, of the "Evangelical Statement of Principles for
Immigration Reform," a document signed last weekby 150 prominent evangelical
Christian leaders from across the conservative-liberal spectrum?

Often, these "bipartisan" religious efforts lack heft. They either take a
position that no one can argue with - "civility," for instance - or their
self-proclaimed diversity looks to outsiders like homogeneity. Moderates from
both parties can always find reasons to agree.

This statement, though, is a document of exceptional accord among groups that
rarely find themselves on the same side of anything. The signatories are calling
for comprehensive immigration reform that respects human dignity and the rule of
law, protects family unity, is fair to taxpayers, and ensures both secure
borders and a path to citizenship. Jim Wallis, founder of the left-leaning
evangelical group Sojourners, signed it, of course. But so did Jim Daly,
president of the socially conservative group Focus on the Family, as did the
heads of many of the country's most conservative Christian denominations: the
Assemblies of God, the Southern Baptist Convention and various Nazarene
churches.

"I signed on to this statement because immigration reform is more than an
'issue' to families," Daly said last week. "It profoundly affects their
stability, structure and quality of life.

With their signatures, the aforementioned folks - most of whom are white - stand
in direct opposition to the politicians who usually represent their interests in
Congress. Many of those were elected in a wave of tea party fervor in 2010, when
anti-immigrant sentiment was at a height.

The Statement of Principles, in other words, creates a fault line among white
conservatives over immigration. "Individual legislators are going to have to
decide whether they cater to the tea party, non-faith, non-evangelical
activistand ignore the evangelical base or whether they're going to compromise,"
said the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian
Leadership Conference, who helped broker the agreement.

The question is why? Why would white evangelicals, historically so coherent a
voting bloc, splinter in this way?

A big part of the answer, in the bluntest terms, is religious market share.
Hispanics go to church; non-Hispanic white people increasingly don't. When
Spanish-speaking immigrants arrive in America, they are, for the most part,
Catholic. But in the second and third generations, as they prosper, they are
drawn to evangelicalism. According to a 2007 Pew report, 15 percent of all
Hispanics in the United States are evangelical, and among native-born Hispanics,
the number is as high as 30 percent. White evangelicals, concerned about their
institutional future in a country where religious affiliation is declining, see
that Hispanics are sitting in their pews, taking communion and worrying about
their families' safety as anti-immigration laws like Arizona's go into effect.
(The Roman Catholic bishops also call for comprehensive immigration reform, but
notice that in this case, Catholics and Evangelicals did not work together as
they so often do on abortion and other social issues. That's because competition
for Hispanic souls in America is so fierce. "We call it strategic recruitment,"
Rodriguez said.)

Rodriguez convinced Focus on the Family to sign the letter only after many years
of meetings, he says. When he traveled to Colorado Springs to speak to the
leadership there, "I spoke about the need. I talked about the possibility of
deporting the very salvation of the evangelical community in the 21st century."

Rodriguez didn't talk about leftist priorities, like social justice. He spoke
about religious self-interest. "We're talking about the future of American
Christianity."

But make no mistake. On this issue, as on so many others, the fight for souls is
also a fight for votes. But unlike abortion and gay marriage, this one is
subtler.

Will Romney, who took a hard anti-immigrant stance in the primary, be able to
convince Hispanics that he cares about them as much as Obama does? (He tried to
Thursday - in a speech to the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials - by appealing to their pocketbooks.)

The nation's evangelicals are pointing the way:  As America evolves into a
majority-non-white country, Hispanic voters  are becoming as important to
electing a president as they are to filling American church pews.

.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 24, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Evangelicals converge in accord on immigration

BYLINE: Lisa Miller

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 836 words


Americans believe there's too much religion talk in the public sphere, and these
days, it's especially easy to be cynical. Scratch the surface of any
passionately held faith-based position between April and November of an election
year, and find a political agenda.  That's because issues like gay marriage and
religious liberty motivate voters in the right and left base who might otherwise
be lackadaisical or unmoved by their choice of candidates.

Too often politically motivated religious leaders say "souls" when they really
mean "votes."

What is one to make, then, of the "Evangelical Statement of Principles for
Immigration Reform," a document signed last weekby 150 prominent evangelical
Christian leaders from across the conservative-liberal spectrum?

Often, these "bipartisan" religious efforts lack heft. They either take a
position that no one can argue with - "civility," for instance - or their
self-proclaimed diversity looks to outsiders like homogeneity. Moderates from
both parties can always find reasons to agree.

This statement, though, is a document of exceptional accord among groups that
rarely find themselves on the same side of anything. The signatories are calling
for comprehensive immigration reform that respects human dignity and the rule of
law, protects family unity, is fair to taxpayers, and ensures both secure
borders and a path to citizenship. Jim Wallis, founder of the left-leaning
evangelical group Sojourners, signed it, of course. But so did Jim Daly,
president of the socially conservative group Focus on the Family, as did the
heads of many of the country's most conservative Christian denominations: the
Assemblies of God, the Southern Baptist Convention and various Nazarene
churches.

"I signed on to this statement because immigration reform is more than an
'issue' to families," Daly said last week. "It profoundly affects their
stability, structure and quality of life.

With their signatures, the aforementioned folks - most of whom are white - stand
in direct opposition to the politicians who usually represent their interests in
Congress. Many of those were elected in a wave of tea party fervor in 2010, when
anti-immigrant sentiment was at a height.

The Statement of Principles, in other words, creates a fault line among white
conservatives over immigration. "Individual legislators are going to have to
decide whether they cater to the tea party, non-faith, non-evangelical
activistand ignore the evangelical base or whether they're going to compromise,"
said the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian
Leadership Conference, who helped broker the agreement.

The question is why? Why would white evangelicals, historically so coherent a
voting bloc, splinter in this way?

A big part of the answer, in the bluntest terms, is religious market share.
Hispanics go to church; non-Hispanic white people increasingly don't. When
Spanish-speaking immigrants arrive in America, they are, for the most part,
Catholic. But in the second and third generations, as they prosper, they are
drawn to evangelicalism. According to a 2007 Pew report, 15 percent of all
Hispanics in the United States are evangelical, and among native-born Hispanics,
the number is as high as 30 percent. White evangelicals, concerned about their
institutional future in a country where religious affiliation is declining, see
that Hispanics are sitting in their pews, taking communion and worrying about
their families' safety as anti-immigration laws like Arizona's go into effect.
(The Roman Catholic bishops also call for comprehensive immigration reform, but
notice that in this case, Catholics and Evangelicals did not work together as
they so often do on abortion and other social issues. That's because competition
for Hispanic souls in America is so fierce. "We call it strategic recruitment,"
Rodriguez said.)

Rodriguez convinced Focus on the Family to sign the letter only after many years
of meetings, he says. When he traveled to Colorado Springs to speak to the
leadership there, "I spoke about the need. I talked about the possibility of
deporting the very salvation of the evangelical community in the 21st century."

Rodriguez didn't talk about leftist priorities, like social justice. He spoke
about religious self-interest. "We're talking about the future of American
Christianity."

But make no mistake. On this issue, as on so many others, the fight for souls is
also a fight for votes. But unlike abortion and gay marriage, this one is
subtler.

Will Romney, who took a hard anti-immigrant stance in the primary, be able to
convince Hispanics that he cares about them as much as Obama does? (He tried to
Thursday - in a speech to the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials - by appealing to their pocketbooks.)

The nation's evangelicals are pointing the way:  As America evolves into a
majority-non-white country, Hispanic voters  are becoming as important to
electing a president as they are to filling American church pews.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2012 Monday
                                 Every Edition

Obama, Romney: Immigration reform needed for growth

BYLINE: Catherine Ho

SECTION: Pg. A13

LENGTH: 398 words


President Obama and presumptive Republican nominee Mitt Romney spoke a day apart
at a conference for Latino elected officials last week, both framing immigration
reform as an necessity to spur economic growth.

For Romney, the speech before the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials (NALEO) in Orlando marked the first time the Republican
candidate shifted the focus of his campaign from the economic recovery to
immigration. The move came days after Obama announced his administration would
stop deporting hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants.

Romney spoke of a softer approach to immigration reform, pledging to overhaul
the green card system for immigrants with families and end immigration caps for
their spouses and minor children.

"Immigration reform is not just a moral imperative, but an economic necessity as
well," Romney said. "Immigrants with advanced degrees start companies, create
jobs, and drive innovation at a high rate. Immigrants founded or cofounded
nearly half of our 50 top venture-backed companies. They are nearly 30 percent
more likely to start a business. And that kind of risk taking is something we
need more than ever because new business starts are now at a 30-year low."

Obama delivered his speech before NALEO a day later, saying Latino communities
have been hit harder by unemployment but that his administration has expanded
Pell Grants and invested in community colleges, which are "a gateway to a good
job for so many Hispanics," he said.

"One of America's greatest strengths has been our ability to attract talented
and hardworking people who believe in this country and want to help make it
stronger," Obama said. "Our current immigration system doesn't allow for those
values. It tells the best and brightest to study here, but tells them to leave -
start a company somewhere else.

"As long as I am president, I will not give up the fight to change it ... They
are Americans in every single way except on paper, all they want is to go to
college and give back ... lifting the shadow of deportation and giving them a
reason to hope was the right thing to do."

Both candidates have identified Latino voters as a key demographic to win in
November. Romney has tried to highlight unemployment - which is at 11 percent
among Hispanics, higher the national average of 8.2 percent - as a failure on
Obama's part.

hoc@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

GOP strategy gets more complicated

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1061 words


Monday's Supreme Court ruling on Arizona's tough anti-illegal-immigration law
stirred a growing debate among Republicans over how to navigate an issue that
has energized the conservative base and turned off Hispanic voters.

Some on the right were taken aback to see Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., an
iconic figure to many conservatives, side with the court's liberals to reject
several key provisions in the law and even declare that as a "general rule, it
is not a crime for a removable alien to remain present in the United States."

The ruling came as Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney has been
struggling to connect with Hispanics after courting conservative primary voters
with sharp rhetoric against illegal immigration. A survey published Monday
showed him favored by just one-fourth of Hispanics.

The quandary for Romney and the GOP is clear from recent polling. The Arizona
law is very popular with whites and independent voters, according to data from
the Pew Research Center,while many GOP strategists think their party has little
chance for success in battlegrounds such as Colorado, Nevada and Virginia if
Romney doesn't win close to 40 percent of Hispanics.

The tension among Republicans over immigration has been a years-long struggle
and became a point of contention during the GOP primaries, when Romney sought to
win over skeptical conservative voters by attacking leading rivals for their
more liberal immigration views.

In recent weeks, President Obama has increased the pressure on Romney,
announcing that he would halt deportationsof hundreds of thousands of young
illegal immigrants -  action that Hispanic activists had been urging for a long
time.

And some leading Republicans, including former Mississippi governor Haley
Barbour, have publicly expressed concern that Romney's positions allow Democrats
to portray the GOP as anti-Hispanic.

Romney took a first step toward trying to repair the damage last week, when he
told a conference of Hispanic public officials that he would pursue bipartisan
fixes to immigration policy in a "civil" manner. He offered to loosen some
restrictions on foreign-worker visas. But he did not back down from his more
hard-line immigration views, and on Monday, Roy Beck, president of the
anti-illegal-immigration group NumbersUSA, called Romney's statements a
"tremendous victory for our side."

Now, some said Monday, a mixed ruling from a conservative court might change the
conversation.

"I'm hoping this decision, which included Justice Roberts, will send a message
to conservatives that we cannot allow a few states that don't represent the
majority of Republicans and a few political leaders to define the conservative
narrative on immigration," said Alfonso Aguilar, a Hispanic Republican who heads
the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles.

Romney appeared to be walking a careful line after the ruling.

Though he once called Arizona's approach to immigration a "model" for the
country and vowed to reverse the Obama administration's challenge to the law,
his support for the measure seemed more muted Monday.

Appearing at a fundraiser in Scottsdale, Ariz. - an apparent coincidence of
timing - Romney tried to turn the ruling into a critique of Obama's handling of
immigration.

"Given the failure of the immigration policy in this country, I would have
preferred to see the Supreme Court give more latitude to the states, not less,"
he said. "And there are states now under this decision that have less authority,
less latitude, to enforce immigration laws. And it's really - it's become a
muddle."

Monday's ruling was not a pure victory for the law's advocates. A key provision
- allowing local law enforcement officers to ask suspected illegal immigrants
for documentation - was upheld.

Still, for Obama, who has endured criticism from Hispanic leaders for a lack of
progress on fixing the immigration system and for an aggressive deportation
policy, the ruling bolstered his efforts to present himself as a champion for
Hispanic voters. Obama had already won praise for directing his administration
to sue Arizona, but now he can take credit for blocking many of the provisions
viewed as onerous by immigrant advocates.

On the right, the challenge on immigration is more confusing - and the dispute
over the Arizona law has exacerbated the tension.

Even the GOP's biggest Hispanic star, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, has struggled
to find the right balance, jousting in Spanish over his past support for the
Arizona law with the country's most important Hispanic newsman in an interview
that aired Sunday.

Jorge Ramos, an anchor on Univision, the widely watched Spanish-language
network, told the senator that he "took the side of the victimizers who are
persecuting Hispanics." He pressed Rubio on a passage in the senator's new
memoir, "An American Son," in which he said he would probably have voted for the
Arizona law if he were in the state legislature, because of the state's location
on the Mexico border.

Rubio, a potential Romney running mate, disputed Ramos's characterization,
appearing to draw a distinction between himself and Romney.

"I do not believe that the Arizona law is a model," he said. "I don't want it in
Florida, nor do I believe it is necessary in other states."

Several GOP strategists said Monday that they doubted the Arizona ruling would
affect Romney's performance with Hispanic voters. But they said Romney was wise
to point out - as he did again in his remarks Monday after the ruling - that
Obama had pledged as a candidate to make  overhauling immigration a priority in
his first year but did not get it done.

Even if Romney does not dramatically change his positions, they said, he can
improve his standing with some Hispanic voters simply by toning down his
rhetoric and casting himself as an earnest bipartisan broker.

Whit Ayers, a Republican pollster who has studied the Hispanic vote, said Romney
is not likely to match the "peak performance" of President George W. Bush, who
espoused relatively liberal immigration views and in 2004 won about 40 percent
of the Hispanic vote.

But, Ayers said, Romney has room to grow.

"It makes a big difference when you're at 25 percent or 35 percent, especially
in Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico," Ayers said.

wallstenp@washpost.com

Staff writer Philip Rucker in Scottsdale, Ariz., contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

The aftermath of a crackdown

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 985 words


Now that the Supreme Court has upheld part of Arizona's tough law on illegal
immigration, Carlos Castro's Todos Market offers a case study in how Prince
William County has fitfully come to terms with a similar law.

Castro hadjust opened his second Latino grocery store, in Dumfries - his other
is in Woodbridge - when Prince William passed a forerunnerto the Arizona statute
in 2007, allowing county police to check the immigration status of anyone who
authorities had "probable cause" to believe was in the country unlawfully.

The county's red-hot economy had produced a housing and construction boom that
triggered a wave of immigration, legal and illegal. But once the law was passed,
Latinos left in droves, leaving Castro with a choice: adjust his business model
or go bankrupt.

Five years later, Castro's stores are doing well and serve a clientele that is
roughly half Hispanic. His freezers are filled not only with Latino delicacies
but also with more mainstream fare - Stouffer's frozen dinners and T.G.I.
Friday's chicken bites.

"We hit the nail on the head," Castro said Tuesday, crediting his survival to a
spirit of compromise that ultimately prevailed in Prince William.

Latinos have started to return as the county's economy slowly recovers, but the
scars from 2007 remain.

After the immigration law was passed, a wave of protest from Latino groups and
advocates - and a concern about racial profiling voiced by the county police
chief - triggered a compromise: Police wouldn't check the immigration status of
anyone they thought might be illegal, but everyone arrested would be run through
a federal immigration database. Those identified as being in the country
illegally would be turned over to federal authorities.

Monday's Supreme Court rulingstruck down aspects of Arizona's law but left in
place something similar to Prince William's statute: Police will be required to
check the immigration status of people they detain and suspect to be in the
country illegally.

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors,
said he's glad the county reached a compromise, although he doesn't necessarily
disagree with Arizona's position. He said 4,700 arrestees have been turned over
to federal immigration services.

"Ultimately the improvement in public safety and in the business climate is
going to yield positive results for Arizona, just as it has for Prince William
County," he said.

Castro said the immediate effect of Prince William's crackdown could have driven
him out of business. But he adapted by asking non-Latino customers what products
they wanted most in his store. He wouldn't have thought to stock things such as
Hot Pockets and ready-to-eat meats, but he listened to their feedback.

Now, the 57-year-old former illegal immigrant said that business is back and the
environment in Prince William is much less tense.

"A lot of people got involved and made sure our community didn't unravel,"
Castro said. "I think we have learned to live together, and I feel really
comfortable in Prince William County."

But not everyone is as sanguine. Matty Lupo, who works at the largely Latino
Holy Family Catholic Church in Dale City, said she would love to leave the
county. But she stays, she said, because her children are in a good school.

Lupo said she hears stories almost daily about slights big and small toward
Latinos, such as a rude or aggressive police officer who eyes someone for what
she and others call "driving while Hispanic."

She says it's an attitude inspired by the vitriol of 2007. "Maybe we're
intruders to them," Lupo said.

County officials say the crackdown has been successful. A 2010 University of
Virginia studyon the policy in Prince William showed that of the 14,000 arrests
made in 2009, 6 percent were of illegal immigrants - though the study didn't
conclusively connect the policy and crime rates.

Though Prince William was one of the areas hit hardest by foreclosure as the
economy crashed and the crackdown started, things are now picking up.

Job surveys show that Prince William is among the top localities for job growth
in Virginia, and county statistics indicate that violent crime is dropping,
although there is debate about how much of that decline is related to the
illegal-immigration crackdown.

The county has also filed a lawsuit, still in court, seeking data from the
federal government in an effort to determine whether the illegal immigrants the
county has turned over have been deported.

Police are still viewed with suspicion in some quarters. Ricardo Juarez, a
construction worker who helped organize the group Mexicanos Sin Fronteras
(Mexicans Without Borders) and staged mass protests during the immigration
debates in Prince William five years ago, said the county is seen as much more
anti-Latino than in the past as a result of its policies.

But county officials say that just one complaint of racial profiling has been
logged against the county and police department, and that it was dismissed in
court.

Police Chief Col. Charlie T. Deane has called Arizona's measure "a high-risk
gamble" and said Prince William's more "moderate" position has caused fewer
problems and has been accepted by more stakeholders, according to a news release
from the Police Executive Research Forum.

Castro's wife, Gladis, busily stocking shelves with cold medicine, said business
is getting better because many Latinos who fled to Maryland are coming back.
People in the community aren't talking as much about illegal immigration
anymore, she said.

Her husband, who fled El Salvador's civil war in the 1980s and soon gained legal
status, said he is intent on having a store for everyone, but with a Latin
flair. He's even hoping to franchise Todos Market.

When a customer asked for something he had never heard of - beer salt,
apparently a staple in parts of Texas - Castro was more than receptive.

"We're working on that," he said.

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Too political for a justice

BYLINE: E.J. Dionne Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 736 words


Justice Antonin Scalia needs to resign from the Supreme Court.

He'd have a lot of things to do. He's a fine public speaker and teacher. He'd be
a heck of a columnist and blogger. But he really seems to aspire to being a
politician - and that's the problem.

So often, Scalia has chosen to ignore the obligation of a Supreme Court justice
to be, and appear to be, impartial. He's turned "judicial restraint" into an
oxymoronic phrase. But what he did this week, when the court announced its
decision on the Arizona immigration law, should be the end of the line.

Not content with issuing a fiery written dissent, Scalia offered a bench
statement questioningPresident Obama's decision to allow some immigrants who
were brought to the United States illegally as children to stay. Obama's move
had nothing to do with the case in question. Scalia just wanted you to know
where he stood.

"After this case was argued and while it was under consideration, the secretary
of homeland security announced a program exempting from immigration enforcement
some 1.4 million illegal immigrants," Scalia said. "The president has said that
the new program is 'the right thing to do' in light of Congress's failure to
pass the administration's proposed revision of the immigration laws. Perhaps it
is, though Arizona may not think so. But to say, as the court does, that Arizona
contradicts federal law by enforcing applications of federal immigration law
that the president declines to enforce boggles the mind."

What boggles the mind is that Scalia thought it proper to jump into this
political argument. And when he went on to a broader denunciation of federal
policies, he sounded just like an Arizona Senate candidate.

"Arizona bears the brunt of the country's illegal immigration problem," the
politician-justice proclaimed. "Its citizens feel themselves under siege by
large numbers of illegal immigrants who invade their property, strain their
social services, and even place their lives in jeopardy. Federal officials have
been unable to remedy the problem, and indeed have recently shown that they are
simply unwilling to do so.

"Arizona has moved to protect its sovereignty - not in contradiction of federal
law, but in complete compliance with it." Cue the tea party rally applause.

As it happens, Obama has stepped up immigration enforcement. But if the
76-year-old justice wants to dispute this, he is perfectly free as a citizen to
join the political fray and take on the president. But he cannot be a blatantly
political actor and a justice at the same time.

Unaccountable power can lead to arrogance. That's why justices typically feel
bound by rules and conventions that Scalia seems to take joy in ignoring. Recall
a 2004 incident. Three weeks after the Supreme Court announced it would hear a
case about whether the White House needed to turn over documents from an energy
task force that Dick Cheney had headed, Scalia went off on Air Force Two for a
duck-hunting trip with the vice president.

Scalia scoffed at the idea that he should recuse himself. "My recusal is
required if . . . my 'impartiality might reasonably be questioned,' " he wrote
in a 21-page memo. Well, yes. But there was no cause for worry, Scalia
explained, since he never hunted with Cheney "in the same blind or had other
opportunity for private conversation."

Don't you feel better? And can you just imagine what the right wing would have
said if Vice President Biden had a case before the court and went duck hunting
with Justice Elena Kagan?

Then there was the speech Scalia gave at Switzerland's University of Fribourg a
few weeks before the court was to hear a case involving the rights of Guantanamo
detainees.

"I am astounded at the world reaction to Guantanamo," he declared in response to
a question. "We are in a war. We are capturing these people on the battlefield.
We never gave a trial in civil courts to people captured in a war. War is war
and it has never been the case that when you capture a combatant, you have to
give them a jury trial in your civil courts. It's a crazy idea to me."

It was a fine speech for a campaign gathering, the appropriate venue for a man
so eager to brand the things he disagrees with as crazy or mind-boggling. Scalia
should free himself to pursue his true vocation. We can then use his resignation
as an occasion for a searching debate over just how political this Supreme Court
has become.

ejdionne@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 30, 2012 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Prosecutorial discretion, used wisely

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 259 words


Regarding Charles Krauthammer's June 22 op-ed column, "Naked lawlessness":

President Obama's exercise of prosecutorial discretion to defer the deportation
of promising young undocumented immigrants is smart enforcement, not, as Mr.
Krauthammer claimed, "amnesty by fiat."

Mr. Obama's policy allows the administration to focus its resources on the
removal of dangerous criminals and national security risks. And that is much
smarter than punishing young people who find themselves stuck in immigration
limbo.

The president is doing exactly what he is supposed to do as commander in chief -
protect America.

To claim, as Mr. Krauthammer does, that the president has rewritten the
immigration law is ridiculous. All law enforcement agencies have the authority
to decide whom to investigate, arrest, detain, charge and prosecute. As the
Supreme Court noted this week in Arizona vs. U.S., "The equities of an
individual case may turn on many factors, including whether the alien has
children born in the United States, long ties to the community, or a record of
distinguished military service."

Nor, as Mr. Krauthammer claimed, is prosecutorial discretion reserved for the
most extreme and extenuating circumstances. As the Supreme Court recognized,
some "discretionary decisions involve policy choices." The fact is, categorical
reprieves from deportation have been used by presidents of both political
parties to protect broad groups of immigrants.

David Leopold, Washington

The writer is counsel and past president of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 1, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Worst Week in Washington

BYLINE: Chris Cillizza

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 466 words


For Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, it's been a rough few days.

Not only did Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who had seemed to be Scalia's
conservative-brother-in-arms,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/supreme-court-health-care-
decision/index.html"                 title="www.washingtonpost.com-URL-cast the
decisive voteupholding President Obama's health-care overhaul, but earlier in
the week, in his
http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/supreme-court-rules-on-arizona-immigratio
n-law/2012/06/25/gJQA0Nrm1V_story.html"
title="www.washingtonpost.com-URL-dissent on the Arizona immigration law, Scalia
trod all over the idea that the Supreme Court is above politics.

In a little-noticed (at first) rejection of the high court's majority opinion
that much of the Arizona statute was preempted by federal law, the ever-quotable
and occasionally controversial Scalia said that the ruling "boggles the mind" -
particularly in light of Obama's recent decision to stop deporting some illegal
immigrants under 30 if they were brought here by their parents as children.

"The president has said that the new program is 'the right thing to do' in light
of Congress's failure to pass the administration's proposed revision of the
immigration laws," Scalia wrote. "Perhaps it is, though Arizona may not think
so."

Cue outrage.

Scalia's critics seized on the comment as evidence that the conservative justice
had put his politics before the law. E.J. Dionne Jr., a liberal columnist for
The Washington Post, went as far as to call for his resignation, writing: "What
boggles the mind is that Scalia thought it proper to jump into this political
argument."

Scalia isn't likely to take Dionne's advice - and this week of controversy is
likely to be the smallest of ripples when one looks back on the breadth of his
career. And a bad week can turn into a good week down the line; just ask a
http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/who-had-the-worst-week-in-washington-soli
citor-general-donald-b-verrilli-jr/2012/03/30/gIQAL2nFlS_story.html
www.washingtonpost.com-URL-past worst week winner,Solicitor General Donald B.
Verrilli Jr., who was dinged for his poor performance in arguing the
administration's health-care case before the court in March. He had to be
breathing a sigh of relief when the verdict came down Thursday morning.

Antonin Scalia, for showing too much partisan political leg, you had the worst
week in Washington. Congrats, or something.

Have a candidate for the Worst Week in Washington? E-mail

Chris Cillizza

at chris.cillizza@wpost.com

Read more from http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions-URL-Outlook, friend us on
http://www.facebook.com/washpostoutlook-URL-Facebook, and follow us on
http://www.twitter.com/postoutlook" title="www.twitter.com-URL-Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Face of calm in times of crisis

BYLINE: Josh White

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1234 words


When the Prince William Board of County Supervisors jumped into the national
immigration debate in 2007 and became one of the first places in the country to
require the police department to question residents about their immigration
status, Chief Charlie T. Deane thought otherwise.

He feared cries of racial profiling and losing the trust of the county's growing
immigrant community. His stance angered his bosses on the county board and many
residents who thought he was flouting the law. But Deane, who announced his
retirement on Wednesday, used his decades of goodwill to persuade the board to
change its policy. The department would check a person's immigration status only
after an arrest.

"When this was forced on us, we had no experience with it, and there were legal
and moral implications," Deane said. "I saw from the beginning that the safest
course for this county was to do the screening post-arrest. . . . We are
responsible for providing police services to everyone, regardless of their
status."

Deane has earned a national reputation for the same straightforward approach he
displayed during the immigration debate and for calm during crisis - hallmarks
of his 24-year tenure as chief in Prince William. A firm, Southern gentleman,
Deane has led his department through monumental change in both the county and in
policing, maintaining his country sensibilities while facing the challenges of a
modern, fast-growing community.

Just shy of his 67th birthday, Deane plans to leave, 42 years after he helped
open the department in what was then a sleepy Virginia outpost of dairy farms.
Although Prince William has become a bustling Washington bedroom community, the
police department's one constant has been Deane. Many in the county said
Wednesday that it is the end of an era.

"Prince William has been a very exciting, dynamic place to work," Deane said in
an interview this week before he announced his retirement. "It's just as
exciting today. The challenges are different, and the world is more complex. But
we've developed a department that is second to none, and it'll be in good
hands."

Law enforcement officials across the country consider Deane one of the best in
the field, having distinguished himself on the immigration issue but also for
leading his department through some of the most notable crimes in the region's
history, including the Washington area sniper shootings, the "East Coast Rapist"
investigation and the 1993 Lorena Bobbitt case.

When Deane began as chief in Prince William, the county had 200,000 residents.
Cellphones barely existed, police didn't have DNA evidence and the Internet -
and the crimes created by it - was barely imaginable. Deane had 239 officers and
a budget of $16 million.

Prince William has since doubled in population. The county is now home to
Potomac Mills mall and a large concert venue. Police cars have computers and
license-plate readers, the department has its own training academy and forensics
lab, and Deane has diversified what is now a force of nearly 600 sworn officers
and a budget of $80 million.

Through all the change, Deane made few, if any, enemies.

Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles H. Ramsey, who was the District's
police chief from 1998 to 2006, said he thinks that Deane is "one of the
greatest police chiefs in America."

"Law enforcement has really grown by leaps and bounds over the past 24 years,"
Ramsey said. "It has been a tremendous transformation, but people like Charlie
Deane can adjust, adapt and grow with those changes."

The county has seen its share of difficult issues: the crack epidemic, numerous
capital-murder cases, abuse of prescription painkillers, a massive suburban
marijuana ring and  gang activity.

But the one that shook Deane, and most others in the region, was the sniper case
in October 2002, in which 10 people were killed and at least three others
seriously injured. Deane said he felt like a commander in a war zone, trying to
solve one homicide while waiting for the next one. He said he treated it just as
any other crime, but he kept an aerial photograph of one of the crime scenes -
at a Manassas gas station - on his conference table, went to the gun range to
hear the sound of a .223-caliber rifle (which was used in the crimes) and had
trouble sleeping while the shootings continued.

"Charlie was a stabilizing factor for all of us during that time," Ramsey said.

Deane has earned a reputation for being nearly unflappable, handling crises in a
no-nonsense manner. Deane regularly appeared at crime scenes and often called on
his background as a criminal investigator.

Prince William Commonwealth's Attorney Paul B. Ebert said that Deane has
embodied the principles of honesty and integrity, evidenced by the fact that
there has never been a major scandal unearthed at the department.

"He insists on everyone in his department being good policemen, and he won't
tolerate dishonesty," Ebert said.

Deane said he has fired police officers for lying to him. And he has been
willing to air the department's dirty laundry when necessary, especially when
his officers have been found breaking the law.

"The community has a right to hold their officers to very high standards," Deane
said. "We can't expect them to have confidence in us, to trust us, to report
crimes to us, without us being honorable people."

Deane has always told it like it is, getting out in front of crime trends and
discussing them openly, even questioning his bosses, as he did in the
immigration debate.

Corey Stewart, chairman of the county board, said he was frustrated by Deane's
objections to the county's policy and believed that it was daunting to have
someone from inside the county's bureaucracy taking him on. The board later
changed its policy, which now conforms with Deane's vision.

"At the time, I saw him as an adversary," Stewart said. "But I look back on it
now, and I realize he was right."

Deane said he has always taken a special interest in crimes against children,
which is why the 2009 case of Lexie Glover bothered him so. Lexie was reported
missing, but she was later discovered dead and her mother was charged with
killing her. Deane said the police department and other county agencies missed
signs of problems within the family.

After Lexie's death, Deane instituted new policies and procedures for looking at
child-abuse cases. It's an "early warning system" designed to catch problems
before they become critical.

Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Washington-based Police Executive
Research Forum, for which Deane has served as vice president, said that Deane
stands out nationally.

"The way Charlie handled the immigration issue and worked through it was a
defining moment," Wexler said. "It put Prince William County on the map in a
good way, in terms of how you handle something as controversial as that."

Deane said he hopes that the county board fills the chief's job internally.
Deane declined to discuss potential successors, but obvious contenders would be
Deputy Chief Barry Barnard and Assistant Chiefs Mike Crosbie, Steve Hudson and
Jay Lanham.

Stewart said that the board will conduct a national search for the next chief
and added that it will be difficult to replace Deane. "The professionalism and
integrity of the police department . . . is in large part due to him, and it's
going to be very hard to fill those shoes."

whitejs@washpost.com

Jeremy Borden contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 5, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

A face of calm in times of crisis

BYLINE: Josh White;Reprinted fromThursday's editions

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1234 words


When the Prince William Board of County Supervisors jumped into the national
immigration debate in 2007 and became one of the first places in the country to
require the police department to question residents about their immigration
status, Chief Charlie T. Deane thought otherwise.

He feared cries of racial profiling and losing the trust of the county's growing
immigrant community. His stance angered his bosses on the county board and many
residents who thought he was flouting the law. But Deane, who announced his
retirement on Wednesday, used his decades of goodwill to persuade the board to
change its policy. The department would check a person's immigration status only
after an arrest.

"When this was forced on us, we had no experience with it, and there were legal
and moral implications," Deane said. "I saw from the beginning that the safest
course for this county was to do the screening post-arrest. . . . We are
responsible for providing police services to everyone, regardless of their
status."

Deane has earned a national reputation for the same straightforward approach he
displayed during the immigration debate and for calm during crisis - hallmarks
of his 24-year tenure as chief in Prince William. A firm, Southern gentleman,
Deane has led his department through monumental change in both the county and in
policing, maintaining his country sensibilities while facing the challenges of a
modern, fast-growing community.

Just shy of his 67th birthday, Deane plans to leave, 42 years after he helped
open the department in what was then a sleepy Virginia outpost of dairy farms.
Although Prince William has become a bustling Washington bedroom community, the
police department's one constant has been Deane. Many in the county said
Wednesday that it is the end of an era.

"Prince William has been a very exciting, dynamic place to work," Deane said in
an interview this week before he announced his retirement. "It's just as
exciting today. The challenges are different, and the world is more complex. But
we've developed a department that is second to none, and it'll be in good
hands."

Law enforcement officials across the country consider Deane one of the best in
the field, having distinguished himself on the immigration issue but also for
leading his department through some of the most notable crimes in the region's
history, including the Washington area sniper shootings, the "East Coast Rapist"
investigation and the 1993 Lorena Bobbitt case.

When Deane began as chief in Prince William, the county had 200,000 residents.
Cellphones barely existed, police didn't have DNA evidence and the Internet -
and the crimes created by it - was barely imaginable. Deane had 239 officers and
a budget of $16 million.

Prince William has since doubled in population. The county is now home to
Potomac Mills mall and a large concert venue. Police cars have computers and
license-plate readers, the department has its own training academy and forensics
lab, and Deane has diversified what is now a force of nearly 600 sworn officers
and a budget of $80 million.

Through all the change, Deane made few, if any, enemies.

Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles H. Ramsey, who was the District's
police chief from 1998 to 2006, said he thinks that Deane is "one of the
greatest police chiefs in America."

"Law enforcement has really grown by leaps and bounds over the past 24 years,"
Ramsey said. "It has been a tremendous transformation, but people like Charlie
Deane can adjust, adapt and grow with those changes."

The county has seen its share of difficult issues: the crack epidemic, numerous
capital-murder cases, abuse of prescription painkillers, a massive suburban
marijuana ring and gang activity.

But the one that shook Deane, and most others in the region, was the sniper case
in October 2002, in which 10 people were killed and at least three others
seriously injured. Deane said he felt like a commander in a war zone, trying to
solve one homicide while waiting for the next one. He said he treated it just as
any other crime, but he kept an aerial photograph of one of the crime scenes -
at a Manassas gas station - on his conference table, went to the gun range to
hear the sound of a .223-caliber rifle (which was used in the crimes) and had
trouble sleeping while the shootings continued.

"Charlie was a stabilizing factor for all of us during that time," Ramsey said.

Deane has earned a reputation for being nearly unflappable, handling crises in a
no-nonsense manner. Deane regularly appeared at crime scenes and often called on
his background as a criminal investigator.

Prince William Commonwealth's Attorney Paul B. Ebert said that Deane has
embodied the principles of honesty and integrity, evidenced by the fact that
there has never been a major scandal unearthed at the department.

"He insists on everyone in his department being good policemen, and he won't
tolerate dishonesty," Ebert said.

Deane said he has fired police officers for lying to him. And he has been
willing to air the department's dirty laundry when necessary, especially when
his officers have been found breaking the law.

"The community has a right to hold their officers to very high standards," Deane
said. "We can't expect them to have confidence in us, to trust us, to report
crimes to us, without us being honorable people."

Deane has always told it like it is, getting out in front of crime trends and
discussing them openly, even questioning his bosses, as he did in the
immigration debate.

Corey Stewart, chairman of the county board, said he was frustrated by Deane's
objections to the county's policy and believed that it was daunting to have
someone from inside the county's bureaucracy taking him on. The board later
changed its policy, which now conforms with Deane's vision.

"At the time, I saw him as an adversary," Stewart said. "But I look back on it
now, and I realize he was right."

Deane said he has always taken a special interest in crimes against children,
which is why the 2009 case of Lexie Glover bothered him so. Lexie was reported
missing, but she was later discovered dead and her mother was charged with
killing her. Deane said the police department and other county agencies missed
signs of problems within the family.

After Lexie's death, Deane instituted new policies and procedures for looking at
child-abuse cases. It's an "early warning system" designed to catch problems
before they become critical.

Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Washington-based Police Executive
Research Forum, for which Deane has served as vice president, said that Deane
stands out nationally.

"The way Charlie handled the immigration issue and worked through it was a
defining moment," Wexler said. "It put Prince William County on the map in a
good way, in terms of how you handle something as controversial as that."

Deane said he hopes that the county board fills the chief's job internally.
Deane declined to discuss potential successors, but obvious contenders would be
Deputy Chief Barry Barnard and Assistant Chiefs Mike Crosbie, Steve Hudson and
Jay Lanham.

Stewart said that the board will conduct a national search for the next chief
and added that it will be difficult to replace Deane. "The professionalism and
integrity of the police department . . . is in large part due to him, and it's
going to be very hard to fill those shoes."

whitejs@washpost.com

Jeremy Borden contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 15, 2012 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Application process starts for residency hopefuls

BYLINE: Steve Hendrix

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 988 words


The Obama administration will kick off one of the most sweeping changes in
immigration policy in decades Wednesday, allowing an estimated 1.7 million young
undocumented immigrants to apply for the temporary right to live and work openly
in the United States without fear of deportation.

Immigrants have waited for final details of the plan in the two months since
President Obama pledged to brush aside years of congressional stalemate over the
Dream Act and grant de facto residencyto qualified immigrants who were brought
to the country as children.

On Tuesday, officials surprised advocacy groups by posting the application forms
onlineone day early. Advocates across the country are planning workshops
Wednesday for hundreds of immigrants eager to learn who will qualify and how to
apply.

Families have been scrambling to assemble school records, utility bills and
other documents that may be needed, they said.

"People are very, very anxious to file, so we've been telling them to
over-prepare," said Emid Gonzalez, manager of legal services at Casa de
Maryland. The group has scheduled an afternoon workshop Wednesday at which she
expects to see family documents by the armload. "The phone has been ringing off
the hook."

The program is open to immigrants ages 15 to 31 who came to the country before
they were 16 and have lived here continuously for at least the past five years.
Among other restrictions, they must be free of serious criminal convictions, be
enrolled in or have completed high school, or have served in the U.S. military.
On Tuesday, officials confirmed that those enrolled in GED programs and certain
training programs will also qualify, broadening the program's potential reach.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services also provided a list of documents it
will accept as proof of continuous residency, including tax receipts, bank
records, and church confirmation and other religious records.

On Antonio Aleman's dining table in a double-wide trailer in Suitland, the pile
of birth certificates and school transcripts has grown to nearly a foot tall as
he prepares to sign up his two children, 15 and 21. With his wife Ruth slapping
fresh tortillas in the kitchen, Aleman sorted through his daughter Beatrize's
academic bona fides, including a certificate of achievement from Surrattsville
High School.

"I think they will qualify. They are good students; we've been working hard,
paying our taxes," said Aleman, 43, a bakery truck driver from El Salvador who
came with his family nine years ago and outstayed their visa. He already bought
two money orders for $465 each to cover the application fee. "It's been
difficult to wait. What else do we need? Do we have everything?"

The protected status has to be renewed every two years. And the program's name,
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, may lack the aspirational heft of the
"Dream Act." But immigration advocates are treating Wednesday's launch as a
great victory.

"This is single largest opportunity we've had since [the amnesty program of]
1986 to bring people out of the shadows and into documented status," said Rep.
Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who led efforts to pass the Dream Act in the House
only to see it fail in the Senatein 2010. "We've got to take advantage of it.
Our goal should be to sign them up, sign them up, sign them up."

Activists plan to hold regular events over the next several months to draw into
the program eligible immigrants, many of whom will be averse to revealing their
names and addresses to federal authorities.

But more than 5,000 have registered for an information session Gutierrez is
planning Wednesday at Chicago's Navy Pier. Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Sen. Richard
J. Durbin (D-Ill.) plan to attend, basking in an election-year initiative that
Democrats hope will please Latino voters after years of record deportations.
"This is such a contrast to the years of deportation," Gutierrez said. "The
rewards are going to be huge."

Critics said politics explains everything about a program they characterize as
amnesty for lawbreakers at a time of soaring joblessness. "With unemployment at
8.3%, it's unconscionable that the Obama administration's amnesty program
actually requires illegal immigrants to apply for work authorization in the
U.S.," said Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, in a statement. "This undercuts the 23 million unemployed or
underemployed Americans."

Opponents also complain about the costs. Homeland Security officials will rule
case-by-case on applicants, presenting huge personnel demands. Officials say
they hope to pay for caseworkers with the application fee.

Opponents and supporters alike agree that the two-year protections are likely to
be renewed indefinitely, as has been the case with Haitian refugees and others
who have gotten such status. While future administrations may stop granting the
protections, they are unlikely to move to deport those already enrolled.

"There's no way Romney is going reverse this, at least not for those who already
have it," said Mark Krikorian, head of Washington's Center for Immigration
Studies, which favors tighter restrictions on immigration.

For some young immigrants on the verge of being sent out of the country, the
program has amounted to a tarmac reprieve. Lawyers say numerous pending
deportations have been paused as immigration officials review people's
eligibility for deferred action.

Doug Stump, an immigration lawyer in Oklahoma City, has had three sets of
clients like that in recent weeks. Among them were two college-student siblings
within days of boarding a plane for Guatemala, a country neither had seen they
were toddlers.

"They were terrified. They've been in this country their whole lives," Stump
said. Officials agreed to halt the proceedings when he showed the two would
likely qualify for the new protections. Afterward, Stump said, "It was a
tear-fest around here."

hendrixs@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 26, 2012 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration official faces more sexual harassment complaints

BYLINE: Alicia A. Caldwell;Eileen Sullivan

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 659 words


At least three employees at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement have made
serious complaints alleging inappropriate sexual behavior by a senior Obama
administration political appointee and longtime aide to Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, according to court records and a letter describing
the claims submitted to a congressional oversight committee.

The complaints are related to a sexual discrimination and retaliation lawsuit
filed in May by a senior ICE agent. They accuse Suzanne Barr, the agency's chief
of staff, of sexually inappropriate behavior toward employees. Barr is on leave
while the allegations are being investigated, a spokesman for the agency said.
Repeated attempts by the Associated Press for more than one week to reach Barr
for comment by phone and e-mail have been unsuccessful.

Barr is accused of telling a male subordinate he was "sexy" during an office
party and asking a personal question about his anatomy. She is separately
accused of offering to perform a sex act with a male subordinate while on
business travel in Bogota, Colombia. She is also accused of calling a male
subordinate from her hotel room and offering to perform a sex act. The names of
two of the employees were censored in affidavits reviewed by the AP.

There were no prior complaints about Barr, according to a Homeland Security
official who spoke to the AP on the condition of anonymity because he was not
authorized to speak publicly about the matter. Barr was one of Napolitano's
first appointments after she became secretary in 2009.

ICE would not say whether the agency's director, John Morton, witnessed any
inappropriate behavior by Barr in the three years he has worked with her. Morton
traveled with Barr 65 times between May 2009 and February 2012, according to
documents obtained by the AP under the Freedom of Information Act.

Two employees came forward with their complaints after New York's most senior
ICE agent filed a sexual discrimination and retaliation lawsuit. James T. Hayes
Jr. described a "frat house" atmosphere at ICE designed to humiliate male
employees under Barr's leadership. Hayes, who filed the complaint in May, is
asking for more than $4 million that would cover compensation he believes he is
owed for relocation expenses and financial losses associated with his transfer,
as well as the full salary and benefits he would have earned until he was
eligible to retire.

Hayes's lawyer, Morris Fischer of Silver Spring, has declined to comment.

The Justice Department is seeking to dismiss Hayes's lawsuit on the basis that
he did not state a claim for retaliation.

There were 10 sexual harassment claims filed with ICE in 2011, a significant
increase over the two cases filed in each of the previous two years, according
to equal employment data from the agency. Homeland Security said none of the
cases were substantiated. Also in 2011, Morton issued an anti-fraternization
policy that said supervisors were not to have sexual or romantic relationships
with subordinates. Any such relationships, the policy said, should be
immediately reported.

Brian Hale, an ICE spokesman, said the agency has a "zero tolerance sexual
harassment policy" and that all such allegations are promptly investigated.

Despite the complaints, 24 senior ICE agents across the country sent Morton a
letter of support Thursday that alluded to news media reports of Hayes's case.

Barr went on leave after the New York Post reported about Hayes's complaint
earlier this month. The additional employees came forward with their allegations
around the same time.

Barr, a 1995 graduate of the University of Arizona, began working for Napolitano
in 2004 when Napolitano was governor of Arizona. Before that, Barr worked for
Republican Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl, both of Arizona.

ICE's office of professional responsibility and the Homeland Security's
inspector general are investigating the allegations against Barr, Hale said.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

The only country she's known

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1149 words


Back in 2000, Lundy Khoy was just another young person who had made a stupid
mistake.

The George Mason University freshman, a green card holder, had a boyfriend who
was dabbling in Ecstasy. He gave her some pills, and during a night of partying
she was arrested and charged with possession with intent to distribute the drug.
She pleaded guilty, served three months and was on probation for four years.

End of story, for most people. But for Khoy, now 31, it was the beginning of a
12-year saga of incarcerations, deportation proceedings and the specter of being
sent to live in a country she has never even visited.

The difference between Khoy and others whose youthful indiscretions led to
criminal charges is that she was not born in America. The consequences can be
catastrophic.

"There is a misconception among some immigrants that once they have a green card
they can no longer be deported, and that's simply not true," said Ben Winograd,
staff attorney at the American Immigration Council, an immigrant advocacy
organization in the District. "All it takes is one criminal conviction.
Regardless of whether it results in jail time, it can be the basis for
deportation."

In 1996, Congress passed laws that limited judicial discretion for immigration
judges and broadened the scope of what is considered an aggravated felony for
the purposes of federal immigration law. The category includes a wide range of
crimes, from murder to nonviolent offenses such as theft or fraud.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates for stricter immigration controls, acknowledged that the law can
unfairly target less serious offenders but added that it was necessary because
otherwise the government would allow more serious criminals to evade
deportation.

"The abuse of discretion makes it impossible to give the executive this kind of
wiggle room, because they can't be trusted," he said.

Last year, the government deported nearly 400,000 people, the largest number
ever. It's unclear how many among that number had been green-card holders.

Unlike illegal immigrants, many of whom try to keep a low profile in order to
evade detention, legal permanent residents who commit a crime are often
cavalier, unaware that the stakes are starkly different for them than for their
citizen peers.

This presumption that they cannot be deported appears to be especially true of
young green-card holders such as Khoy, who grew up here.

Khoy's story is not unusual in Southeast Asian communities. Her Cambodian mother
gave birth to her in a Thai refugee camp a year before they moved here. She and
her parents received green cards; her siblings, born after they arrived, are
U.S. citizens.

Often, Southeast Asians who came in the 1970s and 1980s escaped war or genocide,
and worked long hours in low-paying jobs.

"They are traumatized, shell-shocked, and can't understand how to effectively
raise adolescents in impoverished America," said Jay Stansell, an assistant
federal public defender in Seattle who has defended many Cambodians in this
situation.

A spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said that 1,894
Cambodians are in deportation proceedings. Before 2002, Cambodia accepted
deportees only on rare occasions. Since then, it has taken only about 500. More
were deported last year than ever before: 97 compared with 55 in 2010 and 48 in
2009.

Often the deportation proceedings don't begin until years after they immigrants
have served sentences and cleaned up their lives, getting jobs and starting
families.

"Years later . . . ICE would catch up with them and say, 'Hey, you were supposed
to have been deported years ago,' and send them back to Cambodia, which many of
these youngsters had never been to," said Pang Houa Toy, deputy director of the
D.C.-based Southeast Asia Resource Action Center.

Many don't speak the language, and don't have friends or relatives in their
parents' homeland. They also face discrimination. "They're stigmatized," Toy
said.

Khoy says she was obedient and responsible while growing up as the eldest child
of strict parents who forbade nighttime events during high school. By the time
she started college, she was thirsting for more freedom and took up with a "bad
crowd," she said, adding that because she didn't want her mother to think she
was using drugs, she falsely told the arresting officer that she planned to sell
the pills to her friends, a statement that resulted in a more serious charge.

Because her crime was an aggravated felony, she lost her green card and was put
into deportation proceedings.

"I didn't believe it," said Khoy, a delicate-featured woman perched on her
living room couch in the Southwest Washington townhouse she shares with three
roommates. "I was like, 'There's no way that my country could just kick me out.'
"

Her entire adult life has been colored by the arrest and its consequences. Men
she dated were often scared off by her situation. She was arrested again in
2004, as her probation was ending, during a sweep targeting "removable aliens"
on probation, according to ICE records. After several  months in jail, her
request for voluntary departure, asylum or withholding of removal was denied by
a judge, who ordered her deported.

Cambodia accepts only a few requests for travel documents each year, however, so
she was released from prison and put on an order of suspension, reporting
regularly to the ICE office in Fairfax. She did so for the next eight years,
while studying at Northern Virginia Community College, getting a job as an
enrollment adviser at the University of Phoenix's Northern Virginia campus and
working toward her bachelor's degree in communications and cultural diversity
there. She moved to the District in December because it was easier there for
someone in her situation to get a driver's license.

From the outside, her life seemed normal. Few people knew about her situation -
until April, when she went in for a routine visit to ICE. There, she said, she
was told to re-apply immediately for a travel document from the Cambodian
embassy.

She was also fitted with an electronic ankle monitor. She had to stay close to
an electric outlet for hours at a time to keep it charged.

With the help of her sister, Linda, a U.S. citizen, Khoy has gotten more than
3,000 signatures on a petition to stop her deportation. She has letters of
support from Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) and from longtime friends. On Wednesday
night, SEARAC hosted an event at Busboys and Poets to raise awareness about her
case and played a nine-minute film about her situation.

On Sept. 21, her request for deferred action was denied. That day, the ankle
monitor was removed because of the low likelihood that she  would be deported in
the future, according to ICE spokeswoman Gillian Christensen.

If eventually deported to Cambodia, Khoy  said, "I wouldn't know where to
start."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 28, 2012 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Hunt for a new chief revs up

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 701 words


The search for a new police chief for Prince William County has begun in
earnest, with the county recently accepting its last applications. A committee
will begin reviewing candidates, and county supervisors are beginning to paint a
portrait of the kind of person they would like to replace now-retired Charlie T.
Deane, a community fixture for decades.

Meanwhile, community leaders who are not officially part of the hiring process
are also weighing in - with the issue of illegal immigration at the forefront.
When county officials moved to require the police to ask residents about their
immigration status, Deane was seen as a moderating force in 2007, helping to
persuade the board to change the policy and require a check only after an
arrest.

"You've got to be a big supporter of local immigration . . . enforcement" to be
the county's new chief, Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart
(R-At Large) said in an interview. "We're not going to revisit that, and we want
the new chief to be on board with that policy."

U.S. immigration authorities announced earlier this month that a partnership
allowing local police officers to enforce federal immigration law may be coming
to an end this year. Stewart has vowed to push measures that circumvent the
effect of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement decision.

Supervisor Frank J. Principi (D-Woodbridge) said the job is a complex one.
Prince William is Northern Virginia's sole "majority-minority" county, and a
diverse community often has its own challenges; illegal immigration is again on
the front burner; and the new chief must be able to deal with increasingly
complex crime with limited resources.

"We need someone who can come in and do that on day one," Principi said.

County Executive Melissa S. Peacor declined to discuss the number and names of
any candidates or the criteria by which they will be evaluated. County leaders
have said they hope to have someone selected around the beginning of the new
year.

The position closed Oct. 17. An eight-member panel - which Principi said was
nominated by Peacor and approved by the board - is sorting through the
rÃ©sumÃ©s. That panel will narrow the candidate pool for Peacor, who will then
recommend at least three names to the board. The board has the final say.

The panel's membership has not been publicly named. According to a county
official familiar with the search, it consists of Peacor, two deputy county
executives, Fire and Rescue Chief Kevin McGee, Commonwealth's Attorney Paul B.
Ebert (D), Sheriff Glendell Hill (R) and county residents Donna Widawski and W.
Ralph Basham. The official who provided the list requested anonymity because
supervisors have not made it public.

Widawski was a prominent voice in support of Prince William's anti-illegal
immigration efforts in 2007. Basham, a county resident, is the former
commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and head of the U.S. Secret
Service. He now runs a private consulting group.

Widawski declined to comment. Basham could not be reached.

Carlos Castro, the owner of Todos Supermarket in Dumfries, said the county
should select a chief not for political reasons but on his or her merits.
Castro, who played an active role in the debate over immigration and police in
2007, said internal candidates - such as acting Chief Barry Barnard and
assistant chiefs Steve Hudson, Mike Crosbie and Jay Lanham - should be
considered because "they know the community and they have grown with it."

"I definitely would like to see somebody have the same personality as Chief
Deane and somebody who doesn't play politics," Castro said.

Deane departed in September after a 42-year career that spanned dramatic growth
and change in Prince William. The county doubled in population, the police
department more than doubled in size, and the nature of law enforcement in the
Virginia suburb changed as the county grew more populous, denser and more
diverse.

Prince William also saw some of the region's most brutal and perplexing crimes,
among them the Washington area sniper shootings, an attack by the "East Coast
Rapist" and the 1993 Lorena Bobbitt case.

Today, the county's police department has about 600 officers.

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 2, 2012 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration courts faulted as inefficient

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 342 words


U.S. immigration courts are inefficient and beset by delays, falling behind in
processing proposed deportations in recent years despite having more judges
hearing the cases, the Justice Department's inspector general said Thursday.

The courts completed 324,000 proceedings in fiscal 2006 but only 287,000 in
fiscal 2010, a report from Inspector General Michael Horowitz said. The number
of immigration judges grew from 211 to 238 in that period, according to the
report.

The Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration Review, which runs the
courts, "should take all possible steps to maximize the use of the resources it
has received," the report said.

The immigration office said in response that it has not had the money to study
ways to improve efficiency but that it will begin a study soon.

It also said that it would give new training to judges on how to respond to
foreign nationals' requests for case delays - a major cause of slower
proceedings, according to the report.

The immigration office said numbers in 2011 showed improvement, but the
inspector general's office said it has not verified those statistics.

Immigration judges hear deportation cases in about 120 locations nationwide.
They prioritize cases in which a foreign national is detained for a crime or
other reason, and such cases lasted 48 days on average, according to a sample
reviewed by the inspector general. Cases in which the person was not detained
went on for an average of 526 days, the report said. The non-detainee cases
included people asking for asylum.

"Cases, especially those for non-detained aliens, can take long periods to
complete, which crowds court calendars and delays processing of new cases," the
report said.

The issue of illegal immigration is hotly debated in the United States, which
has about 12 million undocumented immigrants, most of them Hispanics.

Hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who were brought into the United
States as children will be able to avoid deportation and get work permits under
an order in June by President Obama.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 9, 2012 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Latinos urge Obama to focus on immigration

BYLINE: Candace Wheeler

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 498 words


Latino voters who turned out to the polls in unprecedented numbers on Election
Day and helped propel President Obama to a second term are calling his
reelection a victory - and a starting point for more permanent solutions to the
nation's immigration policies.

About 100 people representing immigrant groups gathered in front of the White
House on Thursday with a message for the president:

"We got your back," they chanted. "Now it's time for you to have ours."

The crowd was there to celebrate the passage of the "Dream Act" in Maryland and
to push elected officials to pass comprehensive immigration reform immediately.

Veronica Sarvia, 17, said that as an undocumented immigrant, she has struggled
to pay rising out-of-state tuition costs. She came to the United States from El
Salvador at age 10.  With the passage of the Maryland law, she now can pay
in-state fees.

Sarvia said she now wants to see immigration reform. Her younger sister is a
U.S. citizen and her grandmother is a permanent legal resident.

"I don't want to leave my sister or my grandmother because I am undocumented,"
she said. "Please, Mr. Obama, pass permanent immigration reform now because our
families deserve happiness."

Earlier in the day, organizers with United We Dream, a youth-led immigrant
group, held a national call-in news conference in which they asked Republican
and Democratic elected officials to work together to create a path to
citizenship for the 11 million undocumented Latino immigrants in the country.

"We know the Latino vote was crucial in the president's reelection," said
Cristina Jimenez, managing director of United We Dream. "The president and both
Democrats and Republicans need to come together to create change in immigration
policy - and Dreamers will hold the president accountable on this."

National exit polls showed that 10 percent of voters in Tuesday's election were
Hispanic, up from 9 percent fours years ago. Seventy-one percent of Hispanic
voters backed Obama on Tuesday.

The president's announcement in June that he would stop deporting some
undocumented immigrants who were brought to the country as children was a great
mobilizer for Latino voters, said Daniel Rodriguez, who works with United We
Dream in Arizona and came to the United States at age 7.

But deferred action isn't enough, said Rodriguez, now 26 and a law student at
Arizona State University.

Advocates said they will focus on permanent solutions for citizenship.

"Tearing families apart and deporting members of our community is
irresponsible," said Lorella Praeli, advocacy and policy director with United We
Dream.

Organizers said they will begin reaching out to elected officials in both
parties and that they will have a formal message to direct to Obama at the
beginning of January.

"We proved what we can do with our movement at the polls," Rodriguez said. "We
now have a check to cash in 2013. We are expecting our elected officials to do
something to unify our Latino families."

candace.wheeler@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 16, 2012 Friday
                                Regional Edition

GOP, look to your roots

BYLINE: Anne Applebaum

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 729 words


A Texan friend of mine heard Karl Rove a couple of days ago talking angrily
about President Obama winning by "suppressing the vote." Not long after that,
she read that Sean Hannity wants to create a "pathway to citizenship" for
illegal immigrants. She wrote to me that she was compiling a list: "ways in
which the Republicans are now stealing Democrats' language."

She was right to find it amusing. But, if you step back, it's also tragic. The
Republican Party doesn't need to steal Democrats' language, let alone Democrats'
ideas. Like Dorothy in "The Wizard of Oz," all the Republican leadership needs
to do is click its collective heels together and start looking for answers much
closer to home.

If Republican leaders really want to appeal to Hispanic voters, for example,
they don't need clever Spanish-language marketing or better slogans. Nor do they
need to steal political positions from across the aisle. Instead, they could
resurrect the only sensible comprehensive immigration reform bill not passed
into law - a bill largely written by Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.). The
McCain-Kennedy Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007 was a grand
compromise: It attempted to win support from immigrants' rights groups, which
tend to be on the left of the political spectrum, and business leaders who
employ immigrants, who tend to be on the right. It created not only a sensible
path to citizenship for illegal immigrants but also a "guest worker" status for
people who want to work for short periods, and it enhanced border security. The
Bush White House supported the bill, which was defeated by congressional
Republicans.

Maybe it's time for those same Republicans to take seriously something that
several observers have noted recently: For millions of people on the lower end
of the pay scale, health-care expenditures take a bigger chunk of income than do
taxes. For Republicans, this problem ought not to come as a surprise, since
their elected representatives have been discussing it for two decades. As The
Post's Ezra Klein (among others) has beautifully documented, the Heritage
Foundation came up with the idea of individual mandates in 1989; Sen. John
Chafee (R-R.I.) wrote a bill - with 19 Republican co-sponsors - proposing
comprehensive health-care reform in 1993. In the mid-2000s, Sen. John Breaux
(D-La.) told me he reckoned that bipartisan agreement on the basic elements of
health-care reform already existed in the Senate: All that was needed, he told
me, was the political willpower to make it happen.

Republican leaders might also consider the writings of conservative columnists
and think tanks more carefully. For many years, The Post's Charles Krauthammer
has advocated a hefty gasoline tax, offset by an equivalent payroll tax cut.
Steve Hayward at the American Enterprise Institute has been arguing for years
that "conservation" is a word with the same roots as "conservative."

The conservative movement is a broad church, and its worshipers include even a
few sympathetic foreigners. Republicans could certainly do worse than to consult
their counterparts across the Atlantic.

The British Conservative Party spent 12 years out of office after the 1997
elections that brought the Labor Party and Tony Blair to power. After two
attempts to win by running well to the right of Blair, David Cameron led a group
of Tory "modernizers" into power by, among other things, embracing
"conservative" notions of conservation and budgetary austerity - and by deciding
that the state should have no role in dictating private morality: Intolerance,
one once told me, is "unconservative." One Tory minister, Iain Duncan-Smith,
spent his years in the political wilderness creating a think tank, the Centre
for Social Justice, dedicated to the study of long-term poverty and welfare
reform. He's now in a position to put some of its proposals into practice. So is
his colleague Michael Gove, another Tory modernizer, who spent his years out of
power thinking about education and is now hard at work reforming British
schools.

The British Conservatives didn't merely hire new speechwriters to carry out this
change, or ape their opponents in the Labor Party. They simply looked to their
history and to their roots. There is no reason the Republican Party can't do the
same: There's no place like home, there's no place like home . . .

applebaumletters@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 17, 2012 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Thinking outside the box to get a debt deal done

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 216 words


With President Obama and House Republicans claiming dueling mandates from the
election, it is hard to see how they will reach a deal averting the fiscal cliff
with negotiations constrained to tax rates and spending. Our leaders need to
think outside the box to strike a deal and save the economy.

The GOP wants to stop    $55 billion in defense cuts while the Democrats want to
stop $55 billion in domestic cuts. Since we need to cut spending, why not slice
these figures in half, leading to more manageable $28 billion reductions? Next,
Mr. Obama should accept an extension of all Bush-era tax rates, including those
for the wealthiest Americans, to give both sides a full year to pass meaningful
tax reform. In exchange, the GOP should agree to a framework on immigration
reform whereby the border is secured and undocumented immigrants who have been
here 10 years or more get full legal resident status, with their children
achieving citizenship in exchange for military service.

Passing this comprehensive bill gets the Republicans a big win on taxes while
Mr. Obama can claim victory on immigration reform. It would also provide a down
payment on the deficit through realistic spending cuts while giving Washington
all of 2013 to reform entitlements and the tax code.

Scott Ruesterholz, Washington

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 7, 2012 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Ex-Nazi camp guard fights deportation

BYLINE: Matthew Barakat

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 557 words


A former Nazi concentration-camp guard who has lived quietly in western
Pennsylvania for more than 50 years took his fight against deportation to the
nation's highest immigration court Thursday, arguing that he should not be
punished because he served in Hitler's army against his will.

The Board of Immigration Appeals in Falls Church heard the appeal from
88-year-old Anton Geiser of Sharon, Pa., who acknowledges serving in the Nazi SS
as a guard in the Sachsenhausen and Buchenwald concentration camps. A federal
judge ordered him deported in 2010.

But his attorney, Adrian Roe, argued that the court should have considered that
Geiser was forced to join the SS against his will, as a 17-year-old.

Government lawyers argued to uphold the deportation. They said federal law
places former Nazis in a harsher immigration category, and no exceptions should
be made because of compulsory service.

Roe acknowledged that Congress did indeed place Nazis in a harsher category when
it comes to determining their rights to immigrate to and live in the United
States. But he said that not everyone conscripted into the Hitler war machine is
truly a Nazi.

"The label Nazi itself sort of goes to belief," Roe said. "If they were a true
believer, we don't want them here. If they were a forced participant, are they
really a Nazi?"

Geiser, who was recently hospitalized, did not attend Thursday's hearing. He
came to the United States in 1956 and was naturalized in 1962. He lived in
Sharon, about 75 miles north of Pittsburgh, where he worked in a steel mill for
decades and raised five children.

Justice Department lawyer Susan Siegal questioned whether Geiser's service as a
guard was truly involuntary. She said that he could have requested a transfer
back to the Russian front, where he was initially serving, or that he could have
walked away from service or defied immoral orders. She said the Nuremberg trials
after World War II and military code established the precedent that following
immoral orders is not an adequate defense.

"I'm sorry - Mr. Geiser did engage in crimes against humanity," Siegal said.

Roe took exception to the portrayal of Geiser as a war criminal. Geiser says
that he was forced to join the SS in 1942 and that he never killed anyone,
though tens of thousands are believed to have died at Buchenwald and
Sachsenhausen.

Geiser does not dispute that the Nazi camps were horrific, and he previously
told prosecutors he was ashamed of his service. "I was not proud where I served,
and I didn't like it then, and I didn't like it now," he said.

Most of the hearing, however, dealt not with Geiser's actions during the war but
on narrow questions of legal precedent. Roe argued that a 2009 Supreme Court
decision requires immigration judges to consider whether an alleged perpetrator
of persecution was doing so voluntarily. More broadly, he said U.S. law in
nearly all aspects takes into account whether a person was forced to act against
his will, and he said the same principles should be extended to Geiser's case.

The three board members that heard the case - two appointed by Republicans, one
by a Democrat - are expected to issue their ruling in a few months. While it is
the highest immigration court, it is an administrative body and its rulings are
subject to review by federal judges and the Supreme Court.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 10, 2012 Monday
                                 Every Edition

Hall of Fame ceremony offers reminder of who helped build Washington

BYLINE: Dan Beyers

SECTION: Pg. A23

LENGTH: 316 words


I confess I'm not a student of immigration policy.

What I know is that there seems to be broad support for handing out more green
cards to the super-smart foreign nationals who graduate from our universities,
so they can remain in this country and help build companies that will produce
the jobs of the future.

I also know that legislative proposals to help people stay here have so far
failed to pass,  in part because supporters of immigration reform worry that
helping a select few will rob the movement of important leverage for assisting
even more.

I found myself reflecting on the consequences of the stalemate last week as I
listened to the testimonials for this year's inductees into the Washington
Business Hall of Fame.

The honorees included  Giuseppe Cecchi, an engineer from Milan sent to
Washington to scout business opportunities. He found a good one: The Watergate
complex. That project ultimately led him to establish his own development
company, now known as the IDI Group Cos., which went on to create Leisure World
and other communities. His proudest? The conversion of the 1,684-unit
Parkfairfax complex in Alexandria from apartments to condominiums, a
transformation accomplished without forcing tenants to move, allowing renters to
be homeowners.

Next up: John R. Darvish, originally from Iran. He came to the United States to
be a doctor, and decided he liked selling cars more. Darcars Automotive Group
now runs 32 franchises in the Washington area, and employs more than 1,900
people.

Following Darvish was a Bolivian who grew up in Argentina, M. Charito Kurvant,
now president of Creative Associates International, a D.C. firm specializing in
community development issues overseas. She's been a stalwart of local civic and
charity organizations.

You learn as a child that immigrants built this country. The Hall of Fame
ceremony showed that still to be true.

beyersd@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Tinkering at immigration's margins

BYLINE: Editorial board by Editorial board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 476 words


ABILL PASSED by the House of Representatives last month would grant a few
thousand more green cardsannually to Indian and Chinese engineers, software
designers and scientists, mostly at the expense of Korean, Filipino and Mexican
engineers, software designers and scientists. Since the legislation makes no
overall change in the paltry number of green cards available, hundreds of
thousands of highly skilled employees already working in the United States on
short-term visas will remain backlogged in the system, in many cases waiting for
more than a decade to become legal, permanent residents. That's what passes for
immigration reform in Congress these days.

We don't mean to completely dismiss the legislation, which, though hung up in
the Senate, seems to have a chance of passage there. Just about any measure that
manages to attract bipartisan support on an issue as incendiary as immigration,
as this one has, deserves hosannas.

In this case, the shuffle in employment-based green cards was pushed by Silicon
Valley high-tech firms with large numbers of Indian and Chinese workers.
Sponsored by Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), the legislation was balanced by a
parallel tweak in the immigration quotas based on family ties, which will more
than double the number of green cards issued annually to Mexicans and Filipinos
- again, at the expense of other national groups. That made the deal attractive
to Democrats and Latinos in Congress.

If the bill becomes law, the effect will be to level the waiting period for
green cards among national groups, shifting it to a first-come-first-served
system for highly skilled immigrants. That's an improvement over the status quo,
under which each immigrant feeder country was limited to a certain percentage of
the total number of green cards for such workers.

But consider this: After a three-year transition, the waiting period in the most
backlogged employment category - professional workers - will be about 12 years.
And none of this makes a dent in the much larger problems of illegal and
generally low-skilled workers already in this country, who comprise 5 percent of
the national labor force.

The obvious conclusion is that the nation's immigration system is badly broken.
The 140,000 green cards available annually for skilled and professional workers
- and that number includes their dependents - will remain woefully inadequate.
That will drive highly trained and knowledgeable employees - even those with
graduate degrees from U.S. universities - to America's competitors. Washington's
inability to overhaul immigration policy also means that 11 million undocumented
immigrants will continue to live and work in the shadows, sustaining farms,
construction sites, hotels and restaurants. While Congress fiddles at the
margins, immigrants, the lifeblood of America's economy, continue to get a raw
deal.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 16, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Ariz. sheriff accused of anti-Hispanic bias

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 968 words


The Justice Department on Thursday accused a controversial Arizona sheriff known
for tough immigration enforcement of discrimination against Hispanics, saying
Sheriff Joe Arpaio's department illegally detained Hispanic residents and denied
them critical services in jail.

That report was followed hours later by a Department of Homeland Security
announcement that it was ending the sheriff's participation in a federal-state
program to enforce immigration laws.

The actions against America's self-styled "toughest sheriff" highlighted the
Obama administration's increasingly aggressive enforcement of civil rights laws
in areas including police brutality and voting rights.

The Justice Department's Civil Rights Division is conducting 20 probes of police
and sheriff departments - the most in its 54-year history. And this week,
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. vowed to fully enforce civil rights
protections in the run-up to the elections amid Republican-led efforts to
tighten state voting laws.

Arpaio is a former D.C. police officer and the longtime sheriff of Maricopa
County; he has come to embody the national divide over illegal immigration. In
its report, the Justice Department said he had created a "wall of distrust" with
Hispanics by targeting them for arrest and retaliating against those who
criticized his methods. The sheriff's deputies, it found, were four to nine
times as likely to stop Hispanic drivers as non-Hispanics. Arpaio strongly
denied the allegations.

"We found discriminatory policing that was deeply rooted in the culture of the
department,'' said Thomas E. Perez, assistant attorney general for civil rights.
He vowed to work with Maricopa, which includes Phoenix, in implementing reforms,
but if the sheriff refuses to cooperate, Perez threatened a civil lawsuit or
steps to curtail the millions of dollars in federal funding the department has
received over the past several years.

A separate criminal investigation of Arpaio's department is continuing, federal
officials said. Sources familiar with that inquiry have said a federal grand
jury in Phoenix is examining whether Arpaio used his power to investigate and
intimidate political opponents and whether his office misappropriated government
money.

The report on the civil rights probe, which began in 2008 and is continuing,
could heighten tensions over the bitterly divisive issue of illegal immigration
ahead of next year's presidential election.

Once seen as a quirky figure who made inmates wear pink underwear, Arpaio has in
recent years become a kind of folk hero to those who favor his heavily
publicized "crime sweeps," mostly in Hispanic neighborhoods.

Arpaio and his attorneys have long denied any racial profiling and derided the
Justice Department investigations as politically motivated. In his typically
pugnacious style, the sheriff on Thursday blasted the report as "a sad day for
America as a whole.''

"Don't come here and use me as the whipping boy for a national and international
problem," he said at a news conference, according to the Associated Press. "We
are going to cooperate the best we can. And if they are not happy, I guess they
can carry out their threat and go to federal court.''

The reaction was equally blistering from Arpaio's supporters, who accused the
administration of targeting him for political reasons amid its broader crackdown
on new state immigration laws. A different Justice Department division has sued
four states over their laws, and the first such suit was filed against Arizona.

"The Justice Department has been turned into an attack dog to sic on anybody who
tries to enforce immigration laws,'' said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors tough immigration
enforcement.

Jessica Vaughan, director of policy studies at the Center for Immigration
Studies, said the administration "has been gunning for Arpaio for a long time. .
. . His efforts on immigration law enforcement help keep everybody in this
country safer.''

Civil rights groups and other administration allies applauded the Justice
Department. "After nearly 20 years in office, Sheriff Joe Arpaio's reign of
terror against immigrants in Maricopa County, Arizona, is on its last legs,''
said Angela M. Kelley, vice president for immigration policy and advocacy at the
Center for American Progress Action Fund.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, saying she was "troubled" by the
findings of the Justice Department report, announced that her department is
ending the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office's participation in a program that
deputizes local police officers to enforce immigration laws and flag illegal
immigrants to federal officials.

In the report, Justice said Arpaio's department has engaged in a "pattern or
practice of unconstitutional policing" by unlawfully stopping, detaining and
arresting Hispanics. Once in jail, the report said, Hispanics are punished if
they fail to understand commands in English and denied access to basic services
such as new clothes or sheets or information about early-release programs.

The report takes aim at Arpaio's crime sweeps, saying they have sometimes been
initiated because the department received complaints that people with "dark
skin" were congregating. It says detention officers hurl racial slurs at
Hispanic inmates and that supervisors demean Hispanics in e-mails.

The report also says that the sheriff's department uses excessive force against
Hispanics - including one person deliberately struck with a patrol car and
dragged more than 10 feet - and harasses critics with unfounded investigations
and arrests. While focusing on immigration enforcement, the report said, the
department has failed to investigate hundreds of sex crimes and allowed violent
crime to increase.

markonj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 23, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Profiling lawsuit adds to Phoenix sheriff's legal troubles

BYLINE: Jacques Billeaud

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 610 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


PHOENIX - The man who calls himself "America's toughest sheriff" has survived
firestorms in the past decade, but nothing like what he has faced in the past
few weeks. And in a few days, a judge could make things worse for Maricopa
County Sheriff Joe Arpaio.

On Thursday, U.S. District Judge Murray Snow heard arguments in a lawsuit by a
handful of Latino residents alleging racial profiling in Arpaio's sweeps for
immigration violations. The judge could send it to trial, throw it out, or
declare that racial profiling is used in Arpaio's immigration enforcement.

The accusations echo those in a scathing U.S. Justice Department report last
week that resulted in the sheriff's office losing its power to checks inmates'
immigration status.

On Wednesday, Arpaio questioned the timing of the report's release.

"Why couldn't they wait? Were they trying to poison [the racial profiling]
case?" Arpaio said.

The Latinos contend that officers have based some traffic stops on Hispanics'
ethnicity, pulling them over without probable cause to inquire about their
immigration status. The stops were made during the department's immigration
patrols in metropolitan Phoenix.

The Latinos are seeking a declaration that the sheriff's office violated their
constitutional rights and must strengthen policies that protect against racial
profiling.

Stan Young, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said Arpaio launched the sweeps
after he received racially charged letters and e-mails that complained of people
speaking Spanish. Tim Casey, an attorney for Arpaio's office, said that the
sheriff's office launches its sweeps on race-neutral grounds and that the
sheriff did not act on those letters.

"If I write you a letter and say all sorts of things in that and you receive it,
does that mean you are a racist because you received a letter from me?" Casey
said. He called for the case to be dismissed.

The hearing was the latest sign of the mounting legal problems and blistering
criticism that the sheriff is facing.

At the beginning of December, he apologized for more than 400 botched sex-crime
cases handled by his office. About a week later, the Justice Department released
the report alleging a wide range of civil rights violations by his office. A
lawsuit filed this week contends that his staff violated a Hispanic female
inmate's rights when they kept her shackled before and after her Caesarean
section in 2009.

And the family of a 44-year-old man was exploring legal action against the
sheriff's office after he was found unresponsive following a fight in jail with
deputies. He died days later after being taken off life support.

Arpaio has denied the racial profiling alleged in the lawsuit over immigration
patrols. He has said that people pulled over in the sweeps were approached
because deputies had reason to believe that they had committed crimes. It was
only afterward that deputies found many were illegal immigrants, he said.

In a sweep, deputies flood an area - in some cases, a heavily Latino area - over
several days to seek out traffic violators and other offenders. Illegal
immigrants accounted for 57 percent of the 1,500 people arrested in the 20
sweeps conducted since January 2008, according to Arpaio's office.

The Justice Department's report said Arpaio's office had a pattern of racially
profiling Latinos, basing immigration enforcement on racially charged complaints
and punishing Hispanic jail inmates for speaking Spanish.

The sheriff faces a Jan. 4 deadline for declaring whether he wants to work out
an agreement to settle the allegations. The Justice Department has said it is
prepared to sue Arpaio if no agreement can be worked out.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 23, 2011 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. judge halts key sections of S.C.'s new immigration law

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 172 words

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C.


COLUMBIA, S.C. - A federal judge on Thursday blocked several provisions of South
Carolina's tough new immigration law from taking effect Jan. 1, including a
requirement for police officers to check the immigration status of people they
pull over if officers suspect they are in the country illegally.

U.S. District Judge Richard Gergel's ruling also blocked sections making it a
state crime not to carry immigration paperwork or for illegal immigrants to
transport or house themselves.

The judge wrote that the Constitution and federal law "have placed the
policy-making role regarding immigration in the hands of the national
government."

The federal government sued South Carolina this year, challenging the
constitutionality of the law.

This week, Gergel denied the state's request that the law proceed as scheduled
until the U.S. Supreme Court rules on a challenge to Arizona's similar law.

Also Thursday, a federal appeals court denied requests by Georgia and Alabama to
delay action on legal challenges to their new immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration is flash point in Fla. primary

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar;Amy Gardner

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1373 words


The Republican presidential race turned into a pitched battle for Hispanic
voters on Wednesday, with Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney hurling insults over
immigration policy as each looked for ways to court a critical constituency.

The shift reflected the nature of the Jan. 31 primary in Florida, where
Hispanics will be a major factor for the first time in this year's presidential
contest. Florida is home to about 1 million Cuban Americans, a heavily
Republican voting bloc.

But it also has implications for the fall campaign, with both parties planning
aggressive campaigns to reach Hispanic swing voters in several battleground
states.

Gingrich lobbed the first attack on Wednesday,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/gingrich-mocks-romneys-self-deportation-p
lan-for-illegal-immigrants/2012/01/25/gIQAlxzaQQ_story.html"
title="www.washingtonpost.com-URL-poking fun at Romney during an appearance on
Miami-based Univision, the country's biggest Spanish-language network. Gingrich
peppered his remarks with halting Spanish as he accused Romney of living in a
"fantasy land" for suggesting in a debate that the country's 11 million illegal
immigrants should "self-deport."

Romney also stepped up his attacks on Gingrich, releasing a Spanish-language ad
noting that the former House speaker once called Spanish the "language of the
ghetto." Also on Univision, Romney said Gingrich's mocking of him was a cheap
attempt to garner votes.

"Now, I recognize that it's very tempting to come into an audience like this and
to pander to the audience and say what you hope people will want to hear,"
Romney told host Jorge Ramos. "But frankly, I think that's unbecoming of a
presidential candidate."

The back-and-forth came as several party elders, including former Florida
governor Jeb Bush and former commerce secretary Carlos Gutierrez, prepared this
week to host a Hispanic Republican summit at a Miami area resort. Among the
featured speakers will be Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), a political star who is on
the shortlist of possible Republican vice-presidential picks.

Rubio, a Cuban American elected in 2010 with the backing of the tea party, has
not endorsed anyone in the primary. But in an interview with the
http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/01/25/2607255/sen-marco-rubio-scolds-newt-gingri
chs.html"                 title="www.miamiherald.com-URL-Miami Herald , he
sharply criticized Gingrich for running an ad that accuses Romney of being
"anti-immigrant" and that reminds voters of a gaffe four years ago in which
Romney inadvertently used a pro-Castro slogan in his presidential campaign.

Gingrich aides said Wednesday that the ad is no longer in circulation. Asked why
he pulled it, he told reporters in Cocoa, Fla.: "I have great respect for
Senator Rubio."

Gingrich, for his part, has said he used inartful language in the 2007 speech in
which he
http://www.politifact.com/florida/statements/2012/jan/25/mitt-romney/spanish-lan
guage-ad-says-newt-gingrich-said-spanis/"
title="www.politifact.com-URL-referred to Spanish as the language of "living in
a ghetto."

http://www.politifact.com/florida/statements/2012/jan/25/mitt-romney/spanish-lan
guage-ad-says-newt-gingrich-said-spanis/"
title="www.politifact.com-URL-http://www.politifact.com/florida/statements/2012/
jan/25/mitt-romney/spanish-language-ad-says-newt-gingrich-said-spanis/"
title="www.politifact.com Romney appears to have the upper hand with Florida's
Hispanics who are likely to vote in the primary, who prefer him over Gingrich by
a 26-point margin, according to a new ABC News/Univision poll. That is a shift
from the 2008 primary, when Romney came in third among Hispanics behind Sen.
John McCain (Ariz.) and former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, with about 14
percent of the vote.

Another advantage for Romney may be that nearly 400,000 voters have already cast
their ballots through Florida's absentee voting - a sizable number considering
that just under 2 million GOP voters cast ballots in the primary four years ago.
Many of those votes came in before the South Carolina primary that catapulted
Gingrich back into the top tier.

Still, Gingrich is making a strong bid for the Latino vote, and Republican
strategists say his mastery of Latino issues coupled with his moderate tone on
immigration could give him an edge over Romney.

Hispanics make up about 13 percent of Florida's overall electorate and about 11
percent of registered GOP voters.

If Gingrich performs well in this group, it could
http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/some-democratic-strategists-worry-about-g
ingrichs-potential-appeal/2011/12/03/gIQAomJsTO_story.html?hpid=z2-URL-blow a
hole in a key argument  promoted by Romney's campaign that he is the best
Republican to take on Obama in the fall.

Four years ago, Hispanics broke heavily for Obama, but polls show their support
for the president has softened. While
http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/wary-hispanic-voters-favor-obama-over-gop
-rivals/2011/12/28/gIQAJa5eMP_story.html-URL-most say they plan to vote for him
again this year , at least some could be open to the right Republican - someone
who, like George W. Bush in 2000, can articulate the conservative message in a
way that appears sensitive and inclusive toward Hispanics.

"I have to say that right now that Speaker Gingrich has an edge because he's
basically said we have to find a middle road," said Alfonso Aguilar, executive
director of the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles. "Romney on the
other hand - and to me this is mind-boggling - used very ugly rhetoric. . . .
And policywise, the idea the undocumented, they all have to go home, that's
impossible."

Immigration does not rank as the top issue for most Latinos, particularly in
Florida, because Cubans have special rights to enter the country as refugees and
Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens. But even these voters have sometimes bristled
at the tone of Republican candidates toward illegal immigrants.

Romney has adopted some of the harshest rhetoric, asserting that welfare serves
as a "magnet" for illegal border crossers and attacking the Dream Act, which
would have offered a path to citizenship for students and service members
brought to the country illegally as children.

Still, he has his own outreach effort. Among the ads on steady rotation in
Florida is one featuring one of his sons, Craig, speaking fluent Spanish. And he
tried to make it clear in the debate that he supports the aspect of the Dream
Act that would ease the path to citizenship for military members.

He also has support from leaders in the Cuban American community, including GOP
Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Mario Diaz-Balart and former congressman Lincoln
Diaz-Balart.

"I think Romney will get the bulk of the Hispanic vote," Ros-Lehtinen said. "I
know that the media loves to highlight immigration as if the Latino vote is all
about immigration. But we're about small businesses and opportunities for young
families and homeownership."

Gingrich, however, has long been viewed as an ally to conservative-minded
Latinos, particularly Cuban Americans, and has staked out a hard-line position
on U.S.-Cuba relations. In Congress, he was a vocal advocate of the 1996
Helms-Burton Act, which strengthened the U.S. embargo against Cuba, and
supported the establishment of Radio Marti, which transmits U.S.
government-sanctioned programming to Cuba.

Last year, Gingrich's communications company started
http://theamericano.com/-URL-the Americano , a conservative news and opinion Web
site aimed at Hispanic conservatives. As part of his presidential campaign, he
held Hispanic business roundtable events in Iowa and New Hampshire and reached
out to Latino voters in South Carolina.

"He speaks with a great breadth of knowledge and authority and has a great
record to show for it," said Ana Navarro, a Republican strategist in Florida and
adviser to former presidential hopeful Jon Huntsman (R). "He enjoys being out
and campaigning in the Hispanic area. He enjoys the cafecito. He enjoys the
Cuban radio. He revels in it."

sandhya@washpost.com

gardnera@washpost.com

Polling analyst Scott Clement and staff writers Rosalind S. Helderman and Peter
Wallsten contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                The Fact Checker

                    September 26, 2012 Wednesday 9:14 PM EST

Obama's failed promise of a first-year immigration overhaul;
The president blamed the economy and Republicans for his failure to deliver on
an immigration promise. We reviewed the facts.

BYLINE: Josh Hicks

LENGTH: 2009 words


"When we talked about immigration reform in the first year, that's before the
economy was on the verge of collapse ..."

"And so we had to take a whole series of emergency actions to make sure that we
put people back to work - cutting taxes for middle-class families and small
businesses so that they could stay open or pay the bills; making sure that
states got assistance so they didn't have to lay off teachers and firefighters
and police officers; saving an auto industry that was on the brink of collapse.
And so that took up a huge amount of time in the first year."

"And what I confess I did not expect - and so I'm happy to take responsibility
for being naive here - is that Republicans who had previously supported
comprehensive immigration reform - my opponent in 2008, who had been a champion
of it and who attended these meetings - suddenly would walk away. That's what I
did not anticipate."

- President Obama during a town hall interview hosted by Univision and Facebook,
Sept. 20, 2012

Polls show President Obama maintaining a clear and consistent advantage over
challenger Mitt Romney among Hispanic voters, but an interview last week on the
Spanish-language television network Univision suggested that the current
administration has left something to be desired with the demographic.

Univision anchor Jorge Ramos held Obama accountable for a promise the former
Illinois senator made during his 2008 bid for office, when he said, "I can
guarantee that we will have, in the first year, an immigration bill that I
strongly support."

"I want to emphasize 'the first year,' " Ramos said. "At the beginning of your
governing, you had control of both chambers of Congress, and yet you did not
introduce immigration reform. And before I continue, I want for you to
acknowledge that you did not keep your promise."

The president acknowledged only that he was naive to think Republicans would
negotiate with him on immigration, and he excused his lack of progress on the
issue by saying he spent most of his first-year dealing with an economic crisis.

Let's take a look at Obama's inaugural year in the White House and his record on
immigration to determine whether his statements tell the whole story. Did his
promise fail to materialize because of Republicans and the economy, or does the
president deserve some blame here?

The Facts

Obama said repeatedly during his 2008 campaign that "presidents are going to
have to deal with more than one thing at a time." That's the standard he set for
himself: No excuses; presidents just have to juggle.

Obama turned to that line frequently as the economy started to nosedive around
September 2008. He even used it once to rebuff Sen. John McCain's suggestion
that the two candidates postpone a presidential debate to help lawmakers reach a
bailout deal for the financial sector. "It is going to be part of the
president's job to deal with more than one thing at once," the Democratic
candidate said.

Obama unquestionably inherited an economy in tatters, but his predecessor signed
a major piece of legislation to stave off complete collapse before leaving
office. President George W. Bush approved the Troubled Asset Relief Program,
which provided about $700 billion in bailout money for the auto and financial
industries. (Many people believe Obama was responsible for TARP, but his
administration only managed the program once it was in place).

The Obama administration, along with a Democratic-controlled House and Senate,
implemented additional measures to deal with the continuing recession when the
new president took office. Perhaps the most notable bill was the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which authorized about $833 billion for
investments in infrastructure, education, health, clean energy and for helping
states balance their budgets. It also included temporary tax breaks.

Obama approved the Recovery Act less than a month after taking office. And while
his administration had to manage the resulting stimulus programs and their many
complicated layers, the president was free to lead further legislative
negotiations.

So, what else did Obama accomplish with Congress during his first year? He
enacted a bill in May 2009 that allowed bankruptcy judges to modify loans to
help people keep their homes; he signed legislation in November to extend
unemployment benefits and tax credits for first-time homebuyers; and he approved
a $3 billion "cash for clunkers" program in June that provided tax incentives
for drivers to buy more fuel-efficient cars.

Administratively, the Obama White House also had to manage the restructuring and
bankruptcy processes for GM and Chrysler, although most of that work was wrapped
up by July 2009. (We explored how those deals unfolded in a previous column.)

Obama said during his Univision interview that he was too consumed by economic
problems to tackle other big issues. But he launched the effort to overhaul the
nation's health-care system in March of that year, telling the audience at a
White House forum that a plan was likely to be in place before Congress's summer
recess. That was less than two months after taking office.(Reuters produced a
handy timeline of how the health law came about).

For what it's worth, the president's first law, which he signed nine days after
taking office, was the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which made it easier for
women to sue employers over pay discrimination.

As for immigration, Obama called for comprehensive reform in June 2009. But the
likelihood of any progress on that front was slim, with the president and
lawmakers already haggling over big issues such as health care, financial
regulation and energy policy.

A report from the New York Times noted that the Obama administration showed
virtually no will to lead on the issue.

Here's what the Times said about the matter:

"Aides to Mr. Obama say he does not intend to get out in front of any proposal
until there is a strong bipartisan commitment to pass it. That stance has the
potential to paralyze the process, since lawmakers are looking to him to use his
bully pulpit, and high approval ratings, to help them fend off any political
backlash among their constituents."

The Times article noted that members of both parties at the time were leery of
supporting an immigration overhaul with unemployment levels still high. It
quoted Rep. Heath Shuler (D-N.C.) saying the government should enforce existing
laws before considering changes, especially when "Congress is spending hundreds
of billions of dollars to create new jobs, which should go to legal U.S.
workers."

The takeaway here is that Obama showed little will to lead on this issue during
his first year, and many members of his own party seemed uninterested in
comprehensive changes at that time - not just Republicans.

Let's look at how Obama dealt with immigration after 2009, even though he
promised to enact revisions during his first year.

The president mentioned immigration only once during his 2010 State of the Union
Address, saying, "We should continue the work of fixing our broken immigration
system - to secure our borders and enforce our laws, and ensure that everyone
who plays by the rules can contribute to our economy and enrich our nation."

Again, Obama offered no specific policy proposals on what needed to be done to
reach a compromise.

This is in stark contrast to Bush, who delivered a prime-time television address
outlining a five-point plan for overhauling the nation's immigration laws in
2006. The former president talked in-depth about what he expected: A temporary
worker program, criminal background checks for immigrants, biometric
identification cards and requirements for a "pathway to citizenship" that would
include paying taxes, learning English and proving several years of employment.

(UPDATE: A White House spokesman pointed out that the White House in May 2011
released a "Blueprint for Building a 21st Century Immigration System." This
shows that Obama, like Bush, provided specific proposals for immigration reform,
but it does not affect our Pinocchio rating below, because the blueprint came
out during the president's third year in office, not his first.)

One year after Bush's address, the Senate filibustered the Comprehensive
Immigration Reform Act, with 18 out of 46 Democrats voting against a cloture
motion that would have pushed the bill to a vote.

Obama pressed for Congress to pass the DREAM Act before Republicans won the
House majority during the 2010 midterm election. That bill would have made
children of illegal immigrants - up to age 35  - eligible for residency so long
as they are going to school or serving in the military and don't have criminal
records.

According to a report in The Washington Post, Obama lobbied lawmakers to support
the measure, but the Senate failed to produce the 60 votes needed to overcome a
filibuster.

In this case, four Democrats voted against cloture, helping to kill the measure.
Once again, both parties were at fault for blocking changes to immigration law.
In fact, five GOP lawmakers voted for cloture, which is more than the number of
Democrats Obama failed to bring on board.

Meanwhile, Obama in 2010 enacted the health-care law, negotiated a bipartisan
tax deal, gained approval for a new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with Russia
and rallied enough support from members of both parties to repeal the "don't ask
don't tell" policy that prevented openly gay citizens from serving in the
military.

Obama asked again for a bipartisan agreement to overhaul immigration laws after
2010, but Republicans demanded stricter border enforcement first. The two sides
never made a concerted effort to forge an agreement, even though immigrant
activists had recommended to the president several Republicans whom they thought
would work toward a deal with him.

Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) reached out to immigrant activists in April 2012 to
begin crafting a bill similar to the DREAM Act, but Obama showed no interest in
working with the Republicans on that. The president instead took unilateral
action, using his executive authority to defer deportation proceedings for
children of illegal immigrants so long as they meet certain requirements.

The Pinocchio Test

It's clear that the Obama administration had its hands full overseeing various
stimulus and bailout programs during its first year, but most of the heavy
lifting was done before the end of summer. And the president signed the most
important piece of stimulus legislation of his term - the Recovery Act - a month
after taking office. This left plenty of time to hammer out deals on
non-economic issues.

Overall, it's an exaggeration for the president to suggest that he had no time
to address immigration in 2009 - especially for someone who insisted that
presidents have to deal with more than one thing at a time. He did, after all,
set Congress on a path toward overhauling the health-care system that year, and
he signed a law making it easier for women to sue employers over pay
discrimination.

The fact that the president failed to lead on immigration or forge an agreement
during his entire term shows that the issue ranked lower on his priority list
than health care, the arms-reduction treaty, repealing "don't ask don't tell"
and stopping pay discrimination toward women.

The president certainly faced opposition from Republicans and even members of
his own party on this issue. But a guarantee is a guarantee, regardless of
whether he miscalculated the will of Congress to compromise.

Obama failed to deliver on a promise, and he blamed Republicans instead of
acknowledging any real responsibility for that failure. He earns two Pinocchios.

Two Pinocchios

(About our rating scale)

Check out our candidate Pinocchio Tracker

Follow The Fact Checker on Twitter and friend us on Facebook .

Track each presidential candidate's campaign ads

Read our biggest Pinocchios

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     October 17, 2012 Wednesday 6:21 PM EST

Ad watch: Romney pushes Obama on immigration promise

BYLINE: Natalie Jennings

LENGTH: 119 words


Mitt Romney, "Soluciones para la inmigracion"

What it says (translated): "The liberal Democrats promised immigration reform...

 Now, the Democrats say they never made a promise ... Romney and the Republicans
will fight for bipartisan reform to bring families together."

What it means: Mitt Romney, who trails significantly in polling among Hispanic
voters, is trying to turn the tables. The ad highlights an exchange from Tuesday
night's debate in which he confronted Obama over the president's unfulfilled
promise of immigration reform.

Who will see it: There's no new ad buy, but Romney has in recent weeks bought ad
time in Colorado, Florida and Nevada on Spanish-speaking media.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                     November 15, 2012 Thursday 9:26 PM EST

Why the GOP needs to do immigration reform now

BYLINE: Aaron Blake

LENGTH: 1016 words


The Republican Party is beginning to succumb to the demographic reality that
confronts it: Just as Latino voters are deserting the GOP in near-record
numbers, the Latino vote is quickly becoming hugely important to winning
elections.

So it's no surprise that Republicans now sound keen on doing comprehensive
immigration reform; they need a healthy share of Latino votes going forward, and
they're not getting it.

But when it comes to Republicans and immigration reform, it isn't so much that
the GOP needs to do it, as much as that it can't afford not to be a part of it.

We know those two statements sound like the same thing (and that our English
teachers failed to teach us the perils of double negatives), but they're not.

The former statement doesn't assume that immigration reform gets done; the
latter assumes that it does. And more and more, it looks like the American
public is ready for immigration reform.

While many have focused since Election Day on the Latino vote, few have focused
on attitudes toward immigration. Exit polls conducted on Election Day showed
nearly two-thirds of voters supported a path to citizenship for illegal
immigrants, while a more recent Washington Post-ABC News poll showed that number
at 57 percent -- up from 49 percent in 2007, the last time there was a big push
for immigration reform.

Regardless of which number is more accurate, it's clear that there's a growing
consensus around the idea of a path to citizenship, and thus, it's reasonable to
assume (though far from certain) that some kind of immigration reform will get
done in the relatively near future.

Republicans, of course, still control the House and can still block bills in the
Senate via filibuster. But at some point, if a path to citizenship is popular
enough, Democrats may be able to pick off enough GOP votes to pass something --
or they may gain control of both chambers completely.

The question from there is whether Republicans are viewed as participants or
obstructors. If reform does get done, and the vast majority of the GOP didn't
take part, you can bet it will only exacerbate the party's problem with Latinos.

We saw in the 2012 election what happens when it looks like the GOP is standing
in the way of immigration reform. President Obama reaped huge benefits from his
executive order preventing the deportation of young illegal immigrants, while
Republicans stood by and debated whether it was a good idea.

The stakes are big and growing quickly.

According to a Pew Hispanic Center survey released Wednesday, while there are
currently 24 million eligible Latino voters, there will be 40 million by 2030,
thanks in large part to the 17.6 million Latinos under 18 years of age (93
percent of which are U.S.-born and will be eligible to vote).

But that 40 million figure doesn't include illegal immigrants and permanent
legal residents, which number 7.1 million and 5.4 million, respectively.

And if there is a path to citizenship for these immigrants, it will only
increase the already fast-rising clout of the Latino vote, which could be twice
as big as it is now by 2030, according to Pew. What's more, it's hard to see
former illegal immigrants and permanent residents voting against the party that
gave them a path to citizenship.

Immigration, of course, isn't the only issue that matters to Latino voters --
and too often coverage of them suggests it is -- but it is an issue which is
very important to a very large portion of these voters.

And if immigration reform gets done without the GOP being on board, whether in
this Congress or in the near future, it will be even worse for Republicans than
2012 was.Whatever problems they have with Latinos now, they will pale to the day
when the GOP is matched up against a Democratic Party that successfully passed
immigration reform without much or any Republican involvement.

And the 44-point advantage that Obama enjoyed among Latinos last week might be a
footnote rather than a high note.

Romney said Obama won thanks to gifts' to voter blocs: In a call with donors on
Wednesday, Mitt Romney said Obama won the election because he gave "gifts" to
different groups, including young voters, Latinos, African-Americans and women.

Romney said Obama used the "old playbook" of directing specific official
policies to "especially the African-American community, the Hispanic community
and young people," according to a New York Times report.

He cited Obama's health care law, which mandates universal care and allows
children to be on their parents' plans longer, Obama's decision to stop the
deportation of young illegal immigrants, Obama's plan for partial forgiveness of
college loan interest and Obama forcing health care providers to cover
contraception.

Other Republicans quickly denounced the comments, including Louisiana Gov. Bobby
Jindal and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, who were gather in Las Vegas for a
meeting of the Republican Governors Association.

"We have got to stop dividing American voters," Jindal said. "I absolutely
reject that notion, that description.  We're fighting for 100 percent of the
vote."

This won't help the GOP's efforts to win over minority voters, especially given
Romney's past "47 percent" comments. And the fact that Jindal and Wisconsin Gov.
Scott Walker (R) so quickly denounced Romney suggests party heavyweights are
ready for the Romney chapter to be over.

Fixbits:

Immigration hard-liner Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) says Republicans don't, in fact,
need to move on immigrationreform.

Rep. Ron Paul (R-Texas) delivers his farewell speech. He's retiring from
Congress.

Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) for some reason nominated Newt Gingrich for speaker
on Wednesday.

Must-reads:

"In first post-election news conference, Obama lays out second term" -- Scott
Wilson, Washington Post

"Walden Wears Eagle-Scout Sash Like His GOP Mentor" -- Joshua Miller, Roll Call

"Obama campaign took unorthodox approach to ad buying" -- T.W. Farnam,
Washington Post

"Veteran F.B.I. Agent Helped Start Petraeus E-Mail Inquiry" -- Michael S.
Schmidt, Scott Shane and Alain Delaqueriere

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                      December 4, 2012 Tuesday 7:34 PM EST

George W. Bush calls for benevolent' immigration debate

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 288 words


Former president George W. Bush is wading into the debate over immigration
reform, using a speech in Dallas to praise immigrants and ask that the issue be
approached with a "benevolent spirit."

Bush, who tried and failed to pass comprehensive reform as president, opened a
day-long conference on immigration and economic growth organized by the George
W. Bush Institute, and the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Economists, CEOs and
policy experts are speaking at the invitation-only event.

"Immigrants come with new skills and new ideas. They fill a critical gap in our
labor market. They work hard for a chance for a better life," Bush said. "Not
only do immigrants help build our economy, they invigorate our soul. America can
be a lawful society and a welcoming society at the same time."

The former president did not offer any specific policy initiatives. Instead, he
asked politicians dealing with the issue "to do so with a benevolent spirit and
keep in mind the contribution of immigrants."

Bush's reform efforts were stymied by Republicans in Congress. He later told the
Washington Times that if he could do one thing over, he would push immigration
reform in the wake of the 2004 election instead of focusing on a failed Social
Security overhaul.

Now, in the wake of a bruising election, Republicans increasingly agree that the
party's hard line on immigration is politically untenable.

Three influential Republican senators recently introduced legislation that would
grant legal residency to young people brought illegally to the United States, if
they seek higher education or enlist in the military. And pro-immigration
conservative activists have descended on D.C. this week to pressure key
Republicans to support reform.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 11, 2011 Sunday 8:11 PM EST

Tinkering at immigration's margins

BYLINE: by Editorial board by Editorial board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 476 words


ABILL PASSED by the House of Representatives last month would grant a few
thousand more green cards annually to Indian and Chinese engineers, software
designers and scientists, mostly at the expense of Korean, Filipino and Mexican
engineers, software designers and scientists. Since the legislation makes no
overall change in the paltry number of green cards available, hundreds of
thousands of highly skilled employees already working in the United States on
short-term visas will remain backlogged in the system, in many cases waiting for
more than a decade to become legal, permanent residents. That's what passes for
immigration reform in Congress these days.

We don't mean to completely dismiss the legislation, which, though hung up in
the Senate, seems to have a chance of passage there. Just about any measure that
manages to attract bipartisan support on an issue as incendiary as immigration,
as this one has, deserves hosannas.

In this case, the shuffle in employment-based green cards was pushed by Silicon
Valley high-tech firms with large numbers of Indian and Chinese workers.
Sponsored by Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), the legislation was balanced by a
parallel tweak in the immigration quotas based on family ties, which will more
than double the number of green cards issued annually to Mexicans and Filipinos
- again, at the expense of other national groups. That made the deal attractive
to Democrats and Latinos in Congress.

If the bill becomes law, the effect will be to level the waiting period for
green cards among national groups, shifting it to a first-come-first-served
system for highly skilled immigrants. That's an improvement over the status quo,
under which each immigrant feeder country was limited to a certain percentage of
the total number of green cards for such workers.

But consider this: After a three-year transition, the waiting period in the most
backlogged employment category - professional workers - will be about 12 years.
And none of this makes a dent in the much larger problems of illegal and
generally low-skilled workers already in this country, who comprise 5 percent of
the national labor force.

The obvious conclusion is that the nation's immigration system is badly broken.
The 140,000 green cards available annually for skilled and professional workers
- and that number includes their dependents - will remain woefully inadequate.
That will drive highly trained and knowledgeable employees - even those with
graduate degrees from U.S. universities - to America's competitors. Washington's
inability to overhaul immigration policy also means that 11 million undocumented
immigrants will continue to live and work in the shadows, sustaining farms,
construction sites, hotels and restaurants. While Congress fiddles at the
margins, immigrants, the lifeblood of America's economy, continue to get a raw
deal.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 16, 2011 Friday 8:11 PM EST

Ariz. sheriff accused of anti-Hispanic bias

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 977 words


The Justice Department on Thursday accused a controversial Arizona sheriff known
for tough immigration enforcement of discrimination against Hispanics, saying
Sheriff Joe Arpaio's department illegally detained Hispanic residents and denied
them critical services in jail.

That report was followed hours later by a Department of Homeland Security
announcement that it was ending the sheriff's participation in a federal-state
program to enforce immigration laws.

The actions against America's self-styled "toughest sheriff" highlighted the
Obama administration's increasingly aggressive enforcement of civil rights laws
in areas including police brutality and voting rights.

The Justice Department's Civil Rights Division is conducting 20 probes of police
and sheriff departments - the most in its 54-year history. And this week,
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. vowed to fully enforce civil rights
protections in the run-up to the elections amid Republican-led efforts to
tighten state voting laws.

Arpaio is a former D.C. police officer and the longtime sheriff of Maricopa
County; he has come to embody the national divide over illegal immigration. In
its report, the Justice Department said he had created a "wall of distrust" with
Hispanics by targeting them for arrest and retaliating against those who
criticized his methods. The sheriff's deputies, it found, were four to nine
times as likely to stop Hispanic drivers as non-Hispanics. Arpaio strongly
denied the allegations.

"We found discriminatory policing that was deeply rooted in the culture of the
department,'' said Thomas E. Perez, assistant attorney general for civil rights.
He vowed to work with Maricopa, which includes Phoenix, in implementing reforms,
but if the sheriff refuses to cooperate, Perez threatened a civil lawsuit or
steps to curtail the millions of dollars in federal funding the department has
received over the past several years.

A separate criminal investigation of Arpaio's department is continuing, federal
officials said. Sources familiar with that inquiry have said a federal grand
jury in Phoenix is examining whether Arpaio used his power to investigate and
intimidate political opponents and whether his office misappropriated government
money.

The report on the civil rights probe, which began in 2008 and is continuing,
could heighten tensions over the bitterly divisive issue of illegal immigration
ahead of next year's presidential election.

Once seen as a quirky figure who made inmates wear pink underwear, Arpaio has in
recent years become a kind of folk hero to those who favor his heavily
publicized "crime sweeps," mostly in Hispanic neighborhoods.

Arpaio and his attorneys have long denied any racial profiling and derided the
Justice Department investigations as politically motivated. In his typically
pugnacious style, the sheriff on Thursday blasted the report as "a sad day for
America as a whole.''

"Don't come here and use me as the whipping boy for a national and international
problem," he said at a news conference, according to the Associated Press. "We
are going to cooperate the best we can. And if they are not happy, I guess they
can carry out their threat and go to federal court.''

The reaction was equally blistering from Arpaio's supporters, who accused the
administration of targeting him for political reasons amid its broader crackdown
on new state immigration laws. A different Justice Department division has sued
four states over their laws, and the first such suit was filed against Arizona.

"The Justice Department has been turned into an attack dog to sic on anybody who
tries to enforce immigration laws,'' said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors tough immigration
enforcement.

Jessica Vaughan, director of policy studies at the Center for Immigration
Studies, said the administration "has been gunning for Arpaio for a long time. .
. . His efforts on immigration law enforcement help keep everybody in this
country safer.''

Civil rights groups and other administration allies applauded the Justice
Department. "After nearly 20 years in office, Sheriff Joe Arpaio's reign of
terror against immigrants in Maricopa County, Arizona, is on its last legs,''
said Angela M. Kelley, vice president for immigration policy and advocacy at the
Center for American Progress Action Fund.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, saying she was "troubled" by the
findings of the Justice Department report, announced that her department is
ending the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office's participation in a program that
deputizes local police officers to enforce immigration laws and flag illegal
immigrants to federal officials.

In the report, Justice said Arpaio's department has engaged in a "pattern or
practice of unconstitutional policing" by unlawfully stopping, detaining and
arresting Hispanics. Once in jail, the report said, Hispanics are punished if
they fail to understand commands in English and denied access to basic services
such as new clothes or sheets or information about early-release programs.

The report takes aim at Arpaio's crime sweeps, saying they have sometimes been
initiated because the department received complaints that people with "dark
skin" were congregating. It says detention officers hurl racial slurs at
Hispanic inmates and that supervisors demean Hispanics in e-mails.

The report also says that the sheriff's department uses excessive force against
Hispanics - including one person deliberately struck with a patrol car and
dragged more than 10 feet - and harasses critics with unfounded investigations
and arrests. While focusing on immigration enforcement, the report said, the
department has failed to investigate hundreds of sex crimes and allowed violent
crime to increase.

markonj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     January 26, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration is flash point in Fla. primary

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar;Amy Gardner

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1197 words


The Republican presidential race turned into a pitched battle for Hispanic
voters on Wednesday, with Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney hurling insults over
immigration policy as each looked for ways to court a critical constituency.

The shift reflected the nature of the Jan. 31 primary in Florida, where
Hispanics will be a major factor for the first time in this year's presidential
contest. Florida is home to about 1 million Cuban Americans, a heavily
Republican voting bloc.

But it also has implications for the fall campaign, with both parties planning
aggressive campaigns to reach Hispanic swing voters in several battleground
states.

Gingrich lobbed the first attack on Wednesday, poking fun at Romney during an
appearance on Miami-based Univision, the country's biggest Spanish-language
network. Gingrich peppered his remarks with halting Spanish as he accused Romney
of living in a "fantasy land" for suggesting in a debate that the country's 11
million illegal immigrants should "self-deport."

Romney also stepped up his attacks on Gingrich, releasing a Spanish-language ad
noting that the former House speaker once called Spanish the "language of the
ghetto." Also on Univision, Romney said Gingrich's mocking of him was a cheap
attempt to garner votes.

"Now, I recognize that it's very tempting to come into an audience like this and
to pander to the audience and say what you hope people will want to hear,"
Romney told host Jorge Ramos. "But frankly, I think that's unbecoming of a
presidential candidate."

The back-and-forth came as several party elders, including former Florida
governor Jeb Bush and former commerce secretary Carlos Gutierrez, prepared this
week to host a Hispanic Republican summit at a Miami area resort. Among the
featured speakers will be Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), a political star who is on
the shortlist of possible Republican vice-presidential picks.

Rubio, a Cuban American elected in 2010 with the backing of the tea party, has
not endorsed anyone in the primary. But in an interview with the Miami Herald,
he sharply criticized Gingrich for running an ad that accuses Romney of being
"anti-immigrant" and that reminds voters of a gaffe four years ago in which
Romney inadvertently used a pro-Castro slogan in his presidential campaign.

Gingrich aides said Wednesday that the ad is no longer in circulation. Asked why
he pulled it, he told reporters in Cocoa, Fla.: "I have great respect for
Senator Rubio."

Gingrich, for his part, has said he used inartful language in the 2007 speech in
which he referred to Spanish as the language of "living in a ghetto."

Romney appears to have the upper hand with Florida's Hispanics who are likely to
vote in the primary, who prefer him over Gingrich by a 26-point margin,
according to a new ABC News/Univision poll. That is a shift from the 2008
primary, when Romney came in third among Hispanics behind Sen. John McCain
(Ariz.) and former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, with about 14 percent of
the vote.

Another advantage for Romney may be that nearly 400,000 voters have already cast
their ballots through Florida's absentee voting - a sizable number considering
that just under 2 million GOP voters cast ballots in the primary four years ago.
Many of those votes came in before the South Carolina primary that catapulted
Gingrich back into the top tier.

Still, Gingrich is making a strong bid for the Latino vote, and Republican
strategists say his mastery of Latino issues coupled with his moderate tone on
immigration could give him an edge over Romney.

Hispanics make up about 13 percent of Florida's overall electorate and about 11
percent of registered GOP voters.

If Gingrich performs well in this group, it could blow a hole in a key argument
promoted by Romney's campaign that he is the best Republican to take on Obama in
the fall.

Four years ago, Hispanics broke heavily for Obama, but polls show their support
for the president has softened. While most say they plan to vote for him again
this year, at least some could be open to the right Republican - someone who,
like George W. Bush in 2000, can articulate the conservative message in a way
that appears sensitive and inclusive toward Hispanics.

"I have to say that right now that Speaker Gingrich has an edge because he's
basically said we have to find a middle road," said Alfonso Aguilar, executive
director of the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles. "Romney on the
other hand - and to me this is mind-boggling - used very ugly rhetoric. . . .
And policywise, the idea the undocumented, they all have to go home, that's
impossible."

Immigration does not rank as the top issue for most Latinos, particularly in
Florida, because Cubans have special rights to enter the country as refugees and
Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens. But even these voters have sometimes bristled
at the tone of Republican candidates toward illegal immigrants.

Romney has adopted some of the harshest rhetoric, asserting that welfare serves
as a "magnet" for illegal border crossers and attacking the Dream Act, which
would have offered a path to citizenship for students and service members
brought to the country illegally as children.

Still, he has his own outreach effort. Among the ads on steady rotation in
Florida is one featuring one of his sons, Craig, speaking fluent Spanish. And he
tried to make it clear in the debate that he supports the aspect of the Dream
Act that would ease the path to citizenship for military members.

He also has support from leaders in the Cuban American community, including GOP
Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Mario Diaz-Balart and former congressman Lincoln
Diaz-Balart.

"I think Romney will get the bulk of the Hispanic vote," Ros-Lehtinen said. "I
know that the media loves to highlight immigration as if the Latino vote is all
about immigration. But we're about small businesses and opportunities for young
families and homeownership."

Gingrich, however, has long been viewed as an ally to conservative-minded
Latinos, particularly Cuban Americans, and has staked out a hard-line position
on U.S.-Cuba relations. In Congress, he was a vocal advocate of the 1996
Helms-Burton Act, which strengthened the U.S. embargo against Cuba, and
supported the establishment of Radio Marti, which transmits U.S.
government-sanctioned programming to Cuba.

Last year, Gingrich's communications company started the Americano, a
conservative news and opinion Web site aimed at Hispanic conservatives. As part
of his presidential campaign, he held Hispanic business roundtable events in
Iowa and New Hampshire and reached out to Latino voters in South Carolina.

"He speaks with a great breadth of knowledge and authority and has a great
record to show for it," said Ana Navarro, a Republican strategist in Florida and
adviser to former presidential hopeful Jon Huntsman (R). "He enjoys being out
and campaigning in the Hispanic area. He enjoys the cafecito. He enjoys the
Cuban radio. He revels in it."

sandhya@washpost.com

gardnera@washpost.com

Polling analyst Scott Clement and staff writers Rosalind S. Helderman and Peter
Wallsten contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     February 2, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Lobbying for respect

BYLINE: Luz Lazo

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1082 words


That April 10 nearly six years ago was one of Jaime Contreras's defining
moments.

People arrived on the Mall by the tens of thousands, waving American flags and
chanting in Spanish, "Yes, we can!"

Contreras, 37, still vividly remembers the vigor of more than a quarter of a
million people demanding immigration reform.

"I was proud. . . . The thing that made me the most nervous was [thinking],
'Where do we go from here?' " Contreras said.

Contreras, who chairs the Capital Area District of 32BJ, an affiliate of the
Service Employees International Union, has become one of Washington's most
active advocates for immigrant rights. At congressional and local government
hearings, he has lobbied for the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in
the country.

He is leading efforts this year in Maryland to win approval, in a referendum, of
the state's version of a Dream Act, which would grant in-state college tuition
discounts to undocumented immigrants.

"He is sort of what the union leader of today needs to be," said Eliseo Medina,
SEIU's international secretary-treasurer. "He sees his mission as being broader
than just simply the workplace but really being able to help deal with the
issues in the broader society where our members live - not just where they
work."

Contreras was 17, in high school and working nights as a cleaner at 1800 M
Street when he started his career as a unionist in 1992.

He was one of a handful of part-time workers who spoke English and Spanish and
quickly became the go-to person when someone needed help communicating with
supervisors or co-workers. The workforce at the time was half Hispanic and half
black, he said. They were paid about 10 cents above the $4.75 minimum wage and
had no benefits, Contreras said.

"Somebody would call out sick, and the next day they wouldn't have a job," he
said. "But what probably got me more upset at that age was when people were
being  . . . mistreated for no reason. They weren't treated with dignity or
respect."

Contreras was energetic, unafraid of losing his job and "really interested in
making things right," said Valarie Long, a union organizer at the time and now
executive vice president of SEIU.

After six months of training and organizing, Contreras led his co-workers on a
two-day strike, which led to an agreement for salary increases, vacation time
and sick days. He was soon working part time as a union organizer while
attending Bell Multicultural High School in the District.

After high school, Contreras served three years in the Navy, then returned to
the union to become the youngest Latino, at age 27, to hold a full-time elected
position in an SEIU local. He also is the first Latino president of SEIU
Maryland and DC State Council, a political arm of SEIU.

The local union membership has grown from about 7,000 in 2006 when Contreras was
elected district chairman to more than 16,000. The majority are Hispanic
immigrants.

"Their families are suffering because of the current broken immigration system,
and that's why this is personal for me," said Contreras, who illegally
immigrated to the United States from his native El Salvador in 1988.

Illegal immigrant

At age 13, Contreras crossed the U.S.-Mexican border with a younger brother and
a couple dozen other Salvadoran immigrants, who each had paid about $3,000 to a
smuggler.

"For us, it was an adventure," said Contreras, recalling the 24-day trip along
Mexico's mountains.

His father, Victor Contreras, an ambulance driver in El Salvador's
second-largest city of San Miguel, had arrived in the United States a few years
earlier, fleeing a bloody civil war in the early 1980s. He had saved up to bring
his six children to the District two at a time.

Once here, Jaime Contreras started to show an aptitude for activism.

"Jaime was my interpreter," said Victor Contreras, recalling how the boy helped
when his father organized tenants at a building on T Street NW.

His son remembers that the landlord would raise the rent and wouldn't fix things
when they broke.

"I had no idea I was being an activist. I was just helping my dad out," said
Contreras, who lives in College Park with his wife and two of his four children.
He earned U.S. citizenship in 1996 after receiving political asylum.

Controversial figure

Widely admired in Washington's immigrant community, Contreras has vocal critics.

"One of the surprising things for me is that he brings in all of these workers
who cannot legally be employed to work as janitors and then complains . . .
that they don't earn enough," said Greg Letiecq of the anti-illegal-immigration
group Help Save Manassas. "And then he goes and does these outrageous protests
to try to make sure they can earn a living."

The mass rallies Contreras led in the area in the mid-2000s weakened chances for
reform, Letiecq said.

"He got a bunch of people upset, and he didn't get amnesty for his illegal
aliens," he said. "People like him have polluted the dialogue so badly."

Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County), who is leading opposition to the
in-state tuition bill, said that any success Contreras has had is because of
allies in Annapolis.

"He is talking to friendly people, to people who are advocates for illegal
immigration. It is not like Contreras has to use his talent or some special
power to convince them," McDonough said.

But before Contreras, immigrant rallies in the Washington region were organized
by groups from outside the capital area, said Gustavo Torres, executive director
of CASA of Maryland. None had been as massive as the April 10, 2006, event, he
said.

"He took the leadership to organize all of us. I remember he went one by one to
different organizations," said Torres, who believes it is going to take
leadership from someone like Contreras to reignite the reform effort.

Since that rally, several states have enacted laws targeting illegal
immigration, and the Obama administration has deported people at a record rate:
an average of nearly 400,000 per year.

Contreras said he remains optimistic.

"My hope is that if we elect the right people . . . that we will be able to
press forward as a community hard enough to get the immigration reform done so
people are not being scapegoated and families are not separated and children
left without parents and parents being deported," he said.

"Hopefully, we can change that in the next couple of years."

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


        Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 19, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

How to deal with immigration

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 232 words


Although the April 9 editorial "Immigration muddle" noted President Obama's
reneging on his campaign promise to make immigration reform a priority in his
first year, it gave him a quick pass by stating that reform "almost surely would
have been a losing battle, since virtually every Republican - including some who
supported reform in 2007 - opposed by 2009 any real overhaul."          Wait a
minute. For two years, didn't the Democrats have majorities in the House and
Senate that could have rammed through any immigration policy regardless of the
lack of support from Republicans, as they did for Obamacare?

Since fixing the illegal immigration issue transcends all political persuasions,
I suspect the reason Mr. Obama did not offer immigration reform was because he
did not have the full support of his fellow Democrats in Congress. Blaming the
Republicans for the president's failure to lead on immigration reform is
shallow, to say the least.

Ron Wirsing, Havre de Grace, Md.

l

Regarding the April 15 editorial "Alabama, fortress of intolerance":

The Post acknowledged that the state's immigration law had the desired effect of
causing thousands of people who were working and residing in the state illegally
to leave. But it then labeled the law as hostile and intolerant. However,
another word fits even better: Effective.

Allen Stegall, Frederick

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 28, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

A Dream deal deferred

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 164 words


In his April 22 column, "Immigration reform? Dream on," Dana Milbank derided
members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus for rejecting the alternative to
the Dream Act proposed by Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), saying the lawmakers'
actions would place immigration children in a perpetual state of limbo.  The
point of the Dream Act - formerly sponsored by Republican Sens. John McCain
(Arizona) and Orrin Hatch (Utah) - was to acknowledge that although there was no
comprehensive immigration reform on the table, there could be consensus that
children who came to the United States when they were young deserve a path to
citizenship.

Until Republican standard-bearer Mitt Romney reverses his promise to veto the
Dream Act, and the vast majority of the GOP stops targeting immigrants, the
Hispanic caucus is right to decline to work with Mr. Rubio.

Mark J. Shmueli, Takoma Park

The writer is an immigration attorney and a member of the Commission to Study
the Impact of Immigrants in Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 16, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Report finds sexual abuse of female farmworkers is prevalent

BYLINE: Tracie Cone

SECTION: A section; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 444 words


FRESNO, Calif. - Female farmworkers across the United States are commonly
sexually  harassed and assaulted, in part because their immigration status makes
them fearful of calling police, according to a report being released Wednesday
by Human Rights Watch.

The survey by the international rights group mirrors two previous reports on the
risks facing women and girls that had focused on California, where most of the
nation's farmworkers reside.

"Our research confirms what farmworker advocates across the country believe:
sexual violence and sexual harassment experienced by farmworkers is common
enough that some farmworker women see these abuses as an unavoidable condition
of agricultural work," the report said.

An estimated 630,000 of the 3 million people who perform migrant and seasonal
farm work are female. The federal government estimates that 60 percent of them
are illegal aliens.

"It's easiest for abusers to get away with sexual harassment where there's an
imbalance of power, and the imbalance of power is particularly stark on farms,"
the report's author, Grace Meng, said.

The report calls on Congress to pass laws protecting immigrant female
farmworkers, and for the Department of Homeland Security to repeal rules that
encourage local police to report federal immigration violations.

The report describes incidences of rape, stalking, fondling and vulgar language
used against women, who say they often don't report it because they are afraid
of being fired or, worse, deported.

Meng interviewed 52 farmworkers and 110 attorneys, social service providers, law
enforcement officials and members of the agriculture industry in New York, North
Carolina, Florida, Texas, Colorado, Ohio, Arizona, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and
the state of Washington, but focused primarily on California because of its
large farmworker population.

Women who work for labor contractors are more vulnerable than those who work
directly for a farmer, the report said.

"The goal of our report was to show that this was a national problem and to show
the governmental barriers that exist to reporting these crimes and abuses. And
to demonstrate it's a human rights problem," Meng said.

While previous studies have said that up to 80 percent of women who work in the
fields have been harassed or assaulted, a counselor in the heart of California's
agricultural region says her experience puts it at closer to half. She said the
problem exists in all businesses where immigrant women may lack English language
skills and trust in law enforcement, but that farms are the biggest employers so
the abuses occur more frequently there.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 12, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Virginia teen can remain in country

BYLINE: Eli Saslow

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 316 words


A Virginia teenager who was scheduled to be deported a few days after her high
school graduation earned a last-minute reprieve Monday afternoon. Heydi Mejia,
18, and her mother, Dora Aldana, 40, were granted a one-year deferral by the
Department of Homeland Security.Mejia and Aldana, the subjects of a story in The
Washington Post on Monday, were prepared to leave for Guatemala this week. Mejia
was 4 when her mother brought her to the United States across the Rio Grande,
and she graduated with honors from Meadowbrook High School in Richmond on
Friday. She had planned to go to college, until immigration officials came to
her family's two-bedroom apartment in December, turning her senior year into a
countdown to deportation.

The one-year reprieve allows her a chance to enroll in college and get a
part-time job in cosmetology, as she had planned. Her attorney, Ricky Malik, has
filed a motion with Immigration and Customs Enforcement to reopen her case,
which could lead to a dismissal of the deportation order or a longer deferral.

"It has been an overwhelming week, for sure," Mejia said Monday. "I've had every
emotion, and now I just feel so relieved and so lucky.

Politicians continue to argue over immigration reform this election year, and
both Democrats and Republicans have proposed laws that would grant legal
residency to top students.

In the meantime, President Obama has instructed immigration officials to be
lenient with students who came to the country illegally as minors.

A valedictorian in Miami was granted a two-year extension this year after
100,000 students signed a petition against her deportation.

Mejia's reprieve came unannounced in a fax that arrived at her attorney's office
in the late afternoon. It represented the first step in what could be a long
legal process, Malik said.

"The Deferred Action will expire June 11, 2013," the memo read.

saslowe@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 23, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Evangelicals converge in accord on immigration

BYLINE: Lisa Miller

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 842 words


Americans believe there's too much religion talk in the public sphere, and these
days, it's especially easy to be cynical. Scratch the surface of any
passionately held faith-based position between April and November of an election
year, and find a political agenda.  That's because issues like gay marriage and
religious liberty motivate voters in the right and left base who might otherwise
be lackadaisical or unmoved by their choice of candidates.

Too often politically motivated religious leaders say "souls" when they really
mean "votes."

What is one to make, then, of the "Evangelical Statement of Principles for
Immigration Reform," a document signed last week  by 150 prominent evangelical
Christian leaders from across the conservative-liberal spectrum?
Often, these "bipartisan" religious efforts lack heft. They either take a
position that no one can argue with - "civility," for instance - or their
self-proclaimed diversity looks to outsiders like homogeneity. Moderates from
both parties can always find reasons to agree.

This statement, though, is a document of exceptional accord among groups that
rarely find themselves on the same side of anything. The signatories are calling
for comprehensive immigration reform that respects human dignity and the rule of
law, protects family unity, is fair to taxpayers, and ensures both secure
borders and a path to citizenship. Jim Wallis, founder of the left-leaning
evangelical group Sojourners, signed it, of course. But so did Jim Daly,
president of the socially conservative group Focus on the Family, as did the
heads of many of the country's most conservative Christian denominations: the
Assemblies of God, the Southern Baptist Convention and various Nazarene
churches.

"I signed on to this statement because immigration reform is more than an
'issue' to families," Daly said last week. "It profoundly affects their
stability, structure and quality of life.

With their signatures, the aforementioned folks - most of whom are white - stand
in direct opposition to the politicians who usually represent their interests in
Congress. Many of those were elected in a wave of tea party fervor in 2010, when
anti-immigrant sentiment was at a height.

The Statement of Principles, in other words, creates a fault line among white
conservatives over immigration. "Individual legislators are going to have to
decide whether they cater to the tea party, non-faith, non-evangelical activist
and ignore the evangelical base or whether they're going to compromise," said
the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian
Leadership Conference, who helped broker the agreement.

The question is why? Why would white evangelicals, historically so coherent a
voting bloc, splinter in this way?

A big part of the answer, in the bluntest terms, is religious market share.
Hispanics go to church; non-Hispanic white people increasingly don't. When
Spanish-speaking immigrants arrive in America, they are, for the most part,
Catholic. But in the second and third generations, as they prosper, they are
drawn to evangelicalism. According to a 2007 Pew report, 15 percent of all
Hispanics in the United States are evangelical, and among native-born Hispanics,
the number is as high as 30 percent. White evangelicals, concerned about their
institutional future in a country where religious affiliation is declining, see
that Hispanics are sitting in their pews, taking communion and worrying about
their families' safety as anti-immigration laws like Arizona's go into effect.
(The Roman Catholic bishops also call for comprehensive immigration reform, but
notice that in this case, Catholics and Evangelicals did not work together as
they so often do on abortion and other social issues. That's because competition
for Hispanic souls in America is so fierce. "We call it strategic recruitment,"
Rodriguez said.)

Rodriguez convinced Focus on the Family to sign the letter only after many years
of meetings, he says. When he traveled to Colorado Springs to speak to the
leadership there, "I spoke about the need. I talked about the possibility of
deporting the very salvation of the evangelical community in the 21st century."

Rodriguez didn't talk about leftist priorities, like social justice. He spoke
about religious self-interest. "We're talking about the future of American
Christianity."

But make no mistake. On this issue, as on so many others, the fight for souls is
also a fight for votes. But unlike abortion and gay marriage, this one is
subtler.

Will Romney, who took a hard anti-immigrant stance in the primary, be able to
convince Hispanics that he cares about them as much as Obama does? (He tried to
Thursday - in a speech to the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials - by appealing to their pocketbooks.)            The
nation's evangelicals are pointing the way:  As America evolves into a
majority-non-white country, Hispanic voters  are becoming as important to
electing a president as they are to filling American church pews.

.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 24, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Evangelicals converge in accord on immigration

BYLINE: Lisa Miller

SECTION: Metro; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 842 words


Americans believe there's too much religion talk in the public sphere, and these
days, it's especially easy to be cynical. Scratch the surface of any
passionately held faith-based position between April and November of an election
year, and find a political agenda.  That's because issues like gay marriage and
religious liberty motivate voters in the right and left base who might otherwise
be lackadaisical or unmoved by their choice of candidates.

Too often politically motivated religious leaders say "souls" when they really
mean "votes."

What is one to make, then, of the "Evangelical Statement of Principles for
Immigration Reform," a document signed last week  by 150 prominent evangelical
Christian leaders from across the conservative-liberal spectrum?
Often, these "bipartisan" religious efforts lack heft. They either take a
position that no one can argue with - "civility," for instance - or their
self-proclaimed diversity looks to outsiders like homogeneity. Moderates from
both parties can always find reasons to agree.

This statement, though, is a document of exceptional accord among groups that
rarely find themselves on the same side of anything. The signatories are calling
for comprehensive immigration reform that respects human dignity and the rule of
law, protects family unity, is fair to taxpayers, and ensures both secure
borders and a path to citizenship. Jim Wallis, founder of the left-leaning
evangelical group Sojourners, signed it, of course. But so did Jim Daly,
president of the socially conservative group Focus on the Family, as did the
heads of many of the country's most conservative Christian denominations: the
Assemblies of God, the Southern Baptist Convention and various Nazarene
churches.

"I signed on to this statement because immigration reform is more than an
'issue' to families," Daly said last week. "It profoundly affects their
stability, structure and quality of life.

With their signatures, the aforementioned folks - most of whom are white - stand
in direct opposition to the politicians who usually represent their interests in
Congress. Many of those were elected in a wave of tea party fervor in 2010, when
anti-immigrant sentiment was at a height.

The Statement of Principles, in other words, creates a fault line among white
conservatives over immigration. "Individual legislators are going to have to
decide whether they cater to the tea party, non-faith, non-evangelical activist
and ignore the evangelical base or whether they're going to compromise," said
the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian
Leadership Conference, who helped broker the agreement.

The question is why? Why would white evangelicals, historically so coherent a
voting bloc, splinter in this way?

A big part of the answer, in the bluntest terms, is religious market share.
Hispanics go to church; non-Hispanic white people increasingly don't. When
Spanish-speaking immigrants arrive in America, they are, for the most part,
Catholic. But in the second and third generations, as they prosper, they are
drawn to evangelicalism. According to a 2007 Pew report, 15 percent of all
Hispanics in the United States are evangelical, and among native-born Hispanics,
the number is as high as 30 percent. White evangelicals, concerned about their
institutional future in a country where religious affiliation is declining, see
that Hispanics are sitting in their pews, taking communion and worrying about
their families' safety as anti-immigration laws like Arizona's go into effect.
(The Roman Catholic bishops also call for comprehensive immigration reform, but
notice that in this case, Catholics and Evangelicals did not work together as
they so often do on abortion and other social issues. That's because competition
for Hispanic souls in America is so fierce. "We call it strategic recruitment,"
Rodriguez said.)

Rodriguez convinced Focus on the Family to sign the letter only after many years
of meetings, he says. When he traveled to Colorado Springs to speak to the
leadership there, "I spoke about the need. I talked about the possibility of
deporting the very salvation of the evangelical community in the 21st century."

Rodriguez didn't talk about leftist priorities, like social justice. He spoke
about religious self-interest. "We're talking about the future of American
Christianity."

But make no mistake. On this issue, as on so many others, the fight for souls is
also a fight for votes. But unlike abortion and gay marriage, this one is
subtler.

Will Romney, who took a hard anti-immigrant stance in the primary, be able to
convince Hispanics that he cares about them as much as Obama does? (He tried to
Thursday - in a speech to the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials - by appealing to their pocketbooks.)            The
nation's evangelicals are pointing the way:  As America evolves into a
majority-non-white country, Hispanic voters  are becoming as important to
electing a president as they are to filling American church pews.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 25, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Obama, Romney: Immigration reform needed for growth

BYLINE: Catherine Ho

SECTION: ; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 399 words


President Obama and presumptive Republican nominee Mitt Romney spoke a day apart
at a conference for Latino elected officials last week, both framing immigration
reform as an necessity to spur economic growth.

For Romney, the speech before the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials (NALEO) in Orlando marked the first time the Republican
candidate shifted the focus of his campaign from the economic recovery to
immigration. The move came days after Obama announced his administration would
stop deporting hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants.Romney spoke of
a softer approach to immigration reform, pledging to overhaul the green card
system for immigrants with families and end immigration caps for their spouses
and minor children.

"Immigration reform is not just a moral imperative, but an economic necessity as
well," Romney said. "Immigrants with advanced degrees start companies, create
jobs, and drive innovation at a high rate. Immigrants founded or cofounded
nearly half of our 50 top venture-backed companies. They are nearly 30 percent
more likely to start a business. And that kind of risk taking is something we
need more than ever because new business starts are now at a 30-year low."

Obama delivered his speech before NALEO a day later, saying Latino communities
have been hit harder by unemployment but that his administration has expanded
Pell Grants and invested in community colleges, which are "a gateway to a good
job for so many Hispanics," he said.

"One of America's greatest strengths has been our ability to attract talented
and hardworking people who believe in this country and want to help make it
stronger," Obama said. "Our current immigration system doesn't allow for those
values. It tells the best and brightest to study here, but tells them to leave -
start a company somewhere else.

"As long as I am president, I will not give up the fight to change it ... They
are Americans in every single way except on paper, all they want is to go to
college and give back ... lifting the shadow of deportation and giving them a
reason to hope was the right thing to do."

Both candidates have identified Latino voters as a key demographic to win in
November. Romney has tried to highlight unemployment - which is at 11 percent
among Hispanics, higher the national average of 8.2 percent - as a failure on
Obama's part.

hoc@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 26, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

GOP strategy gets more complicated

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1078 words


Monday's Supreme Court ruling on Arizona's tough anti-illegal-immigration law
stirred a growing debate among Republicans over how to navigate an issue that
has energized the conservative base and turned off Hispanic voters.
Some on the right were taken aback to see Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., an
iconic figure to many conservatives, side with the court's liberals to reject
several key provisions in the law and even declare that as a "general rule, it
is not a crime for a removable alien to remain present in the United States."

The ruling came as Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney has been
struggling to connect with Hispanics after courting conservative primary voters
with sharp rhetoric against illegal immigration. A survey published Monday
showed him favored by just one-fourth of Hispanics.

The quandary for Romney and the GOP is clear from recent polling. The Arizona
law is very popular with whites and independent voters, according to data from
the Pew Research Center, while many GOP strategists think their party has little
chance for success in battlegrounds such as Colorado, Nevada and Virginia if
Romney doesn't win close to 40 percent of Hispanics.           The tension among
Republicans over immigration has been a years-long struggle and became a point
of contention during the GOP primaries, when Romney sought to win over skeptical
conservative voters by attacking leading rivals for their more liberal
immigration views.

In recent weeks, President Obama has increased the pressure on Romney,
announcing that he would halt deportations of hundreds of thousands of young
illegal immigrants -  action that Hispanic activists had been urging for a long
time.            And some leading Republicans, including former Mississippi
governor Haley Barbour, have publicly expressed concern that Romney's positions
allow Democrats to portray the GOP as anti-Hispanic.

Romney took a first step toward trying to repair the damage last week, when he
told a conference of Hispanic public officials that he would pursue bipartisan
fixes to immigration policy in a "civil" manner. He offered to loosen some
restrictions on foreign-worker visas. But he did not back down from his more
hard-line immigration views, and on Monday, Roy Beck, president of the
anti-illegal-immigration group NumbersUSA, called Romney's statements a
"tremendous victory for our side." Now, some said Monday, a mixed ruling from a
conservative court might change the conversation.

"I'm hoping this decision, which included Justice Roberts, will send a message
to conservatives that we cannot allow a few states that don't represent the
majority of Republicans and a few political leaders to define the conservative
narrative on immigration," said Alfonso Aguilar, a Hispanic Republican who heads
the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles.

Romney appeared to be walking a careful line after the ruling.

Though he once called Arizona's approach to immigration a "model" for the
country and vowed to reverse the Obama administration's challenge to the law,
his support for the measure seemed more muted Monday.

Appearing at a fundraiser in Scottsdale, Ariz. - an apparent coincidence of
timing - Romney tried to turn the ruling into a critique of Obama's handling of
immigration.

"Given the failure of the immigration policy in this country, I would have
preferred to see the Supreme Court give more latitude to the states, not less,"
he said. "And there are states now under this decision that have less authority,
less latitude, to enforce immigration laws. And it's really - it's become a
muddle."

Monday's ruling was not a pure victory for the law's advocates. A key provision
- allowing local law enforcement officers to ask suspected illegal immigrants
for documentation - was upheld.

Still, for Obama, who has endured criticism from Hispanic leaders for a lack of
progress on fixing the immigration system and for an aggressive deportation
policy, the ruling bolstered his efforts to present himself as a champion for
Hispanic voters. Obama had already won praise for directing his administration
to sue Arizona, but now he can take credit for blocking many of the provisions
viewed as onerous by immigrant advocates.

On the right, the challenge on immigration is more confusing - and the dispute
over the Arizona law has exacerbated the tension.

Even the GOP's biggest Hispanic star, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, has struggled
to find the right balance, jousting in Spanish over his past support for the
Arizona law with the country's most important Hispanic newsman in an interview
that aired Sunday.Jorge Ramos, an anchor on Univision, the widely watched
Spanish-language network, told the senator that he "took the side of the
victimizers who are persecuting Hispanics." He pressed Rubio on a passage in the
senator's new memoir, "An American Son," in which he said he would probably have
voted for the Arizona law if he were in the state legislature, because of the
state's location on the Mexico border.

Rubio, a potential Romney running mate, disputed Ramos's characterization,
appearing to draw a distinction between himself and Romney.

"I do not believe that the Arizona law is a model," he said. "I don't want it in
Florida, nor do I believe it is necessary in other states."

Several GOP strategists said Monday that they doubted the Arizona ruling would
affect Romney's performance with Hispanic voters. But they said Romney was wise
to point out - as he did again in his remarks Monday after the ruling - that
Obama had pledged as a candidate to make  overhauling immigration a priority in
his first year but did not get it done.

Even if Romney does not dramatically change his positions, they said, he can
improve his standing with some Hispanic voters simply by toning down his
rhetoric and casting himself as an earnest bipartisan broker.

Whit Ayers, a Republican pollster who has studied the Hispanic vote, said Romney
is not likely to match the "peak performance" of President George W. Bush, who
espoused relatively liberal immigration views and in 2004 won about 40 percent
of the Hispanic vote.

But, Ayers said, Romney has room to grow.

"It makes a big difference when you're at 25 percent or 35 percent, especially
in Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico," Ayers said.

wallstenp@washpost.com

Staff writer Philip Rucker in Scottsdale, Ariz., contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      June 27, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

The aftermath of a crackdown

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 994 words


Now that the Supreme Court has upheld part of Arizona's tough law on illegal
immigration, Carlos Castro's Todos Market offers a case study in how Prince
William County has fitfully come to terms with a similar law.

Castro had just opened his second Latino grocery store, in Dumfries - his other
is in Woodbridge - when Prince William passed a forerunner to the Arizona
statute in 2007, allowing county police to check the immigration status of
anyone who authorities had "probable cause" to believe was in the country
unlawfully.          The county's red-hot economy had produced a housing and
construction boom that triggered a wave of immigration, legal and illegal. But
once the law was passed, Latinos left in droves, leaving Castro with a choice:
adjust his business model or go bankrupt.

Five years later, Castro's stores are doing well and serve a clientele that is
roughly half Hispanic. His freezers are filled not only with Latino delicacies
but also with more mainstream fare - Stouffer's frozen dinners and T.G.I.
Friday's chicken bites.

"We hit the nail on the head," Castro said Tuesday, crediting his survival to a
spirit of compromise that ultimately prevailed in Prince William.

Latinos have started to return as the county's economy slowly recovers, but the
scars from 2007 remain.

After the immigration law was passed, a wave of protest from Latino groups and
advocates - and a concern about racial profiling voiced by the county police
chief - triggered a compromise: Police wouldn't check the immigration status of
anyone they thought might be illegal, but everyone arrested would be run through
a federal immigration database. Those identified as being in the country
illegally would be turned over to federal authorities.

Monday's Supreme Court ruling struck down aspects of Arizona's law but left in
place something similar to Prince William's statute: Police will be required to
check the immigration status of people they detain and suspect to be in the
country illegally.Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of
County Supervisors, said he's glad the county reached a compromise, although he
doesn't necessarily disagree with Arizona's position. He said 4,700 arrestees
have been turned over to federal immigration services.

"Ultimately the improvement in public safety and in the business climate is
going to yield positive results for Arizona, just as it has for Prince William
County," he said.

Castro said the immediate effect of Prince William's crackdown could have driven
him out of business. But he adapted by asking non-Latino customers what products
they wanted most in his store. He wouldn't have thought to stock things such as
Hot Pockets and ready-to-eat meats, but he listened to their feedback.

Now, the 57-year-old former illegal immigrant said that business is back and the
environment in Prince William is much less tense.

"A lot of people got involved and made sure our community didn't unravel,"
Castro said. "I think we have learned to live together, and I feel really
comfortable in Prince William County."

But not everyone is as sanguine. Matty Lupo, who works at the largely Latino
Holy Family Catholic Church in Dale City, said she would love to leave the
county. But she stays, she said, because her children are in a good school.

Lupo said she hears stories almost daily about slights big and small toward
Latinos, such as a rude or aggressive police officer who eyes someone for what
she and others call "driving while Hispanic."

She says it's an attitude inspired by the vitriol of 2007. "Maybe we're
intruders to them," Lupo said.

County officials say the crackdown has been successful. A 2010 University of
Virginia study on the policy in Prince William showed that of the 14,000 arrests
made in 2009, 6 percent were of illegal immigrants - though the study didn't
conclusively connect the policy and crime rates.

Though Prince William was one of the areas hit hardest by foreclosure as the
economy crashed and the crackdown started, things are now picking up.

Job surveys show that Prince William is among the top localities for job growth
in Virginia, and county statistics indicate that violent crime is dropping,
although there is debate about how much of that decline is related to the
illegal-immigration crackdown.

The county has also filed a lawsuit, still in court, seeking data from the
federal government in an effort to determine whether the illegal immigrants the
county has turned over have been deported.Police are still viewed with suspicion
in some quarters. Ricardo Juarez, a construction worker who helped organize the
group Mexicanos Sin Fronteras (Mexicans Without Borders) and staged mass
protests during the immigration debates in Prince William five years ago, said
the county is seen as much more anti-Latino than in the past as a result of its
policies.

But county officials say that just one complaint of racial profiling has been
logged against the county and police department, and that it was dismissed in
court.

Police Chief Col. Charlie T. Deane has called Arizona's measure "a high-risk
gamble" and said Prince William's more "moderate" position has caused fewer
problems and has been accepted by more stakeholders, according to a news release
from the Police Executive Research Forum.

Castro's wife, Gladis, busily stocking shelves with cold medicine, said business
is getting better because many Latinos who fled to Maryland are coming back.
People in the community aren't talking as much about illegal immigration
anymore, she said.

Her husband, who fled El Salvador's civil war in the 1980s and soon gained legal
status, said he is intent on having a store for everyone, but with a Latin
flair. He's even hoping to franchise Todos Market.

When a customer asked for something he had never heard of - beer salt,
apparently a staple in parts of Texas - Castro was more than receptive.

"We're working on that," he said.

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 28, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Too political for a justice

BYLINE: E.J. Dionne Jr.

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 744 words


Justice Antonin Scalia needs to resign from the Supreme Court.

He'd have a lot of things to do. He's a fine public speaker and teacher. He'd be
a heck of a columnist and blogger. But he really seems to aspire to being a
politician - and that's the problem.

So often, Scalia has chosen to ignore the obligation of a Supreme Court justice
to be, and appear to be, impartial. He's turned "judicial restraint" into an
oxymoronic phrase. But what he did this week, when the court announced its
decision on the Arizona immigration law, should be the end of the line.
Not content with issuing a fiery written dissent, Scalia offered a bench
statement questioning President Obama's decision to allow some immigrants who
were brought to the United States illegally as children to stay. Obama's move
had nothing to do with the case in question. Scalia just wanted you to know
where he stood.

"After this case was argued and while it was under consideration, the secretary
of homeland security announced a program exempting from immigration enforcement
some 1.4 million illegal immigrants," Scalia said. "The president has said that
the new program is 'the right thing to do' in light of Congress's failure to
pass the administration's proposed revision of the immigration laws. Perhaps it
is, though Arizona may not think so. But to say, as the court does, that Arizona
contradicts federal law by enforcing applications of federal immigration law
that the president declines to enforce boggles the mind."

What boggles the mind is that Scalia thought it proper to jump into this
political argument. And when he went on to a broader denunciation of federal
policies, he sounded just like an Arizona Senate candidate.

"Arizona bears the brunt of the country's illegal immigration problem," the
politician-justice proclaimed. "Its citizens feel themselves under siege by
large numbers of illegal immigrants who invade their property, strain their
social services, and even place their lives in jeopardy. Federal officials have
been unable to remedy the problem, and indeed have recently shown that they are
simply unwilling to do so.

"Arizona has moved to protect its sovereignty - not in contradiction of federal
law, but in complete compliance with it." Cue the tea party rally applause.

As it happens, Obama has stepped up immigration enforcement. But if the
76-year-old justice wants to dispute this, he is perfectly free as a citizen to
join the political fray and take on the president. But he cannot be a blatantly
political actor and a justice at the same time.

Unaccountable power can lead to arrogance. That's why justices typically feel
bound by rules and conventions that Scalia seems to take joy in ignoring. Recall
a 2004 incident. Three weeks after the Supreme Court announced it would hear a
case about whether the White House needed to turn over documents from an energy
task force that Dick Cheney had headed, Scalia went off on Air Force Two for a
duck-hunting trip with the vice president.           Scalia scoffed at the idea
that he should recuse himself. "My recusal is required if . . . my 'impartiality
might reasonably be questioned,' " he wrote in a 21-page memo. Well, yes. But
there was no cause for worry, Scalia explained, since he never hunted with
Cheney "in the same blind or had other opportunity for private conversation."

Don't you feel better? And can you just imagine what the right wing would have
said if Vice President Biden had a case before the court and went duck hunting
with Justice Elena Kagan?

Then there was the speech Scalia gave at Switzerland's University of Fribourg a
few weeks before the court was to hear a case involving the rights of Guantanamo
detainees."I am astounded at the world reaction to Guantanamo," he declared in
response to a question. "We are in a war. We are capturing these people on the
battlefield. We never gave a trial in civil courts to people captured in a war.
War is war and it has never been the case that when you capture a combatant, you
have to give them a jury trial in your civil courts. It's a crazy idea to me."

It was a fine speech for a campaign gathering, the appropriate venue for a man
so eager to brand the things he disagrees with as crazy or mind-boggling. Scalia
should free himself to pursue his true vocation. We can then use his resignation
as an occasion for a searching debate over just how political this Supreme Court
has become.

ejdionne@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 30, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Prosecutorial discretion, used wisely

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 259 words


Regarding Charles Krauthammer's June 22 op-ed column, "Naked
lawlessness":President Obama's exercise of prosecutorial discretion to defer the
deportation of promising young undocumented immigrants is smart enforcement,
not, as Mr. Krauthammer claimed, "amnesty by fiat."

Mr. Obama's policy allows the administration to focus its resources on the
removal of dangerous criminals and national security risks. And that is much
smarter than punishing young people who find themselves stuck in immigration
limbo.

The president is doing exactly what he is supposed to do as commander in chief -
protect America.

To claim, as Mr. Krauthammer does, that the president has rewritten the
immigration law is ridiculous. All law enforcement agencies have the authority
to decide whom to investigate, arrest, detain, charge and prosecute. As the
Supreme Court noted this week in Arizona vs. U.S., "The equities of an
individual case may turn on many factors, including whether the alien has
children born in the United States, long ties to the community, or a record of
distinguished military service."

Nor, as Mr. Krauthammer claimed, is prosecutorial discretion reserved for the
most extreme and extenuating circumstances. As the Supreme Court recognized,
some "discretionary decisions involve policy choices." The fact is, categorical
reprieves from deportation have been used by presidents of both political
parties to protect broad groups of immigrants.

David Leopold, Washington

The writer is counsel and past president of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 1, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Worst Week in Washington

BYLINE: Chris Cillizza

SECTION: Outlook; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 363 words


For Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, it's been a rough few days.

Not only did Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who had seemed to be Scalia's
conservative-brother-in-arms, cast the decisive vote upholding President Obama's
health-care overhaul, but earlier in the week, in his dissent on the Arizona
immigration law, Scalia trod all over the idea that the Supreme Court is above
politics.          In a little-noticed (at first) rejection of the high court's
majority opinion that much of the Arizona statute was preempted by federal law,
the ever-quotable and occasionally controversial Scalia said that the ruling
"boggles the mind" - particularly in light of Obama's recent decision to stop
deporting some illegal immigrants under 30 if they were brought here by their
parents as children.

"The president has said that the new program is 'the right thing to do' in light
of Congress's failure to pass the administration's proposed revision of the
immigration laws," Scalia wrote. "Perhaps it is, though Arizona may not think
so."

Cue outrage.

Scalia's critics seized on the comment as evidence that the conservative justice
had put his politics before the law. E.J. Dionne Jr., a liberal columnist for
The Washington Post, went as far as to call for his resignation, writing: "What
boggles the mind is that Scalia thought it proper to jump into this political
argument."

Scalia isn't likely to take Dionne's advice - and this week of controversy is
likely to be the smallest of ripples when one looks back on the breadth of his
career. And a bad week can turn into a good week down the line; just ask a past
worst week winner, Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr., who was dinged for
his poor performance in arguing the administration's health-care case before the
court in March. He had to be breathing a sigh of relief when the verdict came
down Thursday morning.Antonin Scalia, for showing too much partisan political
leg, you had the worst week in Washington. Congrats, or something.

Have a candidate for the Worst Week in Washington? E-mail

Chris Cillizza

at chris.cillizza@wpost.com

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 2, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Face of calm in times of crisis

BYLINE: Josh White

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1234 words


When the Prince William Board of County Supervisors jumped into the national
immigration debate in 2007 and became one of the first places in the country to
require the police department to question residents about their immigration
status, Chief Charlie T. Deane thought otherwise.

He feared cries of racial profiling and losing the trust of the county's growing
immigrant community. His stance angered his bosses on the county board and many
residents who thought he was flouting the law. But Deane, who announced his
retirement on Wednesday, used his decades of goodwill to persuade the board to
change its policy. The department would check a person's immigration status only
after an arrest.

"When this was forced on us, we had no experience with it, and there were legal
and moral implications," Deane said. "I saw from the beginning that the safest
course for this county was to do the screening post-arrest. . . . We are
responsible for providing police services to everyone, regardless of their
status."

Deane has earned a national reputation for the same straightforward approach he
displayed during the immigration debate and for calm during crisis - hallmarks
of his 24-year tenure as chief in Prince William. A firm, Southern gentleman,
Deane has led his department through monumental change in both the county and in
policing, maintaining his country sensibilities while facing the challenges of a
modern, fast-growing community.

Just shy of his 67th birthday, Deane plans to leave, 42 years after he helped
open the department in what was then a sleepy Virginia outpost of dairy farms.
Although Prince William has become a bustling Washington bedroom community, the
police department's one constant has been Deane. Many in the county said
Wednesday that it is the end of an era.

"Prince William has been a very exciting, dynamic place to work," Deane said in
an interview this week before he announced his retirement. "It's just as
exciting today. The challenges are different, and the world is more complex. But
we've developed a department that is second to none, and it'll be in good
hands."

Law enforcement officials across the country consider Deane one of the best in
the field, having distinguished himself on the immigration issue but also for
leading his department through some of the most notable crimes in the region's
history, including the Washington area sniper shootings, the "East Coast Rapist"
investigation and the 1993 Lorena Bobbitt case.When Deane began as chief in
Prince William, the county had 200,000 residents. Cellphones barely existed,
police didn't have DNA evidence and the Internet - and the crimes created by it
- was barely imaginable. Deane had 239 officers and a budget of $16 million.

Prince William has since doubled in population. The county is now home to
Potomac Mills mall and a large concert venue. Police cars have computers and
license-plate readers, the department has its own training academy and forensics
lab, and Deane has diversified what is now a force of nearly 600 sworn officers
and a budget of $80 million.

Through all the change, Deane made few, if any, enemies.

Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles H. Ramsey, who was the District's
police chief from 1998 to 2006, said he thinks that Deane is "one of the
greatest police chiefs in America."

"Law enforcement has really grown by leaps and bounds over the past 24 years,"
Ramsey said. "It has been a tremendous transformation, but people like Charlie
Deane can adjust, adapt and grow with those changes."

The county has seen its share of difficult issues: the crack epidemic, numerous
capital-murder cases, abuse of prescription painkillers, a massive suburban
marijuana ring and  gang activity.

But the one that shook Deane, and most others in the region, was the sniper case
in October 2002, in which 10 people were killed and at least three others
seriously injured. Deane said he felt like a commander in a war zone, trying to
solve one homicide while waiting for the next one. He said he treated it just as
any other crime, but he kept an aerial photograph of one of the crime scenes -
at a Manassas gas station - on his conference table, went to the gun range to
hear the sound of a .223-caliber rifle (which was used in the crimes) and had
trouble sleeping while the shootings continued.

"Charlie was a stabilizing factor for all of us during that time," Ramsey said.

Deane has earned a reputation for being nearly unflappable, handling crises in a
no-nonsense manner. Deane regularly appeared at crime scenes and often called on
his background as a criminal investigator.

Prince William Commonwealth's Attorney Paul B. Ebert said that Deane has
embodied the principles of honesty and integrity, evidenced by the fact that
there has never been a major scandal unearthed at the department.

"He insists on everyone in his department being good policemen, and he won't
tolerate dishonesty," Ebert said.

Deane said he has fired police officers for lying to him. And he has been
willing to air the department's dirty laundry when necessary, especially when
his officers have been found breaking the law.

"The community has a right to hold their officers to very high standards," Deane
said. "We can't expect them to have confidence in us, to trust us, to report
crimes to us, without us being honorable people."

Deane has always told it like it is, getting out in front of crime trends and
discussing them openly, even questioning his bosses, as he did in the
immigration debate.

Corey Stewart, chairman of the county board, said he was frustrated by Deane's
objections to the county's policy and believed that it was daunting to have
someone from inside the county's bureaucracy taking him on. The board later
changed its policy, which now conforms with Deane's vision.

"At the time, I saw him as an adversary," Stewart said. "But I look back on it
now, and I realize he was right."

Deane said he has always taken a special interest in crimes against children,
which is why the 2009 case of Lexie Glover bothered him so. Lexie was reported
missing, but she was later discovered dead and her mother was charged with
killing her. Deane said the police department and other county agencies missed
signs of problems within the family.

After Lexie's death, Deane instituted new policies and procedures for looking at
child-abuse cases. It's an "early warning system" designed to catch problems
before they become critical.

Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Washington-based Police Executive
Research Forum, for which Deane has served as vice president, said that Deane
stands out nationally.

"The way Charlie handled the immigration issue and worked through it was a
defining moment," Wexler said. "It put Prince William County on the map in a
good way, in terms of how you handle something as controversial as that."

Deane said he hopes that the county board fills the chief's job internally.
Deane declined to discuss potential successors, but obvious contenders would be
Deputy Chief Barry Barnard and Assistant Chiefs Mike Crosbie, Steve Hudson and
Jay Lanham.

Stewart said that the board will conduct a national search for the next chief
and added that it will be difficult to replace Deane. "The professionalism and
integrity of the police department . . . is in large part due to him, and it's
going to be very hard to fill those shoes."

whitejs@washpost.com

Jeremy Borden contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 5, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

A face of calm in times of crisis

BYLINE: Josh White;Reprinted fromThursday's editions

SECTION: Metro; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1234 words


When the Prince William Board of County Supervisors jumped into the national
immigration debate in 2007 and became one of the first places in the country to
require the police department to question residents about their immigration
status, Chief Charlie T. Deane thought otherwise.

He feared cries of racial profiling and losing the trust of the county's growing
immigrant community. His stance angered his bosses on the county board and many
residents who thought he was flouting the law. But Deane, who announced his
retirement on Wednesday, used his decades of goodwill to persuade the board to
change its policy. The department would check a person's immigration status only
after an arrest.

"When this was forced on us, we had no experience with it, and there were legal
and moral implications," Deane said. "I saw from the beginning that the safest
course for this county was to do the screening post-arrest. . . . We are
responsible for providing police services to everyone, regardless of their
status."

Deane has earned a national reputation for the same straightforward approach he
displayed during the immigration debate and for calm during crisis - hallmarks
of his 24-year tenure as chief in Prince William. A firm, Southern gentleman,
Deane has led his department through monumental change in both the county and in
policing, maintaining his country sensibilities while facing the challenges of a
modern, fast-growing community.

Just shy of his 67th birthday, Deane plans to leave, 42 years after he helped
open the department in what was then a sleepy Virginia outpost of dairy farms.
Although Prince William has become a bustling Washington bedroom community, the
police department's one constant has been Deane. Many in the county said
Wednesday that it is the end of an era.

"Prince William has been a very exciting, dynamic place to work," Deane said in
an interview this week before he announced his retirement. "It's just as
exciting today. The challenges are different, and the world is more complex. But
we've developed a department that is second to none, and it'll be in good
hands."

Law enforcement officials across the country consider Deane one of the best in
the field, having distinguished himself on the immigration issue but also for
leading his department through some of the most notable crimes in the region's
history, including the Washington area sniper shootings, the "East Coast Rapist"
investigation and the 1993 Lorena Bobbitt case.When Deane began as chief in
Prince William, the county had 200,000 residents. Cellphones barely existed,
police didn't have DNA evidence and the Internet - and the crimes created by it
- was barely imaginable. Deane had 239 officers and a budget of $16 million.

Prince William has since doubled in population. The county is now home to
Potomac Mills mall and a large concert venue. Police cars have computers and
license-plate readers, the department has its own training academy and forensics
lab, and Deane has diversified what is now a force of nearly 600 sworn officers
and a budget of $80 million.

Through all the change, Deane made few, if any, enemies.

Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles H. Ramsey, who was the District's
police chief from 1998 to 2006, said he thinks that Deane is "one of the
greatest police chiefs in America."

"Law enforcement has really grown by leaps and bounds over the past 24 years,"
Ramsey said. "It has been a tremendous transformation, but people like Charlie
Deane can adjust, adapt and grow with those changes."

The county has seen its share of difficult issues: the crack epidemic, numerous
capital-murder cases, abuse of prescription painkillers, a massive suburban
marijuana ring and gang activity.

But the one that shook Deane, and most others in the region, was the sniper case
in October 2002, in which 10 people were killed and at least three others
seriously injured. Deane said he felt like a commander in a war zone, trying to
solve one homicide while waiting for the next one. He said he treated it just as
any other crime, but he kept an aerial photograph of one of the crime scenes -
at a Manassas gas station - on his conference table, went to the gun range to
hear the sound of a .223-caliber rifle (which was used in the crimes) and had
trouble sleeping while the shootings continued.

"Charlie was a stabilizing factor for all of us during that time," Ramsey said.

Deane has earned a reputation for being nearly unflappable, handling crises in a
no-nonsense manner. Deane regularly appeared at crime scenes and often called on
his background as a criminal investigator.

Prince William Commonwealth's Attorney Paul B. Ebert said that Deane has
embodied the principles of honesty and integrity, evidenced by the fact that
there has never been a major scandal unearthed at the department.

"He insists on everyone in his department being good policemen, and he won't
tolerate dishonesty," Ebert said.

Deane said he has fired police officers for lying to him. And he has been
willing to air the department's dirty laundry when necessary, especially when
his officers have been found breaking the law.

"The community has a right to hold their officers to very high standards," Deane
said. "We can't expect them to have confidence in us, to trust us, to report
crimes to us, without us being honorable people."

Deane has always told it like it is, getting out in front of crime trends and
discussing them openly, even questioning his bosses, as he did in the
immigration debate.

Corey Stewart, chairman of the county board, said he was frustrated by Deane's
objections to the county's policy and believed that it was daunting to have
someone from inside the county's bureaucracy taking him on. The board later
changed its policy, which now conforms with Deane's vision.

"At the time, I saw him as an adversary," Stewart said. "But I look back on it
now, and I realize he was right."

Deane said he has always taken a special interest in crimes against children,
which is why the 2009 case of Lexie Glover bothered him so. Lexie was reported
missing, but she was later discovered dead and her mother was charged with
killing her. Deane said the police department and other county agencies missed
signs of problems within the family.

After Lexie's death, Deane instituted new policies and procedures for looking at
child-abuse cases. It's an "early warning system" designed to catch problems
before they become critical.

Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Washington-based Police Executive
Research Forum, for which Deane has served as vice president, said that Deane
stands out nationally.

"The way Charlie handled the immigration issue and worked through it was a
defining moment," Wexler said. "It put Prince William County on the map in a
good way, in terms of how you handle something as controversial as that."

Deane said he hopes that the county board fills the chief's job internally.
Deane declined to discuss potential successors, but obvious contenders would be
Deputy Chief Barry Barnard and Assistant Chiefs Mike Crosbie, Steve Hudson and
Jay Lanham.

Stewart said that the board will conduct a national search for the next chief
and added that it will be difficult to replace Deane. "The professionalism and
integrity of the police department . . . is in large part due to him, and it's
going to be very hard to fill those shoes."

whitejs@washpost.com

Jeremy Borden contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     August 15, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Application process starts for residency hopefuls

BYLINE: Steve Hendrix

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 999 words


The Obama administration will kick off one of the most sweeping changes in
immigration policy in decades Wednesday, allowing an estimated 1.7 million young
undocumented immigrants to apply for the temporary right to live and work openly
in the United States without fear of deportation.

Immigrants have waited for final details of the plan in the two months since
President Obama pledged to brush aside years of congressional stalemate over the
Dream Act and grant de facto residency to qualified immigrants who were brought
to the country as children.          On Tuesday, officials surprised advocacy
groups by posting the application forms online one day early. Advocates across
the country are planning workshops Wednesday for hundreds of immigrants eager to
learn who will qualify and how to apply.

Families have been scrambling to assemble school records, utility bills and
other documents that may be needed, they said.

"People are very, very anxious to file, so we've been telling them to
over-prepare," said Emid Gonzalez, manager of legal services at Casa de
Maryland. The group has scheduled an afternoon workshop Wednesday at which she
expects to see family documents by the armload. "The phone has been ringing off
the hook."

The program is open to immigrants ages 15 to 31 who came to the country before
they were 16 and have lived here continuously for at least the past five years.
Among other restrictions, they must be free of serious criminal convictions, be
enrolled in or have completed high school, or have served in the U.S. military.
On Tuesday, officials confirmed that those enrolled in GED programs and certain
training programs will also qualify, broadening the program's potential reach.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services also provided a list of documents it
will accept as proof of continuous residency, including tax receipts, bank
records, and church confirmation and other religious records.

On Antonio Aleman's dining table in a double-wide trailer in Suitland, the pile
of birth certificates and school transcripts has grown to nearly a foot tall as
he prepares to sign up his two children, 15 and 21. With his wife Ruth slapping
fresh tortillas in the kitchen, Aleman sorted through his daughter Beatrize's
academic bona fides, including a certificate of achievement from Surrattsville
High School.

"I think they will qualify. They are good students; we've been working hard,
paying our taxes," said Aleman, 43, a bakery truck driver from El Salvador who
came with his family nine years ago and outstayed their visa. He already bought
two money orders for $465 each to cover the application fee. "It's been
difficult to wait. What else do we need? Do we have everything?"

The protected status has to be renewed every two years. And the program's name,
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, may lack the aspirational heft of the
"Dream Act." But immigration advocates are treating Wednesday's launch as a
great victory.

"This is single largest opportunity we've had since [the amnesty program of]
1986 to bring people out of the shadows and into documented status," said Rep.
Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who led efforts to pass the Dream Act in the House
only to see it fail in the Senate in 2010. "We've got to take advantage of it.
Our goal should be to sign them up, sign them up, sign them up."Activists plan
to hold regular events over the next several months to draw into the program
eligible immigrants, many of whom will be averse to revealing their names and
addresses to federal authorities.

But more than 5,000 have registered for an information session Gutierrez is
planning Wednesday at Chicago's Navy Pier. Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Sen. Richard
J. Durbin (D-Ill.) plan to attend, basking in an election-year initiative that
Democrats hope will please Latino voters after years of record deportations.
"This is such a contrast to the years of deportation," Gutierrez said. "The
rewards are going to be huge."

Critics said politics explains everything about a program they characterize as
amnesty for lawbreakers at a time of soaring joblessness. "With unemployment at
8.3%, it's unconscionable that the Obama administration's amnesty program
actually requires illegal immigrants to apply for work authorization in the
U.S.," said Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, in a statement. "This undercuts the 23 million unemployed or
underemployed Americans."

Opponents also complain about the costs. Homeland Security officials will rule
case-by-case on applicants, presenting huge personnel demands. Officials say
they hope to pay for caseworkers with the application fee.

Opponents and supporters alike agree that the two-year protections are likely to
be renewed indefinitely, as has been the case with Haitian refugees and others
who have gotten such status. While future administrations may stop granting the
protections, they are unlikely to move to deport those already enrolled.

"There's no way Romney is going reverse this, at least not for those who already
have it," said Mark Krikorian, head of Washington's Center for Immigration
Studies, which favors tighter restrictions on immigration.For some young
immigrants on the verge of being sent out of the country, the program has
amounted to a tarmac reprieve. Lawyers say numerous pending deportations have
been paused as immigration officials review people's eligibility for deferred
action.

Doug Stump, an immigration lawyer in Oklahoma City, has had three sets of
clients like that in recent weeks. Among them were two college-student siblings
within days of boarding a plane for Guatemala, a country neither had seen they
were toddlers.

"They were terrified. They've been in this country their whole lives," Stump
said. Officials agreed to halt the proceedings when he showed the two would
likely qualify for the new protections. Afterward, Stump said, "It was a
tear-fest around here."

hendrixs@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 26, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration official faces more sexual harassment complaints

BYLINE: Alicia A. Caldwell;Eileen Sullivan

SECTION: A section; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 662 words


At least three employees at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement have made
serious complaints alleging inappropriate sexual behavior by a senior Obama
administration political appointee and longtime aide to Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, according to court records and a letter describing
the claims submitted to a congressional oversight committee.

The complaints are related to a sexual discrimination and retaliation lawsuit
filed in May by a senior ICE agent. They accuse Suzanne Barr, the agency's chief
of staff, of sexually inappropriate behavior toward employees. Barr is on leave
while the allegations are being investigated, a spokesman for the agency said.
Repeated attempts by the Associated Press for more than one week to reach Barr
for comment by phone and e-mail have been unsuccessful.

Barr is accused of telling a male subordinate he was "sexy" during an office
party and asking a personal question about his anatomy. She is separately
accused of offering to perform a sex act with a male subordinate while on
business travel in Bogota, Colombia. She is also accused of calling a male
subordinate from her hotel room and offering to perform a sex act. The names of
two of the employees were censored in affidavits reviewed by the AP.

There were no prior complaints about Barr, according to a Homeland Security
official who spoke to the AP on the condition of anonymity because he was not
authorized to speak publicly about the matter. Barr was one of Napolitano's
first appointments after she became secretary in 2009.

ICE would not say whether the agency's director, John Morton, witnessed any
inappropriate behavior by Barr in the three years he has worked with her. Morton
traveled with Barr 65 times between May 2009 and February 2012, according to
documents obtained by the AP under the Freedom of Information Act.

Two employees came forward with their complaints after New York's most senior
ICE agent filed a sexual discrimination and retaliation lawsuit. James T. Hayes
Jr. described a "frat house" atmosphere at ICE designed to humiliate male
employees under Barr's leadership. Hayes, who filed the complaint in May, is
asking for more than $4 million that would cover compensation he believes he is
owed for relocation expenses and financial losses associated with his transfer,
as well as the full salary and benefits he would have earned until he was
eligible to retire.

Hayes's lawyer, Morris Fischer of Silver Spring, has declined to comment.

The Justice Department is seeking to dismiss Hayes's lawsuit on the basis that
he did not state a claim for retaliation.

There were 10 sexual harassment claims filed with ICE in 2011, a significant
increase over the two cases filed in each of the previous two years, according
to equal employment data from the agency. Homeland Security said none of the
cases were substantiated. Also in 2011, Morton issued an anti-fraternization
policy that said supervisors were not to have sexual or romantic relationships
with subordinates. Any such relationships, the policy said, should be
immediately reported.

Brian Hale, an ICE spokesman, said the agency has a "zero tolerance sexual
harassment policy" and that all such allegations are promptly investigated.

Despite the complaints, 24 senior ICE agents across the country sent Morton a
letter of support Thursday that alluded to news media reports of Hayes's case.

Barr went on leave after the New York Post reported about Hayes's complaint
earlier this month. The additional employees came forward with their allegations
around the same time.

Barr, a 1995 graduate of the University of Arizona, began working for Napolitano
in 2004 when Napolitano was governor of Arizona. Before that, Barr worked for
Republican Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl, both of Arizona.

ICE's office of professional responsibility and the Homeland Security's
inspector general are investigating the allegations against Barr, Hale said.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Iraq detains foreign workers

BYLINE: Dan Morse

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 697 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD


BAGHDAD - The Iraqi government has temporarily detained more than 100
international workers in recent weeks over visas and paperwork, prompting some
of their employers to ask U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to
intervene, according to a trade group that represents contractors doing business
here.

Most, if not all, of those detained have been released. But the detentions,
which last from hours to days, are hampering the work of Iraq-based U.S.
diplomats, who rely on contractors, the International Stability Operations
Association said.

"We want to ensure that you are aware of the seriousness of this issue," the
group said in a letter to Clinton on Sunday, "and the impact it is having on our
members' ability to support the transition and government programs in Iraq and
ask your assistance in working with the Government of Iraq to reach a prompt
solution."

The letter's author and the group's president, Doug Brooks, said that companies
are having trouble driving in Iraq and that employees have been held at the
airport in Baghdad over visas.

"The Government of Iraq has neither renewed 2011 visas nor issued new 2012
visas," said the letter to Clinton. "Approved movements have been subject to
stops, detentions, and confiscation of equipment without justification.

Brooks said the number of employees held in recent weeks is in the "low
hundreds."

Things are "completely hamstrung right now. No one can move. It's been a
nightmare," he said Monday. "This is basically collateral damage from the
infighting in the Iraqi government. The main reason seems to be bureaucratic
incapacity."

Brooks said three Iraqi ministries - defense, internal security and
transportation - are apparently arguing among themselves over who should control
the movement of foreign contractors. Oil and telecommunications companies also
are facing problems, he said.

An Iraqi businessman who works with international companies expressed his
frustration with the Iraqi government. "We are, on one side, trying to promote
Iraq to get foreign investors, but from the other side, the government is
creating all kinds of difficulties," said the businessman, who asked not to
identified so he could speak candidly about the government agencies he has to
deal with.

"They just create rules overnight," he said. "It's a state of chaos."

A spokesman for Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki could not be reached for comment
Monday.

The concerns of the companies and the letter to Clinton were earlier reported by
the New York Times.

Michael McClellan, a spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, said embassy
officials were not aware of any Americans currently being detained. Reached
after business hours in Baghdad on Monday, McClellan said he couldn't
immediately say how many Americans had been held. He declined to comment on the
letter to Clinton, or on how contractors are being treated by the Iraqi
government.

On Thursday, four U.S. Embassy workers were stopped and detained by Iraqi
security forces for two hours.

The embassy issued a warning last week that people were being held for days over
visas and paperwork. "Detentions often last 24-96 hours or more," the U.S.
Embassy said in a statement posted on its Web site. "The Embassy's ability to
respond to situations in which U.S. citizens are arrested or otherwise detained
throughout Iraq is limited, including in and around Baghdad."

Brooks said the problems extend to companies working with the U.S. government,
private companies and on their own. Security companies in particular are not
getting paperwork approved for travel routes. When armed guards cannot travel in
Iraq, that often means the companies that hire them also cannot travel.

"While private organizations are often able to resolve low-level disputes and
irregularities, this issue is beyond our ability to resolve and we need the
assistance of the Department of State and the U.S. Embassy in Iraq," Brooks
wrote in his letter to Clinton.

morsed@washpost.com

More world news coverage:

- In Mexico, cartel influence at ballot box feared

- In restive Yemen city, local strongman rules

- Photos: Cruise ship Costa Concordia runs aground off Italy

- Read more headlines from around the world

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      January 17, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Iraq detains foreign workers

BYLINE: Dan Morse

SECTION: A section; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 717 words


BAGHDAD - The Iraqi government has temporarily detained more than 100
international workers in recent weeks over visas and paperwork, prompting some
of their employers to ask U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to
intervene, according to a trade group that represents contractors doing business
here.

Most, if not all, of those detained have been released. But the detentions,
which last from hours to days, are hampering the work of Iraq-based U.S.
diplomats, who rely on contractors, the International Stability Operations
Association said.

"We want to ensure that you are aware of the seriousness of this issue," the
group said in a letter to Clinton on Sunday, "and the impact it is having on our
members' ability to support the transition and government programs in Iraq and
ask your assistance in working with the Government of Iraq to reach a prompt
solution."

The letter's author and the group's president, Doug Brooks, said that companies
are having trouble driving in Iraq and that employees have been held at the
airport in Baghdad over visas.

"The Government of Iraq has neither renewed 2011 visas nor issued new 2012
visas," said the letter to Clinton. "Approved movements have been subject to
stops, detentions, and confiscation of equipment without justification.

Brooks said the number of employees held in recent weeks is in the "low
hundreds."

Things are "completely hamstrung right now. No one can move. It's been a
nightmare," he said Monday. "This is basically collateral damage from the
infighting in the Iraqi government. The main reason seems to be bureaucratic
incapacity."

Brooks said three Iraqi ministries - defense, internal security and
transportation - are apparently arguing among themselves over who should control
the movement of foreign contractors. Oil and telecommunications companies also
are facing problems, he said.

An Iraqi businessman who works with international companies expressed his
frustration with the Iraqi government. "We are, on one side, trying to promote
Iraq to get foreign investors, but from the other side, the government is
creating all kinds of difficulties," said the businessman, who asked not to
identified so he could speak candidly about the government agencies he has to
deal with.

"They just create rules overnight," he said. "It's a state of chaos."

A spokesman for Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki could not be reached for comment
Monday.

The concerns of the companies and the letter to Clinton were earlier reported by
the New York Times.

Michael McClellan, a spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, said embassy
officials were not aware of any Americans currently being detained. Reached
after business hours in Baghdad on Monday, McClellan said he couldn't
immediately say how many Americans had been held. He declined to comment on the
letter to Clinton, or on how contractors are being treated by the Iraqi
government.

On Thursday, four U.S. Embassy workers were stopped and detained by Iraqi
security forces for two hours.

The embassy issued a warning last week that people were being held for days over
visas and paperwork. "Detentions often last 24-96 hours or more," the U.S.
Embassy said in a statement posted on its Web site. "The Embassy's ability to
respond to situations in which U.S. citizens are arrested or otherwise detained
throughout Iraq is limited, including in and around Baghdad."

Brooks said the problems extend to companies working with the U.S. government,
private companies and on their own. Security companies in particular are not
getting paperwork approved for travel routes. When armed guards cannot travel in
Iraq, that often means the companies that hire them also cannot travel.

"While private organizations are often able to resolve low-level disputes and
irregularities, this issue is beyond our ability to resolve and we need the
assistance of the Department of State and the U.S. Embassy in Iraq," Brooks
wrote in his letter to Clinton.

morsed@washpost.com

More world news coverage:

- In Mexico, cartel influence at ballot box feared

- In restive Yemen city, local strongman rules

- Photos: Cruise ship Costa Concordia runs aground off Italy

- Read more headlines from around the world

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2012 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Border Patrol smuggling case set for trial

BYLINE: Elliot Spagat;- Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 865 words


Raul Villarreal was long a public face of the Border Patrol, frequently
appearing on television news as an agency spokesman and acting as a dangerous
human smuggler in a public service announcement intended to warn Mexicans about
the pitfalls of entering the United States illegally.

Prosecutors contend now that he knew the smuggler's role well because he really
was one.

Raul and his older brother and fellow former agent, Fidel, are accused of
smuggling hundreds of migrants in Border Patrol vehicles. Federal prosecutors
say the brothers were tipped off that they were under investigation in June
2006, prompting them to flee to Mexico.

Shortly after settling in Tijuana, a district police commander in the Mexican
border city who allegedly shuttled the Villarreals' customers in squad cars was
killed in a hail of about 200 bullets. The brothers were arrested in Tijuana in
October 2008 - more than two years after abruptly quitting the Border Patrol -
and extradited to the United States to face charges of human smuggling, witness
tampering and bribery.

The case, which goes to trial next month in San Diego, is one of the
highest-profile corruption cases involving the Border Patrol since it went on a
hiring spree during the past decade. The brothers, now in their early 40s, have
pleaded not guilty to all counts.

The Border Patrol has suffered a string of such embarrassments since doubling
its size over the past seven years to more than 21,000 agents. Its national
strategy released last month emphasizes that even one misguided agent is
unacceptable and outlines steps to combat corruption.

Criminal indictments against employees of Customs and Border Protection - which
oversees Border Patrol agents and other border security officials - have
increased each of the past four years to 60 in fiscal 2011, according to the
Department of Homeland Security inspector general. There have been 232
indictments from October 2007 through April 2012.

The Villarreal case is unusual for the level of detail disclosed in recent
pretrial briefings.

The family came to the United States from the central Mexican state of Jalisco
in 1984, when the brothers were teenagers. Raul knew no English as a 14-year-old
but quickly became fluent. He volunteered to read to children at libraries and
collected food for the homeless, joining the Border Patrol in 1995 after earning
a bachelor's degree in criminal justice from San Diego State University.

Raul "pursued and achieved what is known to be the American Dream," wrote David
Nick, his attorney.

Fidel excelled as a student, got police training at community college, studied
aviation at National University and joined the Border Patrol in 1998. His family
says he had a habit of calling police to report graffiti in the neighborhood.

As adults, the Villarreal brothers lived with their parents and siblings at a
house they bought for $140,000 in 1996 in National City, Calif., about 10 miles
from the border. Letters from family and friends say they were devoted to their
parents - a diabetic mother and a father with a heart condition.

The investigation began in May 2005 with an informant's tip to U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement. Investigators installed cameras on poles where migrants
were dropped off, planted undercover recording devices, put tracking instruments
on Border Patrol vehicles and followed a smuggling load by airplane.

Nick, Raul's attorney, hinted at his defense in a court filing that said the
prosecution hinges on "unreliable witnesses who have a strong motive to lie." He
said surveillance yielded nothing to incriminate his client.

Fidel's attorney, Zenia Gilg, wrote that the prosecution rests largely on two
alleged accomplices who were promised leniency for testifying and "inconsistent
statements" from migrants.

The brothers joined the Border Patrol when the agency was rapidly growing and
moved up the ladder. Raul earned $82,859 as an agent in 2005, while Fidel made
$77,803.

Raul's bank account had "unexplained cash deposits" of $61,121 during 2005 and
2006, according to prosecutors who say he traveled to the Cayman Islands in
March 2006. One alleged accomplice told authorities that Raul spoke of having
bank accounts in the Cayman Islands and Argentina to escape detection.

The brothers suddenly resigned for emergency family health issues, saying exit
interviews were impossible. A few days earlier, Fidel withdrew $10,000 from his
North Island Credit Union account. One day before quitting, Raul reported that
his 2000 Mercedes-Benz ML430 was stolen but, according to prosecutors, took it
to Tijuana in an attempt to scam his insurance company.

Raul transferred ownership of the family's National City home to his younger
sister shortly after quitting. A year later, the brothers emptied their
retirement accounts.

Raul's attorney said the brothers "lived openly under their true names in
Tijuana," sending word to U.S. authorities that they were prepared to return to
the United States. A July 2007 letter from their former attorneys to a
prosecutor says they would surrender if charges were filed. A grand jury didn't
return an indictment until April 2008, four months before they were captured.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 15, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

International human rights issue goes local

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. T01

LENGTH: 586 words


Human trafficking for sex and labor isn't reserved for third-world countries
rife with corruption. It's prevalent in the District, Northern Virginia and even
Prince William County.

That was the message from a panel of human trafficking experts at George Mason
University's Prince William campus at an event Wednesday hosted by Soroptomist
International of Manassas.

After showing the documentary "Call + Response," - which explores the foundation
of American music to slave chants and calls for action on human trafficking - a
panel of experts discussed the seedy but very real existence of human
trafficking in the United States and locally. It's not an issue that gets a lot
of attention, although Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) has asked an international
group to look into Northern Virginia's Asian massage parlors as a source of
trafficking, among other actions.

There are thousands of cases of human sex trafficking in the state and in the
area, said Lisa Johnson-Firth, a lawyer who specializes in immigration and human
rights.

Virginia is one of the few states that do not have an anti-trafficking law, she
said, adding that state legislators need to act. She also urged residents to be
aware and to think about whether they're contributing to a situation in which
humans are working for free or in bondage. For example, if a shopper can buy a
pair of tennis shoes at a discount store for $5, consumers need to think about
why it costs so little.

"You need to think how that's possible," Johnson-Firth said.

Fay Phillips-LeSane, a therapist and case manager for Youth for Tomorrow in
Bristow, works with some trying cases. She spoke about a mother who sold her
8-year-old child for crack. She said pimps will often offer money, food and
clothes to girls in desperately poor situations. What the girls don't realize is
that they have to pay them back through prostitution, she said.

Hans Mumm, a retired U.S. Army captain who has worked in intelligence and
counterterrorism, said he came across the issue of human trafficking while
interrogating a terrorist suspect overseas. Mumm asked him why he trafficks in
humans to make money -  why not some other criminal enterprise?

" 'I have an endless supply, I have an endless supplier, and I have someone
willing to pay,' " the suspect told him. More than 800,000 people are trafficked
each year in the $32 billion annual worldwide industry, according to the United
Nations.

Many victims don't understand that they've been trafficked, and some come to
miss the life after they are rescued. Mumm didn't understand that until he came
back from combat, he said. "I actually missed combat, and that made no sense,"
Mumm said. "Then I began to understand . . . they were trying to leave the
safety we were trying to give them."

Mumm said one problem in the fight against human trafficking is the lack of safe
houses, abroad and in the United States. Making sure a victim feels safe is key,
he said. In that vein, he's asked banks to donate foreclosed properties for
nonprofit groups to use as safe houses. "I haven't been able to get one of them
to do it yet," he said.

New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristof, who was interviewed as a part of the
"Call + Response" documentary, said one problem is that many don't think what's
going on is akin to 18th century African slavery. He recalled speaking to
teenage girls in Cambodia about what they'd been through, including being
chained to a bed in a brothel.

Kristof asked: "If that's not slavery, what is?"

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     September 25, 2012 Tuesday 7:15 PM EST

Obama devotes CGI speech to human trafficking;
Obama gave an impassioned speech against human trafficking, noting that some
girls sold off by poor families are no older than his two daughters.

BYLINE: Scott Wilson

LENGTH: 216 words


A few hours after Mitt Romney appeared at the global charitable gathering hosted
by former President Bill Clinton to explain how the United States can better
promote prosperity and human rights abroad, it was President Obama's turn to do
the same. Obama gave an impassioned speech against human trafficking, noting
that some girls sold off by poor families are no older than his two daughters.

"I've made it clear that the United States will be a leader in this global
movement" against trafficking, Obama said, adding that his administration is
helping other countries meet international goals designed to reduce trafficking
and to call out those not trying hard enough to do so. "Nations must speak with
one voice - that our people and our children are not for sale," Obama said.

He noted that there is too much human trafficking in the United States, mostly
within immigrant communities more vulnerable at times because of their
undocumented status and poverty. He said he has stepped up efforts within the
country to confront the crime.

"We cannot ask other nations to do what we are not doing ourselves," he said,
adding that he intends a number of steps to "go after traffickers," including
better work with outside investigators, coordination with transportation
companies, and other measures"

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      January 15, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

International human rights issue goes local

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: ; Pg. T01

LENGTH: 586 words


Human trafficking for sex and labor isn't reserved for third-world countries
rife with corruption. It's prevalent in the District, Northern Virginia and even
Prince William County.

That was the message from a panel of human trafficking experts at George Mason
University's Prince William campus at an event Wednesday hosted by Soroptomist
International of Manassas.

After showing the documentary "Call + Response," - which explores the foundation
of American music to slave chants and calls for action on human trafficking - a
panel of experts discussed the seedy but very real existence of human
trafficking in the United States and locally. It's not an issue that gets a lot
of attention, although Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) has asked an international
group to look into Northern Virginia's Asian massage parlors as a source of
trafficking, among other actions.

There are thousands of cases of human sex trafficking in the state and in the
area, said Lisa Johnson-Firth, a lawyer who specializes in immigration and human
rights.

Virginia is one of the few states that do not have an anti-trafficking law, she
said, adding that state legislators need to act. She also urged residents to be
aware and to think about whether they're contributing to a situation in which
humans are working for free or in bondage. For example, if a shopper can buy a
pair of tennis shoes at a discount store for $5, consumers need to think about
why it costs so little.

"You need to think how that's possible," Johnson-Firth said.

Fay Phillips-LeSane, a therapist and case manager for Youth for Tomorrow in
Bristow, works with some trying cases. She spoke about a mother who sold her
8-year-old child for crack. She said pimps will often offer money, food and
clothes to girls in desperately poor situations. What the girls don't realize is
that they have to pay them back through prostitution, she said.

Hans Mumm, a retired U.S. Army captain who has worked in intelligence and
counterterrorism, said he came across the issue of human trafficking while
interrogating a terrorist suspect overseas. Mumm asked him why he trafficks in
humans to make money -  why not some other criminal enterprise?

" 'I have an endless supply, I have an endless supplier, and I have someone
willing to pay,' " the suspect told him. More than 800,000 people are trafficked
each year in the $32 billion annual worldwide industry, according to the United
Nations.

Many victims don't understand that they've been trafficked, and some come to
miss the life after they are rescued. Mumm didn't understand that until he came
back from combat, he said. "I actually missed combat, and that made no sense,"
Mumm said. "Then I began to understand . . . they were trying to leave the
safety we were trying to give them."

Mumm said one problem in the fight against human trafficking is the lack of safe
houses, abroad and in the United States. Making sure a victim feels safe is key,
he said. In that vein, he's asked banks to donate foreclosed properties for
nonprofit groups to use as safe houses. "I haven't been able to get one of them
to do it yet," he said.

New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristof, who was interviewed as a part of the
"Call + Response" documentary, said one problem is that many don't think what's
going on is akin to 18th century African slavery. He recalled speaking to
teenage girls in Cambodia about what they'd been through, including being
chained to a bed in a brothel.

Kristof asked: "If that's not slavery, what is?"

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 25, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Border Patrol smuggling case set for trial

BYLINE: Elliot Spagat;- Associated Press

SECTION: A section; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 870 words


Raul Villarreal was long a public face of the Border Patrol, frequently
appearing on television news as an agency spokesman and acting as a dangerous
human smuggler in a public service announcement intended to warn Mexicans about
the pitfalls of entering the United States illegally.

Prosecutors contend now that he knew the smuggler's role well because he really
was one.

Raul and his older brother and fellow former agent, Fidel, are accused of
smuggling hundreds of migrants in Border Patrol vehicles. Federal prosecutors
say the brothers were tipped off that they were under investigation in June
2006, prompting them to flee to Mexico.

Shortly after settling in Tijuana, a district police commander in the Mexican
border city who allegedly shuttled the Villarreals' customers in squad cars was
killed in a hail of about 200 bullets. The brothers were arrested in Tijuana in
October 2008 - more than two years after abruptly quitting the Border Patrol -
and extradited to the United States to face charges of human smuggling, witness
tampering and bribery.

The case, which goes to trial next month in San Diego, is one of the
highest-profile corruption cases involving the Border Patrol since it went on a
hiring spree during the past decade. The brothers, now in their early 40s, have
pleaded not guilty to all counts.

The Border Patrol has suffered a string of such embarrassments since doubling
its size over the past seven years to more than 21,000 agents. Its national
strategy released last month emphasizes that even one misguided agent is
unacceptable and outlines steps to combat corruption.

Criminal indictments against employees of Customs and Border Protection - which
oversees Border Patrol agents and other border security officials - have
increased each of the past four years to 60 in fiscal 2011, according to the
Department of Homeland Security inspector general. There have been 232
indictments from October 2007 through April 2012.

The Villarreal case is unusual for the level of detail disclosed in recent
pretrial briefings.

The family came to the United States from the central Mexican state of Jalisco
in 1984, when the brothers were teenagers. Raul knew no English as a 14-year-old
but quickly became fluent. He volunteered to read to children at libraries and
collected food for the homeless, joining the Border Patrol in 1995 after earning
a bachelor's degree in criminal justice from San Diego State University.

Raul "pursued and achieved what is known to be the American Dream," wrote David
Nick, his attorney.

Fidel excelled as a student, got police training at community college, studied
aviation at National University and joined the Border Patrol in 1998. His family
says he had a habit of calling police to report graffiti in the neighborhood.

As adults, the Villarreal brothers lived with their parents and siblings at a
house they bought for $140,000 in 1996 in National City, Calif., about 10 miles
from the border. Letters from family and friends say they were devoted to their
parents - a diabetic mother and a father with a heart condition.

The investigation began in May 2005 with an informant's tip to U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement. Investigators installed cameras on poles where migrants
were dropped off, planted undercover recording devices, put tracking instruments
on Border Patrol vehicles and followed a smuggling load by airplane.

Nick, Raul's attorney, hinted at his defense in a court filing that said the
prosecution hinges on "unreliable witnesses who have a strong motive to lie." He
said surveillance yielded nothing to incriminate his client.

Fidel's attorney, Zenia Gilg, wrote that the prosecution rests largely on two
alleged accomplices who were promised leniency for testifying and "inconsistent
statements" from migrants.

The brothers joined the Border Patrol when the agency was rapidly growing and
moved up the ladder. Raul earned $82,859 as an agent in 2005, while Fidel made
$77,803.

Raul's bank account had "unexplained cash deposits" of $61,121 during 2005 and
2006, according to prosecutors who say he traveled to the Cayman Islands in
March 2006. One alleged accomplice told authorities that Raul spoke of having
bank accounts in the Cayman Islands and Argentina to escape detection.

The brothers suddenly resigned for emergency family health issues, saying exit
interviews were impossible. A few days earlier, Fidel withdrew $10,000 from his
North Island Credit Union account. One day before quitting, Raul reported that
his 2000 Mercedes-Benz ML430 was stolen but, according to prosecutors, took it
to Tijuana in an attempt to scam his insurance company.

Raul transferred ownership of the family's National City home to his younger
sister shortly after quitting. A year later, the brothers emptied their
retirement accounts.

Raul's attorney said the brothers "lived openly under their true names in
Tijuana," sending word to U.S. authorities that they were prepared to return to
the United States. A July 2007 letter from their former attorneys to a
prosecutor says they would surrender if charges were filed. A grand jury didn't
return an indictment until April 2008, four months before they were captured.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Feeling the Arizona heat

BYLINE: Kathleen Parker

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 731 words


As the Supreme Court rules this week on a variety of volatile issues, the
question has come up: Is Barack Obama really running against the high court?

It might seem so on the surface, especially given the potential fallout, should
the justices overturn portions or all of the Affordable Care Act.

Instead, the justices have caused problems for Mitt Romney.

Monday's ruling on Arizona's immigration law is a case in point. Although the
majority ruled against some parts of the law, including a provision that would
have made failure to carry registration documents a state misdemeanor, the court
left in place other provisions that may raise antipathy toward Republicans to
new levels.

One among them allows state law enforcement officers to determine whether
someone they stop, detain or arrest for some other reason is in the country
legally. The obvious concern is that enforcement would lead to racial profiling.
And of course it will because we can be pretty certain that Caucasians pulled
over for, say, speeding won't be required to produce proof of citizenship.

Unless, that is, state officials realize that treating everyone equally is the
only way to avoid charges of racial profiling. Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R) has
promised that mechanisms are in place to ensure that Hispanics are not singled
out.

What those mechanisms might be isn't clear, but one can imagine at least one
possible scenario - a reiteration of the sort of willy-nilly, random
granny-search ops we've witnessed since 9/11.

Taking a stroll through probability, let's say that Officer Smith pulls over
Paco Ramirez and asks for proof of citizenship, and it turns out that Paco is
descended from three generations of  U.S.-born, tax-paying Ramirezes. Paco is
probably going to be annoyed. He may be sufficiently annoyed to file a profiling
(or harassment) complaint with the courts. After all, why, except that he looked
Hispanic, would the officer have asked for his papers?

Moreover, how likely is it that Hispanic-looking folks will be pulled over for
"suspicious behavior" for the sole purpose of checking those papers?

The only way to avoid such charges, of course, is to also pull over Karen Miller
and insist that she produce proof of citizenship. This is what random airport
checks are all about. Officers can't pull out Muhammad bin Laden even if he's
sweating profusely and chanting "Allahu Akbar" unless they also pull over Betty
White.

What we have here is a sticky wicket.

And no one is in greater need of Goo Gone than Mitt Romney, who has said that
Arizona's law is a model for the rest of the nation. Not only has that law been
deemed at least partly unconstitutional, but Romney is now positioned to be
associated with profiling. Not the best way to court the Hispanic vote. Worse,
if Arizona and other similarly minded states begin to apply the equal-treatment
template across races and ethnicities, he'll have everybody mad at him.

Not that the Arizona law is his fault, obviously. But angry people will pick the
easiest target, and the Obama campaign will make sure those dots are connected.
One thing is for certain: Romney can't change his mind. He's stuck with a
position that, though appealing to Arizonans and others who are justifiably
angry with our inert (inept) federal government, is profoundly offensive to our
American sense of fairness. We simply don't single out groups of people in this
country for special scrutiny. What is expedient or even logical isn't always
ethical, and better that we err on the side of the latter standard.

One may argue that any smallish inconvenience is an acceptable price to pay in
exchange for law and order. In fact, many Americans don't mind airport searches
or even X-ray examinations of their nethers. But the fact is, these security
measures are unprecedented intrusions into our personal spaces - inarguably
violations of our civil rights.

Thus, today's bargain is an exchange of freedom for greater security, and the
question is whether it's worth it. If you're not here illegally, you might feel
the trade-off is acceptable. But if you are citizen Paco Ramirez or one of the
tens of millions of Americans of Hispanic descent, you might think something
else. You might think you live in a police state, that your civil rights are in
jeopardy, and that your family is under siege.

And you might not be inclined to vote Republican.

kathleenparker@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 10, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Obama, Romney still neck and neck

BYLINE: Dan Balz;Jon Cohen

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1119 words


A pair of tepid jobs reports, landmark Supreme Court decisions on health-care
and immigration laws, and an unprecedented barrage of negative ads have shaped
the opening months of the fall presidential campaign. The impact on the horse
race: virtually none.

According to a new Washington Post-ABC News poll, President Obama and Republican
challenger Mitt Romney remain in a deadlocked contest, tied at 47 percent among
registered voters and basically where they stood in late May.

The new numbers reflect a stubborn constancy: Only twice in 13 surveys over more
than a year has either candidate held a lead exceeding the poll's margin of
sampling error. Now, the campaign appears destined to remain extremely close in
the final  four months before Election Day.

The fundamentals seem firmly planted: About two-thirds of Americans consider the
country seriously off course, a majority have not approved of Obama's overall
job performance in more than a year, and the president remains in negative
territory on dealing with the economy, health care and immigration. Also unmoved
since fall are Americans' attitudes toward spending, with as many saying they
would prefer an increase in federal spending to try to spur economic growth as
wanting to prioritize deficit reduction.

The stability persists despite the costliest blitz of early campaign advertising
the country has ever seen. Both sides have run some positive ads, but the Obama
team and its allies have relentlessly attacked Romney's experience at Bain
Capital, an investment firm the Republican co-founded, in its paid spots. Romney
and his supporters, meanwhile, have focused a considerable portion of spending
on Obama's economic record.

The lack of movement underscores intense polarization - about nine in 10
Republicans back Romney, and a similar proportion of Democrats support Obama -
and a relatively small percentage of voters say there is a "good chance" that
they could change their minds before November.

At this point, 74 percent of all voters are "definitely" supporting Obama or
Romney, and 12 percent say it is unlikely that they will switch from one to the
other, making the race a settled issue for nearly nine in 10 voters. For both
campaigns, such a high level of early commitment shifts the focus to turnout -
and to which side can muster the most effective get-out-the-vote operation.

Obama still benefits from a clear, but dwindling, enthusiasm gap. Just over
half, 51 percent, of his supporters back his candidacy "very enthusiastically,"
compared with 38 percent of Romney's. There is also a difference in motivation,
with 75 percent of Obama supporters saying their vote is "for" him, in contrast
with 59 percent of Romney's backers   saying their vote is "against" Obama.
(There was a similar distinction in 2004, with President George W. Bush's
supporters affirmatively behind him, and most of Democratic Sen. John F. Kerry's
aligned in opposition to the Republican.)

Romney's business background has been a focus of the ads against him - and the
spots have had some results. Compared with February, more people in the eight
states identified as "tossups" by The Washington Post now say Romney did more to
cut than create jobs in the United States when he worked as a corporate investor
before entering politics. And twice as many swing-state voters consider Romney's
work in buying and restructuring companies a reason to oppose, rather than to
support, his candidacy. Just over half of all voters say that work is not a big
factor for them.

Voters in these swing states - all of which Obama won in 2008 - divide down the
middle on whether their vote will be more about what the president has done in
his first term or what they think he would do if reelected. That distinction
makes a pivotal difference: Nationwide, political independents focused on a
prospective second-term side with Obama over Romney, but those assessing Obama's
first term prefer Romney by more than 20 percentage points.

The challenge for the president may be trying to turn attention away from a
stubbornly negative take on his performance. His overall rating hasn't budged
since May, with 47 percent of Americans approving and 49 percent disapproving,
hardly the split an incumbent would hope to see when facing reelection.
Intensity continues to run against him, with more people strongly disapproving
of his work than strongly approving.

On the campaign's   top issue, the economy, 54 percent of all adults and 60
percent of independents give Obama negative marks. But when measured against
Romney on the economy, voters divide about evenly, with 48 percent saying they
trust the former Massachusetts governor and 45 percent saying they have more
faith in the president. Obama has a 12-point advantage on the question of which
candidate has a clearer plan to deal with the country's economic woes.

Obama's biggest counterweight to the economic drag on his candidacy continues to
be double-digit advantages among registered voters on important attributes. He
has a clear lead over Romney on who has greater empathy for people facing
economic problems and on standing up for his beliefs. On appearing "more
friendly and likable," Obama maintains an advantage of better than 2 to 1.

Even one-third of voters backing Romney consider the president to be the more
likable of the two.

Americans split evenly on the Supreme Court's recent 5 to 4 decision upholding
Obama's health-care law, with 42 percent approving of the decision and 44
percent opposing it. But in a significant change, the legislation is now viewed
less negatively than it was before the ruling. In the new survey, 47 percent
support the law and 47 percent oppose it. In April, 39 percent backed it and 53
percent opposed it.

House Republicans will vote again this week on a measure to repeal the
health-care law. In the poll, just one-third of all Americans favor repealing
the legislation in its entirety or in part. At the same time, Thirty-eight
percent of Americans consider Romney's support for repeal   a major reason to
vote for him, compared with 29 percent who say it is a major reason to vote
against him.

Although the race remains close, Obama's supporters are significantly more
confident about the outcome. Nearly all voters who want the president to prevail
say they expect him to win, whereas most, but far fewer, of Romney's backers
think he will win.

The telephone poll was conducted July 5 to 8, among a random national sample of
1,003 adults. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage
points for the full sample as well as the sample of 855 registered voters.

balzd@washpost.com

cohenj@washpost.com

Peyton M. Craighill and Scott Clement contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      June 27, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Feeling the Arizona heat

BYLINE: Kathleen Parker

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 737 words


As the Supreme Court rules this week on a variety of volatile issues, the
question has come up: Is Barack Obama really running against the high court?

It might seem so on the surface, especially given the potential fallout, should
the justices overturn portions or all of the Affordable Care Act.

Instead, the justices have caused problems for Mitt Romney.

Monday's ruling on Arizona's immigration law is a case in point. Although the
majority ruled against some parts of the law, including a provision that would
have made failure to carry registration documents a state misdemeanor, the court
left in place other provisions that may raise antipathy toward Republicans to
new levels.          One among them allows state law enforcement officers to
determine whether someone they stop, detain or arrest for some other reason is
in the country legally. The obvious concern is that enforcement would lead to
racial profiling. And of course it will because we can be pretty certain that
Caucasians pulled over for, say, speeding won't be required to produce proof of
citizenship.

Unless, that is, state officials realize that treating everyone equally is the
only way to avoid charges of racial profiling. Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R) has
promised that mechanisms are in place to ensure that Hispanics are not singled
out.

What those mechanisms might be isn't clear, but one can imagine at least one
possible scenario - a reiteration of the sort of willy-nilly, random
granny-search ops we've witnessed since 9/11.

Taking a stroll through probability, let's say that Officer Smith pulls over
Paco Ramirez and asks for proof of citizenship, and it turns out that Paco is
descended from three generations of  U.S.-born, tax-paying Ramirezes. Paco is
probably going to be annoyed. He may be sufficiently annoyed to file a profiling
(or harassment) complaint with the courts. After all, why, except that he looked
Hispanic, would the officer have asked for his papers?

Moreover, how likely is it that Hispanic-looking folks will be pulled over for
"suspicious behavior" for the sole purpose of checking those papers?

The only way to avoid such charges, of course, is to also pull over Karen Miller
and insist that she produce proof of citizenship. This is what random airport
checks are all about. Officers can't pull out Muhammad bin Laden even if he's
sweating profusely and chanting "Allahu Akbar" unless they also pull over Betty
White.

What we have here is a sticky wicket.

And no one is in greater need of Goo Gone than Mitt Romney, who has said that
Arizona's law is a model for the rest of the nation. Not only has that law been
deemed at least partly unconstitutional, but Romney is now positioned to be
associated with profiling. Not the best way to court the Hispanic vote. Worse,
if Arizona and other similarly minded states begin to apply the equal-treatment
template across races and ethnicities, he'll have everybody mad at him.

Not that the Arizona law is his fault, obviously. But angry people will pick the
easiest target, and the Obama campaign will make sure those dots are connected.
One thing is for certain: Romney can't change his mind. He's stuck with a
position that, though appealing to Arizonans and others who are justifiably
angry with our inert (inept) federal government, is profoundly offensive to our
American sense of fairness. We simply don't single out groups of people in this
country for special scrutiny. What is expedient or even logical isn't always
ethical, and better that we err on the side of the latter standard.

One may argue that any smallish inconvenience is an acceptable price to pay in
exchange for law and order. In fact, many Americans don't mind airport searches
or even X-ray examinations of their nethers. But the fact is, these security
measures are unprecedented intrusions into our personal spaces - inarguably
violations of our civil rights.

Thus, today's bargain is an exchange of freedom for greater security, and the
question is whether it's worth it. If you're not here illegally, you might feel
the trade-off is acceptable. But if you are citizen Paco Ramirez or one of the
tens of millions of Americans of Hispanic descent, you might think something
else. You might think you live in a police state, that your civil rights are in
jeopardy, and that your family is under siege.

And you might not be inclined to vote Republican.

kathleenparker@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 10, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Obama, Romney still neck and neck

BYLINE: Dan Balz;Jon Cohen

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1121 words


A pair of tepid jobs reports, landmark Supreme Court decisions on health-care
and immigration laws, and an unprecedented barrage of negative ads have shaped
the opening months of the fall presidential campaign. The impact on the horse
race: virtually none.

According to a new Washington Post-ABC News poll, President Obama and Republican
challenger Mitt Romney remain in a deadlocked contest, tied at 47 percent among
registered voters and basically where they stood in late May.

The new numbers reflect a stubborn constancy: Only twice in 13 surveys over more
than a year has either candidate held a lead exceeding the poll's margin of
sampling error. Now, the campaign appears destined to remain extremely close in
the final  four months before Election Day.

The fundamentals seem firmly planted: About two-thirds of Americans consider the
country seriously off course, a majority have not approved of Obama's overall
job performance in more than a year, and the president remains in negative
territory on dealing with the economy, health care and immigration. Also unmoved
since fall are Americans' attitudes toward spending, with as many saying they
would prefer an increase in federal spending to try to spur economic growth as
wanting to prioritize deficit reduction.

The stability persists despite the costliest blitz of early campaign advertising
the country has ever seen. Both sides have run some positive ads, but the Obama
team and its allies have relentlessly attacked Romney's experience at Bain
Capital, an investment firm the Republican co-founded, in its paid spots. Romney
and his supporters, meanwhile, have focused a considerable portion of spending
on Obama's economic record.

The lack of movement underscores intense polarization - about nine in 10
Republicans back Romney, and a similar proportion of Democrats support Obama -
and a relatively small percentage of voters say there is a "good chance" that
they could change their minds before November.

At this point, 74 percent of all voters are "definitely" supporting Obama or
Romney, and 12 percent say it is unlikely that they will switch from one to the
other, making the race a settled issue for nearly nine in 10 voters. For both
campaigns, such a high level of early commitment shifts the focus to turnout -
and to which side can muster the most effective get-out-the-vote operation.

Obama still benefits from a clear, but dwindling, enthusiasm gap. Just over
half, 51 percent, of his supporters back his candidacy "very enthusiastically,"
compared with 38 percent of Romney's. There is also a difference in motivation,
with 75 percent of Obama supporters saying their vote is "for" him, in contrast
with 59 percent of Romney's backers  saying their vote is "against" Obama.
(There was a similar distinction in 2004, with President George W. Bush's
supporters affirmatively behind him, and most of Democratic Sen. John F. Kerry's
aligned in opposition to the Republican.)

Romney's business background has been a focus of the ads against him - and the
spots have had some results. Compared with February, more people in the eight
states identified as "tossups" by The Washington Post now say Romney did more to
cut than create jobs in the United States when he worked as a corporate investor
before entering politics. And twice as many swing-state voters consider Romney's
work in buying and restructuring companies a reason to oppose, rather than to
support, his candidacy. Just over half of all voters say that work is not a big
factor for them.Voters in these swing states - all of which Obama won in 2008 -
divide down the middle on whether their vote will be more about what the
president has done in his first term or what they think he would do if
reelected. That distinction makes a pivotal difference: Nationwide, political
independents focused on a prospective second-term side with Obama over Romney,
but those assessing Obama's first term prefer Romney by more than 20 percentage
points.

The challenge for the president may be trying to turn attention away from a
stubbornly negative take on his performance. His overall rating hasn't budged
since May, with 47 percent of Americans approving and 49 percent disapproving,
hardly the split an incumbent would hope to see when facing reelection.
Intensity continues to run against him, with more people strongly disapproving
of his work than strongly approving.

On the campaign's  top issue, the economy, 54 percent of all adults and 60
percent of independents give Obama negative marks. But when measured against
Romney on the economy, voters divide about evenly, with 48 percent saying they
trust the former Massachusetts governor and 45 percent saying they have more
faith in the president. Obama has a 12-point advantage on the question of which
candidate has a clearer plan to deal with the country's economic woes.

Obama's biggest counterweight to the economic drag on his candidacy continues to
be double-digit advantages among registered voters on important attributes. He
has a clear lead over Romney on who has greater empathy for people facing
economic problems and on standing up for his beliefs. On appearing "more
friendly and likable," Obama maintains an advantage of better than 2 to 1.

Even one-third of voters backing Romney consider the president to be the more
likable of the two.

Americans split evenly on the Supreme Court's recent 5 to 4 decision upholding
Obama's health-care law, with 42 percent approving of the decision and 44
percent opposing it. But in a significant change, the legislation is now viewed
less negatively than it was before the ruling. In the new survey, 47 percent
support the law and 47 percent oppose it. In April, 39 percent backed it and 53
percent opposed it.

House Republicans will vote again this week on a measure to repeal the
health-care law. In the poll, just one-third of all Americans favor repealing
the legislation in its entirety or in part. At the same time, Thirty-eight
percent of Americans consider Romney's support for repeal  a major reason to
vote for him, compared with 29 percent who say it is a major reason to vote
against him.

Although the race remains close, Obama's supporters are significantly more
confident about the outcome. Nearly all voters who want the president to prevail
say they expect him to win, whereas most, but far fewer, of Romney's backers
think he will win.

The telephone poll was conducted July 5 to 8, among a random national sample of
1,003 adults. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage
points for the full sample as well as the sample of 855 registered voters.

balzd@washpost.com

cohenj@washpost.com

Peyton M. Craighill and Scott Clement contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      September 9, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

For young Maryland immigrants, a path out of the shadows

BYLINE: Wallace D. Loh

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 793 words


They call themselves "shadows" - young Maryland residents brought to this
country as children by their parents.

They worked hard. They excelled in our public schools. They want to go to
college so they can be more productive members of our workforce. They do not ask
for a free ride. Yet they remain shadows because their parents came without
immigration papers. The Maryland Dream Act would bring these young people into
daylight.           If upheld in a referendum by Maryland voters on Nov. 6, the
Dream Act would allow these undocumented young people to pay in-state tuition
rates at Maryland's public universities - provided that they meet stringent
requirements.

As an American citizen by choice, I will vote in favor of the Dream Act. It is
fair, just and economically beneficial to our state.

I staked my claim on the American Dream five decades ago. A "Latasian"
(Latino-Asian) - I grew up in Latin America speaking Spanish at school and
Chinese at home - I came to the United States alone, as a teenager. I worked my
way through college and became a lawyer, educator and university president.

At that time, exclusionary quotas limited the number of immigrants from certain
countries. Congress later repealed these and widened the doors to citizenship. I
remember well those uncertain times, so I empathize with today's young shadows.

My journey - and those of countless other immigrants who came before and after
me - would be remarkable in almost any country other than the United States. We
are a nation of nations. Most Americans have a hyphenated identity. We owe a
great deal of our national vitality and success to the enduring dreams and hard
work of immigrants.

After a couple of generations here, Americans tend to forget how difficult it
was for their ancestors to tame our rocky soil, cut rock from quarries or weave
a new life from rags. Immigrants ate their share of dust. They added grit to the
American character.

A Maryland commission's report on the "Impact of Immigrants in Maryland" notes
that 57 percent of our state's workforce expansion from 2000 to 2010 came from
immigrants. Our economy could not have grown without them. The economic
contributions of immigrants far outweigh the costs borne by local and state
government. The state would be "foolhardy" to shortchange the education of
immigrant children who will be part of Maryland's next generation workforce,
this commission said.

We know that education is the great equalizer in our democracy. It is the
passport to social and economic mobility. The U.S. Supreme Court advanced these
values when it ruled that undocumented children are entitled to a public-school
education.          It costs, on average, about $14,000 a year to educate each
Maryland public school student. It is a waste of investment and talent to then
slam the door on those with the ability and motivation - but limited money - to
go to college. Emerging economic powers invest heavily in educating their
workforce of tomorrow. Our country's future depends on preparing every student
to learn and work in a competitive, globalized economy.

The Dream Act sets a high bar. Its beneficiaries must have spent at least three
years in a Maryland high school and earned a diploma or the equivalent. Their
parents must have filed at least three years of income tax returns. They must
earn 60 credits in community college or an associate degree. They must meet full
academic requirements and get admitted to a University System of Maryland
institution. Only then are they eligible to pay in-state tuition at University
System schools.

Moreover, these undocumented transfer students will count as non-residents,
though they pay resident rates. They do not take the space of other qualified
Maryland resident students.

President Obama's recent order defers possible deportation for some "shadows"
brought here before age 16. This two-year oasis will give them a chance to
complete their education under the Maryland Dream Act.

Whatever the failings of our nation's immigration system, these young people
were brought here and grew up here. They are now trapped in a dilemma they did
not create. They have been educated and encouraged by their public-school
teachers. They have dared to dream of productive lives. In these circumstances,
I believe compassion must temper stern justice.

I support the Maryland Dream Act because I remember my immigrant days. I also
support it because I have learned what it means to be an American. When we close
the doors of opportunity to specific groups, we betray our core national belief
that everyone deserves a chance to rise on his or her merits.

The American Dream belongs to all of us or none of us.

The writer is president of the University of Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    September 20, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Strike aSTEM deal

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 516 words


NOT MANY PARTS of the Democratic and Republican party platforms are
interchangeable. An exception is the nearly identical passages expressing
support for keeping foreign-born students in this country after they earn
advanced degrees from U.S. universities in science, technology, engineering and
math, the so-called STEM fields. The rationale is obvious. It is folly to
educate these prized students in the United States - often with federal
subsidies - and then, lacking adequate visas for them, force them into the hands
of corporate competitors overseas.

Unfortunately, it's easier to recognize folly than to do something about it,
especially for the current Congress, and particularly in the context of the
contentious immigration debate. Yet if any immigration problem can be resolved,
this one should be.

A pair of bills - one Republican, one Democratic - propose solutions, but by
different means. The Republican measure, sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas,
the House Judiciary Committee chairman, would create 55,000 STEM green cards
annually by repurposing a similar number now devoted to the so-called green-card
lottery. The Democratic bill, authored by Rep. Zoe Lofgren of California, would
create 50,000 STEM visas by expanding overall immigration, without eliminating
the lottery.

Congressional leaders have gone back and forth on the issue for months, seeking
compromise.  So far, no agreement is in the cards. Republicans, under the
influence of anti-immigrant restrictionists, are loath to increase the number of
immigrants. Some Democrats are reluctant to ditch the green-card lottery, also
known as the diversity visa program, which benefits mainly African and Eastern
European immigrants. Others worry that a separate deal on STEM graduates now may
make it more difficult to nail down a comprehensive immigration reform package
later.

There's some logic in the Republican approach. Over its two decades, the
green-card lottery has been a great diplomatic public relations tool for the
United States. But in the current economic climate, STEM graduates are more
valuable than mostly low-skilled workers from the Third World.

What's clear is that, without a deal, this country is the loser. Globally,
demand for STEM graduates is soaring and competition is stiff. Canada, Britain
and Australia have all structured their immigration rules to favor their job
markets. China is offering cash and other incentives to lure Chinese scientists
home after they have trained overseas. Meanwhile, the U.S. system remains tilted
in favor of foreign relatives of citizens and permanent residents.

There's no mystery about the entrepreneurial energy and talent that foreign STEM
graduates have to offer. Increasingly, they dominate engineering and other
scientific departments at top universities around the country. In the decade
ending in 2005, the founders of half the firms in Silicon Valley were born
overseas. Allowing them to slip through the cracks of this nation's broken
immigration system, and into the arms of rivals in other countries, is a recipe
for long-term economic decline.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 23, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1021 words


CaliforniaMan accused in Guatemala massacre returned to U.S.LOS ANGELES, Sept 22
(Reuters) - A former Guatemalan army commander accused of taking part in the
massacre of more than 200 people during that country's civil war has been
returned to the United States to face charges he lied about his past to gain
U.S. citizenship, authorities said on Saturday.Jorge Sosa, 54, arrived at Los
Angeles International Airport accompanied by U.S. Marshals on Friday evening
following his extradition from Calgary, Canada, where he was arrested in
January, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman Lori Haley
said.U.S. prosecutors, who have no jurisdiction in Guatemala, have not charged
Sosa in connection with the December 1982 massacre in the village of Dos
Erres.Instead, he was charged with making false statements to immigration
officials to cover up his past as he sought to become a naturalized U.S. citizen
in 2008. If Sosa, also known as Jorge Vinicio Sosa Orantes, is convicted he
could be sent to Guatemala to face charges there after serving his
sentence.According to a U.S. federal grand jury indictment issued in September
2009, Sosa was a commanding officer of a Guatemalan Army special forces unit
that killed men, women and children of Dos Erres, often by hitting them with a
sledgehammer and dumping their bodies into a well.Members of the patrol, known
as the "Kaibiles," also raped many of the women and girls of the village before
killing them.The Kaibiles unit had been dispatched to Dos Erres to find members
of a guerrilla group that had ambushed a military convoy in November 1982,
killing soldiers and taking their weapons.The massacre at Dos Erres is
considered one of the worst atrocities of Guatemala's more than 30-year civil
war.Prosecutors say Sosa, who had been living in Riverside, California, lied
when told an examiner for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services that he
had never committed a crime or been a member of a foreign military.Sosa fled to
Canada following his indictment, law enforcement sources say.A Calgary-based
attorney for Sosa could not be reached for comment on Saturday afternoon.

It was not immediately known if Sosa had retained an attorney in California.The
ProPublica news service said in a story on its website that Sosa had denied
guilt in a recent telephone interview from jail in Canada, saying that he was
working for the military in another village on the day of the massacre.Sosa is
the fourth accused member of the Kaibiles living in the United States to be
targeted by ICE's Human Rights Violators and War Crimes Center.In July 2011,
Pedro Pimentel Rios, 54, was deported to Guatemala to face prosecution there in
connection with the massacre.In September 2010, 54-year-old Gilberto Jordan was
sentenced to 120 months in federal prison and his U.S. citizenship was revoked
after he pleaded guilty to lying to immigration officials about his role in the
Kaibiles.And in February 2010, Santos Lopez Alonzo was arrested by ICE agents in
Houston and charged with illegal re-entry into the country after deportation.
(Reporting by Dan Whitcomb; Editing by Alex Dobuzinskis and Jackie Frank)
California          Guatemala-massacre suspect back in U.S.

A former Guatemalan army commander accused of taking part in the massacre of
more than 200 people during the country's civil war is back in the United States
to face charges he lied about his past to gain U.S. citizenship, authorities
said Saturday.

Jorge Sosa, 54, arrived at Los Angeles International Airport accompanied by U.S.
Marshals on Friday evening after extradition from Calgary, Canada, where he was
arrested in January, U.S. Immigration and Customs spokeswoman Lori Haley said.

Sosa was charged with making false statements to immigration officials to cover
up his past as he sought to become a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2008. If Sosa,
also known as Jorge Vinicio Sosa Orantes, is convicted, he could be sent to
Guatemala to face charges there after serving his sentence.

According to a U.S. federal grand jury indictment issued in September 2009, Sosa
was a commanding officer of a Guatemalan Army special forces unit that in
December 1982 killed men, women and children in the village of Dos Erres often
by hitting them with a sledgehammer and dumping their bodies into a well.

Texas          Police officer kills double amputee

A Houston police officer fatally shot a double amputee Saturday inside a group
home after the man threatened the officer, police say, by waving a metal object
that turned out to be a pen.

Police spokeswoman Jodi Silva said the man, who was in a wheelchair, cornered
the officer and was making threats while trying to stab the officer with the
pen. The officer did not know what the object was, Silva said, the man did not
follow instructions to calm down and remain still.

Police did not immediately release the name of the victim. They had been called
to the home after a caretaker reported that the amputee was causing a
disturbance. The owner of the group home, John Garcia, told the Houston
Chronicle that the man had a history of mental illness and had said that he lost
a leg above the knee and all of one arm when he was hit by a train.

The officer, Matthew Jacob Marin, was placed on administrative leave, police
said.

- Associated Press

2 charged with taking checks from Obama campaign:Two men were charged Saturday
with depositing two checks stolen from President Obama's campaign into bank
accounts they fraudulently opened. Jessie Adams allegedly instructed Willard
Elam and another man who remains at large to open accounts at two bank branches
in Chicago's south suburbs. Prosecutors said Elam, the unidentified man and
Adams pretended to be owners of firms that work with Obama's campaign.

Rallies to protest fracking:Demonstrators rallied Saturday to protest the
natural gas drilling process known as fracking. Participants in the "Global
Frackdown" campaign demonstrated in South Africa and France and in cities in
California, Colorado and New York and around the world.

- From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    September 27, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Mr. Romney's immigration muddle

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 899 words


IF ONLY HE were Hispanic, Mitt Romney mused in his secretly recorded comments
unearthed by Mother Jones magazine, his electoral prospects would be so much
brighter. "I say that jokingly," said the Republican presidential nominee, who
plainly wasn't joking at all, "but it would be helpful to be Latino."

Looking at his poll numbers, the reasons for Mr. Romney's wistfulness - and for
his angst about Hispanic votes - are apparent. Among that fast-growing segment
of the electorate, President Obama enjoys better than a 2-to-1 lead over Mr.
Romney, roughly the same margin that helped him win key swing states in 2008.

So in search of some street cred that might lift his chances in Colorado, Nevada
or Virginia, Mr. Romney has cited what passes for his Hispanic roots - the fact
that his father, George, was born (to American parents) in Mexico - and has
deployed his son Craig, who speaks Spanish, in ads on Spanish-language media.

Very nice. But if Mr. Romney really wants to make inroads into Mr. Obama's lead
among Hispanics, what he needs is an immigration policy that is fair, cogent and
economically rational. That would be a refreshing change from his stance of the
past six months, during which he first embraced harsh rhetoric and draconian
policies, then tried to fuzz it away at the margins.

In Mr. Romney's latest foray into immigration policy, during a forum broadcast
online by the Spanish-language Univision network, he promised to "put into place
an immigration reform system that resolves this issue." And how exactly would he
do that? The candidate wouldn't say.

Mr. Romney did say what he wouldn't do - he wouldn't round up and deport 11
million undocumented immigrants. But he remains stuck with the more punitive
policies that he favored during the GOP primaries, when he said he would push
illegal immigrants to "self-deport" by making it impossible for them to work;
vowed to veto the Dream Act, which would grant legal status to undocumented
young people who were brought into the country by their parents; pledged to
complete the 2,000-mile border fence along the Mexican border; cozied up to
Arizona's draconian "show-me-your-papers" law by promising to drop the federal
litigation against it on his first day as president; and enlisted Kansas
Secretary of State Kris Kobach, a leading crusader against illegal immigration
and an architect of the Arizona law, as an adviser to his campaign.

Mr. Romney's positions, which are really no more than slogans, avoid all the
tough questions that would attend a serious debate on immigration reform. He
says he would support temporary work visas, but does he really suppose those
could be issued in sufficient numbers to replace the millions of undocumented
workers who he hopes would "self-deport"? He says he would staple a green card
to advanced degrees in math, science and engineering earned by foreign students,
but would he do so at the cost of eliminating other immigration visas, as
congressional Republicans insist? And what would he do about the undocumented
youngsters - as many as 1.7 million of them - whom Mr. Obama has made eligible
for temporary legal status? Mr. Romney isn't saying.

His dilemma is trying to shave off enough Hispanic support to avoid a repetition
of 2008's electoral results while not offending the Republican base, whose
inflexible opposition to most reforms combines nativism with economic
incoherence. So far, Mr. Romney has been unable to square that circle.

Mr. Obama, for his part, has failed to make progress on his 2008 campaign
promise to enact sweeping immigration reform that would include a pathway to
citizenship for undocumented immigrants. And he has angered some Hispanics and
immigration advocacy groups by stepping up the pace of deportations.

But he is right that the main hurdle to a meaningful deal on immigration - one
that would tighten enforcement and acknowledge reality by extending some form of
amnesty to 11 million undocumented immigrants - is the uniform opposition of
congressional Republicans, including those who once favored such an approach.

So the president has been left to implement partial measures that have injected
some sanity into the policy without actually fixing it. Border security has been
substantially beefed up, and illegal crossings from Mexico are at their lowest
levels in 40 years. Deportations continue, but with a sensible focus on
undocumented immigrants who have committed serious crimes. Undocumented
residents younger than 30 have been allowed to apply for temporary legal status,
provided they have no criminal record and have finished high school, attend
college or serve in the military.

Both candidates acknowledge the reality that 11 million illegal immigrants will
not be made to disappear, though Mr. Romney seems to wish that somehow they
would, on their own initiative. Yet only the president has embraced the goal of
enacting legislation that recognizes the U.S. economy relies on the 7 million
undocumented immigrants in the labor force, most of whom have been in the
country for a decade or more and many of whom have American-born children.

As for Mr. Romney, saying he would solve the problem is not the same as
presenting a blueprint to do so. By fudging the specifics, he has made clear
that he really has no policy at all and indicated that a Romney presidency would
turn a blind eye to the nation's broken immigration system.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     October 3, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Decline in immigrant businesses fuels concerns

BYLINE: J.D. Harrison

SECTION: A section; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 697 words


The once steady rise in immigrant entrepreneurship has stalled in the United
States, threatening to further slow an already sluggish economic recovery.

Over the past six years, the proportion of new companies founded by foreign-born
individuals has slipped to 24.3 percent from 25.3 percent, according to a
Kauffman Foundation survey published Tuesday. This updated previous studies
showing a boom in immigrant entrepreneurship over previous decades.

The group's researchers now  wonder whether "the period of unprecedented
expansion of immigrant-led entrepreneurship that characterized the 1980s and
1990s has come to a close."

The drop is even more pronounced in the nation's preeminent start-up community,
Silicon Valley, where the number of new firms with at least one immigrant
founder dropped to 43.9 percent from 52.4 percent in 2005.

"I knew the numbers were slowing, but that was shocking, and that's when I
realized this was worse than we thought," Vivek Wadhwa, director of research at
the Center for Entrepreneurship and Research Commercialization at Duke
University's Pratt School of Engineering, said in an interview about the study,
which compiled data from 1,882 firms nationally that were started in the past
six years. (Wadhwa writes a column for The Washington Post.)

The growing consensus among economists is that young businesses - rather than
small businesses in general - represent the most reliable, consistent source of
job creation, and foreign-born entrepreneurs have long been at the helm of many
of those firms. In December, the National Foundation for American Policy
released a study showing that nearly half of the country's top venture-backed,
early-stage companies were founded by at least one immigrant.

Expanded to include fast-growing start-ups with immigrants in upper-management
positions, the number leaps to 74 percent.

But increasingly strict immigration laws are making it more difficult for those
immigrants to start their enterprises in the United States, prompting a "reverse
brain drain," according to the researchers behind the Kauffman study. Of
particular concern is the growing number of foreign-born students who earn
advanced degrees at U.S. universities but after graduating are forced to return
home, where some create firms that compete against American companies.

Last month, 165 university presidents and chancellors sent a letter to Congress
and President Obama urging them to support visa changes that would allow
foreign-born students who earn advanced degrees to stay in the United States and
work or start companies here. The current immigration system, they said, poses
"a critical threat to America's preeminence as a global center of innovation and
prosperity."

Lawmakers have already proposed several remedies over the past year - most
recently, Startup Act 2.0, which would create a new visa category for immigrants
who start companies and hire workers in the United States. The bill would also
provide green cards for students who receive graduate degrees in math and
science fields from U.S. colleges. But the measure has been stalled by a bitter
partisan divide over broader immigration changes.

"Both sides support these targeted changes, but Democrats want comprehensive
immigration reform, and they're concerned that, if this is taken care of, the
urgency around immigration reform won't be there anymore and they won't be able
to resolve the larger amnesty issue," Wadhwa said. "So you have the
all-or-nothing strategy versus the all-the-job-creators-we-can-get strategy.
That's what it boils down to right now."

Should lawmakers not address the country's immigration issues, the economic road
to recovery may get significantly longer, Wadhwa warned, and the United States
will likely struggle to maintain competitiveness in global markets.

"If we wait five years to fix the immigration system, the undocumented, illegal
workers will still be here, but the high-skilled immigrants will be long gone,"
he said. "They'll be back home building the next Googles and Intels in other
countries, and we will wake up five years from now and wonder how we let this
happen."

harrisonj@washpost.com

Twitter: @jd_harrison and @onsmallbiz.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       October 7, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

You're not a citizen. But you still might tilt the election.

BYLINE: Leonard Steinhorn

SECTION: Outlook; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1349 words


If President Obama wins reelection by three or four Electoral College votes next
month, the reason may be simple: noncitizens, mostly immigrants, who don't have
the right to vote. No, I'm not talking about his immigration policy or his
popularity with Latinos. Nor does this have anything to do with voter fraud.
Rather, an Obama victory could hinge on a quirk in the Constitution that gives
noncitizens, a group that includes illegal immigrants and legal permanent
residents, a say in electing the president of the United States.

As required by Article I and the Fourteenth Amendment, the decennial census,
which allocates to each state its congressional seats and Electoral College
votes, is based on a count of all people who live in the United States, citizens
and noncitizens alike - or as the Constitution phrases it, "the whole number of
persons in each state." That means millions of noncitizens who are ineligible to
vote are included in Electoral College calculations, and that benefits some
states over others. Most of these noncitizens are here legally; however, the Pew
Hispanic Center estimates that about 45 percent of noncitizens are undocumented
immigrants.

In 2010 and most previous years, the census did not inquire about citizenship,
but the American Community Survey (ACS), which samples our population every
month, includes a breakdown of citizens and noncitizens. Plugging the 2010 ACS
citizen-only numbers into the Census Bureau's apportionment formula shows that
five states benefit electorally from their noncitizen populations: New York,
Florida and Washington each gain one congressional seat and thus one Electoral
College vote; Texas gains two; and California - with 5,516,920 noncitizens out
of a total population of 37,341,989 - gains five.

Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, North Carolina, Indiana, Iowa, Missouri,
Louisiana, Oklahoma and Montana each lose a seat under the official formula as
compared with an apportionment that counts citizens only.

It is ironic that Florida, which is in the news for its heavy-handed effort to
purge noncitizens from its voter rolls, actually has a greater voice in the
presidential election because of the nearly 2 million noncitizens who live
there.

Looking at how the states might vote in November, there is no scenario in which
Mitt Romney benefits from the inclusion of noncitizens in the Electoral College
calculation, but there are several  in which Obama could gain three to five
Electoral College votes, thus deciding a close election.

To play out a few of these scenarios, let's first assume that each candidate
wins states that are competitive but leaning his way. So Michigan and
Pennsylvania go to the president, and North Carolina and Arizona go to Romney.

That leaves eight battleground states up for grabs: Ohio, Florida, Virginia,
Wisconsin, Colorado, Nevada, Iowa and New Hampshire. Obama begins with a base of
237 Electoral College votes, and Romney comes in at 206.

If the president won Ohio, Wisconsin and Iowa, and Romney took the rest, Obama
would prevail by 271 to 267 Electoral College votes. However, if the Electoral
College calculation did not include noncitizens, Mitt Romney would win 270 to
268.

Or say the president won Ohio, Virginia and New Hampshire, with the other
battleground states going to Romney. That would result in a 272 to 266 Obama
victory - which could have been a 270 to 268 Romney win if only citizens had
been counted.

If the president won New Hampshire, Virginia, Wisconsin and Colorado, that would
give him 273 Electoral College votes to Romney's 265. But recalculate it with
citizens only, and it would be a Romney victory, 270 to 268.

Various other combinations are possible, but the bottom line is that Obama's
Electoral College tally benefits from counting noncitizens, while Romney's does
not.

So if including noncitizens distorts the Electoral College and potentially
affects the outcome of our nation's most important vote, why do we continue to
count "the whole number of persons" - noncitizens the same as citizens - in the
census?

There are many good reasons.

Communities need accurate population data when considering whether to open or
close schools, add police officers and firefighters, and provide health care and
social services. Businesses use this information to decide where to locate, what
to stock and how much to invest.

Accurate population information also guides how federal dollars are allocated to
states and localities, and this money is often critical for communities with
large numbers of immigrants, who often need social services. Who lives where
also determines infrastructure decisions at the federal, state and local levels.

Nor would we obtain the accurate information we need if we required the Census
Bureau to ask about citizenship status. Few undocumented immigrants would
willingly cooperate with census-takers or answer the questionnaire if that meant
giving the government information that could be used to deport them. Already,
the census may be undercounting undocumented immigrants by about 12 percent,
according to the Pew Hispanic Center. (The Census Bureau estimates that it had a
net overcount of 0.01 percent  in 2010, meaning that about 36,000 people were
overcounted.)

It also makes sense to use the full population when allocating congressional
districts. The lives of citizens and noncitizens are intertwined, and asking
members of Congress to distinguish between them could create unnecessary tension
and division. It is perhaps why the framers, in requiring a decennial
"enumeration" to determine congressional apportionment, chose to count "persons"
rather than "citizens of the United States," a term used elsewhere in the
Constitution.

But even if it makes sense to organize our representative system around the
total number of people residing in a congressional district, it makes no sense
to give noncitizens a potentially decisive say in determining who should be
president. A core privilege of citizenship is the right to vote and decide the
fate of our country. So we shouldn't indirectly give noncitizens a say in
allocating electoral votes.

Before Republicans cry foul that the Electoral College favors Democrats, they
should note that they, too, benefit from a distortion the Electoral College
creates.

Critics of the Electoral College have long argued that it violates the spirit of
one person, one vote, and they are right. Americans may believe that a Wyoming
or North Dakota voter should have no more say in electing a president than a
California or New York voter. But the Electoral College undermines that
principle by giving rural states, which often lean Republican, an outsize role
in electing our president. Because the Electoral College allocation for each
state is based on the state's number of representatives in Congress as well as
its two senators, states with fewer residents have more electors per person than
larger states do.

Thus the 15 least-populated states get one elector for every 190,000 to 400,000
residents, whereas California gets one per almost 700,000. (This inequality
wouldn't change significantly if Electoral College votes were based solely on
the number of citizens in each state.)

These same 15 states combined have less than half the population of California,
but together they cast one more Electoral College vote.

Perhaps the two Electoral College distortions - the small- or rural-state
advantage that often helps Republicans and the noncitizen boost that works for
Democrats - neutralize each other. Regardless, this is no way to elect a
president.

The Electoral College is an anachronism. We should abandon this 18th-century
relic and entrust the choice of our president to  all citizens, through a direct
popular vote.

outlook@washpost.com

Leonard Steinhorn is a professor of communication at American University
specializing in American politics and history. He is a political analyst for CBS
News and a co-founder of PunditWire, where political speechwriters comment on
the news.

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 9, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

A clear case for compassion

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 200 words


The Oct. 4 Metro article "The only country she's known" reported the story of
31-year-old Lundy Khoy, whose Cambodian-born parents immigrated to the United
States when she was 1.

In 2000, Ms. Khoy was arrested for possession with intent to distribute the drug
ecstasy, and she served three months in jail and four years of probation. She
has subsequently lived within the law, been employed and is working toward a
bachelor's degree in college. As a resident alien, rather than a citizen, she is
threatened with deportation to Cambodia because of the nonviolent crime
committed when she was 19.

Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies believes that strict
expulsion requirements are necessary because otherwise officials might allow
more serious criminals to evade deportation. Why? "The abuse of discretion makes
it impossible to give the executive this kind of wiggle room," Mr. Krikorian
stated.

I understand the need for vigilance against the government limiting people's
freedom. But why do we restrain the government from reasonable leeway in
granting freedom?  Shouldn't context and compassion be considered - at least for
legal permanent residents?

Patrick J. Noone, Lutherville, Md.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 16, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Ballot initiative alliance meets resistance

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1151 words


A few weeks ago, CASA of Maryland and other immigration advocacy organizations
formed an alliance with gay rights groups to urge passage of two hot-button
initiatives on the Maryland ballot in November, one legalizing same-sex marriage
and the other making some undocumented immigrants eligible for in-state tuition.

Elected officials joined them in making the announcement, which came as no
surprise. The news media had been alerted days in advance.

But for Bishop Angel Nunez of the Bilingual Christian Church of Baltimore, a
longtime CASA of Maryland ally, the news struck out of nowhere.

Nunez has long worked with CASA to promote immigrant causes, including the Dream
Act in-state tuition initiative, but he strongly opposes same-sex marriage.

"Pastors are calling me up saying, 'What's going on here?' " he said, adding
that he has been urging his 250 regular congregants, who hail from 23 nations,
to vote for the Dream Act and against the Civil Marriage Protection Act. "I
don't know if I feel betrayed or not, but right now I'm confused."

Typically, he said, he gets e-mails from CASA about its plans. But this time,
Nunez said he didn't know what CASA was up to until he read in a newspaper about
the alliance, which also includes the prominent Latino advocacy group National
Council of La Raza.

"No outreach got to us . . .  to at least say, 'I know we don't agree on this,
but this is what we're doing,' " he said.

The alliance, according to its members, aims to enable champions of in-state
tuition for undocumented immigrants and same-sex marriage to draw support from
each other's members at the ballot box. When announcing it, CASA cited an April
report  from the Pew Hispanic Center showing that 59 percent of Latinos think
that homosexuality should be accepted by society. A report released by the
National Council of La Raza and Social Science Research Solutions in April found
that 54 percent of Hispanics in the country support same-sex marriage, a
slightly higher percentage than the general population.

Experts say that younger Latinos and those whose families immigrated less
recently are more likely to be open to same-sex marriage.

But many Latino religious leaders remain staunchly opposed to the referendum
that would allow civil marriage for gay men and lesbians. The alliance has
brought to the surface a conflict many Maryland Hispanics face between
supporting an organization that has helped them in the past and going against
deeply held religious beliefs.

And while many are eager to see the Dream Act pass, their enthusiasm does not
translate to supporting the marriage equality referendum.

Calling Nunez "a huge leader in our community" and a longtime ally of his
organization, Gustavo Torres, CASA's executive director, said last week that the
failure to inform him about the alliance was "totally an oversight."

"We had conversations about this issue probably four or five months ago," Torres
said, "but I didn't mention to him directly that I'm going to endorse Equality
Maryland."

A new survey from the Pew Research Center shows that a small majority of Latino
Catholics support same-sex marriage, while a strong majority of Latino
evangelicals oppose it. Just under 60 percent of Latinos in the United States
are Catholic, and about 16 percent are evangelical Protestants, according to
Pew.

Torres acknowledged that local Latino churches have overwhelmingly opposed
CASA's decision to support the same-sex marriage referendum. "We have an
extraordinary partnership with many congregations on different issues, including
fighting poverty, comprehensive immigration reform, and the Dream Act," he said.
"But on this particular issue we have differences, it's true."

Joseph Palacios, a professor of sociology at Georgetown University's Center for
Latin American Studies, said he suspected that some Latino Catholic priests,
loath to alienate either side, were avoiding the issue in their sermons.

"They have gay people in their parishes [and] . . . so many single-parent
households," he said.

But Monsignor Mark Brennan, pastor of St. Martin of Tours, a Catholic church in
Gaithersburg with 2,500 Hispanic congregants that has often worked with CASA on
immigrant issues, said that his parishioners oppose the alliance.

"I think it's really a big mistake on [CASA's] part to join the two issues,
which are quite distinct," he said. "From what I'm hearing from my people,
CASA's stance offends them."

Brennan said he did not know whether the rift would affect parishioners'
relations with CASA on other matters. "Immigrants are eminently practical
people; I think they'll be happy to accept their help on issues that they agree
with them on," he said. But, he added, "it could cause some re-evaluation in our
community of 'Hey, what's CASA all about?' "

At the Iglesia Roca de la Eternidad, a Hispanic Pentecostal church in Landover
Hills, the Rev. Heber D. Paredes delivered a fiery speech Friday night in
Spanish blasting same-sex marriage, while a young man translated it to English
for younger congregants.

"Why does man want to redefine what God already established?" Paredes yelled as
the congregation nodded and clapped. "Man is not the inventor of marriage! God
is!"

Many congregants there have received help over the years from CASA's immigrant
services, but several said they had no idea the organization had formed an
alliance with lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) organizations.

"It surprises me," said Maria Delgado, 30, of Hyattsville, who was attending
services with her six children. "Because really they help people to work, they
help people with families."

Paredes, who has preached against the ballot measure for the past six weeks,
said that supporting same-sex marriage strays outside of CASA's mandate.

"They exist to help our community, and I don't think that's a help," he said.
"I'm surprised at CASA de Maryland; they know the Hispanic position on it."

CASA has more than 27,000 members, and Paredes said he worries the organization
will use its sway in the community to influence the vote. "They want to tie our
young people to them," he said.

Morena Burris, 48, the church's administrator, agreed. "They do represent a lot
of hope for Central and South Americans, so any time CASA de Maryland rallies
for something, our community doesn't question it," she said.

In front of Nunez's Baltimore church, where a large sign reads, "Don't be
fooled! Vote No Question 6. Marriage is always been one man one woman," Nunez
seemed saddened rather than angry over the rift with CASA.

"We're part of the community that's been there with them, that marched down to
Washington with them," he said. As to whether he will work with CASA in the
future, he said, "We will probably see after the election."

But Torres said he hoped the two sides would continue to work together on issues
they agree on.

"There's more that unites us than divides us," he said.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     October 17, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Cross talk

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 616 words


PRESIDENT OBAMA AND Mitt Romney faced off Tuesday night in a scrappy, at times
downright nasty town-hall debate that featured a feistier, more focused Obama
than was seen in their first encounter and that broadened the discussion to
social issues such as immigration, contraceptive coverage and gun control. If
the candidates' remarks did not break new, substantive ground, the evening
served to sharpen differences between them and to give each a chance to make a
sales pitch to crucial constituencies, particularly to women voters. The two men
tangled repeatedly over facts, from precisely how the president characterized
the Libya attack to oil production on federal land.

Mr. Romney's strategy was to describe the past four years as a failed experiment
and to further cement the more moderate image he began to try out in the earlier
encounter. "The president has tried, but his policies haven't worked," Mr.
Romney said. Pivoting from some of the conservative rhetoric of the Republican
primary season, Mr. Romney made the rather unconvincing argument that his push
for illegal immigrants to "self-deport" was a kinder, gentler alternative to
mass roundups. He implied that he was in favor of a path to legalization for the
children of illegal immigrants despite the fact that, during the primary season,
he opposed the major piece of such legislation, the Dream Act, and backed only a
narrow path for those who serve in the military.

Mr. Obama's approach was to paint Mr. Romney as a shape-shifting plutocrat who
made President George W. Bush look squishily moderate by comparison. "George
Bush didn't propose turning Medicare into a voucher," he said. "George Bush
embraced comprehensive immigration reform. . . . George Bush never suggested
that we eliminate funding for Planned Parenthood."

Dismissing Mr. Romney's invocation of his five-point plan, the president said
the Republican nominee has "a one-point plan, and that plan is to make sure that
folks at the top play by a different set of rules." Hitting on Mr. Romney's
failure to offer details on how he would pay for cutting tax rates, Mr. Obama
said that Mr. Romney, as a businessman, "wouldn't take such a sketchy deal and
neither should you, the American people, because the math doesn't add up." Mr.
Obama has a fair point. Mr. Romney's "pick a number" answer for how he would
offset such a tax cut - say, by limiting deductions and credits to $25,000 - is
hardly a serious way to make important policy.

In an exchange on Libya, Mr. Obama was effective in answering Mr. Romney's
criticism of the administration's slowness to recognize that an attack on the
U.S. Consulate in Benghazi was terrorism. The suggestion that the White House's
rhetoric was politically driven, he said, "was offensive. We don't do that." Mr.
Romney challenged the president's assertion that he had described the attack as
a "act of terror" the day after it occurred, only to be told by moderator Candy
Crowley that Mr. Obama was correct. Neither he nor Mr. Obama followed up on a
question about why requests for greater embassy security in Libya had been
denied by the State Department.

Next week's foreign-policy debate will offer a chance for the two candidates to
flesh out other differences on the subject. In the end, on the domestic front,
the debate performance of both has been about as disappointing as their dodging
on the campaign trail. Mr. Romney's tax math is indeed suspect. Mr. Obama's
silence on the subject of entitlement reform is disappointing. But Tuesday's
town-hall debate at least offered a snapshot of the candidates' views on a wider
array of issues, and a portrait of two men who are determined, in the
homestretch, to prevail.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 21, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Ballot initiative alliance meets resistance

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour;Reprinted from;Tuesday's editions

SECTION: Metro; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1151 words


A few weeks ago, CASA of Maryland and other immigration advocacy organizations
formed an alliance with gay rights groups to urge passage of two hot-button
initiatives on the Maryland ballot in November, one legalizing same-sex marriage
and the other making some undocumented immigrants eligible for in-state tuition.

Elected officials joined them in making the announcement, which came as no
surprise. The news media had been alerted days in advance.

But for Bishop Angel Nunez of the Bilingual Christian Church of Baltimore, a
longtime CASA of Maryland ally, the news struck out of nowhere.

Nunez has long worked with CASA to promote immigrant causes, including the Dream
Act in-state tuition initiative, but he strongly opposes same-sex marriage.

"Pastors are calling me up saying, 'What's going on here?' " he said, adding
that he has been urging his 250 regular congregants, who hail from 23 nations,
to vote for the Dream Act and against the Civil Marriage Protection Act. "I
don't know if I feel betrayed or not, but right now I'm confused."

Typically, he said, he gets e-mails from CASA about its plans. But this time,
Nunez said he didn't know what CASA was up to until he read in a newspaper about
the alliance, which also includes the prominent Latino advocacy group National
Council of La Raza.

"No outreach got to us . . .  to at least say, 'I know we don't agree on this,
but this is what we're doing,' " he said.

The alliance, according to its members, aims to enable champions of in-state
tuition for undocumented immigrants and same-sex marriage to draw support from
each other's members at the ballot box. When announcing it, CASA cited an April
report  from the Pew Hispanic Center showing that 59 percent of Latinos think
that homosexuality should be accepted by society. A report released by the
National Council of La Raza and Social Science Research Solutions in April found
that 54 percent of Hispanics in the country support same-sex marriage, a
slightly higher percentage than the general population.

Experts say that younger Latinos and those whose families immigrated less
recently are more likely to be open to same-sex marriage.

But many Latino religious leaders remain staunchly opposed to the referendum
that would allow civil marriage for gay men and lesbians. The alliance has
brought to the surface a conflict many Maryland Hispanics face between
supporting an organization that has helped them in the past and going against
deeply held religious beliefs.

And while many are eager to see the Dream Act pass, their enthusiasm does not
translate to supporting the marriage equality referendum.

Calling Nunez "a huge leader in our community" and a longtime ally of his
organization, Gustavo Torres, CASA's executive director, said last week that the
failure to inform him about the alliance was "totally an oversight."

"We had conversations about this issue probably four or five months ago," Torres
said, "but I didn't mention to him directly that I'm going to endorse Equality
Maryland."

A new survey from the Pew Research Center shows that a small majority of Latino
Catholics support same-sex marriage, while a strong majority of Latino
evangelicals oppose it. Just under 60 percent of Latinos in the United States
are Catholic, and about 16 percent are evangelical Protestants, according to
Pew.

Torres acknowledged that local Latino churches have overwhelmingly opposed
CASA's decision to support the same-sex marriage referendum. "We have an
extraordinary partnership with many congregations on different issues, including
fighting poverty, comprehensive immigration reform, and the Dream Act," he said.
"But on this particular issue we have differences, it's true."

Joseph Palacios, a professor of sociology at Georgetown University's Center for
Latin American Studies, said he suspected that some Latino Catholic priests,
loath to alienate either side, were avoiding the issue in their sermons.

"They have gay people in their parishes [and] . . . so many single-parent
households," he said.

But Monsignor Mark Brennan, pastor of St. Martin of Tours, a Catholic church in
Gaithersburg with 2,500 Hispanic congregants that has often worked with CASA on
immigrant issues, said that his parishioners oppose the alliance.

"I think it's really a big mistake on [CASA's] part to join the two issues,
which are quite distinct," he said. "From what I'm hearing from my people,
CASA's stance offends them."

Brennan said he did not know whether the rift would affect parishioners'
relations with CASA on other matters. "Immigrants are eminently practical
people; I think they'll be happy to accept their help on issues that they agree
with them on," he said. But, he added, "it could cause some re-evaluation in our
community of 'Hey, what's CASA all about?' "

At the Iglesia Roca de la Eternidad, a Hispanic Pentecostal church in Landover
Hills, the Rev. Heber D. Paredes delivered a fiery speech Friday night in
Spanish blasting same-sex marriage, while a young man translated it to English
for younger congregants.

"Why does man want to redefine what God already established?" Paredes yelled as
the congregation nodded and clapped. "Man is not the inventor of marriage! God
is!"

Many congregants there have received help over the years from CASA's immigrant
services, but several said they had no idea the organization had formed an
alliance with lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) organizations.

"It surprises me," said Maria Delgado, 30, of Hyattsville, who was attending
services with her six children. "Because really they help people to work, they
help people with families."

Paredes, who has preached against the ballot measure for the past six weeks,
said that supporting same-sex marriage strays outside of CASA's mandate.

"They exist to help our community, and I don't think that's a help," he said.
"I'm surprised at CASA de Maryland; they know the Hispanic position on it."

CASA has more than 27,000 members, and Paredes said he worries the organization
will use its sway in the community to influence the vote. "They want to tie our
young people to them," he said.

Morena Burris, 48, the church's administrator, agreed. "They do represent a lot
of hope for Central and South Americans, so any time CASA de Maryland rallies
for something, our community doesn't question it," she said.

In front of Nunez's Baltimore church, where a large sign reads, "Don't be
fooled! Vote No Question 6. Marriage is always been one man one woman," Nunez
seemed saddened rather than angry over the rift with CASA.

"We're part of the community that's been there with them, that marched down to
Washington with them," he said. As to whether he will work with CASA in the
future, he said, "We will probably see after the election."

But Torres said he hoped the two sides would continue to work together on issues
they agree on.

"There's more that unites us than divides us," he said.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 9, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

It's time to give back to your biggest supporters

BYLINE: Keith Harriston

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 697 words


Dear President Obama:

Congratulations on your reelection. You no doubt know how much the black
community appreciates the historical significance of both of your successful
presidential campaigns. If you didn't, all you have to do is Google the numbers.

In 2008, according to several exit polls, you captured 95 to 98 percent of the
black vote. For 2012, the estimates are 94 to 96 percent.

We understand a broad coalition elected you as president both terms, not just
us. But we have had your back at a rate much higher than other slices of your
coalition, and you know it.

Now, Mr. President, how about some payback?

This is not an unreasonable request. Just ask women, gays and immigrants.

For women, on your first day in office you signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay
Act. Later came your birth-control mandate that guarantees women access to free
contraceptives.

For gays, you announced your support for same-sex marriage on "Good Morning
America."

For immigrants, you stopped deporting younger, undocumented immigrants - most of
them Latino - and began granting work permits for some of them.

Noticeably missing from the list is any demonstrable policy change - or change
of mind - aimed squarely at black members of your coalition. Some of your black
supporters raised that issue even as they celebrated your victory on election
night and the morning after.

"Now he's got to do something for us," Reginald Miles, a professor at Howard
University, said minutes after networks began declaring Obama's win. "We should
get our reward."

A friend who worked in the Clinton White House heard about this line of thinking
and dismissed it. "Which one of those groups does not include black people?" she
asked. "There are black women. They are black gays and black immigrants. And
what about his health-care bill - don't blacks benefit from that?"

I understand her point, Mr. President, but she did not hear what I did from
different people in different places less than 12 hours after your victory:
Something for us.

Many blacks who supported you in 2008 adopted a stay-quiet-and-wait posture.
They wanted a second term for you. We understood that meant you had to
camouflage your blackness.

A few African Americans did challenge you, Mr. President, and urged you to reach
out more to blacks and to the poor. You know, people like Cornel West and Tavis
Smiley. But your unofficial wingmen, radio hosts Tom Joyner and Steve Harvey,
shot West and Smiley down with nasty verbal assaults.

It was safer to stay quiet and wait. In the meantime, you served up trinkets to
your black supporters.

You granted interviews and allowed yourself to be videotaped playing basketball,
that black game.

You sympathized with anger generated by the slaying of Trayvon Martin, saying in
a statement, "If I had a son, he would look like Trayvon."

But no policy changes. Nothing for us.

Mr. President, many of us got the wait-until-a-second-term message earlier this
year. In March, the media reported that you were "caught" on an open microphone
telling then-Russian president Dmitry Medvedev to pass some words on to Vladimir
Putin. "It's important for him to give me space," you said. "This is my last
election. After my election, I have more flexibility."

You could have been speaking to your black supporters, Mr. President. Now you
earned the second term, and the flexibility that comes with it.

Your legacy is secure. The first black president of the United States. One of
only three Democratic presidents to be elected to a second term in the past
century. Now, sir, you can work on the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of
your story. Something for us.

But what something, you ask. What I heard from some of your supporters in the
hours after your victory did not come with specifics, Mr. President. Blacks in
this country aren't monolithic. We want different things. Besides, it seems as
if the road you take to get the result would carry as much weight as the result.

"We need to decide what we want," Miles said. "Make calls. Write letters. Send
e-mails. And just like FDR told A. Philip Randolph, we need to make Obama do
it."

Keith Harriston teaches journalism at Howard University, where he edits
www.hunewsservice.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 11, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration

BYLINE: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez

SECTION: Outlook; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 629 words


Congratulations, Mr. President. Your victory is a victory for fairness for all
Americans. It is also a victory for Latinos, and one that Latinos can take a
large measure of credit for making happen. They gave you 71 percent of their
votes.

As I traveled the country campaigning for you, especially in Latino communities
in Florida, Colorado and Nevada, it was clear that Latino voters believe that
you will fight for them in your second term.

As I talked with Latinos, one policy was mentioned again and again: your
decision to provide relief from deportation for some young immigrants. Your
courageous leadership on behalf of "dreamers" touched our community and was
essential to inspiring an unprecedented level of support for a Democratic
candidate for president.

I was there in Chicago for your victory speech; you listed "fixing our
immigration system" as one of the challenges you will address in the next term.
Now, together, we can validate Latino voters' trust by making comprehensive
immigration reform a top priority.

I respectfully suggest that we act on reform not just if we can deal with five
or six other important matters first, or if the politics look practical and
manageable. Comprehensive immigration reform should be a priority because it is
our nation's urgent civil rights struggle of the moment.

The policy is straightforward. Create legal immigration channels that are wide
enough and efficient enough that people choose to go through our system, not
around it. We should have an orderly system in which families can stick
together, people have rights, rules are enforced and employers don't cheat to
undercut their competition.

We must address reality. More than 10 ten million -people live here without
documentation. Most have been here more than 10ten  years,- some more than 25.
Most make invaluable contributions to our economy and our nation. They aren't
going anywhere. Let's get them in the system, on the books, paying even more
taxes and living with their families without fear.

I even have a suggestion for how to start. Call some Republicans - Sen. Lindsey
Graham, Sen. Marco Rubio, senator-elect Jeff Flake. Invite them to join the
process. The Republican Party realized Tuesday night that Mitt Romney's decision
to wake up every morning and do something to offend America's fastest-growing
population was probably a bad idea. Promoting self-deportation? Check. Vowing to
veto relief for young immigrants? Check. Cozying up to Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer
and others on America's anti-immigrant fringe? Check.

Today more than ever, you will find reasonable Republicans who will want to
stand with you in searching for an immigration solution, instead of standing
alone, blaming immigrants for all their problems.

You know you have support for comprehensive immigration reform from Democrats. I
support you. Sens. Bob Menendez and Dick Durbin are committed to leading on this
issue. We are ready to work with you and Republicans to make progress. We should
treat this issue as a top priority and meet right away. Is Camp David available?
How many people does it sleep?

Mr. President, Latinos believe in you. As you know, they were tremendously
frustrated by the record pace of deportations in your first term, but on Tuesday
they set aside those concerns and embraced your promise of progress during a
second term. I'm eager to stand with you. Let's put a bipartisan group together
to fight for civil rights for immigrants and restore America's great immigration
tradition.

outlook@washpost.com

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez was just elected to his 11th term in Congress. He is the
chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 15, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Town seeks to engage Hispanic residents

BYLINE: Timothy Sandoval

SECTION: Metro; Pg. T16

LENGTH: 789 words


As Riverdale Park has seen a boom in the number of its Hispanic and immigrant
residents, town officials have taken steps to ensure that the population is
integrated into the town's affairs.

But reaching out to the Hispanic population has offered some challenges, Mayor
Vernon Archer said.

Town officials have sought to ensure Hispanic participation in civic and
community events by hiring more bilingual staff and translating some of the
town's literature into Spanish, Archer said.

The town's Hispanic population climbed to 50 percent in 2010, up from 28 percent
in 2000, according to U.S. Census data.

In 2010, 40 percent of the town's population was foreign-born, and 30 percent
spoke a language other than English in the home, data show. George Escobar,
director of the services department for the immigrant rights group Casa of
Maryland, said he thinks the population is increasing because many Hispanics
have family in the area and there are more affordable housing options than in
Montgomery County and the District.

Officials have hired bilingual staff for almost every department and translated
into Spanish some important town literature, such as invitations to the town's
Oct. 6 Riverdale Park Day and information on new developments, Archer said.

Most of the translated literature is distributed on the eastern side of town,
where most Spanish-speaking residents live, Archer said.

However, because many Hispanic residents live in apartments and move often, the
large amount of turnover in the town's population makes it tough to engage over
long periods, he said.

"The people you tried to reach out to five years ago are gone," Archer said.
"The demographics are the same, but they are a different group of people."

Escobar said the high amount of turnover is expected because the area generally
has a highly transitional population. He said because many Hispanic residents do
seasonal and temporary jobs, they may be moving to where the work is.

Some in the town believe that more interpreters should be present at Town Hall
and that more literature should be distributed in Spanish.

Riverdale Park resident Erick Mendez said he has never visited Town Hall.
Originally from Mexico, Mendez, 28, lives in a multifamily apartment complex
along Riverdale Road with his parents.

He said he felt there was a lack of staff who spoke Spanish at Town Hall, making
it difficult for him and his primarily Spanish-speaking family to become engaged
in the town's affairs.

"Some people don't speak English; they have always spoke Spanish," Mendez said.
"It's difficult for them to write stuff and to read because they do not
understand what they are talking about."

While overcoming the language barrier is important when trying to engage the
Hispanic and immigrant population in any jurisdiction, it is crucial to develop
leaders who come directly from the community to inspire activism, Escobar said.

"Translating and having bilingual people is great and necessary, but it is only
part of the solution," Escobar said. "It is really important to spend resources
on getting people to be champions of the community themselves."

Archer said he recruited the town's two Hispanic council members - Raymond Rivas
(Ward 5) and Alejandro Silva (Ward 6) - by knocking on their doors and asking
them to run in the two wards, which have a large Hispanic population.

He said he believed the two wards needed representatives who reflected the
communities.

Rivas won his seat in 2009 and won reelection in 2011, running unopposed both
times. He declined to comment for this article. Silva won his seat in 2011 and
also ran unopposed.

Silva said he thought the town has done well in reaching out to the Hispanic
population and felt that the number of translators was adequate to handle
Spanish-speakers in the town. He said Hispanic residents in his ward usually
come to him if they have any concerns about town issues.

"There is no problem from what I understand," he said. "They don't complain that
much."

Archer and Rivas plan to make presentations this month at the Park Tanglewood
Apartments on Riverdale Road, in which many Hispanic residents live, on the
town's plan to renovate and expand Town Hall, Archer said.

The literature at the event will be translated, and interpreters will be on
hand.

Archer said that although he is not completely satisfied with the outreach to
the community, he is unsure of what else can be done.

Town officials want to continue to implement plans, such as a proposal to
renovate and expand Town Hall, so that the entire community will benefit, not
just Hispanics, Archer said.

"These are the kinds of things that we are trying to do to make life better for
everybody," he said. "I am not sure what else you can do."

tsandoval@gazette.net

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 18, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Father- son m o jo

BYLINE: Tim Carman

SECTION: Food; Pg. R01

LENGTH: 1341 words


Thanksgiving can be a puzzling holiday for new immigrants, who are not
indoctrinated into the warm and fuzzy history behind the feast. Some immigrants
may celebrate Thanksgiving to try to conform to the customs of their adopted
country. Some may follow the holiday as a sign of gratitude for America's
embrace of foreigners. Some may just like to eat.

Then there's the case of Mariano Guas, the 65-year-old father of his only son,
David Guas, chef and owner of Bayou Bakery in Arlington. Mariano, or Mari as
he's known among friends and relatives, was born in Cuba but was forced to
abandon his homeland not long after Fidel Castro assumed power in 1959; he was
only 13 years old when he was packed off to a boarding school in Bay St. Louis,
Miss. The son of a Cuban father and American mother, Mariano already had a
passing familiarity with some U.S. traditions. His mother, Lillian, a native of
Amite City, La., routinely celebrated Thanksgiving in Cuba, a simultaneous act
of nostalgia and novelty in a country without such a holiday.

Once in the  States, however, young Mariano had to confront the hard reality
that he was essentially a refugee, caught between a Cuba that he cou ld no
longer visit and an America that was still largely alien to him. It would take
him years to embrace the abrupt cultural shift, but once he found his niche and
started his own life in New Orleans as a veterinarian and father, he would
devise a clever way to honor both his past and present. He celebrated two
separate Thanksgivings: the traditional American spread with turkey and all the
trimmings and a second Cuban feast a day or two later with some of the iconic
dishes of his native country.

Strange as it may sound, Mariano launched his Cuban Thanksgiving at the urging
of his mother, the American whose culinary mood swings were seismic. Lillian
went from preparing American-style Thanksgiving feasts on the island to
mastering Cuban dishes to pining for Cuban food so deeply that she urged her own
flesh and blood to prepare the separate, second Thanksgiving meal in the States.
"It was just a way of us honoring our Cuban heritage," Mariano says,
matter-of-factly.

As Mariano sits in his son's home in McLean, contemplating whether to pop open a
bottle of Havana Club Anejo Especial at noon, David Guas is busily preparing a
Cuban Thanksgiving feast in a small, well-appointed kitchen outfitted with a
four-burner Viking range. The meal is not a planned gathering. It's being
re-created for my benefit, with a sweet nostalgia for a Guas family tradition
that died out sometime in the mid-1990s (but recently was resuscitated in Ocala,
Fla., where the retired Mariano moved a few years ago to be near his daughter,
Tracy, and her family).

Nostalgia has been a large part of Mariano's life lately. In January, father and
son traveled to Cuba, accompanied by writer Mark Kurlansky, who profiled the
trip for the November issue of Food & Wine magazine. It was Mariano's first time
back in Cuba since he was a boy.

It was David's first step on Cuban soil, period. Together, they sampled some of
the authentic Cuban dishes that Mariano had been savoring in memory for half a
century: roast chicken with sour orange and garlic; a sweet-savory dish of
ground beef, tomatoes, garlic, olives, onions and raisins called picadillo; and
a line of Cuban pastries known as pastelitos.

The centerpiece of the Guas Cuban Thanksgiving, however, is a massive slab of
pork shoulder, a 10-to-14-pound beast that David treats as though he were
performing invasive surgery. The chef takes a sharp paring knife and makes deep
incisions into the muscle, 15 in all, and stuffs each with a clove of garlic. He
then applies a wet rub of olive oil, dried oregano, salt and pepper generously
over the meat, making sure to deepen those incisions with a fingertip so the
coating will seep into each one. This is not a recipe for the haute-apron set.

"I learned you well," says Mariano, as he relaxes in a kitchen chair, an unlit
Partagas Serie D cigar in his left hand. Father is ostensibly referring to his
son's technique for rubbing the oil deep into the knife cuts, but what he's
really doing his teasing the 37-year-old chef, which he seems to enjoy. You get
the sense this is a family schtick: the insult as paternal admiration.

Mariano knows he's not in his son's league as a cook, but you'd be hard-pressed
to get such a confession in public. When asked who taught him to cook, Mariano
shrugs. "I don't know," he says. "I mean, I just learned. I just saw what
everybody else was doing. My mother was a great Cuban cook, even though she was
American."

David seconds the namecheck of Lillian. She was an influence on him as well.
David, in fact, still has nearly obsessive memories of Lillian's tuna croquetas,
breaded nuggets of canned tuna, potatoes and mayonnaise that she would cook in
her Fry Daddy. "Once they came out of the fryer, it was like salt and lime
juice, and that was it," David says, his words assuming the rushed, excited air
of a boy recalling a fond memory. "It was unbelievable. I used to literally eat
so many that I would just get sick."

Those croquetas have their roots in Cuba. The Guas family used to own a cannery
on the island; tuna was one of its primary products. Tuna is not a topic dear to
Mariano's heart. He has memories of Castro's call for a general labor strike in
the late 1950s, which left young Mariano feasting on endless cans of the fish.
"To this day, I'm not big on canned tuna," he says.

Despite his undying love for the croquetas, David only recently prepared his
first batch. Still, he opted not to make any for his Cuban Thanksgiving feast
for his wife, public relations professional Simone Rathle, and their two young
sons, Kemp and Spencer.

Instead, his table overflows with a bounty of Cuban side dishes: boiled yuca
(salty, starchy, surprisingly addictive when briefly dried in the oven for a
crispy edge), tostones (smashed, double-fried green plantains that are gobbled
down like chips in Cuba), platanos maduros (sweet, ripe plantains fried in a
cast-iron skillet with butter and olive oil) and black beans and rice (garnished
with diced raw onions).

Almost all of these dishes, save the sweet fried plantains, could benefit from a
drizzle of mojo sauce, an olive oil infused with garlic, though David cautions
about the overuse of this common Cuban condiment.

Use it too frequently, he says, and "everything tastes like oil and garlic."

Mojo sauce also can be drizzled on the roasted pork, though that seems a
quintessential case of gilding the lily. The shoulder slices, studded with
garlic cloves like fossil footprints in stone, taste as though the meat came
scented with the pungent allium. I can only imagine what the pork is like when
prepared in the traditional Cuban method: smoked in an earthen pit, covered with
palm fronds.

The Guas Cuban Thanksgiving, at least this one, ends on a sweet note. That's not
a surprise. The two generations of Guas men explain that they're sugar junkies,
prone to raiding the fridge at midnight for something sweet to eat. For David's
final course, he has prepared flan, which he's quick to note is nothing like the
custards you'll find in Cuba.

Flans in Cuba "all have that Swiss cheese [appearance], the moon craters on the
side, from the overcooked egg. And that's actually normal," says David, the
longtime corporate pastry chef for Passion Food Hospitality before he ventured
out on his own. "They actually like to taste the egg, and I hate tasting the egg
in flan."

David prefers a velvety texture, with hints of vanilla. He wants you to taste
the cream. The way David's carrying on about his flan compared with the
traditional Cuban version, I'm expecting a major showdown when Mariano finally
samples it.

"This is excellent," Mariano gushes when he tastes the custard, not a trace of
irony in his voice.

His son practically stops in his tracks at the critique. He seems taken aback.

"Thank you," David says, finally, humbly.  "You look so surprised."

carmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 18, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Be wary of exploiting immigrants

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 261 words


The Nov. 12 editorial "Fix immigration now" commendably called for "a path to
citizenship" for law-abiding, unauthorized immigrants but mistakenly suggested a
compromise that would provide them a temporary legal immigration status with an
uncertain future.

The editorial's discussion of future immigration suggested that temporary status
- presumably as "guest workers" - would be an acceptable compromise to allow
businesses "adequate numbers of seasonal and agricultural workers." Typically,
when workers with particular skills are in short supply, the scarcity of those
skills leads to higher pay. In the instances of seasonal and agricultural
workers, employers are motivated to hire "guests" to maximize profit while
marginalizing hard-working men and women.

There are many seasonal jobs: in construction, schools, tourism and agriculture.
If immigrants are needed to fill those occupations and wish to reside in the
United States year-round, they should be able to enjoy the freedom of the
marketplace and given the opportunity to earn the right to vote. The history of
temporary foreign agricultural worker programs demonstrates that they break up
families, lead to exploitation of vulnerable people, displace U.S. citizens and
permanent-resident immigrants, and depress wages and other labor standards for
all.

In reaching a compromise to establish a sensible immigration system, Congress
should not rely on programs that exploit and displace; it should stay true to
our democratic ideals.

Bruce Goldstein, Washington

The writer is president of Farmworker Justice.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    November 28, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

'Deferred action' applications level off

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 861 words


After President Obama won a second term, the staff at CARECEN, a
Washington-based Latino community organization, braced for a flood of applicants
for "deferred action for childhood arrivals" (DACA), a new Obama administration
policy that allows some illegal immigrants who came to the United States as
children to get two-year work permits and a deferral of deportation proceedings.

As many as 1.7 million people are potentially eligible, but only about 264,000
applied between August, when the government began accepting applications, and
the end of October. Some held back, saying they feared that a Republican
president would rescind the policy and use the information on their applications
to locate and deport them.

But even though Obama won, the hordes of applicants have not materialized. In
fact, according to numbers released Nov. 16 by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services, the average number of applications has waned, from a peak of 5,715 a
day in September to 4,527 a day in November.

"It's actually slowed down here at CARECEN," said Andrea Rodriguez, the group's
director of legal services, adding that the organization will cancel an
application workshop that was planned for Saturday.

In September, she said, people were lining up early in the morning for services,
and some had to be turned away. But at a recent intake session, only one person
showed up.

Other immigrant-advocacy groups in the Washington area, such as Casa de Maryland
and Ayuda, have also reported either a leveling or a falling off of applications
since the election - possibly because so many local youths raced to apply in
August and September, as soon as they could.

"I think the first wave of people we helped were really activists," said George
Escobar, director of health and human services at Casa, which has not seen a
rise in applicants at its DACA clinic since the election. "They weren't afraid
to come out and defend their right to be in this country."

For many, especially families with several eligible children, the $465
application fee is a deterrent. "It's real common for people to space their kids
out by one year, so it's the family making individual decisions as to who
they're going to support," Escobar said.

Others may not know that they are eligible. Or they may be too afraid to fill
out the application, which asks for information that in effect requires people
to admit, using their real names and addresses, that they are in the country
illegally.

"There are still concerns about the information and what could happen to the
information down the line," said Shiu-Ming Cheer, a lawyer at the National
Immigration Law Center in Los Angeles.

Almost 309,000 applications had been filed as of Nov. 16, and 53,000 had been
approved, with an unknown number sent back with requests for more information.
Approval can take several months.

In the Washington area, an estimated 15,000 to 20,000 people are eligible.

Muzaffar Chishti, director of the Migration Policy Institute's office at the New
York University School of Law, said it is probably too early to identify
significant trends in applications for DACA. He noted that there is no deadline
to apply and that applications are likely to drop off during the holiday season.

"People who were sitting on the fence to see if [Mitt] Romney won are obviously
relieved, but also there is some optimism in the air that there might be a
legislative fix," he said. "So some people may be holding out to see if they get
something better."

That could mean some version of the Dream Act, a bill that would provide a path
to legal status for immigrants who arrived here as children and met certain
conditions.

The bill did not pass the Senate two years ago, but after an election in which
Hispanics overwhelmingly supported Obama, many Republicans have acknowledged the
need to appeal to immigrants. On Tuesday, three Senate Republicans introduced a
proposal with some features that are similar to the Dream Act.

According to the government figures, the highest numbers of DACA applications
have come from California, followed by Texas and New York. Virginia is 10th on
the list. And although nationwide the numbers have not risen since the election,
those applying now include many who were reluctant to do so before knowing the
vote's outcome.

In some places with fewer immigrants, local advocates say they have seen a
spike.

"In the Deep South, we do have pretty stiff anti-immigrant laws," said Hiroko
Kusuda, an assistant clinic professor at Loyola University New Orleans College
of Law.

Before the election, she added, she advised eligible youths in Louisiana and
Mississippi to hold off on applying for DACA. "I always told them, 'You know, I
wouldn't do it now,' because I wasn't sure if the new president, if it's not
Obama, would continue this program."

Now, she said, she is advising them to go ahead - in part because Obama won, and
in part because since Romney lost, "Republicans have changed their minds; they
have decided that immigrants are a very important part of their constituency."

Since the election, Kusuda said, her clients' faces have brightened. "They are
more at ease," she said.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    November 28, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Senators introduce Republican alternative to the Dream Act

BYLINE: Rosalind S. Helderman

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 866 words


After an election that showed the GOP's huge disadvantages on immigration, three
influential Republican senators have introduced legislation that would grant
legal residency to young people brought illegally to the United States, if they
seek higher education or enlist in the military.

The proposal comes as more Republicans have called for the party to soften its
opposition to illegal immigration in the wake of massive November electoral
losses that were driven, in part, by low support among Latino voters.

The measure - sponsored by Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) and retiring Sens. Kay
Bailey Hutchison (Tex.) and Jon Kyl (Ariz.) - would offer a Republican
alternative to the so-called Dream Act, providing a pathway for young adults to
apply for legal permanent residency - but not citizenship - if they have
completed military service or higher education and have worked in the United
States for at least four years.

Leading advocacy groups that push for immigration reform characterized the
proposal as a half-measure that would provide few new opportunities for
normalization for young adults.

But Kyl said the measure is an effort to "get this ball rolling."

"We have to have a discussion that is sensible, that is calm, that discusses all
of the different aspects of the issue," he said.

Despite Republican anxiety about the party's inability to lure more Latino
voters - President Obama beat GOP challenger Mitt Romney among Latinos by 44
percentage points - Hutchison and Kyl said their bill is not a response to the
election.

Instead, they said it represents a year of behind-the-scenes work to come up
with an alternative to the Dream Act that would let such young people remain in
the United States without allowing them, as Kyl said, "to jump ahead of anybody
in the citizenship path."

Their voices, along with McCain's, are particularly potent because they hail
from Texas and Arizona, states with large and increasing immigrant populations.

The lawmakers said they are moving ahead with the legislation now so it can
receive a public airing before their Senate terms end. However, they said they
are not optimistic about the measure's chances in the lame-duck session, given
the fiscal issues that will occupy most of lawmakers' time in coming weeks.

And Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.), the Senate's lead driver of the Dream Act,
said he wants Congress to use a growing consensus for action on immigration to
take up a more far-reaching measure.

"We have some significant differences," he said, noting that the Republicans did
not discuss their measure with him before they introduced it. "But I appreciate
their efforts to help."

The bill, dubbed the Achieve Act, would extend a new visa to people younger than
28 who were brought to the United States before age 14. It would be available to
those who do not have serious criminal records and who agree not to seek
government benefits, including federal student loans.

The visa would allow young people to complete schooling or military service.
They could then apply first for a work visa and, after four years, for a visa
that allows permanent legal residency.

Although the lawmakers said they have had productive conversations with Sen.
Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), who has been working on his own alternative to the Dream
Act and has become a leading voice within the GOP on immigration reform, he
indicated that he is  soliciting input from stakeholders and is not ready to be
a co-sponsor.

"The concept is the right one, and it's one that we helped them formulate,"
Rubio said. "We're getting pretty close."

The measure was also introduced without Democratic sponsors, despite calls from
Democrats for Republicans to work on bipartisan immigration legislation.

Kyl, who held a joint news conference with Hutchison on Tuesday to announce the
proposal, criticized Obama for his June decision to declare that his
administration would stop seeking to deport those who would have qualified under
the Dream Act.

"The administration has unfortunately chosen . . . to ignore current law because
it didn't think it was good policy," Kyl said.

Clarissa Martinez de Castro, director of immigration and civic engagement for
the National Council of La Raza, characterized the GOP proposal as a step
backward, away from a growing consensus that young people brought to the United
States as children should have access to citizenship.

"It seems more an attempt to pull negotiations away from the center," she said.

Although some Republicans are likely to dismiss the proposal because it would
offer amnesty to illegal immigrants, a senior Democratic aide, who is not
authorized to speak publicly about pending legislation, suggested that the
retiring Republicans should receive little credit for advancing the idea on the
eve of their departures.

"It's not exactly a profile in courage for two senators - who happen to turn
into pumpkins in about a month - to weigh in on a bill that's been around for a
decade and that they've opposed for nearly as long," he said. "It'll be
interesting to see if members of their party will be willing to continue the
conversation they've waited far too long to start."

heldermanr@washpost.com

Ed O'Keefe contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 30, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

U.S. birthrate plummets to lowest level since 1920

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 999 words


The U.S. birthrate plunged last year to a record low, with the decline being led
by immigrant women hit hard by the recession, according to a study released
Thursday by the Pew Research Center.

The overall birthrate decreased by 8 percent between 2007 and 2010, with a much
bigger drop of 14 percent among foreign-born women. The overall birthrate is at
its lowest since 1920, the earliest year with reliable records. The 2011 figures
don't have breakdowns for immigrants yet, but the preliminary findings indicate
that they will follow the same trend.

The decline could have far-reaching implications for U.S. economic and social
policy. A continuing decrease could challenge long-held assumptions that births
to immigrants will help maintain the U.S. population and create the taxpaying
workforce needed to support the aging baby-boom generation.

The U.S. birthrate - 63.2 births per 1,000 women of childbearing age - has
fallen to a little more than half of its peak, which was in 1957. The rate among
foreign-born women, who have tended to have bigger families, has also been
declining in recent decades, although more slowly, according to the report.

But after 2007, as the worst recession in decades dried up jobs and economic
prospects across the nation, the birthrate for immigrant women plunged. One of
the most dramatic drops was among Mexican immigrants - 23 percent.

The fall didn't occur because there are fewer immigrant women of childbearing
age but because of a change in their behavior, said D'Vera Cohn, an author of
the report, which uses data from the National Center for Health Statistics and
the U.S. Census Bureau. Cohn added that "the economic downturn seems to play a
pretty large role in the drop in the fertility rate."

Although the declining U.S. birthrate has not created the kind of stark
imbalances found in graying countries such as Japan or Italy, it should serve as
a wake-up call for policymakers, said Roberto Suro, a professor of public policy
at the University of Southern California.

"We've been assuming that when the baby-boomer population gets most expensive,
that there are going to be immigrants and their children who are going to be
paying into [programs for the elderly], but in the wake of what's happened in
the last five years, we have to reexamine those assumptions," he said. "When you
think of things like the solvency of Social Security, for example . . .
relatively small increases in the dependency ratio can have a huge effect."

The average number of children a U.S. woman is predicted to have in her lifetime
is 1.9, slightly less than the 2.1 children required to maintain current
population levels.

The falling birthrate mirrors what has happened during other recessions. A Pew
study last year found that the current decline in U.S. fertility rates was
closely linked to hard times, particularly among Hispanics.

"The economy can have an impact on these long-term trends, and even the
immigrants that we have been counting on to boost our population growth can dip
in a poor economy," said William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings
Institution. He noted that Hispanic women, who led the decline, occupy one of
the country's most economically vulnerable groups.

Historically, once the economy rebounds after a recession, so does the
birthrate, Cohn said.

But other factors may also be affecting the decline and may not change much once
the economy recovers.

Almost half of all immigrants to the United States are of Hispanic origin. But
in recent years, immigration from Mexico, the biggest contributing country, has
dried up; for the first time since the Great Depression, the net migration from
Mexico has been zero.

Latino immigrants who have been here longer tend to adopt U.S. attitudes and
behavior, including having smaller families, Suro said. He added that the
decline in the birthrate among Mexican immigrants is probably so sharp because
the rate was so high that there was more room for it to fall.

Although the Hispanic birthrate may never return to its highest levels,
immigrants who have babies will probably continue to boost overall fertility
rates, said Frey, who considers the current decline a "short-term blip."
Immigrants from Asia, he said, continue to move to the United States, although
their birthrates are not likely to approach that of Hispanic immigrants at their
peak.

The recent birthrate decline among Latino women may also be related to enhanced
access to emergency contraception and better sex education in recent years, said
Kimberly Inez McGuire, a senior policy analyst at the National Latina Institute
for Reproductive Health.

At Mary's Center, an organization in the District that provides social services
to low-income people, the waiting room on a recent morning was filled with
immigrants, many with swollen bellies. But not all were planning large families.

Elsa Mendez, 22, a single Guatemalan immigrant who lives in Petworth, is set to
give birth to her first child in December, but she said that after this one, she
plans to go on birth control because she wants a better life.

"Sometimes [Hispanic] people - they have a lot of kids, and no talk about family
planning," she said. "I have neighbors who have nine kids - they come from El
Salvador and are all together in the same room."

But Mendez, a sales clerk, said she sees American families with fewer children
and wants to emulate them. "I want to have more money for her," she said,
referring to her unborn child.

Mindy Greenside, director of midwifery at Mary's Center, said many more
immigrant women are asking about contraception than did so five years ago.

One of them is Elizabeth Rosa, 37, a Salvadoran who lives in Langley Park.
Pregnant with her third child, she said it will be her last.

"To have more babies, it costs more," she said as her 2-year-old son Emanuel
played nearby.

Pointing to her belly, she said she plans to have her tubes tied after giving
birth. "The factory is closing," she said with a smile.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 1, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Green-card pragmatism

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 486 words


PRESIDENT OBAMA'S lopsided margin of victory among Hispanic voters in the
presidential election alarmed Republicans and stirred hopes on Capitol Hill that
an overhaul of the nation's crippled immigration rules might just be possible.
But as they prepare to dance their latest minuet on reforming a broken system,
each party is starting with steps that the other finds unpalatable.

For the second time in three months, Republicans are pushing a bill that would
create 55,000 additional green cards annually for foreign students who receive
graduate degrees at U.S. universities in science, technology, engineering and
math - so-called STEM graduates. On its own, that's a fine idea, and a
bipartisan one at that; as things stand, too many of these highly sought
students are forced to leave the country upon graduation, to the detriment of
U.S. competitiveness.

But the GOP measure, which was approved by the House of Representatives on
Friday, comes at a cost: The 55,000 visas would be derived by eliminating a
similar number of green cards disbursed by the so-called diversity lottery, a
20-year-old program that awards visas mainly to low-skilled Africans and Eastern
Europeans. On top of having been a brilliant public diplomacy tool for the
United States, the lottery has offered a lifeline for the sorts of immigrants
who have energized this nation for decades by their pluck and drive.

Democrats are willing to expand STEM visas, but many are rightly reluctant to
sacrifice the lottery. So the bill is likely dead on arrival in the Senate.

The White House and congressional Democrats worry that approving measures such
as the STEM bill would make it more difficult to strike a deal later on a
comprehensive immigration package. But in holding out for a perfect deal, they
obstruct potentially good ones. Democrats agree that more STEM visas make sense;
they've said so in their platform. They should seize the opportunity before them
now - and seek a deal to keep some lottery visas.

What's more, Republicans have sweetened the deal with a provision allowing the
spouses and children of green-card holders, mainly from Mexico and the
Caribbean, to enter the country more quickly while they await their own
permanent-resident visas. That's an improvement on the status quo, under which
they must wait abroad to join their families, generally for two years or more.

Despite the hopes engendered by the election, the prospects remain cloudy at
best for a comprehensive solution that satisfies everyone and resolves the
central problem by offering a path to citizenship for 11 million illegal
immigrants. While leaders in Washington try to crack that nut, it makes no sense
to put other reasonable proposals on hold. Democrats and Republicans should be
able to reach an accommodation on STEM visas. In poll after poll, Americans have
said clearly they want the immigration mess cleaned up. So what is Congress
waiting for?

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 2, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Green-card pragmatism

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 486 words


PRESIDENT OBAMA'S lopsided margin of victory among Hispanic voters in the
presidential election alarmed Republicans and stirred hopes on Capitol Hill that
an overhaul of the nation's crippled immigration rules might just be possible.
But as they prepare to dance their latest minuet on reforming a broken system,
each party is starting with steps that the other finds unpalatable.

For the second time in three months, Republicans are pushing a bill that would
create 55,000 additional green cards annually for foreign students who receive
graduate degrees at U.S. universities in science, technology, engineering and
math - so-called STEM graduates. On its own, that's a fine idea, and a
bipartisan one at that; as things stand, too many of these highly sought
students are forced to leave the country upon graduation, to the detriment of
U.S. competitiveness.

But the GOP measure, which was approved by the House of Representatives on
Friday, comes at a cost: The 55,000 visas would be derived by eliminating a
similar number of green cards disbursed by the so-called diversity lottery, a
20-year-old program that awards visas mainly to low-skilled Africans and Eastern
Europeans. On top of having been a brilliant public diplomacy tool for the
United States, the lottery has offered a lifeline for the sorts of immigrants
who have energized this nation for decades by their pluck and drive.

Democrats are willing to expand STEM visas, but many are rightly reluctant to
sacrifice the lottery. So the bill is likely dead on arrival in the Senate.

The White House and congressional Democrats worry that approving measures such
as the STEM bill would make it more difficult to strike a deal later on a
comprehensive immigration package. But in holding out for a perfect deal, they
obstruct potentially good ones. Democrats agree that more STEM visas make sense;
they've said so in their platform. They should seize the opportunity before them
now - and seek a deal to keep some lottery visas.

What's more, Republicans have sweetened the deal with a provision allowing the
spouses and children of green-card holders, mainly from Mexico and the
Caribbean, to enter the country more quickly while they await their own
permanent-resident visas. That's an improvement on the status quo, under which
they must wait abroad to join their families, generally for two years or more.

Despite the hopes engendered by the election, the prospects remain cloudy at
best for a comprehensive solution that satisfies everyone and resolves the
central problem by offering a path to citizenship for 11 million illegal
immigrants. While leaders in Washington try to crack that nut, it makes no sense
to put other reasonable proposals on hold. Democrats and Republicans should be
able to reach an accommodation on STEM visas. In poll after poll, Americans have
said clearly they want the immigration mess cleaned up. So what is Congress
waiting for?

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 4, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Pro-immigration conservative activists launch plan to reach GOP

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1030 words


For years, pro-immigration conservative activists have tried with little success
to gain an audience with top Republicans in Washington.

But since last month's election, with the GOP's dismal performance among
Hispanics, that has started to change. On Tuesday, more than 250 activists plan
to come to Washington for a debut of sorts, hosting a news conference and
strategy session before heading to Capitol Hill for meetings with key lawmakers.

Group leaders say they hope to bring a fresh, outsiders' perspective to the
debate, with testimonials from rural and suburban sheriffs, local preachers,
even the director of the Idaho Dairymen's Association. Rather than dwelling on
the politics of the issue, these conservative leaders plan to cast the issue
based on how they see it in their communities - in moral and economic terms.

"There's a radical, loud element out there that just doesn't seem to get it,
that will never get it," said Mark Curran, the Republican sheriff of Lake
County, Ill., and a participant in this week's activities. "They shouldn't be
given any real deference anymore."

Curran, a devout Catholic, once held hard-line, anti-illegal- immigration views
but changed his mind in 2010 during conversations with clergy and business
leaders. He thinks some conservative House members could undergo a similar
conversion.

"The political realities and the realities of my faith started to collide, and I
couldn't reconcile it anymore," he said.

The effort comes at a time of soul-searching among senior Republicans, who have
concluded that President Obama's dominance among Hispanic voters and other
groups, such as Asian Americans, resulted at least in part from years of
hard-line opposition by conservative Republicans to more liberalized immigration
laws. Many believe that 2012 presidential nominee Mitt Romney alienated Hispanic
voters when he tilted to the right during his primary campaign, supporting a
policy of "self-deportation" for immigrants while attacking rivals for being too
soft on the issue.

It also underscores a shift in tactics by immigrant advocates, who for years
have made it their central goal to win a pathway to citizenship for the millions
of illegal immigrants currently residing in the United States. Now, joining
forces with conservative leaders, some advocates on the left say they are
willing to consider a scaled-back approach, perhaps a legalization plan that
stops short of citizenship, if it would bring House Republicans to the table.

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), one of the most vocal backers of a path to
citizenship, remains steadfastly in that camp. Still, he said that "we've got to
stop setting preconditions before we have conversations, and that's something
that's changed."

The conservative activists coming to Washington this week for their "national
strategy session" plan to host lawmakers from both parties at a breakfast
Wednesday before fanning out to meet with House and Senate members. The primary
messages will focus on values, including the importance of keeping immigrant
families together, and economics, such as the crucial role immigrant labor plays
for agriculture and technology businesses.

Key event speakers include AOL co-founder Steve Case and anti-tax activist
Grover Norquist, along with leaders of various state-based industry groups and
the National Association of Evangelicals.

"For years, conservative faith, law enforcement and business leaders have
supported the need for a national immigration strategy," said Ali Noorani,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigrant advocacy
group that has been coordinating the effort he calls "bibles, badges and
business." "Now, their voices are coalescing around a new consensus. And, more
importantly, the pressure they bring to bear on Republicans is unique."

Several participants said they had already been holding meetings with House
Republicans and sensing new openings. A primary concern for many conservative
lawmakers is avoiding any suggestion that they want amnesty for illegal
immigrants. Some have said they would support a legalization plan that included
a fine or other penalties. Others have said they want to help young people
brought to the country as children.

The Rev. Luis Cortes, who heads Ezperanza, a large Hispanic evangelical network,
and who has met with about a dozen House Republicans, said that many are seeking
a "workaround" of the amnesty question. At the same time, Cortes said, any
compromise could create difficult choices for Democrats and the White House.

"We're going to have to figure out who can get citizenship," Cortes said. "The
left and the pro-immigrant groups are going to have to figure out, where are
they going to trade?"

Richard Land, president of the Southern Baptist Convention's Ethics and
Religious Liberty Commission, is another key player in the new coalition. He
said finding compromise "is going to take a disciplined coalition of the middle,
the moderate conservatives in the Republican Party and the moderate liberals in
the Democratic Party who actually want to get something done."

Lawmakers have begun maneuvering in recent days to lay a foundation for
bipartisan talks. Possible GOP point people in the House include Reps. Mario
Diaz-Balart of Florida and Raul Labrador of Idaho. In the Senate, a new
Republican entrant to the conversation is Sen. Mike Lee of Utah, a tea party
favorite with credibility among House conservatives.

"Republicans understand that if we don't get serious about doing this, we'll be
relegated to a permanent minority," said Labrador, a Puerto Rico native and
former immigration lawyer.

The conservative activists coming to town this week are hoping that a dose of
pragmatism can have an effect on what has been an intractable issue.

"Those who feel strengthened by the election outcome have to be able to restrain
themselves from trying to push for too much," said Bob Naerebout, executive
director of the Idaho dairy group. "And those who feel weakened because of the
election outcome actually need to realize they have to come to the table and be
willing to negotiate in good faith a bill that has the potential of passing."

wallstenp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 5, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

The STEM green-card benefit

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 233 words


The Dec. 1 editorial "Green-card pragmatism" expressed support for additional
green cards for immigrants earning STEM graduate degrees in the United States
but criticized legislation that passed the House last week because it provided
those additional visas through repeal of the diversity visa lottery program.
That program allocates visas among applicants from countries less represented in
the legal immigrant population.

Certainly, one can have a legitimate debate about the merits of this program,
but that debate needs to be held against the broader background of the fact that
our immigration system already provides strikingly few employment-based visas,
whether as measured in absolute numbers or relative percentages.

Last year, we welcomed slightly more than 1 million new green-card holders to
our country. Of these, only 59,808 were selected through their qualifications to
work and participate in the U.S. economy.

Seen in this context, the House bill made a relatively small change in these
allocations to free up 50,000 additional visas for STEM graduates. It addresses
a need policymakers agree will help U.S. competitiveness while maintaining our
immigration system's appropriate respect for family unity and welcome of
hardworking immigrants.

Randel K. Johnson, Washington

The writer is senior vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits
at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 11, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Wise up, Republicans

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 755 words


The biggest problem the Republican Party faces is not uninspiring candidates or
unsound tactics. It is unpopular ideas.

This reality was brought home in last month's election. It's playing out in the
struggle over how to avoid the "fiscal cliff." And we'll see it again in coming
fights over immigration, entitlements, inequality and a host of other issues.
Here's the sad thing: Republicans get this stuff so wrong that Democrats aren't
even forced to go to the trouble of getting it right.

There will be those who doubt the sincerity of my advice to the GOP, since my
standing as a conservative is - justifiably - less than zero. But I've always
believed in competition, if only to prevent liberals from becoming lazy and
unimaginative. One could argue that this is already happening.

Take the question of what to do about undocumented immigrants. The Republican
Party takes an uncompromising line against anything that could be construed as
amnesty  - any solution that provides "illegal" immigrants with a path to
citizenship. Much has been made of the impact the immigration issue had in the
election, as Latinos voted for President Obama over Mitt Romney by nearly 3-1.

It is obvious to sentient Republicans why the party cannot afford to so
thoroughly alienate the nation's largest minority group. What the GOP seems not
to grasp is that the party's "send 'em all home" stance is way out of line with
much of the rest of the electorate as well.

A Politico-George Washington University poll released Monday asked voters
whether they favored "an immigration reform proposal that allows illegal or
undocumented immigrants to earn citizenship over a period of several years."
That would be amnesty, pure and simple - and a whopping 62 percent said they
were in favor, compared to 35 percent who said they were opposed.

You might expect Democrats, then, to be pushing hard for a straightforward
amnesty bill. But they don't have to. Because Republicans are so far out in
right field on the issue, Democrats haven't actually had to do anything to reap
substantial political benefits. They've just had to sound more reasonable, and
less hostile, than Republicans, which has not required breaking a sweat.

On the central fiscal-cliff question, the GOP is similarly out of step. The
Politico poll found that 60 percent of respondents favor raising income taxes on
households that earn more than $250,000 a year. The Republican Party says no -
and thus allows itself to be portrayed as willing to sink the economic recovery,
if necessary, to ensure that tycoons can keep their pantries stocked with
caviar.

Where is the incentive for Democrats to get serious about fiscal matters? As
long as the GOP remains adamant on what many Americans see as a no-brainer
question of basic fairness, those who believe in progressive solutions get a
pass.

The truth is that raising top marginal rates for the wealthy is probably as far
as we should go on the tax front right now, given the fragility of the recovery.
The best thing we could do for the country's long-term fiscal health is spur the
economy into faster growth, which will shrink deficits and the debt as a
percentage of gross domestic product.

That said, it's hard to imagine long-term solutions that don't eventually
require more tax revenue from the middle class as well as the rich. But why
should Democrats mention this inconvenient fact when Republicans, out of
ideological stubbornness, are keeping the focus on the upper crust?

The same basic dynamic plays out in the question of reforming entitlements.
Republicans proposed turning Medicare into a voucher program; polls show that
voters disagree. The GOP seems to be falling back to the position that the
eligibility age for the program should be raised. Trust me, voters aren't going
to like that, either.

Nor, for that matter, do voters like the GOP's solution for the millions of
Americans who lack health insurance, which Romney summarized as, essentially, go
to the emergency room. A smart Republican Party would stop focusing exclusively
on how government can pay less for health care and, instead, begin to seriously
explore ways to reduce health-care costs. A smart GOP would acknowledge the fact
that Americans simply don't want to privatize everything, which means we need
new ideas about how to pay for what we want.

Faced with an opposition that verges on self-parody, progressive thinkers are
mostly just phoning it in. This won't change until somebody defibrillates the
GOP, and we detect a pulse.

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 20, 2012 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

GOP sheriff, House candidate acknowledges homosexuality, backs gay rights

BYLINE: Bob Christie

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE: FLORENCE, ARIZ.


FLORENCE, Ariz. - Pinal County Sheriff Paul Babeu built a reputation as a rising
conservative star by taking a hard-line stance against illegal immigration,
attacking the Obama administration and appearing alongside Sen. John McCain
(R-Ariz.) in a 2010 reelection ad in which McCain urged federal officials to
just "complete the danged fence."

But on Saturday, the congressional candidate's conservative image was called
into question as he was forced to acknowledge publicly that he is gay and was
involved with a Mexican immigrant who said the sheriff threatened to have him
deported if he revealed their relationship.

Babeu denies any wrongdoing and has vowed to continue his battle for the GOP
nomination in an extremely conservative rural congressional district. He
recognizes he is fighting an uphill battle, especially in a state where family
values, as defined by a large evangelical Christian and Mormon population, often
battle fierce anti-immigrant beliefs to define conservatism.

At a news conference, Babeu said he hopes voters will overlook his lifestyle and
stick with him.

His competitors think voters will reject him, with Arizona state Sen. Ron Gould
saying he's sure to lose major support among the family-values voters who oppose
same-sex marriage.

Babeu previously avoided a public stance on gay rights but came out in favor
them on Saturday.

"I can be a supporter and get out there and help articulate as we progress as a
culture and a society, that there should be individual liberties and there
should be individual freedoms," Babeu said. "For any other person to define
somebody else's relationship and say it not okay, that is not who we are as
Americans."

Saturday's revelation already forced Babeu to call presidential candidate Mitt
Romney's staff to say he would step down from his post as state campaign
co-chairman. Some political observers think his career could be over.

"There is no question that his budding congressional campaign is over," longtime
Arizona GOP political consultant Sean Noble wrote on his blog. "Because it is a
Republican primary in a conservative district, it's likely that the thing that
hurts him the most is that he was in a gay relationship."

Others aren't sure it's the end, but they said there's no doubt he will be hurt.

"It obviously has implications for a congressional race. There's just no
question about it," said Bruce Merrill, an Arizona State University emeritus
professor of political science professor and a longtime pollster. "I don't see
how any reasonable person cannot think that this is going to hurt him,
particularly with the constituency that he has built, which is a very
evangelical, right-wing, family-oriented conservative constituency."

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 27, 2012 Monday
                                 Every Edition

Visa program could help bank recapitalize

BYLINE: Danielle Douglas

SECTION: Pg. A08

LENGTH: 631 words


Raising money may become a little easier for local banks, if Mahbaz Khazen has
her way. The founder of U.S. Immigration Investment Center, a San Jose,
Calif.-based firm, wants to use a little-known immigration program to
recapitalize distressed community banks in the Washington area.

The program, known as EB-5, grants visa to immigrants in exchange for an
investment of $500,000 to $1 million in a U.S. business. Immigrants who can
demonstrate that the investment created or preserved at least 10 full-time U.S.
jobs are granted permanent resident status after two years.

A favorite of developers and local governments, the program has never been used
for investment in banks, according to federal regulators. But Khazen, who last
month opened an office in the District, has arranged for five foreign investors
to pour money into Gaithersburg's Harvest Bank of Maryland via the program.

Deploying capital in a community bank made the most sense to Khazen, who figured
the investment could have exponential impact through lending.

"Banks can help small businesses achieve their dreams, and provide FHA loans and
VA loans to help the community," said Khazen, a former mortgage banker. As a
result, "we can achieve the goal of reinvestment and generation of jobs on an
even larger scale."

Khazen trolled the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.'s troubled bank list for
candidates, after forming her firm in August. She reviewed some of the hardest
hit banks in Florida and on the West Coast at first, but switched focus to
regions with stronger economies.

"Having the right demographic and location helps in turning around a bank," she
said. What's more, foreign investors could have their visa revoked, if the
business fails within two years.

Khazen turned her attention to the Washington area, where she was introduced to
Stacey Conti, a consultant hired to help Harvest raise money.

The bank has been hemorrhaging money for several years because of a portfolio of
mortgages it purchased from now defunct Countrywide Home Loan in 2006. Harvest,
with $164.3 million in assets, is considered undercapitalized, a regulatory
determination based on leverage and risk ratios. It has been trying to raise $16
million to recapitalize the bank for the past 24 months.

Former banker Mehrdad Elie in October 2010 offered to buy $5 million in common
stock contingent on Harvest raising the remaining amount from other investors.
Other investors, including Rockville financier Robert Senko, have floated money
to the bank. And Khazen has wrangled another group of investors to buy some of
Harvest's $25 million in troubled loans, a deal that if approved by regulators
could help the bank to reach its goal.

"We are three quarters of the way to $16 million, and we have some people that
are deep in due diligence that we hope to hear from soon," said John McDonnell,
chairman and acting chief executive of Harvest. "Once we get there, we have to
submit the structure of the recapitalization to the regulators. It will take a
while for approval, but I'm feeling pretty good about our prospects."

In the meantime, Khazen is scouting other area banks for investment, though she
would not provide names.

"If the Harvest application gets approved, then we'll be ready to take the next
step. We do have the funds and the applicants," Khazen said, noting that she has
received over 200 inquiries from foreign investors.

Established in 1990, the EB-5 visa program is limited to 10,000 applications a
year. According to the State Department, nearly 3,500 visas were issued through
the program in fiscal 2011, up from 1,900 the prior fiscal year. About 43,280
jobs have been created and $2.2 billion invested since the inception of the
program, according to Citizenship and Immigration Services.

douglasd@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Championing Latinos or preying on them?

BYLINE: Justin Jouvenal

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1388 words


When the legion of struggling cleaners, cooks and day laborers needed legal and
immigration help in the Washington area, Luis Ramirez appeared to be their
high-profile champion.

He dispensed free legal advice on a thrice-weekly radio show on WURA (920 AM)
and pushed for the Dream Act in Spanish-language dailies. A Univision segment
featured his work helping two women who said they had been forced to become sex
slaves. Over the past year or so, the publicity brought him awards and helped
send hundreds of clients to his McLean-based legal services firm.

But lawyers say the carefully honed image hid one of the most sophisticated and
lucrative legal shams they have seen in the Washington area aimed at the very
people for whom he purported to advocate: Latino immigrants.

Ramirez is facing felony charges for allegedly telling clients that he was a
lawyer, even though he is not licensed to practice law in the area. People who
sought his help accuse him of taking thousands of dollars in fees for legal work
he never performed.

The case highlights a concern in the Washington area, where tens of thousands of
recent immigrants, who are often vulnerable because of language and other
barriers, rely on a relatively small number of professional services providers
that market to them.

Ramirez, a 38-year-old who was born in Puerto Rico, denied any wrongdoing. He
said that he never purported to be a lawyer and that he performed the work he
promised. He said many clients, unfamiliar with the U.S. legal system, were
confused about the difference between a paralegal and a lawyer.

"My contract is very clear: I'm a paralegal," Ramirez said. "To make a
complaint, these people will say I'm an attorney. . . . We did our work. We did
what they requested."

Some cash-strapped clients allege Ramirez failed to fill out visa paperwork or
to represent them in bond matters and say they are now facing deportation.
Others say they pulled together thousands of dollars to pay him for help in
legal cases but got nothing in return.

Ramirez, an Oakton resident, is charged with five felony counts of obtaining
money under false pretenses. The charges involve four clients in Fairfax County.
Ramirez is scheduled to appear in court June 15.

He also faces a civil suit brought by another client in Fairfax and a handful of
Virginia State Bar complaints. And a client filed a claim against him in the
D.C. courts last year.

"Ramirez is one of the better marketers out there," said Manuel Leiva, former
president of the Hispanic Bar Association of Virginia and one of the lawyers who
brought Ramirez's case to authorities. "The reason people fell for this is
because he had such a slick operation."

Ramirez and Associates works out of a well-appointed Tysons Corner office.

Ramirez says he held high-ranking staff positions in the Puerto Rican Senate
before coming to the mainland in the '90s. One local Spanish-language paper in
2011 mentioned him as a possible state Senate candidate in Virginia, although
local Latino leaders said he is not well known in political circles.

"I am not looking for fame or to run for office, but if that is what the people
want, I will make that decision," he told the paper.

Ramirez's firm's Web site says it offers "legal assistant ship," paralegal,
lobbying, notary public and translation work, but it does not list Ramirez as a
lawyer. The site does have the feel of a law firm's Web site, with images of law
books and a gavel.

http://www.lramirezlaw.com/index.htmlOn the home page, Ramirez stands before an
image of a waving American flag and offers a personal message, calling
immigrants "those brave ones" with "the hope of freedom." He concludes with a
direct appeal: "Let's give them a chance."

That message, Ramirez's charisma and his nicely furnished offices impressed
clients. One was Reyna Ordonez-Viera. Ordonez-Viera, who lives in the District
and works as a janitor, said she turned to Ramirez after her husband was charged
in a drug case last year.

Speaking Spanish, she said Ramirez led her to believe that he was a lawyer and
assured her "everything would be fine." She said she paid Ramirez to represent
her husband, borrowing the $2,200 fee from a co-worker.

At the first hearing, Ordonez-Viera said, Ramirez introduced himself as a friend
to her husband's public defender and offered no legal assistance. Ordonez-Viera
said that she demanded her money back and that Ramirez gave her a $600 check,
which she said bounced.

Ordonez-Viera filed a complaint in D.C. Superior Court and went back to Ramirez
for a refund. When she confronted him on an elevator at his office, then in the
District, she said he stopped the elevator and threatened to call police and
tell them she was a drug trafficker.

"Nobody should believe him," said Ordonez-Viera, whose husband is behind bars.
Her complaint against Ramirez was dismissed because court papers could not be
served to him, according to court records.

Ramirez disputes Ordonez-Viera's account, saying that he never told her he was a
lawyer and that she was a client of a lawyer he previously worked for as a
paralegal. He denies threatening her and said her money was eventually refunded.

Leiva and other lawyers said the case highlights a pervasive problem in local
immigrant enclaves: unlicensed consultants who provide bogus or shoddy legal and
immigration work.

In the Latino community, they often go by the term "notario." In some Latin
American countries, a notario publico is legally trained and can provide
representation in some matters. In the United States, scammers sometimes get
notary public licenses and offer legal advice to clients, who do not understand
what a notary does in this country.

In a lawsuit pending in Fairfax County, Eduardo Guerrero Flores says he gave
Ramirez $4,000 to post bond for a friend who was being detained by immigration
authorities in Pennsylvania.

Flores says Ramirez gave him a bond receipt, but Flores thinks it was probably
forged because no bond was ever paid for his friend. The suit says the friend is
now facing deportation.

In his initial conversation with Ramirez, Flores says Ramirez told him, in
Spanish, "I am an immigration attorney," according to court documents.

Ramirez said Flores did not hire him to pay his friend's bond but to find where
he was in the immigration system, since he had given a false name to
authorities. Ramirez said he agreed to refund about $1,500 of the fee after
Flores complained.

Others said Ramirez had done good work for them. Diogenes Bustamante, a plumber
from Alexandria, said Ramirez helped his wife's mother get a visa to visit the
United States and assisted family members with the green card process.

"He did a great job for my family," Bustamante said.

Virginia State Bar officials said that they received 52 complaints about
immigration consultants between 2007 and 2012 and that such fraud is their
biggest concern in the area of unauthorized practice of law. The bar has
launched an education campaign around the issue.

Most alleged scams go unprosecuted. Victims, who are often illegal immigrants,
are reluctant to come forward, and some bar officials said Virginia could be
better equipped to tackle the fraud.

Unlike Maryland and some other states, Virginia does not have a law regulating
immigration consultants. Unauthorized practice of law is a misdemeanor in the
state. In 2009, the bar pushed to upgrade unauthorized practice of law to a
felony, but lawmakers said enforcement would cost too much.

"If we had legislation on the books with teeth, it would entice local law
enforcement to take up the cases and give them a specific tool to take on the
fraud," said Christine Poarch, vice chairwoman of the Virginia State Bar
Unauthorized Practice of Law Committee.

The alleged scam has left some of Ramirez's former clients losing their tenuous
grip on the American dream.

Jose Lopez, a construction worker who lives in Manassas, was facing deportation
when he went to Ramirez for help. He said Ramirez took $1,500 from him and then
failed to fill out the proper paperwork for him to apply for a visa - an
accusation Ramirez denies. Lopez expects to be deported to his native El
Salvador.

"Sometimes I think it would be better if I stayed in my country," Lopez said.

justin.jouvenal@wpost.com

Staff writers Allison Klein and Nilda Melissa Diaz contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

In ï¬nding their own way, Irish led others

BYLINE: Peter Behrens

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 814 words


Were the Irish who started arriving in the 1840s America's first immigrants?

Many others had made the journey before them, including prehistoric migrants
across the Bering Strait and the Ulstermen who had been settling the American
backcountry since the mid-18th century. But the Catholic, Gaelic "native" Irish
of the Great Famine era were the first arrivals consistently labeled
"immigrants" rather than "settlers," "indentured servants" or "slaves."

In "The Irish Way," his acute and judicious account of the imprint of the Irish
experience on American history, James R. Barrett suggests that these Irish were
also the creators of an urban identity that became a model for millions of
families and multitudes of ethnic groups working through difficult transitions.
Barrett's point is that the Irish became Irish-American faster than anyone had
expected, and once established in cities, Irish-American policemen, teachers,
priests, saloonkeepers and politicians shaped and directed the process of
Americanization for subsequent waves of immigrants. When neighborhoods such as
Lower Manhattan, the South Side of Chicago and Boston's North End became
factories manufacturing Americans, it was the Irish-Americans, Barrett suggests,
who were the foremen and production engineers of the process.

From the Colonial point of view, the "Scotch-Irish" Ulstermen - whose ancestors
had emigrated from the Scottish-English borderlands to northeast Ireland - had
been strange enough, with their clannishness, religious zeal and disruptive
ferocity. But at least their religion was exuberantly Protestant, and their
land-hunger and ferocity toward Indians had seemed, to most, downright American.
These Scotch-Irish were quickly ranked as "settlers," Americans through and
through, but the native Gaelic Irish immigrants coming ashore in 19th-century
Boston, New York, Philadelphia and New Orleans had to fight their way past
vicious prejudice and stereotyping.

The eastern cities, after all, were well-established, with social and racial
hierarchies firmly set, when the mostly Catholic Irish arrived. The only urban
space open to new arrivals - especially papists - was at the bottom. Feeling
threatened by the number of Irish arriving, citizens proud to consider
themselves Old Americans and Know Nothings began rigorously applying a "Paddy
Irishman" stereotype to the newest arrivals. The cartoon character of that name
drawn by Thomas Nast was awesomely poor and profoundly unsuited to American
civilization. His jaw was apelike, his food was repulsive, his religion bizarre.
Straight out of the bogs, P.I. was unaccustomed to shoes and modern life.

The message was clear: The native Irish were an indigestible mass of raw
weirdness, possibly the ruin of the republic. Their foreignness would change the
United States in horrible ways, and Americans would never be able to penetrate
their miasma of Irish backwardness.

But the Irish were quick to figure out how things worked in America, electoral
democracy and machine politics especially. Most Irish immigrants could speak
English, a huge advantage. Starting in the 1840s, Barrett argues, "lace curtain"
Irish, as well as those of the working class, had a remarkable influence on
American cities.

Later arrivals found the Irish established as the visible face of authority,
especially in immigrant neighborhoods. They were policemen, schoolteachers and
priests. Soon enough they were also bishops, bosses, mayors, state
representatives and congressmen.

Ethnic hyphenation was a new phenomenon in the 1880s and '90s. The
Irish-American identity was the prototype of what became a wildly popular
product, with dozens of imitations. As other groups - Italians, Slavs, East
European Jews - arrived in the last decades of the 19th century, they
encountered the same rancor the Irish had experienced. Ethnic variations of the
nasty Paddy Irishman were applied - often by Irish-Americans, who might have
known better, although no one ever does. Nonetheless, Barrett convincingly
argues that the Irish-Americans "built and maintained relations with other
ethnic and racial groups in the face of massive migration of other peoples to
American cities."

The seventh volume in the Penguin Press History of American Life series, "The
Irish Way" is a penetrating, refreshingly unsentimental look at the role of the
Irish in shaping and creating an urban culture. The Catholic Irish were not a
founding people in America, but they were founders of a new way to be as
American as the local Irish cop or Jimmy Cagney or JFK. From the perspective of
later arrivals, Irish-Americans were definitive citizens, the only Americans the
greenhorns knew - the Americans they aimed to become.

bookworld@washpost.com

Behrens is the author, most recently, of "The O'Briens."

the irish way

Becoming American in the Multiethnic City

By James R. Barrett

Penguin Press. 384 pp. $29.95

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigrant family released from custody

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 736 words


Jorge Acuna, 44, was walking his dog early on March 8 when a government van
pulled up outside his house in Germantown. His wife, Blanca, and son, Jorge
Steven, a senior at Montgomery College, were inside asleep.

Within minutes, all three members of the Acuna family - immigrants from Colombia
who had lived in the United States for more than a decade - were under arrest
and being transported to a federal detention center on the Eastern Shore to
await deportation.

"I would not wish on anyone what we went through," Acuna, trembling and tearful,
told supporters and journalists in Spanish at a rally in Rockville on Wednesday.
"I saw my own son manacled by the hands and feet, for no crime other than
wanting to be in this country and study."

The rally, planned by immigrant and student activists to protest the family's
plight, turned into a celebration for Jorge Steven and his parents, who were
unexpectedly released from federal custody late Tuesday and granted a one-year
reprieve from deportation after a week of growing media and political attention
to the case.

Nicole Navas, a spokeswoman for the federal Immigration and Customs
Enforcementagency, said immigration officials in Baltimore had decided to
exercise special discretion in the case, allowing the family to go home and
Jorge Steven to finish out his final year in college.

The Acunas came to the United States in 2000, fleeing from endemic violence in
their native country, and applied for political asylum. Their petition was
denied in 2005, appealed and denied again in 2006. Ever since, they have been
living in Maryland with a pending deportation order bound to catch up with them.
Although now free, they could still be deported in the future.

Surrounded by about 100 cheering supporters Wednesday, many of them young
Hispanic immigrants like himself, Jorge Steven said he hoped his family's ordeal
would draw attention to the plight of others in similar situations.

"There are many people who are hidden and voiceless, but who still have dreams,"
he said in Spanish.

To the immigrant advocates and student groups that supported Acuna, the
government's action Tuesday was a small but dramatic victory for two causes:
halting deportations of longtime, otherwise law-abiding immigrants who are not
in the country legally and promoting "Dream Act" legislation that would allow
talented students such as Jorge Steven to receive government tuition discounts,
even if they do not have legal immigrant status.

"This young man is a poster child, a role model for the potential of our youth,"
Nancy Navarro (D-Eastern County), a member of the Montgomery County Council,
said at the rally. All nine members of the council signed a letterto federal
authorities last week, expressing concern about the Acuna family and asking the
White House and Department of Homeland Security to intervene "in this terrible
situation."

Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) also expressed concern about the family, and on
Wednesday he applauded their release, calling it a "fair and humane decision."

Supporters organized by the immigrant rights group Casa de Marylandalso launched
an online petition drivelast week calling for Jorge Steven's release, gathering
more than 4,000 signatures in several days.

The young man, who came to the United States at age 8, was an honors graduate of
Northwest High School in Germantown and is now a dean's list student at
Montgomery College who hopes to go to medical school.

The activists said they hoped this case would increase public support for "Dream
Act" legislation, which has been stalled at the state and national levels. In
Maryland, a bill was passed by legislators last year, but then was suspended
after opponents gathered more than 100,000 signatures for an unprecedented
online petitionagainst it. A statewide referendum will be held on the issue this
year.

"Jorge was the most dedicated and motivated student I ever met. That's why I
came here today to support him," said Daniel Esteban, a teacher at Roberto
Clemente Middle School in Germantown, who taught him in 2005.

A lawyer now representing the Acuna family, Enid Gonzalez Aleman, said she did
not know the details of their asylum petition but that their original lawyer had
mishandled the case. The family declined Wednesday to discuss their asylum
claim. Colombia has long been wracked by violence from guerrilla insurgents,
paramilitary groups and drug gangs.

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 22, 2012 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

BYLINE: Ruth Marcus

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 232 words

What Romney might shake off

Maybe the reset button was too high-tech. On Wednesday Mitt Romney adviser Eric
Fehrnstrom compared the general election to an Etch a Sketch: "You can kind of
shake it up and restart all over again." In the spirit of that classic toy, here
are some campaign moments and positions Romney might care to erase:

l Immigration. Romney said that, as president, he would veto the Dream Act,
which would provide a path to citizenship for the children of undocumented
immigrants who attend college. He promoted "self-deportation" as a means of
dealing with illegal immigration. And he praised Arizona's intrusive immigration
law as a "model" for the nation. Hello? Latino vote?

l Contraception. Romney attacked Rick Santorum for reversing his stance on Title
X, the federal family planning program, and proposed eliminating Title X
funding. Hello? Women's vote?

l Labor. Romney reaffirmed his opposition to the auto bailout and railed against
"labor stooges." Hello? Union voters?

l Assorted out-of-touch rich-guy gaffes: "I like being able to fire people."  "I
have some great friends who are NASCAR team owners." "Ann drives a couple of
Cadillacs."  Hello? Normal people?

Imagine the advertising possibilities. The anti-Romney activists waving their
Etch a Sketches. (Etches a Sketch?)

Here's a new slogan for the Romney general-election campaign: Shake It Up, Baby.

- Ruth Marcus

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

BYLINE: Greg Sargent

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 381 words

The GOP's Latino nightmare

Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) has let it be known that he is hard at work on a new
version of the Dream Act. The version supported by President Obama and
congressional Democrats would provide a path to citizenship for young illegal
immigrants who serve in the military or attend college. But the Democratic
version has been widely rejected by Republicans, who continue to embrace ever
more extreme rhetoric on immigration, apparently to appeal to the GOP base.

The New York Times editorial board and blogger Steve Benen both noted that
Rubio's version of the measure would give young illegal immigrants legal status
but wouldn't put them on a path to citizenship. As the Times puts it, this
amounts to a "Dream Act without the dream."

The timing is also noteworthy. The Hill reported that another alternative Dream
Act measure is being worked on by two GOP senators, Jon Kyl (Ariz.) and Kay
Bailey Hutchison (Tex.), and is set to be unveiled, according to Senate sources,
just after Mitt Romney clinches the nomination.

Many Republicans agree that their party has a serious Latino problem. The
primary process has forced the presidential candidates so far to the right on
immigration that some GOP leaders fear Election Day could bring historic losses
of Latino voters that could affect down-ticket candidates. A failure by the
Republican presidential nominee to make inroads among Latinos could help Obama
hold on to western states such as Colorado and win reelection despite losses in
the Rust Belt.

It's hard not to see the timing of the push for an alternative Dream Act in this
context.

But this ultimately shows that the framing of the GOP's "Latino problem" is all
wrong. The problem isn't a cosmetic issue that can be fixed with the right kind
of outreach. The real problem appears to be that Republicans don't adopt
positions that would appeal to Latinos or would genuinely be in their interests,
presumably because candidates don't think the conservative base will let them.

It seems that the GOP's problem is underscored, not fixed, when the only version
of the Dream Act that congressional Republicans can bring themselves to support
is one that doesn't offer a path to citizenship to young immigrants in America
who go to college or serve in the armed forces.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2012 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The slow trek through Dulles

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 279 words


I enjoyed the March 29 Metro article "As jets expand, so does Dulles Airport."
However, it overlooked problems that continue to plague Dulles International
Airport.

I recently saw some of them firsthand when I arrived at Dulles aboard an
international flight. Upon deplaning, passengers were directed into a so-called
mobile lounge (which resembled a discarded "Star Wars" prop) for transit  to the
immigration and customs checkpoints. Although the vehicle was full, we waited 15
minutes for a driver to appear. We then made the five-minute crawl across the
tarmac to the immigration hall.

There, now more than 20 minutes after we deplaned, only two-thirds of the
processing stands were staffed, and the line was several hundred passengers
deep. While I waited in line, several immigration officers went off duty.

At the front of the line, I was greeted by large signs touting the new Global
Entry Program, which would allow me, after paying $100 and undergoing a
background check, to enjoy the speedy processing I take for granted at other
airports. On this occasion, I cleared immigration and customs more than one hour
after deplaning.

I have been told by others that my experience was typical. They suggest I fly
out of Baltimore-Washington International Marshall Airport, where even
passengers without Global Entry status often exit the airport only 20 minutes
after arriving on an international flight.

Dulles management has a duty to work closely with the Department of Homeland
Security to ensure that immigration lines are properly staffed and to take other
reasonable measures to speed transit. Until then, I will take my business
elsewhere.

Gabriel S. Meyer, Rockville

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 4, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Every Edition

Perfect pupusas require a mastery of masa

BYLINE: Tim Carman

SECTION: FOOD; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1507 words


If any dish can play the part of humble immigrant food, it's the pupusa, the
savory masa cake from El Salvador that practically feeds the nation morning,
noon and night. When unadorned and arranged on a platter like intersecting
circles, pupusas look naked and vulnerable, imminently susceptible to smear
campaigns from the roaming trend-seeking hordes who can't see the simple beauty
of this stuffed round.

The pupusa has many humble cousins throughout Latin America, including the
gordita and the arepa, both of which are, likewise, stuffed corn-flour cakes
that can feel like a sunken sand barge in your stomach if you eat too many
(which is only too easy). But the pupusa is different. It aims for a kind of
self-contained perfection, in which the filling is neatly encased in a thin
layer of griddled masa dough, unlike either the gordita or arepa, whose
meat-and-cheese guts can spill all over the plate, frustrating your efforts at
the ideal bite.

Those of us who call the Washington area home are fortunate enough to be able to
sample pupusas anytime we want, given that the latest Census figures show that
more than 240,000 Salvadorans have settled in the region, many of them refugees
from the long and bloody civil war back in the home country. These immigrants
brought their food with them, of course, which means pupusas hide in plain sight
all over the place.

You can find pupusas on custom-built trucks squatting next to gas stations in
Silver Spring. You can find them in storefront pupuserias along 14th Street NW
(the stretch not gentrified into the land of $14 cocktails, that is). You can
even find them buried deep in restaurant menus, lost among a mess of "Mexican"
dishes cobbled together by Salvadorans who still think they have to hedge their
bets with North American diners.

But how much do any of us know about pupusas? Personally, I had been eating them
for years, not always grasping the finer details of what makes one superb and
another sub-par. The more I looked at the pupusa, in fact, the more questions
arose. Why, for example, do most pupuserias serve essentially the same ones,
like the pork-bean-cheese combo known as the "revuelta," as if U.S.-style
invention were off limits at these joints? I was also curious to know if the
cakes were prepared differently in El Salvador vs. the States. And perhaps most
important: Why is the "humble" pupusa so unbelievably difficult to make on your
own?

Finding answers to my questions wasn't always easy in a world where English is a
second language and where my pidgin Spanish frequently results in long silences
over the phone, followed by an abrupt click. Which is why I almost wanted to hug
Jaime Arbaiza, general manager of the La Casita locationin Silver Spring. With
Jaime, I had access not only to the inner workings of a modern pupuseria but
also to a man who could articulate (in English for Mr. Gringo here) the minute
differences between pupusas in the United States and El Salvador.

Or at least I had access to a man who could turn to his mother and La Casita
co-owner, Leonor Arbaiza, a Salvadoran native who recently visited the home
country. Between them, mother and son tell me that pupusas in El Salvador tend
to be about an inch smaller - at least when purchased from one of the many
street vendors - and considerably thinner than the versions found here. Jaime
chalks up the differences to simple economics. "Over there, they try to save as
much as they can," he says.

But in the States, where the calories come cheap and everyone always seems to
want more, pupuserias tend to build their cakes bigger and fatter, sometimes to
the detriment of the filling, which can be overwhelmed by the corn masa shell.
That may sound like harsh criticism, but as Jaime points out, many Salvadorans
simply prefer their pupusas that way. It's almost a value equation.

La Casita opts for more balance with its pupusas, which is part of the reason
why I like the place so much. Standing over a couple of serving trays dotted
with pupusas, Jaime reviews the specimens, like a drill sergeant inspecting the
troops. Each pupusa should have a pillowy quality, he notes, but avoid
messiness. Ideally, the filling should not ooze from any cracks, although as a
pupusa apologist like myself might tell you, there's nothing at all wrong with
those little circles of escaped cheese, melted and browned on the griddle.

Mostly, though, La Casita's kitchen aims for thin, intact masa shells, so that
when you order a frijol con queso (bean with cheese) or a queso con loroco
(cheese with a Salvadoran flower bud whose flavor somehow smacks of green beans,
asparagus and artichokes) you actually taste the filling. "To me, it's better
when you have as much masa as you need, no more than that," says Jaime, almost
Zenlike in his philosophy toward his dough.

When I ask Jaime why most pupuserias don't experiment with their fillings, he
practically bristles. La Casita, after all, dares to venture beyond the Fab Four
of Fillings (beans, cheese, pork and loroco) to test the boundaries of the
Salvadoran-American palate. You can buy a cheeseburger-style pupusa here (filled
with ground beef and mozzarella); another stuffed with squash and cheese; and
even, on occasion, a kind of locavore corn cake crammed with crab meat, shrimp
and cheese. This, I cannot emphasize enough, is not the norm at most pupuserias.

"What I think is that Salvadorans, . . . they're used to eating the traditional
ones," says Juan Rivera, a Salvadoran native and chef de cuisine for Bandolero,
Mike Isabella's forthcoming Mexican restaurant in Georgetown. "They're going to
get the pupusa revuelta. The people are not educated to try new things."

Rivera (who usually goes by the handle "Tony Starr," a nickname bestowed on him
by Isabella) understands tradition. He grew up with one of El Salvador's most
ingrained traditions: eating pupusas for breakfast. When he was a teenager back
in his native country, Rivera would stop at a pupuseria at 6 a.m. before loading
up his gear and heading out on a fishing boat. Per custom, Rivera would down his
savory pupusas with a cup of chocolate caliente, a mixture of hot milk and water
thickened with melted chunks of rich Central American chocolate.

That experience is hard to re-create in the States with the instant hot
chocolate mixes found at many establishments. Besides that, a savory pupusa, no
matter how well made, may not be the first thing you want in the morning, which
is why I decided to develop a U.S.-style breakfast pupusa stuffed with fresh
cheese that's slightly sweetened with citrus zest and heavy cream. I figured I'd
top the finished pupusa with a pat of good butter and some local jam rather than
the cake's usual garnishes of curtido (a kind of pickled, fermented cabbage) and
a thin tomato sauce. My mouth watered at the very thought of this North American
pupusa.

Then I began the process of fashioning my pupusas and quickly realized I had the
skill set of a Doberman. Making pupusas may look like child's play - with all
that hand molding of dough - but it's not. With my cakes, the dough was too
thick and the filling too thin; more problematic, my homemade cheese was
bursting through the ruptured levee that was my masa. So I sought the counsel of
Rosa Argueta, one of the pupusa makers at La Casita.

Argueta is a minimalist when it comes to shaping masa into pupusas. She doesn't
favor the theatrical slapping and hand-flipping techniques that I've witnessed
at other pupuserias, like my favorite, La Chiquita, in Takoma Park. Her
movements are more compact; you barely notice the dough moving from the center
of one hand to the other as the masa ball is quickly and efficiently formed into
a disk. Argueta begins each pupusa with about three ounces of dough, but her
secret is that after she adds the filling and reforms the ball, she pinches off
a good half-ounce of dough, so that her cakes aren't overwhelmed by masa.

Moisture is also key. Like all the pupusa makers at La Casita, Argueta makes her
own dough. She uses the Masa Brosa brand of instant masa, which she combines
with warm water and nothing else. No salt, no added flavorings, only pure masa
goodness. The dough must have the consistency of Play-Doh, and to make sure it
doesn't dry out and crack during the seemingly endless shaping stage, Argueta
keeps her hands moist (not soaking wet) with a nearby bowl of water. Likewise,
the filling can't be too wet or the added moisture will start to weaken the
walls of the masa shell. That, clearly, was the problem with my initial
attempts.

I wish I could report that Argueta's afternoon demo turned me into an instant
pupusa master, but it didn't. My cakes were still a little too wet, a little too
thick and a little too unstable. But I took comfort in Argueta's answer to a
question that I posed on the day of my tutorial: How long did it take for you to
learn the craft of pupusa making?

"Two months," she answered. Then she smiled sweetly, as if understanding the
painful - but rewarding - road ahead.

carmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 15, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Stewart to run for lieutenant governor

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. T01

LENGTH: 601 words


Prince William County's Corey A. Stewart on Wednesday became the first person to
officially enter next year's lieutenant governor's race in Virginia.

Stewart, a Republican and chairman of the Board of County Supervisors, told a
couple of dozen supporters and reporters that what has worked in Prince William
can work statewide. He said that if elected, he would to focus on economic
development and transportation funding.

"The one thing [Virginia] needs to do right is to build adequate public
infrastructure," Stewart said. "That means roads. It is the number one need for
the commonwealth."

He said that funding could be realized with no tax increase by streamlining
business regulations and the size of government.

Stewart said that he is proud of leading efforts to streamline county
government, with about $143 million in cuts since first being elected in 2003;
that he would keep real estate taxes low; and that he would lead "the most
successful crackdown on illegal immigration in the United States."

Stewart said the county's 2007 policy to check the immigration status of those
arrested, a policy he helped spearhead, has led to 4,500 people being turned
over by the local police to federal immigration authorities.

The county's violent crime rate has dropped more than 50 percent since the
policy was enacted, Stewart said, although some disagree that an illegal
immigration crackdown led to fewer violent crimes.

In an e-mail response to the announcement, Harry W. Wiggins, chairman of the
Prince William County Democratic Committee, said Stewart has not focused on
Prince William enough in recent years. Stewart has considered running for
lieutenant governor before and has also considered a U.S. Senate bid.

"Neglecting his official duties to campaign for higher office is more of the
same for Stewart," Wiggins said in the statement.

The lieutenant governor's position is receiving more scrutiny this year because
of the even split of Democrats and Republicans in the state Senate. The party
that controls the lieutenant governor's position will control the Senate and
have the ability to break tie votes on non-budget matters.

Democrat Aneesh Chopra, a former White House chief technology officer, is widely
expected to run for the position. Pete Snyder, chairman of the state GOP's VA
Victory 2012, the Republicans' coordinated campaign, also is reportedly
considering a bid.

The kickoff event was held in front of a construction site at Stonebridge at
Potomac Town Center, a Woodbridge development anchored by a Wegmans grocery
store with luxury residences and office space on the way. The development is a
popular one, because it brings high-end amenities to the older, eastern side of
Prince William.

Stewart was elected on what many saw as an anti-development platform, but his
position on development has changed in recent years.

Patrick MacAuley, a Stewart supporter at the event, said afterward that although
some call Stewart's record controversial that the chairman has, for the most
part, promoted smart development during his tenure.

MacAuley added that the Stonebridge development revitalized the county's eastern
end instead of cutting into rural land on the western end of Prince William.

"This is a perfect example," he said of Stonebridge's design.

Republicans who attended the event to support Stewart were Del. Jackson Miller
(Prince William) and L. Mark Dudenhefer (Prince William-Stafford), and
supervisors Maureen Caddigan (Potomac), W.S. "Wally" Covington III (Brentsville)
and Martin E. "Marty" Nohe (Coles) and Prince William Sheriff Glendell "Glen"
Hill (R).

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 16, 2012 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration: Not a local police job

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 260 words


"Immigration muddle" [editorial, April 10] said   that the federal Secure
Communities program "has been generally successful in removing illegal
immigrants who have committed crimes."   The reality is that the program
operates as an indiscriminate dragnet. This is why the District, Arlington,
numerous other cities and the governors of New York, Illinois and Massachusetts
have opposed the program.

The District is taking the right step in drawing a bright line between local
police and federal immigration enforcement. This year, D.C. Council member Phil
Mendelson (D-At Large) introduced the "Immigration Detainer
Compliancehttp://www.dccouncil.washington.dc.us/hearing-notices/immigration-deta
iner-compliance-amendment" title="www.dccouncil.washington.dc.us Amendment Act
of 2011," which stipulates that the District will only hold someone for U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement if the detainee has been convicted of a
dangerous and violent crime. In contrast, the Secure Communities program, which
operates pre-conviction, ensnares people who have not been found guilty of a
crime or who have committed only minor offenses.

In the District, we work hard to build a diverse and productive workforce and
community, and we believe that immigrants are an integral part of that effort.
Mr. Mendelson's effort draws the right balance by ensuring that communities feel
safe reporting crimes and cooperating with police. That is what ultimately makes
a community more secure.

Nikki Daruwala, Washington

The writer is the executive director of DC Jobs with Justice.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Mexico migrant trend shifts

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1241 words


A four-decade tidal wave of Mexican immigration to the United States has
receded, causing a historic shift in migration patterns as more Mexicans appear
to be leaving the United States for Mexico than the other way around, according
to a reportfrom the Pew Hispanic Center.

It looks to be the first reversal in the trend since the Depression, and experts
say that a declining Mexican birthrate and other factors may make it permanent.

"I think the massive boom in Mexican immigration is over and I don't think it
will ever return to the numbers we saw in the 1990s and 2000s," said Douglas
Massey, a professor of sociology and public affairs at Princeton University and
co-director of the Mexican Migration Project, which has been gathering data on
the subject for 30 years.

Nearly 1.4 million Mexicans moved from the United States to Mexico between 2005
and 2010, double the number who did so a decade earlier. The number of Mexicans
who moved to the United States during that period fell to less than half of the
3 million who came between 1995 and 2000.

The trend could have major political consequences, underscoring the delicate
dance by the Republican and Democratic parties as they struggle with immigration
policies and court the increasingly important Latino vote.

Illegal immigration has emerged as one of the most emotional political issues in
the country - one that dominated much of the Republican presidential contest and
has proven complicated for President Obama.

Mitt Romney has courted conservatives with aggressive anti-illegal immigration
rhetoric. But the GOP presidential hopeful has said in recent days that he wants
to build ties with Hispanics, many of whom have chafed at his statements, and
the new immigration trends could offer him a chance to soften his stance.

Obama has been criticized by immigrant advocates for stepped-up deportation
policies that analysts have said were partly responsible for the decreasing flow
of Mexicans into the United States. The trend could offer the president a
political silver lining: the chance to take credit for a policy success that,
his aides have said in the past, should persuade Republicans to embrace a broad
immigration overhaul plan.

According to the report, the Mexican-born population, which had been increasing
since 1970, peaked at 12.6 million in 2007 and has dropped to 12 million since
then.

The reversal appears to be a result of tightened border controls, a weak U.S.
job and housing construction market, a rise in deportations and a decline in
Mexican birthrates, said the study, which used U.S. and Mexican census figures
and Mexican government surveys. Arrests of illegal immigrants trying to enter
the United States have alsodropped precipitouslyin recent years.

Whether the reversal is temporary or permanent, it could have significant
implications for the United States. Many Mexican immigrants work in agriculture
and construction.

One in 10 people born in Mexico live in the United States, and more than half
entered illegally. Most live in California and Texas; about 120,000 live in the
Washington region.

The report does not specify how many of those who moved to Mexico had been in
the United States illegally. But the statistics imply that many of them had
been: The number of undocumented Mexicans here dropped from 7 million in 2007 to
6.1 million in 2011, while the number of those here legally increased slightly,
from 5.6 million in 2007 to 5.8 million in 2011.

"The diminished flow appears largely to be a drop in unauthorized immigrants,"
said Jeffrey Passel, a senior demographer at Pew and a co-author of the report.
He said an estimated 5 to 35 percent of the recent returnees to Mexico were
deported.

Although most Mexican deportees say they will try to return, their numbers are
shrinking, too, the study said: According to a Mexican government survey, 20
percent of deportees in 2010 said they would not return to the United States,
compared with 7 percent in 2005.

Half of those returning to Mexico took their entire families, including more
than 100,000 U.S.-born children of Mexican immigrants. Children born in the
United States to Mexican nationals are citizens of both countries.

The drop comes at a time when overall immigration to the United States continues
to grow, and reflects several factors specific to Mexico, including a relatively
strong economy and a sharply diminished birthrate.

In 1960, a typical Mexican woman was expected to have more than seven children,
but by 2009 that number had dropped to just over two - a decline that presages a
sharp reduction in the number of young workers seeking to come to the United
States.

As immigration reform continues to be a divisive political issue, experts on
both sides of the debate disagreed over the implications of the report.

Those advocating for a path to legalization for immigrants here illegally said
the plummeting of Mexican immigration should allow for thoughtful reform to take
place without the pressure of trying to stem the flow across the border.

"It gives us the space to figure out how do we fix the legal immigration system
so when the economy bounces back, how do we respond?" said Clarissa Martinez,
director of immigration and civic engagement at the National Council of La Raza,
a Latino advocacy organization.

Others warned that the trend could reverse itself if the U.S. economy improves
or the Mexican economy falters. "The idea that this respite means the problem is
over is just jumping the gun," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for stricter immigration
controls. "It's wishful thinking by people who just want amnesty."

But the era of entire villages moving from Mexico to the United States may be
over, said Randy Capps, a senior policy analyst and demographer at the Migration
Policy Institute.

Instead, he said, the current reversal may be similar to the reduced flow from
Germany and Ireland a century ago. He predicted a negative feedback loop as
fewer potential immigrants have connections to the United States.

"If this goes on for much longer, it's going to take a lot to reverse it," Capps
said. "A lot of migration is based on networks - people who know people who know
about the environment they're going to be moving into. When the jobs disappear
and the people you know aren't there anymore, this channel of communication
either dries up or it becomes so negative that it just changes everybody's
mind."

Gustavo Velasquez, 38, who came from Oaxaca, Mexico, 12 years ago and serves as
the director of the D.C. Office on Human Rights, said that the scarcity of U.S.
jobs is causing more Mexicans to think twice about moving.

It is better to be unemployed in Mexico than to be unemployed in the United
States, he said, because most migrant workers leave their families in Mexico.
"They miss the warmth of being in a welcoming community," he said, adding that
with tougher border control and more deportations, Mexicans would rather be in a
"precarious situation than in a situation of fear."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

Staff writers Stefanie Dazio, Carol Morello and Peter Wallsten contributed to
this report.

Read more Washington Post coverage of immigration issues:

Right Turn: Can Romney make inroads with Hispanic voters?

Arizona immigration law: Supreme Court again examines federal power

OPINION | Milbank: A congressional deal on immigration? Dream on.

Mexico's middle class is becoming its majority

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

An immigration trail that's easy to follow

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 809 words


Aficionados of the Etch a Sketch will recall a certain flaw in the toy: If you
use it often, some of the lines drawn no longer disappear when you shake the
device, instead leaving an indelible trace of where you have been.

This is the problem Mitt Romney is encountering: He is shaking the device,
trying to erase impressions left during this year's primary contest. But he just
can't shake away the image of Russell Pearce.

Pearce, the former Republican president of the Arizona Senate, is the author and
self-described "driving force" behind S.B. 1070, that state's law - endorsed by
Romney - cracking down on illegal immigrants. Pearce told The Post's Felicia
Sonmez this month that Romney's "immigration policy is identical to mine," and
he told reporters this week that Romney "absolutely" gave him the impression
that he saw the Arizona law as a national model.

Democrats, seeking to use this loose cannon against his own side, called Pearce
to testify Tuesday before Congress on the eve of the Supreme Court's review of
the Arizona law. Republicans boycotted the hearing, sensing a political trap.
Arizona Republican Gov. Jan Brewer sent regrets, too.

But Pearce, whose questionable activities include touting an old deportation
program called "Operation Wetback," is less aware, and he handled himself in
just the manner Democrats had hoped. Enhancing the effect, his tie bore the
"Don't Tread on Me" emblem of the tea party, and his considerable jowls tugged
his mouth into a perpetual scowl.

Pierce, who lost his seat last fall in a recall election, labeled the Obama
administration and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce "unpatriotic." He sounded the
alarm about an "invasion of illegal aliens we face today - convicted felons,
drug cartels, gang members, human traffickers, even terrorists" (never mind that
border security has improved and violence has lessened). And he blamed the Sept.
11 attacks on "the failure to enforce U.S. immigration laws" (omitting the fact
that the hijackers entered the country legally).

Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee
holding the hearing, began with a claim that Pearce's bill was "endorsed as a
model for the country by Mitt Romney" - and Pearce was happy to help with the
grave-digging.

Pearce dismissed as "blanket amnesty" the Dream Act, which would legalize the
immigration status of undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as
children, if they attend college for two years or join the military. Sen. Dick
Durbin (D-Ill.) asked Pearce about a child brought to this country illegally as
an infant who later graduates from a U.S. high school. "Because the parent
didn't file the papers, now the child must suffer?" Durbin asked.

"You need to blame those responsible," Pearce replied, "and not us for being a
nation of laws."

Such harsh logic accounts for the recent NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll
finding that President Obama leads Romney among Latinos by an astounding 47
percentage points. Romney himself has acknowledged that such a gap "spells doom
for us."

To shrink the gap, Romney, who vowed to veto the Dream Act, went on the campaign
trail Monday with Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), who favors some legal status for
those who would be covered by the  act. Romney's campaign says his claim during
a primary debate that the Arizona law was a "model" for the nation referred only
to the electronic verification of immigration status. (Alas for Romney, he
endorsed the Arizona law more than once.) His campaign also tried recently to
disown Kris Kobach, an immigration hard-liner, before admitting that the Kansas
secretary of state is an "informal adviser."

Pearce is not a Romney adviser, but he is the embodiment of the law that Romney
embraced - and the baggage Romney now carries for seeking far-right support in
the primary. On Tuesday, Pearce sat at the witness table, shaking his head in
disagreement as others spoke about how the law encourages racial profiling and
hurts legal Latino residents.

Would Pearce continue deportations even if the border were completely sealed? To
do otherwise, he said, would be "demeaning to law enforcement."

Does he support Arizona authorities using "dress" as a way to identify illegal
immigrants? "You have to respond to reasonable suspicion to do your job," he
said.

Why didn't the law simply require that everybody stopped by the police would be
checked for immigration status, to avoid racial profiling? "I don't want a
police state," he said.

No, he only wants that for people who don't look like him.

Pearce, with a rare chuckle, allowed that it's "usually the case" that he finds
himself outnumbered when defending the immigration law. But he argued,
correctly, that the law reflects "by far the majority opinion of my party."

This is why Romney will have trouble making it disappear.

danamilbank@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Rubio's 'Dream' alternative tests Obama's reality

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1212 words


Gaby Pacheco, a vocal immigrant activist, accepted a tantalizing invitation last
week from an unlikely source: Republican Sen. Marco Rubio wanted her to help
craft a bill that could legalize the children of some illegal immigrants.

Two hours later, Pacheco and other activists got a different pitch from their
more familiar White House allies. Be wary of Rubio and his plan, two of
President Obama's top advisers told them in a meeting. It wouldn't go far enough
and wasn't likely to succeed.

The group was polite but noncommittal. "We're not married to the Democratic or
Republican parties," said Pacheco, 27. "We're going to push what's best for the
community."

The events of that day illustrated how the new effort by Rubio (Fla.) has
upended the immigration debate in Washington, exposing tensions in both parties
as Obama and the GOP assess how the issue might sway the crucial Hispanic vote
in November.

In recent days, Rubio has quietly reached out to a number of immigrant advocates
who are usually White House allies but have grown frustrated with some of the
president's policies. Some of the activists say they are open to Rubio's effort
- even though it would stop short of a provision in the Democratic-backed Dream
Act to create a path to citizenship - because it would at least provide some
relief to people at risk of being deported.

Rubio has not put his plan on paper, but his office describes it as an
"alternative" to the Dream Act that would legalize certain young people who came
to the United States while they were children. The measure would grant
non-immigrant visas so qualified young people could remain in the United States
for college or to serve in the military.

The plan puts Obama in a box. Democrats are reluctant to see Rubio's efforts as
anything other than a political gambit to repair his party's tarnished image
with Hispanics and boost his own profile as a potential vice-presidential pickor
future White House contender.

But if Obama does not at least try to work with Rubio, he could risk losing a
centerpiece of his appeal to Hispanic voters - that he is their fiercest ally in
Washington and that the GOP is to blame for lack of action on fixing the
country's immigration ills.

White House resistance to Rubio threatens to escalate criticism from Obama
allies frustrated that he was unable to deliver on a broad immigration overhaul
and angry that his administration has deported more than 1 million illegal
immigrants.

A White House official who spoke on condition of anonymity called it "ludicrous"
to suggest that the president would be an obstacle to helping the young people
or their advocates. The official noted that Obama would happily have signed the
Dream Act into law in 2010 had Republicans not blocked it and that he remains in
favor of a broader plan that would create a path to citizenship for many of the
11 million to 12 million people in the United States illegally.

The official said that the president welcomed any serious effort from
Republicans to forge a bipartisan approach but that it was impossible to fully
judge Rubio's plan until it appears in writing as a bill.

Obama seemed to disparage the Rubio effort during an interview this month on the
Spanish-language network Telemundo. "This notion that somehow Republicans want
to have it both ways, they want to vote against these laws and appeal to
anti-immigrant sentiment . . . and then they come and say, 'But we really care
about these kids and we want to do something about it' - that looks like
hypocrisy to me," Obama said.

The issue also presents a quandary for likely GOP nominee Mitt Romney, who has
alienated many Hispanic voters with his hard-right positions and rhetoric on
immigration during the Republican primary campaign.

He now must weigh how to undo the damage without angering conservatives who are
on the lookout for a flip-flop by a candidate known for his evolving views.

At a Monday campaign event with Rubio, Romney did not take a position on the
plan.

"I'm taking a look at his proposal," Romney said. "It has many features to
commend it, but it's something that we're studying."

Several conservatives have already blasted Rubio's plan as a form of "amnesty,"
but aides to the senator say he is lobbying key players and media personalities
on the right to hold their fire.

Many Democrats have dismissed the push by Rubio, the son of Cuban immigrants who
was elected in 2010 as a conservative darling after adopting hard-line positions
on illegal immigration. Some critics on the left say his proposal would create a
second class of Americans, permitted to live in the United States but unable to
achieve the full rights of citizenship.

But his efforts appear to be further driving a wedge between Obama and his
restive Hispanic activist supporters.

The senator conferred Wednesday afternoon with several leading members of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, for example, including Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez
(D-Ill.), one of the most vocal critics of Obama's deportation policies.

Last week, Rubio sat at a dinner party beside Janet Murguia, president of the
National Council of La Raza, one of the country's most prominent Hispanic
advocacy groups, and the two discussed ways to work together on policy.

"It's clear that there wouldn't be an effort to be talking about this right now
if it weren't for Senator Rubio engaging on this," Murguia said. "We need to
know whether the president can use this as an opportunity."

Rubio's outreach to Pacheco - who was brought to the United States illegally
when she was 8 - and other young undocumented immigrants came after they had
been asking for months without success for a chance to meet with Obama. The
senator first called Pacheco on her cellphone, and the two spoke for about a
half-hour. He later met with a small group at Miami-Dade College.

"He said, 'If you feel at any point that this is something you guys cannot
support, let me know,'â[#x20ac][#x160]" Pacheco recalled.

The president's challenge has been evident in recent days during tense
encounters between top White House aides and Hispanic leaders, who have
continued to press for the president to simply sign an executive order
preventing the deportations of any people who would qualify for the Dream Act.
In one heated session last week between Congressional Hispanic Caucus members
and domestic policy adviser Cecilia Munoz, Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.)
grew so frustrated that she walked out, according to people familiar with the
meeting.

In their meeting with Pacheco and other young activists, Munoz and senior White
House adviser Valerie Jarrett offered warnings that going along with Rubio's
plan put at risk other efforts to pass the full Dream Act with a path to
citizenship. They told the activists that Rubio had not demonstrated he could
win support from fellow Republicans and that the president would use his clout
to push an immigration plan next year. "They said, 'Be careful we're not
lowering the bar. Citizenship is important,'â[#x20ac][#x160]" Pacheco recalled.

But Pacheco, who remains undocumented even after graduating from college, said
Obama should see the situation as more urgent. "We're at a point of desperation,
at a point where we cannot continue to live the way we've been living," she
said.

wallstenp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 9, 2012 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

BYLINE: - Felicia Sonmez

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 225 words

A GOP stumble on immigration

A Republican National Committee roundtable Tuesday, aimed at highlighting the
GOP's Hispanic get-out-the-vote effort, ended up backfiring as the RNC's
director of Hispanic outreach struggled to explain to reporters the Republicans'
message to Hispanics when it comes to immigration.

Pressed by a reporter about what she would say to an undecided Hispanic voter
who concluded after watching the GOP debates that former Massachusetts governor
Mitt Romney's proposals on immigration are too strict and are "out-of-line with
what Hispanics want," the RNC's Bettina Inclan stumbled.

"I think as a candidate, to my understanding, that he's still deciding what his
position on immigration is," she said. "So I can't talk about what his
proposal's going to be, because I don't know what Romney exactly - he's talked
about different issues. And what we saw in the Republican primary is that
there's a very diverse opinion on how to deal with immigration."

Immediately, a reporter tweeted out Inclan's statement that Romney is "still
deciding what his position on immigration is," and Democrats pounced.

The Obama campaign's director of Hispanic press, Gabriela Domenzain, said in a
statement that Romney "has proven time and time again that he is the most
extreme presidential candidate in modern history on immigration."

- Felicia Sonmez

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Vote for the best teaching strategies

BYLINE: Jay Mathews

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T17

LENGTH: 645 words


Teacher, writer and lawyer Patrick Mattimore, a frequent contributor to my Class
Struggle blog, suggested last month that readers send in effective teaching
strategies. Sure, I said. Many great ideas arrived. Now we'd like you to pick
your favorite.

Here are the three finalists Mattimore and I selected, all from teachers, listed
in alphabetical order. Vote in a poll at washingtonpost.com/class-struggle or
send me your pick via e-mail at mathewsj@washpost.com I am just going to quote
from their entries so you won't have to put up with intrusive analysis from me.


Immigration unit

Karen Craig, eighth-grade language arts and social studies, Connelly School of
the Holy Child, Potomac

"The Immigration Unit is studied in language arts, social studies, science and
foreign language. The students are grouped into families, and they pretend that
they are immigrating to the United States around 1900. They are assigned a
country from which to emigrate, as well as given an economic background.
However, they are responsible for deciding how the family is related and what
struggles they endure on the journey.

"In language arts, the students blog about their experiences throughout the
unit, using their growing writing skills and vocabulary to help convey their
thoughts and emotions. In science, biology is studied through the different
diseases that could prevent a potential immigrant in the early 20th century from
being allowed into the United States. In social studies, the laws and acts that
were aimed at preventing immigration are examined, and in foreign language, the
different countries the students could potentially emigrate from are
highlighted.

"The unit culminates in an Ellis Island Day, where the students pack a suitcase
with what they would bring to their new country, and they are processed through
a mock-up of Ellis Island itself. The next day, a field trip to Ellis Island in
New York takes place."

Choral reading

Trayce Diskin, ninth-, 10th- and 12th-grade college prep literacy, Montgomery
Blair High School, Silver Spring

"Choral reading works best with a poem or short prose passage. All each student
needs is a copy of the text and a highlighter. As the teacher reads the text out
loud, students highlight two or three sentences or phrases that resonate for
them. . . . I encourage my students to choose lines that seem particularly
powerful, significant, confusing or relevant to them.

"Now the choral reading begins. The teacher reads the passage out loud again,
but this time, students join in on the lines they highlighted. As soon as the
reading begins, the class can hear which portions of the text resonated the
most. The reading itself - both an impromptu performance and an automatic
conversation with the text - is a pretty rewarding experience for the class. . .
. Almost always a rich and engaging discussion of the passage begins."

Sludge Project

Debbie Pakaluk, eighth-grade chemistry, Norwood School, Bethesda

"Every spring students participate in the Sludge Project, which requires them to
separate a mixture of unknowns (they don't even know how many substances it
contains) and then test the properties of each of the components (density,
boiling point, solubility, flammability, as well as odor and appearance). Each
pair of students gets a plastic cup with a different 100-ml mixture. Students
use separation techniques that they have studied previously . . . as well as
ones they think of on the spot. Each pair works independently (I enforce safety
measures but do not otherwise help them) for about three weeks, and then each
student writes a paper summarizing his or her work.

"After the project is completed, we finish the year by studying compounds,
elements and finally atoms."

I like all of these. We will reveal the results in a month. I will also describe
some of the other intriguing ideas we received.

mathewsj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2012 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The browning of America

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 583 words


MINORITIES NOW account for more than half the babies born in the United States,
a milestone in the path toward what demographers forecast will be an overall
majority-minority population in 30 years.

That watershed bit of data from the Census Bureau, reported this week, was
seized on by the multicultural left, which reads it as a triumph of demographic
inevitability, and the Chicken Little right, which sees it as a portent of
socioeconomic disaster. In fact, it is cause for neither elation nor alarm but
for a rational response from policymakers, who have so far tended to pretend
nothing is happening. They're wrong.

America's burgeoning minority population is largely the byproduct of a surge of
immigrants in the past 30 years, without whom this country would be rapidly
aging and economically stagnant - think of a Western version of Japan. A
heartening subtext of that immigration explosion is that it has occurred,
despite frictions over illegal immigrants and too few policies to grease the
wheels of assimilation, with a minimum of social disruption.

Contrast that with Western Europe's biggest countries, where the percentages of
immigrants (and minorities) are lower but the social tensions surrounding them
much more acute. To varying degrees and despite divergent policies in England,
France and Germany, there are worrying signs that Europe's second-generation
immigrants are socially and economically less integrated than their parents, who
came for work but were never made to feel welcome. Stranded in countries they
regard with hostility, the second generation has drifted in many cases toward
political and religious radicalism.

America, with a longer and richer immigrant tradition and a different immigrant
pool, has been much more successful in absorbing its influx. True, progress
across generations is uneven: Latinos tend to trail Asians, blacks and
non-Hispanic whites. But like Irish, Italian, Polish and Jewish immigrants a
century ago, the latest wave of immigrants wants to become fully American. And
while full integration often takes more than one generation, the children of
newcomers are generally doing much better than their parents.

The real danger is complacency. Education levels of today's immigrants and their
children may be no worse than their early-20th-century counterparts, but they
still graduate from college in far smaller proportions than do non-Hispanic
whites. That represents a crippling disadvantage in today's post-industrial
economy.

Elected officials have done too little to address that discrepancy. They also
have been paralyzed by the presence of an estimated 11 million illegal
immigrants, whose children, documented or not, are assimilating too slowly and
risk becoming an intractable part of the long-term underclass. In the past,
unauthorized immigrants were often eventually given a leg up and a path to
legalizing themselves via amnesty or other means, affording their children a
shot at the American Dream. Now, millions are stuck, and America is the loser.

Radical demographic shifts are occurring in Texas, Florida, Arizona and other
big states as elderly non-Hispanic white populations, who control the political
process through their votes, are being gradually supplanted by a wave of younger
Latinos. America's complexion is changing, literally. It will be up to
politicians to manage that evolution without social upheaval and to ensure that
younger Americans, even if they don't resemble their elders, get the same
opportunities.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Hardship and humor of the immigrant life

BYLINE: Juliet Wittman

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 1474 words


Our national debate about immigration has become so two-dimensional, so
relentlessly focused on economics and race, that we tend to ignore something
harder to define and perhaps more important: the way that exiles and immigrants
enlarge our understanding of the world and our place within it. They bring with
them their culture - music, food, courtship rituals, child-raising patterns,
ways of occupying and moving in space and of relating to other people, histories
far differently shaped than ours, and a trove of memories that can be joyous,
bitter, shadowed, mundane. From Maxine Hong Kingston to Charles Simic to Jhumpa
Lahiri, they have also given us a rich body of literature. Immigrants change our
angle of vision and set everyday life slightly atilt; The breath of strangeness
an immigrant carries just walking down the street is at once a challenge and an
invitation.

Rupinder Gill, Kimi Cunningham Grant and Loung Ung bring very different
perspectives to the immigrant experience, but each in her own way deepens our
understanding. Gill's musings are light: Her parents are Indian, she was brought
up in Canada, and like many children of immigrants, she longs to escape the
limitations of her traditional childhood and indulge in such quintessentially
North American activities as driving a car and attending summer camp. Grant's
life is peaceful, but her awareness of the ordeal suffered by her Japanese
American grandmother in one of the internment camps set up after the bombing of
Pearl Harborpushes insistently at the edges of her consciousness, and she feels
compelled to piece together this story. Ung fled Pol Pot's reign of terror in
Cambodia as a child, and nightmarish memories roil her outwardly placid life as
a university student. It takes many years and much turmoil before she can find a
way to use her experience to help others and reconcile her two realities.

At the beginning of her memoir, "Lulu in the Sky," Ung is living a typical
undergraduate life at a small Catholic college in Burlington, Vt. She gossips
with girlfriends, eats a lot of junk food and melts when she encounters a
handsome fellow student on the street. But there are differences that go far
beyond the expatriate's usual nostalgia and the fact that Ung thinks and speaks
in four languages. For her, earthworms writhing on a sidewalk after rain summon
images of rotting corpses, a friendly neck hug provokes uncontrollable rage, and
her first attempt to make love with her boyfriend is marred by memories of the
Vietnamese soldier who tried to rape her when she was 9. Ung is intensely
sensitive to television images of war and genocide; news of Pol Pot's death
brings her close to a nervous breakdown and prompts her finally to commit her
story - and that of her ravaged country - to paper.

In two earlier memoirs, Ung described growing up in Cambodia, where she
experienced hunger and hardship, and where both her parents and many of her
relatives were killed by the Khmer Rouge. She arrived in the United States at
the age of 10. "Lulu in the Sky" alternates between her life here and her visits
to Cambodia, a country that, despite all, she loves deeply and where she
maintains warm and vital relationships with surviving family members. After
college, she goes to work for the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation and
becomes active in the international campaign to ban landmines.

At the center of Ung's story is the loving and preternaturally patient Mark -
the handsome boy on the sidewalk - and it is through this relationship that we
experience her slow healing and maturation. What begins as an undergraduate
crush, with all the usual petty jealousies and insecurities (a decade into the
relationship, Ung has still not introduced Mark to the highly traditional
brother and sister-in-law who brought her up), deepens into a love that
withstands Ung's prickliness, hesitation and bouts of despair. You can't help
liking and admiring this young woman who, having endured so much as a child, has
devoted her life to promoting justice and understanding, and who ends her
lively, humorous account with both an excellent bibliography and an
idiosyncratic list of favorite restaurants. So when you arrive at the
hard-earned happy ending, it's with a sigh of deep relief.

Grant's "Silver Like Dust" explores the experiences of her grandmother, who
spent three years in a concentration camp at Heart Mountain, Wyo., during World
War II. This was a result of Franklin D. Roosevelt's Executive Order 9066, which
allowed for the relocation inland of all Japanese and Japanese Americans living
on the Pacific Coast after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. The historical details
may be of interest to those unfamiliar with this stain on American history, the
intense prejudice and discrimination suffered by Asian immigrants even before
the war, and the fact that Japanese families who had worked hard and loyally to
assimilate lost all they had and were sent to bleak and isolated camps.

But given the extensive written record, this narrative also should have
introduced something new: showing the contemporary relevance of this attack on
civil liberties - surely not difficult in the post-9/11 environment - or
enlivening the story through specific reminiscences of the woman Grant calls her
Obaachan. Though Grant does contrast the Japanese internees' shikataganai -
roughly translated as an acceptance of what can't be changed, which she comes to
see as a reflection of wisdom and dignity rather than passivity - with the
political activism of her own generation, there's little else in the way of a
contemporary political frame.

Obaachan herself is either not much given to reflection or profoundly reticent,
so she offers few revelatory details. Grant attempts to bring their discussions
to life on the page with rather prosaic bits of physical description: She
herself twirls a grilled shrimp in garlic sauce, Obaachan kicks her sneaker-clad
feet as she speaks. When Obaachan kills a small and apparently harmless snake
she's found sunning itself on her path, Grant refers to a "ruthless side of my
grandmother" and calls the incident "comical, bewildering, and impressive" but
doesn't convince the reader. And none of this is enough to make her memoir
compelling.

Rupinder Gill's "On the Outside Looking Indian" is sometimes charming and
sometimes mildly amusing, but there's almost nothing at stake here. Gill grew up
in a very strict immigrant household, not allowed to take dance classes, go to
summer camp or do most of the other things enjoyed by youngsters in her
community - a small town an hour from Toronto. She and her sisters passed the
time watching television and eating junk food in the basement. Hers was not an
unkind or abusive home; the story she tells is the familiar one of traditional
immigrant parents struggling to make a life in a new country, and of children
who want to assimilate and would rather eat French fries than jalebi. It might
have been interesting to learn more about the parents' lives and thoughts and
the deeper differences between the two cultures, but that is not Gill's focus.

At 30, Gill decides to change her life, take some risks and experience
everything she'd been denied as a youngster. She's not planning drunken orgies,
a relocation to the Czech Republic or a jungle trek. Hers is a modest list that
includes sleepovers, learning to swim, visiting Disney World and getting a
puppy.

Significant memoirs and personal narratives have been written about quiet lives
and small events, but they require a poetic or dramatic writing style and the
ability to extrapolate from the mundane to the universal. Gill's style is
unfocused, and the challenges she creates for herself don't really go anywhere.
The slumber party doesn't live up to her teenage fantasies of horror movies and
prank calls, though it turns out to be pleasant. We might care about the
swimming lessons if Gill had to conquer a real terror of water, longed to become
a competitive swimmer or met a sexy man in the pool. As it is, she just learns
to swim a bit. No single encounter or event leaps to life - not even a visit to
India with her mother - and the narrative has little momentum or unexpected
detail to hold the reader's interest. There's just no real story here. And by
the end, Gill hasn't even acquired a puppy.

bookworld@washpost.com

Juliet Wittman is the author of "Breast Cancer Journal: A Century of Petals" and
the theater critic for Westword, a Denver weekly.

LULU IN THE SKY

A Daughter of Cambodia Finds Love, Healing, and Double Happiness

By Loung Ung

Harper Perennial. 330 pp. Paperback, $15.99

SILVER LIKE DUST

One Family's Story of America's Japanese Internment

By Kimi Cunningham Grant

Pegasus. 325 pp. $26.95

ON THE OUTSIDE LOOKING INDIAN

How My Second Childhood Changed My Life

By Rupinder Gill

Riverhead. 277 pp. Paperback, $15

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 11, 2012 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The harm caused by deportations

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 260 words


Ever since the Department of Homeland Security decided to conscript local police
as "force multipliers" in harsh immigration enforcement efforts, cities and
states have found themselves unwittingly or unwillingly part of the
controversial federal deportation program misnamed Secure Communities. But a
bold move last  week by the D.C. Council ["In D.C., no warm welcome for
immigration crackdown," Metro, June 5] to protect residents from the effects of
Secure Communities should serve as a model for the country.

The council unanimously sided with immigrants and other foreign-born residents
and said the city would respond to federal detention requests only when the
individual involved is an adult and has been convicted of a serious crime.

Secure Communities erodes public safety because it deters witnesses and crime
victims from contacting police for fear of deportation. It's responsible for
driving record deportations set by the president's quota of 400,000 removals a
year. The administration defends the program as a tool to target "criminals,"
but the  majority of deported  individuals  lacked criminal records or were
convicted of minor offenses. Of 1,246 people the program removed from Fairfax
County the past three years, less than a third committed serious crimes.

Real security is created by actions such as the District's that keep families
together, uphold principles of fairness and restore public trust between local
police and the community.

Sarahi Uribe, Washington

The writer is an organizer for the National Day Laborer Organizing Network.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 14, 2012 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

A teen's citizenship dream

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 231 words


Regarding the June 11 front-page article "A question of merit" and the June 12
news article "Virginia teen can remain in country":

It was predictable but unfortunate that Heydi Mejia, an undocumented immigrant,
had to make the front page of The Post to avoid immediate deportation. The
United States is home to thousands of students just like Ms. Mejia. Since we
can't seem to fix the immigration problem, can The Post put all of them on Page
1 as well?

Richard Wildermann, Herndon

l

The article about Heydi Mejia's recent graduation and imminent deportation
(since delayed) was heartbreaking. But there are rules, and her mother broke the
rules 14 years ago when she and her daughter entered the United States
illegally.

My heart goes out to them; I'm sure they are fine people. But when you break the
rules, there are - and should be - consequences.

Ashley Whitt, Woodbine, Md.

l

The article about the deportation proceedings for new high school graduate Heydi
Mejia was heartbreaking. Since she was brought to this country from Guatemala at
age 4, she has done nothing but prove to be a successful "citizen" and an
outstanding student. She has dreams for her future in the only country she has
ever known.

When will the members of Congress ever stop bickering and deal with this
nation's painful immigration issue?

Ms. Mejia deserves to stay and become a true U.S. citizen.

Ann Wild, Chevy Chase

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Reporter interrupts Obama's policy speech

BYLINE: David Nakamura

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 510 words


A reporter for a conservative news Web site interrupted President Obama's
announcement of a new immigration policy in the Rose Garden on Friday, drawing a
rebuke from the visibly agitated president.

The reporter, who later identified himself as Neil Munro of the Daily Caller,
shouted out questions while Obama was explaining that his administration will
block deportations of young illegal immigrants. That prompted the president to
respond: "Not while I'm speaking."

At the end of his remarks, however, Obama returned to Munro, who was standing in
the press corps area of the manicured lawn outside the West Wing and had asked
why Obama's new policy favored "foreigners over American workers."

"And the answer to your question, sir - and the next time I'd prefer you let me
finish my statements before you ask that question - is this is the right thing
to do for the American people," Obama said, before Munro shouted out again. The
president added: "I didn't ask for an argument. I'm answering your question."

As Obama finished and walked off, Munro shouted: "What about American workers
who are unemployed while you import foreigners?"

On the Daily Caller's Web site, Munro issued a statement explaining that he
thought Obama was wrapping up his remarks when he asked the question.

"I have no intention of interrupting the President of the United States. I know
he rarely takes questions before walking away from the podium," Munro said in
the statement. "When I asked the question as he finished his speech, he turned
his back on the many reporters, and walked away while I and at least one other
reporter asked questions."

Daily Caller editor in chief Tucker Carlson, who was at an airport in Chicago
and did not watch the news conference, praised Munro's approach.

"That's what reporters do, try to get their questions answered. And that's what
politicians do, try not to answer questions," Carlson said in a phone interview.
"They come out and make a statement and run back into their fortress. Why should
we play along with that?"

Carlson described Munro as an experienced White House reporter in his mid-40s
who has worked at the Web site for two years. He said Munro is an immigrant from
Ireland who is married to an American and has children.

Carlson emphasized that Munro had not orchestrated a planned stunt to draw
attention.

"I had no idea," Carlson said. "He's an aggressive person."

But retired ABC News reporter and anchor Sam Donaldson, 78, said in a telephone
interview: "I never interrupted any president while he was making a formal
presentation of any sort. You don't do that, do you?"

Carlson added that White House press secretary Jay Carney had e-mailed him after
the incident asking Carlson to contact him.

"I'm a believer in politeness, but we ought to be polite to everybody," Carlson
said. "I also think these things are structured in such a way that gives the
politician all the cards."

Carlson added that he would give Munro a raise if the publication could afford
it.

nakamurad@washpost.com

Staff writer Karen Tumulty contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

BYLINE: - Rachel Weiner

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 374 words

Obama's immigration decision may boost Rubio's VP chances

One under-the-radar consequence of the Obama administration's shift in
deportation policy is that Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, the leading Hispanic
voice in the Republican Party, will now stand at the center of a critical debate
heading into the fall - a role that could boost his chances of emerging as Mitt
Romney's vice presidential pick.

The politics of Obama's order  blocking the deportation of thousands of young
illegal immigrants are clear: It should help him rally Hispanic voters
frustrated by current immigration policies.

It also could exacerbate GOP problems among Hispanic voters. A recent Wall
Street Journal poll had Obama leading Romney among Latino registered voters 61
percent to 27 percent. And those political winds may well convince Romney that
the way to counteract a major-league defeat among Hispanics is to put Rubio on
the ticket.

"If in fact this announcement turns into more Latino enthusiasm for Obama, it is
one more reason for Mitt Romney to look at Marco Rubio," said Miami-based
Republican strategist Ana Navarro.

A recent Quinnipiac University poll showed that picking Rubio would give Romney
a tangible boost in Florida. Outside his Cuban-heavy home state, Rubio's
potential impact is less clear.

But Rubio would bring to the Romney ticket not just his ethnic background but a
sign of commitment to immigration issues and Hispanic voters. He's done what
Romney, fearing a backlash from anti-immigration hawks, has been unable to do.

Rubio has presented his own version of the DREAM Act, allowing some young
illegal immigrants to stay in the country. (Romney has avoided taking a stand on
the proposal.) The senator has criticized Republicans for "rhetoric that is
harsh and intolerable and inexcusable."

In fact, Rubio responded to Obama's decision before Romney did. His statement
praised the goal but criticized the method.

"Today's announcement will be welcome news for many of these kids desperate for
an answer, but it is a short-term answer to a long-term problem," he said. "And
by once again ignoring the Constitution and going around Congress, this
short-term policy will make it harder to find a balanced and responsible
long-term one."

- Rachel Weiner

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 17, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

BYLINE: Greg Sargent

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 387 words

A GOP vote for Obama's move

Was President Obama's announcement that he will block deportations of hundreds
of thousands of young illegal immigrants an abuse of power and an affront to the
Constitution that will only encourage further lawbreaking? Many apoplectic
Republicans and conservatives have argued as much.

But not Mark Shurtleff, Utah's conservative attorney general. He dismissed those
objections in an interview on Friday, arguing the move was good law enforcement
policy and even a "conservative" solution.

"This is clearly within the president's power," Shurtleff told me. "I was
pleased when the president announced it."

Shurtleff, a Mitt Romney supporter who is a die-hard conservative on many other
issues, is perhaps the nation's most prominent Republican staking out an
alternative to the GOP's hard line on immigration. His support for the
president's policy represents a larger split within the party, between those who
see Arizona as a model for the nation and those who want the party to take
another approach to demographic (and related political) realities.

Shurtleff noted that this decision was not made via executive order and that the
administration has discretion to decide whom to prosecute.

"Law enforcement makes decisions based on the resources available to them -
until Congress acts, we'll be left with too many people to deport," Shurtleff
said. "The administration is saying, 'Here's a group we could be spending our
resources going after, but why? They're Americans, they see themselves as
Americans, they love this country.' "

By allowing children brought here illegally to attend school and work, Shurtleff
added, the president's plan could encourage them to stay out of gangs - which
Shurtleff  called a "conservative" goal. He dismissed the claim that illegal
immigration would be encouraged, noting that Obama's plan applies only to those
who came to this country before age 16, who are younger than 30 and who have
been in the country for at least five continuous years.

Shurtleff also rejected the argument that this constitutes "amnesty" because it
gives illegal immigrants the legal status they were trying to steal.

"You're not giving [legal status] to the parents who came here," Shurtleff said.
"You're giving it to the child who was brought here. That child didn't get to
choose."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2012 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Romney knocks immigration move but details no alternative

BYLINE: Philip Rucker;Dan Balz

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1006 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, OHIO


NEWARK, Ohio - Mitt Romney criticized President Obama's decision to stop
deporting some illegal immigrants who were brought to the United States as
children as an election-year political move, but he repeatedly declined in an
interview Sunday to lay out an alternative plan.

The Republican presidential candidate said he wants a "long-term solution,"
unlike what he derided as Obama's "stopgap measure," but would not say what it
would entail other than to provide permanent residency to those who serve in the
military.

"With regards to these kids who were brought in by their parents through no
fault of their own, there needs to be a long-term solution so they know what
their status is," Romney said on CBS's "Face the Nation."

Romney's struggle to offer a clear alternative on the immigration issue was a
fresh reminder of one of the challenges he faces, which is to go beyond his
steady criticism of the president with a more detailed description of the
policies he would implement to replace what Obama has done.

Immigration is a problem particularly because of conservative stances Romney
took during the Republican primary campaign that now could cause him difficulty
in appealing to Hispanic voters in the general election. But even regarding the
biggest issue of the campaign - the economy - there are many unanswered
questions as to what he would do.

Romney is midway through a bus tour of six potential battleground states and on
Sunday, he stumped across the most critical of all, Ohio. He spoke at a pancake
breakfast in Brunswick and a rally in the town square of Newark and then
campaigned with House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) at a hamburger shop in
Troy.

But his speeches were short and general. At the rally here in Newark, Romney
revved up a couple of thousand supporters by promising to "shock the world with
how our economy's coming back," but in a speech that clocked at just nine
minutes, offered only broad outlines and few specifics.

Those specifics included developing U.S. energy resources, cutting back on
government regulation of business - including the repeal of Obama's health-care
law - and putting the country on track toward a balanced budget.

Stuart Stevens, the campaign's chief strategist, acknowledged that voters want
to know more about what a Romney presidency would be like. But he took issue
with critics who have said the Republican hasn't offered details about how his
presidency would differ from Obama's.

"As the campaign goes on, you'll have more specifics," Stevens told reporters
Sunday after the Newark rally. "But I think that Governor Romney has been more
specific [than] the president on most of these big issues." He cited Romney's
proposals on Social Security and Medicare as two examples. But he begged off
questions about immigration and how Romney would balance the budget.

Stevens said voters have a clear sense of Obama. "They know how they feel about
this president," he said. "They know what they've experienced the last 31 / 2
years and they're disappointed."

But he acknowledged that many of these same voters don't know Romney well. "We
hear the same thing," he said.

The campaign's response has been an opening round of ads, which describe, in
general terms, what the candidate would do in the opening stages of his
presidency. "Okay, let's talk about what a Romney presidency would be like,"
Stevens said, adding: "People want to know this."

The renewed spotlight on immigration comes as Romney tries to narrow Obama's
wide lead among Hispanic voters. The candidates will address a national group of
Latino officials this week in Orlando, where Romney will face pressure to
further define his position.

Romney made his first extensive comments in the CBS interview about immigration
policy since Obama's announcement Friday regarding the citizenship status of
child immigrants who go on to become law-abiding residents.

When anchor Bob Schieffer asked Romney whether he would repeal Obama's policy,
he said: "Well, it would be overtaken by events, if you will, by virtue of my
putting in place a long-term solution, with legislation which creates law that
relates to these individuals such that they know what their setting is going to
be, not just for the term of a president but on a permanent basis."

Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, suggested that Obama's decision was
motivated by politics, not policy.

"If he felt seriously about this he should have taken action when he had a
Democrat House and Senate, but he didn't. He saves these sort of things until 41
/ 2 months before the general election," Romney said. Campaign politics, he
added, was "certainly a big part of the equation."

Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) has been trying to draft compromise legislation for
young immigrants, but Romney largely has been standoffish, declining to take a
position on the outlines Rubio has described.

And in his campaign appearances Sunday in Ohio, Romney never mentioned
immigration. Instead, he focused almost exclusively on the economy and sharply
criticized the president's stewardship of it.

In a sign that the campaign is intensifying, though, Romney was followed by
hecklers at two of his rallies; at an event in Troy, about a dozen Obama
supporters shouted "Romney, go home!" and "We are the 99 percent!" throughout
Romney's eight-minute speech. Earlier Sunday, Obama strategist David Axelrod
tweeted: "I strongly condemn heckling along Mitt's route."

When Romney's bus drove in dramatic fashion onto a rolling apple orchard in
Brunswick, his breakfast crowd was drenched and the pancakes were soggy. But the
candidate - accompanied on Father's Day by his wife, Ann; two of their five
sons; and five grandchildren - pointed to the weather as a political good omen.

"I didn't know it was going to rain this morning," Romney said, as the storm
clouds began to drift east. "It looks like the sun is coming out. I think that's
a metaphor for the country. The sun is coming out, guys. Three and a half years
of dark clouds are about to part."

ruckerp@washpost.com

balzd@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Asians outnumber Hispanics among new arrivals to U.S., analysis shows

BYLINE: Carol Morello

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 785 words


Immigration from Latin America has dropped so precipitously that Asians now
outnumber Hispanicsamong new arrivals in the United States, a new study shows.

The switchover has been in place since at least 2009, according to the Pew
Research Center, and is primarily the result of plunging immigration from
Mexico, the birthplace of more U.S. immigrants than any other country. This
year, Pew said more Mexicans may be leaving the United States than arriving for
the first time since the Great Depression, due to weakness in the U.S. job
market, a rise in deportation and a decline in Mexico's birthrate.

At the same time, the number of Asian immigrants has held steady or increased
slightly. Pew's analysis of census data estimated that 430,000 Asian immigrants
came to the United States in 2010, making up 36 percent of all new immigrants,
compared with 31 percent who were Hispanic.

The reversal is a reminder of how the recession and an uneven recovery have
altered not only how people live but, to a degree, who lives in the United
States. Demographers and immigration analysts cautioned that the two largest and
fastest-growing groups may eventually switch places again when the economy grows
robust. But in the meantime, the about-face has the potential to tweak
perceptions of immigrants and their role in society.

"If it continues, the face of immigrants in the country will change, and perhaps
the reaction to immigration will change," said William Frey, a demographer at
the Brookings Institution who has found that India is fueling most of the Asian
population growth. "People have different perceptions of Asians than they do of
Hispanics. Asians have always been seen as the model minority."

Most Asian and Hispanic immigrants arrive in the United States with very
different backgrounds. Pew estimated that 13 to 15 percent of Asian immigrants
over the past decade were undocumented, compared with 45 percent of Hispanic
immigrants. More Asian immigrants are admitted with employment visas than those
from other countries.

Pew noted that just 16 percent of recent Hispanic adult immigrants have college
degrees, compared with 28 percent of all adults in the United States. In
contrast, more than two in three adult Asians who have immigrated in recent
years either come to the United States to attend college or already have at
least a bachelor's degree, a distinction making them "the most highly educated
cohort of immigrants in U.S. history."

"It's the way people are," said My Lan Tran, an ethnic Chinese immigrant from
Vietnam who  heads the Virginia Asian Chamber of Commerce. "It's always been
that way, for 6,000 or 7,000 years. It's like asking why the moon is yellow.
That's just the way it is."

The typically high education levels of Asians have often fit U.S. immigration
policy goals.

Rob Paral, a Chicago-based demographic consultant to the American Immigration
Council, said many of the poorest neighborhoods in big cities have Asian doctors
who immigrated on the promise that they could stay permanently if they promise
to work in an under-served area.

"Asians are the group most likely to arrive explicitly because a hospital could
not a find a native-born American to do their intern rounds," he said. "Maybe
now we'll have the luxury to look at what Asian immigration means, showing how
we can use immigration policy as a tool to fill our needs."

Despite the reversal in positions for new immigrants, Hispanics still far
outnumber Asians in the United States. There are already more Hispanics than the
41 million Asians that Pew predicts will live in the United States by 2050,
around the time when non-Hispanic whites are predicted to be a minority.

Currently, the nation's 18 million Asians make up 6 percent of the U.S.
population, including multiracial people. More than eight in 10 come from just
six countries - China, the Philippines, India, Vietnam, South Korea and Japan.

By comparison, the nation's 52 million Hispanics make up almost 17 percent of
the population.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
opposes the Dream Act that would make legal some immigrants who came to the
United States as children, said most Americans won't even notice that Asians
outnumber Hispanics as new arrivals.

"I don't think things are necessarily going to change much," he said., executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which describes its vision as
"low immigration, pro-immigrant." "Even if Asians are the biggest new immigrant
group, the blip of a few percentage points is not going to change the fact
today's immigration flow is remarkably un-diverse. That's what drives much of
the political concern in the public."

morelloc@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Frozen faces, gazing through gate to new lives

BYLINE: Michael E. Ruane

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 807 words


The little girl with the dark circles under her eyes looks as though she's been
crying. She's clutching a doll and has her left arm looped in the arm of the
girl beside her.

It is 1908. The place is the immigration depot on Ellis Island in New York's
harbor. It looks chilly, because many of the children are in hats and scarves.
But the youngsters, and some adults, have gathered for a group photograph.

The haunting photo is among the first that visitors see in the National
Archives'new exhibit on the history of the travails of immigration, which opened
Friday in the Archives' main building in downtown Washington.

Titled "Attachments: Faces and Stories From America's Gates," it is a look at
the difficulties and prejudices faced by immigrants down through the years, and
the harrowing roads some traveled to reach America.

Told with documents, letters and affidavits, the exhibit's power is in its
black-and-white photographs - many blown up to huge size - of people.

The elegant shot of Wong Lan Fong, 27, the bride of Chinese merchant Yee Shew
Ning. She appears coiffed and prosperous to convince immigration officials at
California's Angel Island in 1927 that she is not a prostitute.

The photo of 13-year-old, Polish-born Michael Pupa, his hair carefully parted.
It was taken in 1951 after his  parents had perished at the hands of the Nazis
and he had made his way to the United States, a boy survivor of the Holocaust.

The striking 1926 photo, which curators found in a "dead letter" file, of the
Italian musician Pasquale Taraffo posing with his gigantic harp-guitar. The
picture was designed to prove Taraffo's profession so he could enter the country
to perform.

The exhibit is one of "individuals who found themselves at America's gates, and
for one reason or another had a difficult time going through those gates,"
curator Bruce I. Bustard said.

"We're not trying to make any comment on the contemporary [immigration] debate,"
Bustard said. "We are trying to . . . get people to realize that the debates
around immigration have their own long and . . . complicated and conflicted
history."

Bustard said the first immigrants to be photographed were Chinese in the late
1800s, followed by other Asians, and then almost all immigrants after World War
I.

Government officials sought to document those who were seeking entry, and the
immigrants  sought to impress -  and sometimes deceive - those controlling
entry.

In some instances, the government recorded would-be immigrants' height, weight,
condition of teeth and hat size.

Bustard said there were many cases of "paper sons" and "paper daughters," in
which immigrants posed as legal relatives of someone already here to gain
entrance.

One story in the exhibit is that of Rock Hang, a Chinese cook in Seattle who was
trying to gain reentry to the United States of a boy he claimed was his son.
When the boy arrived in 1906, officials doubted the story and had him deported.

Some who arrived were deported for other reasons.

Dubas Wasyl, an Austrian farmhand who, officials noted, had "normal" ears and
two missing teeth, was deported from Ellis Island in 1906 after it was
discovered that he had served time back home for stealing peas and consorting
with thieves.

Francesco Zaccaro was sent home in 1907 after he was found to have been jailed
for eight days in his native Italy for "applying [a] vile name to a woman."  He
had been in the United States for just three days.

An entry in his file reads: "Excluded as a person having been convicted of a
crime involving moral turpitude."

Some immigrants got in but traveled long and tortured routes.

Stephan Bondareff, a soldier in the White Russian army, left Russia after the
Bolshevik Red Army won the Russian Civil War in the early 1920s.

He fled to Turkey, Bulgaria, England and France. He was hired as a Cossack
"trick rider" in a Wild West show in France. When the show traveled to Mexico,
he slipped across the Rio Grande into Texas.

He made his way to Michigan and went to work for Ford. He became a citizen in
1938 and died in 1978.

Richard Arvay, an Austrian Jewish filmmaker, fled to Paris when Nazi Germany
annexed Austria in 1938. After Germany defeated France in World War II, Arvay
spent a year in a concentration camp.

It's not clear if he escaped or was released, but he moved to southern France,
according to the exhibit catalogue, then Italy, and then was granted entry to
what was supposed to be a temporary refugee camp in Oswego, N.Y.

The refugees promised to return to Europe after the war.

But in 1944, Arvay filled out a U.S. background form, with a handwritten note
that read:  "I . . . would find it impossible to live in a country where all my
family have been killed and as far as I know no member of my relationship or
friends are alive."

Arvay was allowed to stay and became a citizen. He died in 1970.

ruanem@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

A disregard for personal freedom

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 155 words


Regarding the June 18 front-page article "Alabama law casts a long shadow":

Alabama has made it a crime for undocumented immigrants to purchase a home, pay
a utility bill or sign a contract - the latest case of Republicans blatantly
advocating for big-government measures whenever it advances their political
agenda.

Whether it is through ignorance or an impudent disregard for personal freedom,
conservatives who claim to love liberty use their power to implement roadside
checkpoints and to require drivers to provide their immigration status to
authorities.

If we believe in the American values of equality, the free market and liberty,
we would agree that, in Alabama at least, conservatives are the biggest threats
to social and economic freedom.

Natural rights are held by all, not just by those who carry around their
identification papers.

Carlos Alfaro, Washington

The writer is an executive board member of Students for Liberty.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

The source of an immigrant's plight

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 227 words


Regarding the June 11 front-page article "A question of merit":

Eli Saslow wrote a sad story about recent Richmond area high school graduate
Heydi Mejia, but he did not address the elephant in the room: her mother
bringing her illegally into this country when she was 4 years old. It mentioned
that fact, but it really glossed over it as the cause of Mejia's pending
deportation to Guatemala. And it didn't include Mejia's reaction to what her
mother had done to her.

I feel for Mejia, who got a reprieve from deportation last week, but who is
responsible for her plight? The article had many words about grief but not one
word about the true cause of her grief.

Dennis Hughes,

St. Petersburg, Fla.

l

Eli Saslow's article represented a powerful counterpoint to the declining
influence of newsprint in the digital age. Less than one week after the
publication of  this heartfelt tale, about a Virginia teen who has been in this
country illegally since the age of 4, the White House announced a change of
policy that allows her and hundreds of thousands of other young immigrants like
her the opportunity to avoid deportation and pursue the American dream.

Kudos to The Post and print journalists everywhere who strive day in and day out
against technology and the bottom line to ensure that our country remains true
to its highest values.

Dennis S. Askwith, Gaithersburg

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 24, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

5 Myths about the Dream generation

BYLINE: Roberto G. Gonzales

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1281 words


1. The Dream generation is Latino.

Young undocumented Americans come from a cross-section of countries in Asia,
Europe, Africa and Latin America. There are growing numbers of non-Latino, Dream
Act-eligible students on university campuses across the country. In the
University of California system, for example, more than 40 percent of the
undocumented students are Asian. And Dreamers from 15 countries, including
Nigeria, Germany and Israel,
http://lightbox.time.com/2012/06/14/behind-the-cover-americas-undocumented-immig
rants/#1-URL-appeared on the cover of Time magazine this month.

According to research from the University of California at Irvine, the countries
that send the most undocumented immigrants to the United States also send the
largest numbers of legal immigrants. Following Mexicans and Central Americans,
Filipinos, Indians and Koreans round out the top five  . The communities that
the Dream Act would help don't all speak Spanish.

2. If we make it tough for these students and their families, they will
self-deport.

Republican presidential candidate
http://www.washingtonpost.com/mitt-romney-2012-presidential-candidate/gIQANxIecO
_topic.html?tid=rr_mod_candidate"
title="www.washingtonpost.com-URL-Mitt Romney supports
http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/election-2012/post/nm-gov-susana-martinez-cr
iticizes-romneys-self-deportation-idea/2012/05/14/gIQAl8l8OU_blog.html-URL-self-
deportation - the idea that stricter immigration laws will make life for
undocumented immigrants so unbearable that they will leave. Arizona, which
allows local police officers to make routine stops of anyone they suspect is
undocumented,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/04/23/AR2010042301441.
html"                 title="www.washingtonpost.com-URL-has embraced this view.

But self-deportation is unrealistic. Young immigrants' lives are rooted in the
United States. They speak English. They go to American schools. Alongside their
U.S.-born peers, they watch "SpongeBob SquarePants," read "Twilight" and "The
Hunger Games," and love Lady Gaga. While they may have had little choice in
their parents' decision to migrate, they are here to stay.

Unsurprisingly, few of America's 11 million undocumented immigrants have lined
up to leave. The Pew Research Center estimates that the number of Mexicans here
is declining, but to my knowledge there is no data on Dreamers returning to
their countries of origin.

3. All Dream Act students came here illegally.

According to the Pew Hispanic Center  , up to 45 percent of undocumented
immigrants entered the United States legally with valid visas. Still, after
someone overstays a visa, U.S. immigration law makes becoming a legal immigrant
difficult. Without a "hardship waiver," immigrants must return to their country
of origin to reapply for visas. And upon departure, they risk incurring bars on
reentry of up to 10 years. This process encourages undocumented people to remain
in the shadows - and encourages those who do leave the country after overstaying
their visas to reenter illegally.

Several years ago, I met a young Korean man in New York who has been in the
United States since he was a baby; his parents came here for college, then
overstayed their student visas. Though he graduated from college and dreamed of
being a federal judge, he works in his parents' grocery store partly because he
can't apply for a white-collar job without papers. Because he is 32, he would
not benefit from the Obama administration's new policy, which covers people
under 30.

4. The Obama administration's new immigration policy means we don't need the
Dream Act.

Obama's new policy grants deserving youth a kind of second-class citizenship.
The greater stability that the Dream Act would provide, including a path to full
citizenship, would be better.

For the Dream generation, life is fraught with mental and emotional stress. As
its members reach the end of high school, they are often unable to participate
in the rites of passage that their friends experience - learning to drive,
working part time and applying to college. Many choose not to share their secret
with their friends or teachers, separating themselves from critical support
networks. To help their parents, many turn to low-wage jobs, risking
deportation. Learning to be "illegal" takes its toll.

In more than 10 years of research, I've met hundreds of Dreamers across the
country. I've talked with dozens who suffer from chronic headaches, ulcers,
difficulty sleeping and trouble getting out of bed. Last November, an
undocumented high school senior in South Texas
http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/11/us/joaquin-luna-jrs-suicide-touches-off-immigr
ation-debate.html?_r=1&pagewanted=all"
title="www.nytimes.com-URL-took his life. "I've realized that I have no chance
in becoming a civil engineer the way I've always dreamed of here," he wrote in a
goodbye note.

5. The Dream generation can get in line, join the military or marry a U.S.
citizen.

Immigration law makes the pathways to citizenship very rocky. Many noncitizens
do not qualify for refugee status or asylum. Many do not have a family member
who is a U.S. citizen and can petition for them. For those who do, quotas are so
small that it can take decades to make it to the front of the line. Employer
sponsorship is also difficult, as too few visas are available for skilled
workers, and visas for unskilled workers are limited to 5,000 per year. And the
price tag of immigration is high - filing fees, medical examinations and lawyers
can cost thousands.

Meanwhile, marrying a U.S. citizen is a common path to legal status, but it's
not a guarantee. There are many exceptions. If the noncitizen entered the
country illegally, for example, a marriage will not result in permanent
residency.   And
whilehttp://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/explainer/2000/07/can_nonci
tizens_join_the_military.html-URL-noncitizens can enlist in the military, they
must have a valid alien registration card.

People who come here illegally do so because there's no easy legal path. For
most, there is no line to join.

rggonzales@uchicago.edu

Roberto G. Gonzales is an assistant professor at the University of Chicago. He
is writing a book on undocumented immigrant youth and their difficult
transitions to adulthood.

Read more from http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions-URL-Outlook, friend us on
http://www.facebook.com/washpostoutlook-URL-Facebook, and follow us on
http://www.twitter.com/postoutlook" title="www.twitter.com-URL-Twitter.

President Obama's recent decision to
http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/us-will-stop-deporting-some-illegal-immig
rants-who-came-here-as-children/2012/06/15/gJQANBbseV_story.html-URL-halt the
deportation of some undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United
States as children wasn't far ahead of public opinion. A recent Gallup poll
indicated that a majority of Americans support legislation to allow such
immigrants to stay if they serve in the military or go to college. But 11 years
after the introduction of the federal Dream (Development, Relief, and Education
for Alien Minors) Act, which has never been passed, misconceptions about the
Dream generation remain. Where are they coming from? Are they freeloaders taking
advantage of America's generosity?

Name                                                    Blurb
Flag              true                                    Variable Size Panel
Image
Panel Image
Background Image

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2012 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

For Obama, a tough year at the high court

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 894 words


The Supreme Court this week will conclude its term by handing down
much-anticipated rulings on health care and immigration, President Obama's
remaining priorities before the justices. It is a finale that cannot come
quickly enough for the administration, which has had a long year at the high
court.

In a string of cases - as obscure as the federal government's relationships with
Indian tribes and as significant asenforcement of the Clean Water Act - the
court rejected the administration's legal arguments with lopsided votes and
sometimes biting commentary.

The administration's win-loss record will sting a lot less, of course, if the
court upholds the constitutionality of Obama's signature domestic achievement,
the Affordable Care Act. That decision on health care, which will define the
term, could come as early as Monday and almost certainly will be announced by
Thursday.

The court also will decide the fate of Arizona's tough law on illegal
immigrants, which the Obama administration challenged in court before it could
take effect. The government's argument that the law conflicts with the federal
authority to decide immigration policy got a sour reception from the justices,
but the government hopes for at least a split decision on other aspects of the
measure.

The administration's ungainly portfolio at the Supreme Court this term has drawn
attention from all points on the ideological spectrum.

Ilya Shapiro, a constitutional scholar at the libertarian Cato Institute, said
the government is to blame for "outlandish claims of federal power" that the
court was correct to reject.

Adam Winkler, a liberal law professor at UCLA, recently wrote that the court
headed by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. has been "unusually hostile to the
Obama administration."

His conclusion: "This is the year of the Supreme Court's Obama smack down."

It might also have something to do with the (bad) luck of the draw. It is the
job of Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr. to defend the actions of
Congress and the executive. In some of the government's high-profile losses in
Verrilli's inaugural term, the administration was defending decisions made long
before Obama took office.

But whatever the reasons, the losses so far cannot be blamed on the conflict
between an increasingly conservative court and a progressive administration. For
instance, the authors of the Indian cases that went against the government last
week were Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan, Obama's choices for the
court.

At least so far, 5 to 4 decisions that have divided the court along ideological
lines have split fairly evenly between wins for liberals and for conservatives.
And there have been a string of high-profile losses in which the government has
failed to win the vote of a single justice - liberal or conservative.

The court was unanimous in rejecting the government's argumentsthat federal
discrimination laws protect employees of religious organizations who perform
some duties central to the group's faith.

The justices in Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and School v. EEOC for
the first time recognized a "ministerial exception" to workplace discrimination
laws. They dismissed the government's view that the fired employee's claim
should be viewed as if she worked for a labor union or social club protected by
the First Amendment's guarantee of free association.

"We cannot accept the remarkable view that the Religion Clauses have nothing to
say about a religious organization's freedom to select its own ministers,"
Roberts wrote.

In United States v. Jones, the government argued that it did not need a warrant
to attach a Global Positioning System device to a suspected drug dealer's car
and monitor his movements for a month. The court again disagreed unanimously,
although the justices split on whether Antoine Jones's constitutional rights
were violated when the device was put on his car or whether the government's
surveillance compromised his privacy rights.

And in Sackett v. EPA, the court rejected the argument that property owners
accused of violating the Clean Water Act do not have the right to quickly
challenge those allegations in court.

It is a case in which the administration was defending a decades-old EPA
enforcement technique upheld by lower courts. It was not indicative of any
activism by the Obama environmental regime; Mike and Chantell Sackett's plan to
build an Idaho lake house was stopped when George W. Bush was president.

While the Supreme Court passed up an earlier chance to consider the same issues
in an appeal from General Electric, it took the case of the Sacketts.

"I wonder if the case had been involving a large corporation if the result would
have been 9-0," Paul D. Clement, a former solicitor general in the Bush
administration, told reporters at a Chamber of Commerce briefing last week.

Others have questioned the aggressiveness of Verrilli's office and the
administration. As in the Sackett case, the government's support of the fired
teacher in the Hosanna-Tabor case began during the Bush administration.

Still, Shapiro said, the government "made a much broader argument at the Supreme
Court" than it had been making in the lower courts.

This week's decisions in the Arizona immigration case and on the health-care law
will determine whether such cases are remembered as footnotes or harbingers.

barnesr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2012 Monday
                                Regional Edition

A lawful step for the immigration system

BYLINE: David A. Martin

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 946 words


PresidentObama recently announceda policy to stop deportation of most
undocumented immigrants who came here as children and to give them a
quasi-status, called deferred action, that can let them work legally. Perhaps
800,000 Dreamers (as these young migrants are known, because they would be
covered under most versions of the long-stalled Dream Act) will benefit.

Pundits have been quick to label this initiative a kind of presidential penance
for alienating Latino supporters through his alleged policy of "record
deportations." Others say the new initiative is lawless, defying or nullifying
statutes Congress has passed.

Both camps are wrong. In fact, the Dreamer policy was largely made possible,
both politically and legally, by the administration's resolute, focused
deportation policy. Immigrant advocacy groups should begin appreciating this
balanced accomplishment.

Since Obama's inauguration, advocates have pressured the president to trim way
back on deportations, in the name of prosecutorial discretion. Some even
suggested that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) should deport only
people with serious felony convictions, which would cut removals to no more than
half - and probably more like a quarter - of the 397,000 ICE enforced in 2011.

But prosecutorial discretion, contrary to advocates' apparent assumption, isn't
authority to negate whole realms of enacted law. It is authority to choose
strategies and to direct resources while still achieving the basic aims of the
relevant legislation.

The policy that calls for high-volume deportations is not only, or even
primarily, Obama's. It is Congress's policy, expressed both through the
substantive immigration laws and - importantly - through annual appropriations
acts. Appropriators have showered the enforcement agencies with resources over
the past two decades. For the past four years, those resources have been enough
to support 370,000 to 400,000 ICE removals a year. Enacted appropriations have
the force of law. (Incidentally, Obama's removal level is only slightly higher
than the last year of the Bush administration. He may hold a record, but it's by
only 2 percent.)

Congress has also grown increasingly specific in its enforcement mandates - for
example, not only funding more than 30,000 ICE detention beds but firmly
directing that they be in constant use for removals. Appropriations legislation
has also specified the creation of a data system, now known as Secure
Communities, permitting ICE to link seamlessly to state and local arrest
information in order to concentrate efficiently on removing people with criminal
records.

For Obama to drop enforcement way below the levels Congress has called for
through appropriations laws would be more than legally dubious. It would also
set a dangerous precedent that could haunt progressives. Picture a Romney
administration thwarting, say, the new consumer protection laws by refusing to
spend half the money Congress continually provides for their enforcement. Such
hypothetical actions, by any administration, would conjure the ghost of Richard
Nixon, who belligerently impounded huge sums that Congress had appropriated
simply because enforcement didn't conform to unilateral executive policies.

Hard-liners may say: But Obama is not enforcing the law; he is rewriting it
through his latest initiative. This, too, is incorrect, precisely because the
administration has pledged to stay at the level of removals that corresponds to
appropriations, even while keeping Dreamers off the deportation list. Its
three-year track record of high-volume deportations, maintained in the face of
sharp criticism from key supporters, shows its commitment to law-bound
enforcement.

Some might still object: How can Obama give these people work authorization? But
such an approach is no novelty, and it certainly is not lawless. Foreigners
given deferred action have been eligible for work permits for 25 years under
regulations - carrying the force of law - adopted during the Reagan
administration.

Because ICE's annual appropriations, vast as they have become, still allow for
removal of only about 4 percent of the estimated undocumented population,
enforcement is inevitably quite selective. Hard-liners are only bluffing when
they posture about across-the-board enforcement rigor. In reality, they are
essentially asking for random removals - just charge whomever a field agent
happens to stumble across, until that month's resources run out. How can that
make for effective policy?

Instead, ICE is systematically applying the kind of judgment and discretion that
properly belong to the executive, in order to adjust the focus of enforcement
within the bounds that Congress marks. This approach began with a prosecutorial
discretion guidance memo from ICE Director John Morton in June 2011. Although
its implementation is still uneven, ICE is turning the removal spotlight toward
criminals, recent arrivals and repeat immigration violators - and away from
youths who are not culpable for their illegal presence. The Dreamer policy is
simply a more detailed element of that broader effort.

Our country's best chance for a long-run cure to our sick immigration system is
to combine sophisticated enforcement with humane realism about its
targets.Polling suggeststhat this precise mix is winning support for Obama's
Dreamer policy. May it someday be a model for full legislative reform.

David A. Martin, a professor of law at the University of Virginia, served as
general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1995 to 1998
and principal deputy general counsel of the Department of Homeland Security from
2009 through 2010.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Among Romney and GOP, disorder on the border

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 820 words


Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer is many things - immigration provocateur, bete noire of
Latinos, presidential irritant - but nobody has ever accused her of being a
legal scholar.

On Monday morning, the Supreme Court struck down three of four contested
provisions in her state's immigration law and left the fourth in jeopardy. But
Brewer decided to call it a win.

"Today's decision by the U.S. Supreme Court is a victory for the rule of law,"
the Republican governor announced in a statement that left the strong impression
it was written before the opinion was released. She used the word "victory"
twice more in her written statement, and added the word "vindicated" to her oral
remarks.

To be sure, the ruling left intact part of the immigration crackdown, the "show
me your papers" component, which the court suggested might be vulnerable to
future challenge. But Brewer certainly couldn't have called it a victory if she
had read the vitriolic dissent of Justice Antonin Scalia against the opinion by
a union of the court's liberal bloc with Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and
Justice Anthony M. Kennedy.

In an extraordinary display of judicial distemper, Scalia departed entirely from
the law at one point and attacked an Obama administration policy that wasn't at
issue in the case. Footnoting a New York Times news article rather than case
law, Scalia opined on a recent news conference by President Obama.

Scalia's dissent, more campaign speech than legal opinion, claimed that the
Obama administration "desperately wants to avoid upsetting foreign powers" and
is acting with "willful blindness or deliberate inattention" to Arizona's
illegal immigrants. Saying the majority opinion "boggles the mind," Scalia
suggested that states are "at the mercy of the Federal Executive's refusal to
enforce the Nation's immigration laws."

Scalia's stump speech capped a rough couple of weeks for immigration
hard-liners. The reaction to Monday's decision was overshadowed by the high
court's looming health-care ruling, but the case was the latest in a string of
political victories for Latinos, who have been alternately ignored and abused
the past few years.

During the Republican presidential primaries, Mitt Romney condemned Texas Gov.
Rick Perry for supporting a law that granted in-state tuition rates to the
children of illegal immigrants, and he vowed to veto the Dream Act, which
offered the possibility of citizenship for young illegal immigrants. Romney also
spoke of illegal immigrants going through "self-deportation" and, in remarks his
campaign later sought to clarify, Romney described the Arizona law as a national
model. No less an authority than Newt Gingrich called Romney anti-immigrant.

But now Romney, trailing Obama by 41 percentage points among Hispanics in a
recent USA Today-Gallup poll, is struggling to change his image. After Obama
said that he would stop deportations of certain young illegal immigrants, Romney
demurred repeatedly when CBS News's Bob Schieffer asked whether he would repeal
the Obama policy.

Last week, Romney launched a 15-state Hispanic outreach effort called "Juntos
con Romney," and he promised the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials that he would pursue the "moral imperative" of bipartisan
immigration reform. When a report came out last week that Romney wasn't
considering Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, the Republicans' Latino star, to be
running mate, Romney quickly knocked down the report.

Monday's ruling created a new complication for Romney, who refused to react to
the decision other than to say it showed the need for "a president who will lead
on this critical issue and work in a bipartisan fashion to pursue a national
immigration strategy." Romney, who happened to be traveling in Arizona, avoided
giving reporters a chance to ask questions. The Washington Post's Philip Rucker
reported that a campaign spokesman was questioned for seven minutes but declined
to say whether Romney agrees with the Supreme Court or supports Arizona's law.
Eventually, Romney produced some mild criticism of the decision, saying that "I
would have preferred to see the Supreme Court give more latitude to the states,
not less."

It wasn't exactly what immigration hard-liners had wanted: The Supreme Court
invalidating most of the Arizona law in a 5-to-3 vote, and the Republicans'
presidential standard-bearer becoming skittish about a law he once praised. But
Brewer did not let such concerns get in her way.

"The key components of our efforts to protect the citizens of Arizona to take up
the fight against illegal immigration in a balanced and constitutional way
[have] unanimously been vindicated by the highest court in the land," she
declared.

Beg your pardon, Governor, but would you remain inside your vehicle while we
check your legal credentials?

danamilbank@washpost.com

For previous Washington Sketch columns, go to washingtonpost.com/milbank.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 30, 2012 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 491 words

texas

Answers sought in border agents' deaths

 The families of two U.S. immigration agents shot more than a year ago in Mexico
renewed their demand Friday that the U.S. government explain why the agents were
there and how guns purchased in the United States fell into the hands of their
attackers.

The parents of slain Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent Jaime Zapata
joined with the sister of agent Victor Avila to press the government on whether
an operation similar to one in Arizona that allowed illegally purchased guns to
be smuggled into Mexico in the hope of tracking them to higher-ranking criminal
figures.

The families spoke in Zapata's home town of Brownsville, Tex., one day after the
U.S. House voted to hold Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. in contempt for not
providing documents for a probe of Operation "Fast and Furious" in Arizona. In
that case, ATF agents lost track of weapons. Two guns in that operation were
found where border agent Brian Terry was slain.

Tom Crowley, a spokesman for the Dallas field division of the ATF said the
agency "has always said that this investigation has no connection whatsoever to
Fast and Furious."

- Associated Press

Students who bullied monitor disciplined

The four students who bullied bus monitor Karen Klein have been suspended from
school and bus services for a year, the Greece Central School District in New
York said Friday.

In lieu of a hearing, the middle school students and their families accepted the
disciplinary measures, which include 50 hours' community service working with
senior citizens and a bullying prevention program, the school district said.
Because the district must legally provide the students with an education, they
will attend an alternative Reengagement Center for at least 30 weeks.

Klein's story drew national attentionlast week after a video of the 68-year-old
grandmother being verbally assaulted went viral. Max Sidorov of Toronto launched
a campaign on Indiegogo.com seeking to raise $5,000 to give Klein a vacation.
With three weeks left, the campaign has  raised nearly $670,000.

- Michael Cavna

SCLC appoints CEO: The Southern Christian Leadership Conference is bringing back
a past president as the civil rights organization's chief executive. The SCLC
plans to announce Monday that Charles Steele will serve as chief executive in an
effort to "restore the financial stability and credibility of SCLC."

- Associated Press

Aimee Copeland, the Georgia graduate student who just weeks ago was fighting for
her life after contracting a rare flesh-eating bacterial infection, will be
released from the hospital on Monday to continue her recovery at a
rehabilitation center, her father Andy said Friday.

Amish farmers, whose beliefs stop them from inoculating their children but not
their horses, thronged a first-ever free veterinary vaccination clinic in
Albany, N.Y., this week to fend off a disease that has killed a dozen horses and
a four-year-old girl.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 30, 2012 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

In immigration debate, young adults focus on people, not politics

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 419 words

Young adults offer hope for immigration system

Cardinal Roger Mahony is the archbishop emeritus of Los Angeles.

Two recent events highlighted the complexity of the immigration debate in our
country: the decision by the president to defer the deportation of young people
brought to this country as minors, and to allow them to get work permits; and
the U.S. Supreme Court decision on the Arizona immigration law.

As politicians ratchet up the rhetoric from every possible perspective, and as
groups either applaud or bewail recent immigration decisions, there is one group
in the country that really "gets it"-our young adults. They are the ones who
will eventually take the leadership and make the changes needed in our broken
immigration system.

And why? Because they were in high school and college with classmates and
friends who were undocumented. They came to know them as brothers and sisters,
not as a threat to our nation and our future. Our young adults don't see an
"illegal," but, rather, someone with a name, a face and a story like theirs.

This positive reality was experienced recently at Georgetown University as The
American Project (TAP) gathered dozens of young adults from across the country
to take a leadership role in bestowing dignity and respect on our immigrant
brothers and sisters. The focus was on our individual creation by God and how
God's commands to care for one another, including the foreigner in our midst,
cascade down the Hebrew and the Christian Scriptures. The voice of God could not
be clearer or more consistent, and our young adults really understood that.

TAP's goals that weekend were to have young adults from various backgrounds meet
each other, to discuss from their perspective the plight of today's immigrants,
and to affect change.

The young people explored many social networking resources in order to link
others who are like-minded across the country. They challenged each other to
return to their campuses, their work, and their activities as new instruments of
understanding.

No successful legislative initiatives will result until the emphasis shifts away
from political advantage to this or that group and refocuses on the inherent
human dignity of our immigrants as brothers and sisters. It is obvious that the
ones to shift hearts and minds down the road will be today's young adults. They
put the focus on this national debate where it should be: on the individual
human dignity of each person and the resulting worth of each person.

Our young adults get it.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Winner: Teaching that's outside the box

BYLINE: Jay Mathews

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T14

LENGTH: 655 words


Reliving immigration beat unpacking sludge in our first reader vote on creative
teaching strategies.

Teacher-lawyer Patrick Mattimore suggested the friendly competitionto me. It
seemed that discussions of what works in schools are often too vague. Why not
celebrate very specific lessons? Many teachers submitted their best ideas.
Readers picked their favorites.

The winner's prize, in this era of journalist frugality, was getting her name in
the paper.

Readers debated for weeks on my Class Struggle blog what constituted a teaching
strategy. Many students who experienced the competing strategies firsthand sent
in their votes.

The winning finalist was Karen Craig, an eighth-grade language arts and social
studies teacher at Connelly School of the Holy Child in Potomac. Here's how her
immigration project works: Her students are grouped into make-believe families.
They pretend they are immigrating here in about 1900. In language arts, they
blog about the experience. In science, they study the diseases that afflicted
immigrants. In social studies, they analyze immigration laws. In foreign
language, they take a look at countries that provided the most immigrants.

"It was very helpful to my studies," said Caroline Holmes, one of Craig's
students.

Sara Downes, a reader who lived in Australia, said the immigration unit reminded
her of the First Fleet unit her son did in third grade there. First Fleet was
the initial group of convicts sent to Australia from Great Britain. The
Australian students worked on various projects to earn a "ticket of leave,"
which the third-grade convicts learned meant parole.

Two parents, Brooke Morton and Maureen Appel, were particularly impressed with
Holy Child's field trip to Ellis Island at the end of the project. Their
children saw what the immigrants they were pretending to be saw when they
arrived.

In second place was Debbie Pakaluk, an eighth-grade chemistry teacher at the
Norwood School in Bethesda. Her sludge project sounds hard to me. Students pair
up. Each get a 100 milliliter mixture of glop in a plastic cup. They have three
weeks to report its ingredients. They check the odor and appearance and test for
density, boiling point, solubility and flammability.

This is the second time I have encountered such an exercise. My two sons did
something similar with a brilliant science teacher, Paul Korn, at the Chandler
Schoolin Pasadena, Calif. Twenty years later, Korn is still doing it, and
parents there are as thrilled with the results as the parents in Pakaluk's class
are. Sarah Foster Wetstone said her two daughters are now science majors in
college, in part because of "Debbie and her infamous sludge project."

The obvious difficulty of the assignment scares the Norwood students, just as it
frightened my boys. It needs a tough teacher. "It takes great discipline on
Debbie's part not to help her students," Norwood teacher Annette Matzner said.
"As teachers, we're taught to help students when they struggle, but it's the
struggle of this project that makes it both memorable and life-changing."

David Eacho, a former Pakaluk student, said the project "made me love chemistry
so much more." He just finished studying Advanced Placement chemistry as a high
school sophomore.

Mattimore and I picked three finalists from dozens of entries. I loved the
teaching strategy that took third place: something strange and wonderful called
choral reading. The entrant was Trayce Diskin, who teaches literacy at
Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring. Her students highlight the parts
of a literary work they find most compelling and read only those parts aloud
when the class recites the work. This brings many surprises and much discussion.

In our online poll, choral reading got 6 percent, vs. 52 percent for immigration
and 42 percent for sludge. The e-mail count was 58 percent for immigration, 34
percent for sludge and 8 percent for choral reading.

mathewsj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 6, 2012 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Father, son charged with shooting immigration agent in south Texas

BYLINE: Christopher Sherman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 221 words

DATELINE: MCALLEN, TEX.


McALLEN, Tex. - A father directed his 18-year-old son and another teenager to
grab guns and shoot into a vehicle parked near their south Texas home, wounding
a federal agent who was conducting surveillance, prosecutors alleged Thursday
when filing charges against the two men.

The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent, Kelton Harrison, was
targeted while he watched for an anticipated drug deal early Tuesday near
Hargill, 25 miles northeast of McAllen.

Prosecutors revealed details of the shooting Thursday as Pedro Alvarado, 41, and
his 18-year-old son, Arnoldo Alvarado, appeared in federal court. A 16-year-old
boy who was also accused of firing at the agent was charged in juvenile court
with attempted capital murder.

The two adults are charged with assault of a federal officer and using a firearm
during a violent crime. They face up to 20 years in prison if convicted on the
assault charge and up to life in prison on the weapons count. A judge ordered
them held pending detention hearings.

Arnoldo Alvarado told authorities that his father spotted what he considered a
suspicious vehicle and told him and the younger teen to "get the guns,"
according to the complaint.

Harrison, who was shot in the back, underwent surgery. An ICE spokeswoman said
Thursday that his condition was "improving."

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 9, 2012 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

In Northern Virginia, a leader among Vietnamese immigrants

BYLINE: Luz Lazo

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 988 words


Binh "Gene" Nguyen was in high school when his mother sent him to learn to do
nails.

"Don't fight. Just do it,'" Nguyen recalls his mother saying.

The young man soon mastered the art of manicures and pedicures, and before long,
Nguyen was teaching the trade to fellow Vietnamese immigrants.

The industry that he had so reluctantly entered has been expanding ever since.
Growing with it is Nguyen's profile as a business and community leader in
Northern Virginia, where the Eden Center in Falls Church has long been the hub
of the region's Vietnamese American community.

Today, the 41-year-old not only runs the nail academy his family founded in
1988, but he owns the highly regarded restaurant Present and the nightclub V3
Lounge.

And as the founder and president of the new Vietnamese-American Chamber of
Commerce of Greater Washington, Nguyen now has a title to match the influential
role he made for himself.

He owes his success, he said, to his start doing nails, a trade his relatives
took to soon after they arrived as refugees in Southern California in 1983. With
his family's nail academy in Northern Virginia, Nguyen helped establish an
industry in Washington that hardly existed in the mid-1980s.

Nguyen has trained hundreds of Washington's nail technicians, many of whom have
gone on to open their own shops.

"It is easy for a Vietnamese person to find a nail job now," Nguyen, dressed in
a dark suit, said on a recent morning as he flipped through a textbook and
demonstrated to four immigrant women how to do gel nails.

"They don't need a lot of English, they don't need a high education, and they
don't even need high skills," he said. "This can be learned."

At the Eden Center, where Vietnamese Americans own most of the 120 small
businesses, Nguyen has become the go-to person.

Last year, when police raided 13 businesses at the plaza and arrested 19 people
on misdemeanor charges that included gambling and alcohol violations, Nguyen was
among the first to protest. He said innocent bystanders were caught up in the
sweep.

He organized community meetings with police and government officials. Shop
owners and residents came to his nightclub to discuss their concerns about more
police raids.

"Even before the raids, during the hardship of the economy, a lot of the tenants
have had concerns about the policing," Nguyen said. "We feel we have been
unfairly targeted."

Authorities said a gang known as the Dragon Family had been operating illegal
gambling machines at Eden Center. Nguyen and other merchants said they had not
heard of the gang.

"[Gene] didn't just sit around," said Due H. Tran, who as the chamber's lawyer
defended some of the people arrested during the raid. "He cares about civil
rights. He went through the same obstacles that many people face in this
socially and economically challenged environment where he went from nothing to
riches. And he didn't just stop there. While he was climbing the ladder, he
turns around and he says, 'How can I help the next family?' "

Some Vietnamese business leaders also credit Nguyen with helping fellow
immigrants establish their own businesses in the region.

"If you need advice or you need support in some way, you can always go to him,"
said Thai Nguyen, an Annandale resident who owns an immigration consulting
business in Falls Church. "We got a leader, somebody who is going to stand up
and say, 'Please be fair to everybody.' "

An American name

As a young boy, Nguyen strived to assimilate into his new country. After he
arrived in the United States, a friendly seventh-grade classmate suggested
"American" names.

"She told me, 'You want to fit in? You have to have an American name,' " Nguyen
recalled. John and Michael were too common, Nguyen thought. So he picked Gene.

From that moment, he was Gene to Americans and Binh to Vietnamese. The new name
opened doors to mainstream America, he said.

A bullet scar on his left leg, though, was always a reminder of his roots, he
said.

Nguyen was 2 when his father was killed fighting the communist takeover of South
Vietnam. His mother made several attempts to send her two children out of the
country, and during one of those attempts, Nguyen was shot in the leg. He was 8.

A few months later, his mother sold everything the family had, including her
wedding band, and took Nguyen and his older sister on a boat trip out of My-Tho,
their hometown in southern Vietnam.

"We stayed together, trying to survive," he said, recalling their rescue at sea
and three years at the Galang refugee camp in Indonesia.

"When we came to America, we ended up in one of the poorest neighborhoods. I was
in central L.A. watching the gangs go by every day. . . . We fought poverty," he
said. "I was very disappointed because that's not the America that I had in my
mind."

His mother, Tu Nguyen, a teacher and dentist in Vietnam, found work in the
booming nail industry in California. She opened a nail shop, where her children
helped.

"I was thinking about keeping them busy at the shop so I didn't have to worry
about them," she said.

When the nail industry got competitive in Los Angeles, the family sought new
opportunities in Virginia. The young Nguyen helped establish Nails for You, a
nail salon and academy that was originally in Alexandria and now is in Falls
Church.

At its peak, from 1993 to 2000, the academy had two locations and as many as 200
students, Nguyen said. He became an advocate for government regulation of the
industry and was among the first licensed nail technicians in Virginia.

It was at the academy that he met his wife, Tina, Nguyen said, recalling his
experience as a nail technician as a blessing and an opportunity to help other
immigrants.

"We tried to make it, live the American dream, build it up slowly," said Nguyen,
who lives in Annandale with his wife and three children. "I am proud to be an
American, and in my heart I will never forget who I am. I am Vietnamese. That's
where I came from."

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 15, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Red, white, blue - and gray

BYLINE: Roberto Suro

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1693 words


Acentury ago, the immigrants from across the Atlantic included settlers and
sojourners. Along with the many folks looking to make a permanent home in the
United States came those who had no intention to stay, and who would make some
money and then go home. Between 1908 and 1915, about 7 million people arrived
while about 2 million departed. About a quarter of all Italian immigrants, for
example, eventually returned to Italy for good. They even had an affectionate
nickname, "uccelli di passaggio," birds of passage.

Today, we are much more rigid about immigrants. We divide newcomers into two
categories: legal or illegal, good or bad. We hail them as Americans in the
making, or brand them as aliens fit for deportation. That framework has
contributed mightily to our broken immigration system and the long political
paralysis over how to fix it. We don't need more categories, but we need to
change the way we think about categories. We need to look beyond strict
definitions of legal and illegal. To start, we can recognize the new birds of
passage, those living and thriving in the gray areas. We might then begin to
solve our immigration challenges.

Crop pickers, violinists, construction workers, entrepreneurs, engineers, home
health-care aides and particle physicists are among today's birds of passage.
They are energetic participants in a global economy driven by the flow of work,
money and ideas. They prefer to come and go as opportunity calls them. They can
manage to have a job in one place and a family in another.

With or without permission, they straddle laws, jurisdictions and identities
with ease. We need them to imagine the United States as a place where they can
be productive for a while without committing themselves to staying forever. We
need them to feel that home can be both here and there and that they can belong
to two nations honorably.

Imagine life with a radically different immigration policy: The Jamaican woman
who came as a visitor and was looking after your aunt until she died could try
living in Canada for a while. You could eventually ask her to come back to care
for your mother. The Indian software developer could take some of his Silicon
Valley earnings home to join friends in a little start-up, knowing that he could
always work in California again. Or the Mexican laborer who busts his back on a
Wisconsin dairy farm for wages that keep milk cheap would come and go as needed
because he could decide which dairy to work for and a bi-national bank program
was helping him save money to build a better life for his kids in Mexico.

Accommodating this new world of people in motion will require new attitudes on
both sides of the immigration battle. Looking beyond the culture war logic of
right or wrong means opening up the middle ground and understanding that
managing immigration today requires multiple paths and multiple outcomes,
including some that are not easy to accomplish legally in the existing system.

A new system that encourages both sojourners and settlers would not only help
ensure that our society receives the human resources it will need in the future,
it also could have an added benefit: Changing the rigid framework might help us
resolve the status of the estimated 11 million unauthorized migrants who are our
shared legacy of policy failures.

Currently, we do not do gray zones well. Hundreds of thousands of people slosh
around in indeterminate status because they're caught in bureaucratic limbo or
because they have been granted temporary stays that are repeatedly extended.
President Obama created a paler shade of gray this summer by exercising
prosecutorial discretion not to deport some young people who were brought to
this country illegally as children. But these are exceptions, not rules.

The basic mechanism for legal immigration today, apart from the special category
of refugee, is the legal permanent resident visa, or green card. Most recipients
are people sponsored by close relatives who live in the United States. As the
name implies, this mechanism is designed for immigrants who are settling down.
The visa can be revoked if the holder does not show "intent to remain" by not
maintaining a U.S. address, going abroad to work full time or just traveling
indefinitely. Legal residents are assumed to be on their way to becoming
Americans, physically, culturally and legally. After five years of living here,
they become eligible for citizenship and a chance to gain voting rights and full
access to the social safety net.

This is a fine way to deal with people who arrive with deep connections to the
country and who resolve to stay. That can and should be most immigrants. But
this mechanism has two problems: The nation is not prepared to offer citizenship
to every migrant who is offered a job. And not everyone who comes here wants to
stay forever.

It may have once made sense to think of immigrants as sodbusters who were coming
to settle empty spaces. But that antique reasoning does not apply when the
country is looking at a long, steep race to remain competitive in the world
economy, particularly not when innovation and entrepreneurship are supposed to
be our comparative advantage. To succeed, we need modern birds of passage.

The challenges differ depending on whether you are looking at the high end of
the skills spectrum, the information workers or at low-skilled laborers.

A frequent proposal for highly skilled workers comes with the slogan, "Staple a
green card to the diploma." That is supposed to ensure that a greater share of
brainy international students remain in the United States after earning degrees
in science and technology. But what if they are not ready for a long-term
commitment? No one would suggest that investment capital or design processes
need to reside permanently in one nation. Talent today yearns to be equally
mobile. Rather than try to oblige smart young people from abroad to stay here,
we should allow them to think of the United States as a place where they can
always return, a place where they will spend part, not all, of their lives, one
of several places where they can live and work and invest.

Temporary-worker programs are a conventional approach to meeting low-skilled
labor needs without illegal immigration. That's what President George W. Bush
proposed in 2004, saying the government should "match willing foreign workers
with willing American employers." An immigrant comes to do a particular job for
a limited period of time and then goes home. But such programs risk replacing
one kind of rigidity with another. The relatively small programs currently in
place don't manage the matchmaking very well. Competing domestic workers need to
be protected, as do the migrant workers, and the process must be nimble enough
to meet labor market demand. Nobody really has pulled that off, and there is no
reason to believe it can be done on a grand scale. Rather than trying to link
specific migrants to specific jobs, different types of temporary work visas
could be pegged to industries, to places or to time periods. You could get an
engineering visa, not only a visa to work at Intel.

Both short-term visas and permanent residence need to be part of the mix, but
they are not the whole answer. Another valuable tool is the provisional visa,
which Australia uses as a kind of intermediary stage in which temporary
immigrants spend several years before becoming eligible for permanent residency.
The U.S. system practically obliges visitors to spend time here without
authorization when they've married a citizen, gotten a job or done something
else that qualifies them to stay legally.

We also could borrow from Europe and create long-term permission to reside for
certain migrants that is contingent on simply being employed, not on having a
specific job. And, legislation could loosen the definitions of permanent
residency so that migrants could gain a lifetime right to live and work in the
United States without having to be here (and pay taxes here) more or less
continuously.

The idea that newcomers are either saints or is not written indelibly either in
our hearts or in our laws. As the size of the unauthorized population has grown
over the past 20 years or so, the political response has dictated seeing
immigration policy through the stark lens of law enforcement: Whom do we lock
up, kick out, fence off? Prominent politicians of both parties, including both
presidential candidates, have engaged in macho one-upmanship when it comes to
immigration. So, President Obama broke records for deportations. Mitt Romney,
meanwhile, vows to break records for border security.

Breaking out of the either/or mentality opens up many avenues for managing
future immigration. It could also help break the stalemate over the current
population of unauthorized migrants.  No election result will produce a Congress
that offers a path to citizenship for everybody, but there is no support for
total deportation, either.

If we accept that there are spaces between legal and illegal, then options
multiply.

Citizenship could be an eventual outcome for most, not all, people here
illegally, but everyone would get some kind of papers, and we can engineer a way
for people to work their way from one status to another. The newly arrived and
least attached could be granted status for a limited time and receive help with
returning to their home countries. Others might be offered life-long privileges
to live and work here, but not citizenship. We'd give the fullest welcome to
those with homes, children or long time jobs.

By insisting that immigrants are either Americans or aliens, we make it harder
for some good folks to come and we oblige others to stay for the wrong reasons.
Worse, we ensure that there will always be people living among us who are
outside the law and that is not good for them or us.

outlook@washpost.com

Roberto Suro is a professor of public policy and director of the TomÃ¡s Rivera
Policy Institute at the University of Southern California. He is a coauthor of
"Writing Immigration: Scholars and Journalists in Dialogue."

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Mexico's middle-class migrants

BYLINE: William Booth;Nick Miroff

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1746 words

DATELINE: IN SANTA MARIA DEL REFUGIO, MEXICO


For a generation, the men of this town have headed north to the land of the
mighty dollar, breaking U.S. immigration laws to dig swimming pools in Memphis
and grind meat in Chicago.

In the United States, they were illegal aliens. Back home, they are new
entrepreneurs using the billions of dollars earned "on the other side" to create
a Mexican middle class.

The migrants "did something bad to do something good," said Mexican economist
Luis de la Calle.

Where remittances from El Norte were once mostly used to help hungry families
back home simply survive, surveys now reveal that the longer a migrant stays up
north, the more likely the cash transfers will be used to start new businesses
or to pay for homes, farm equipment and school tuitions.

From Santa Maria del Refugio, a once rural, now almost suburban, community of
2,500 in central Mexico's Guanajuato state, young men have gone to the United
States seeking the social mobility they could not find at home.

Their money, and many of the workers themselves, have since returned, as the
U.S. economy slowed in the global recession. For the first time in 40 years, net
migration is effectively zero. About the same number of Mexicans left the United
States last year as arrived. Migration experts expect the northward flow to pick
up again as the U.S. economy improves. It is also possible that as Mexico
provides more opportunity for upward mobility, some potential migrants will stay
home.

In Santa Maria, dollars scrimped and saved in the United States have transformed
a poor pueblo into a town of curbed sidewalks, Internet cafes and rows of
two-story homes rising on a hillside where scrawny cattle once grazed.

"Look at this place - it's practically a city now," said Roberto Mandujano, 50,
who moved back to his home town and opened a hardware store five years ago.
"There was nothing here when I left."

Mandujano is a member of a new demographic in Mexico, the anxious, tenacious,
growing middle class who own homes and cars and take vacations. They see the
United States more as a model than an exploiter.

Born into a family of 10 siblings, Mandujano set out from Santa Maria and
crossed the Rio Grande at age 17. He found work on landscaping crews and highway
projects, and eventually earned a plumber's license. Now back home in Mexico, he
runs half-marathons on the weekends and owns a well-stocked store ("my little
Home Depot") and a U.S. green card, traveling back to Texas whenever he wants.

"On an airplane," he said with pride.

Development experts and economists here have struggled to measure the extent to
which remittances, the money sent home by migrants, have fueled middle-class
growth. The Mexican government is good at counting the dollars flowing into the
country. Less understood is what recipients are doing with the money.

Invested remittances

Some 12 million Mexicans - which represents 15 percent of Mexico's labor force -
reside legally and illegally in the United States, according to the Pew Hispanic
Center. Researchers say the longer that migrants work in the United States, the
more their money drives upward mobility.

"We have found that in the first three to five years, the ultimate destination
of the remittances is to help the families, but after seven years, the money is
saved and then invested," said Victor Corona, a professor at the University of
Zacatecas and an expert in migration.

Still, the remittance system has exacted a toll: absent fathers, strained
marriages, frayed families. Development officials say that Mexico's reliance on
remittances should be replaced by an economy that produces good jobs in Mexico -
and that middle-class growth that relies on migration is ultimately a sign of
weakness, not strength.

In Central American countries such as Guatemala and El Salvador, which are even
more dependent on cash sent from the United States, remittances have also
nurtured new businesses and an incipient middle class. But far more money goes
to Mexico.

During the past decade, remittances sent by Mexicans from the United States have
exploded, from $3.7 billion in 1995 to a peak of $25 billion in 2007.

According to the most recent social and economic data, a narrow majority of
Mexicans are no longer poor but members of the middle class, marking a profound
demographic shift in a country where 80 percent of the population was living in
poverty in 1960.

The middle class in Mexico does not look like its counterpart in Europe or the
United States. Its members make far less money. At the lower rungs, they are
more vulnerable. They are less educated. Many lack formal employment, leaving
them with no insurance, health care or pensions.

Persistent inequality in Mexico means that its emerging middle class remains
closer to the country's poor than to its affluent.

The cash transfers are just one of many factors driving the growth of the middle
class. In the 1980s and 1990s, Mexico swung from one crisis to the next: a major
earthquake in the capital, bank nationalization, the sudden devaluation of the
peso, an armed rebellion in the state of Chiapas.

In the past 15 years, the country has tamed inflation. Families now have far
fewer children, and they invest more in them.

Mexico is more competitive, more global, more urban, and with the opening of
markets, prices for most consumer goods have dropped. The government has also
made a concerted if imperfect effort over the past 20 years to provide a social
safety net that subsidizes schooling, health care and food.

Then there's Western Union's cash wire.

Mexican workers sent home nearly $23 billion last year, greater than the direct
foreign investment made by all multinational corporations. Remittances are now
equal to the foreign currency exchange generated by Mexico's tourism industry or
its oil sector.

According to economic surveys, about half of the 112 million Mexicans have
family living in the United States, and one in five has a relative who regularly
sends money back home. The average amount sent in May was $329.

After China and India, Mexico is the world's third-largest recipient of
remittances, World Bank data show.

The largest stack of remittance cash - nearly 62 percent - goes not to the
poorest Mexicans but to the lower middle class, according to surveys of
recipients conducted by Mexico's Interior Ministry.

Tougher border enforcement on the U.S. side has put the cost of migration out of
reach for poor Mexicans, who can't afford the thousands of dollars in fees
smugglers charge for fake documents or a GPS-guided trek through the Arizona
desert.

A study for the Inter-American Development Bank found that 43 percent of those
who received remittances from the United States described their family's
economic situation in Mexico as "good to excellent." Only 24 percent said it was
bad or very bad.

"It feels like a luxury to be here with my family, in my own country," said
Santa Maria business owner Fernando MuÃ±iz, who first went north at age 15 and
built tract houses in Arizona.

Now MuÃ±iz owns his own home, debt free, and a few years ago opened a
mini-market and an Internet cafe, with eight computers and decent broadband,
with money he saved working in the United States.

"My son is 6 years old and already knows how to use a computer. I didn't learn
how to use one until I was 28," said MuÃ±iz, whose father was poor and died
poor, even though he went to the United States many times for agricultural work.

"I would have liked for my father to see this," MuÃ±iz said.

They used to work in Houston

Although a weak U.S. job market and tougher border enforcement - along with a
surge of kidnapping and killing in Mexico targeting migrants - have slowed
illegal immigration to the United States over the past few years, the Bank of
Mexico predicts that remittances will hit record levels again in 2013, as the
U.S. economy picks up.

Just down the road from Santa Maria, Luciano Figueroa and his brothers employ
nearly 50 workers between their butcher shop, cattle ranch and spacious
family-style restaurant called Tres Hermanos (Three Brothers), where an American
flag flutters atop the roof.

Figueroa swept his arm toward the dining room of his packed barbecue joint.
"Every one of these waiters used to work in Houston," he said. "Now they work
here."

A decade ago, when Figueroa's father was so poor he had to sell his last cow,
Figueroa's oldest brother went to work at a meat packing plant in Chicago.

He came home four years later with $8,000. The brothers invested the money in a
meat saw and 25 head of cattle, opening a butcher shop next to the highway. Five
years later, they'd earned enough to open the restaurant.

"Now I feel like a businessman," Figueroa said.

Their cattle herd has grown to 200, and with the Japanese automaker Honda
opening a new assembly plant less than two miles away, Figueroa said he's
planning a trip to the United States soon.

"To Disney World," he said.

Supporting a family in the U.S.

A face-to-face survey of 1,200 Mexicans released last month by the Pew Research
Center found that more than half of respondents thought Mexicans who move to the
United States have better lives. But just 37 percent said they would be willing
to go, and 19 percent said they would do so illegally.

It is harder to measure the cultural and political influence of returning
migrants such as Mandujano, the hardware store owner and avid runner, whose
lifestyles have changed dramatically from the corn-and-beans existence of their
forebears. Studies indicate they have higher expectations for better government.
They are bringing American habits, customs and consumption tastes back home.

Mandujano said he had an epiphany one Sunday in a Houston park while drinking a
can of beer on his day off and watching Americans jogging all around him.

"I thought: 'What am I doing?'â[#x20ac][#x160]" he said. "I went out and bought
a pair of running shoes the next day."

With their daughters in high school and college, Mandujano's wife remains in
Houston. After decades of saving and sending money home to Santa Maria, he now
does the reverse, supporting his family in Texas with earnings from the hardware
store in Mexico.

"Every month I pay off their Sam's Club card," he said, shrugging. "I can do it
online."

boothb@washpost.com

miroffn@washpost.com

More world news coverage:

- Syrian rebels still hopeful as government regains initiative in capital

- Iraq attacks raise specter of al-Qaeda's return

- Influential Chinese commentators dispute Japan's claim to Okinawa

- Read more headlines from around the world

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Baltimore's hope: Immigrants

BYLINE: Carol Morello;Luz Lazo

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1816 words


The fate of Baltimore may rest with immigrants like Alexandra Gonzalez.

A native of Puebla, Mexico, Gonzalez feels more at home in Baltimore with every
passing year. She attends city-run nutrition and exercise classes in Spanish and
takes her two young children to a Spanish-language storytelling hour at her
neighborhood library. She plans to earn a GED and become a teacher.

"I like living here," said Gonzalez, 24, as she pushed a stroller holding her
sleeping 1-year-old daughter and bags of purchases from a dollar store in the
blue-collar Highlandtown neighborhood. "They don't look at you weird because you
don't speak English."

The degree to which Gonzalez feels welcome is no accident.

After decades of seeing the city's population slide with every census count,
Baltimore officials are trying to turn things around. One key strategy is
embracing immigrants, in the hope they will encourage friends and family to join
them.

Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake (D) has told Latinos, in particular, that she is
counting on them to help Baltimore gain 10,000 families within a decade. As a
first step, she signed an order in Marchprohibiting police and social agencies
from asking anyone about  immigration status - and in the order, she explicitly
asked federal immigration authorities to tell anyone they arrest that they are
not agents of the city.

Baltimore joins an increasing number of U.S. cities, most of them manufacturing
behemoths fallen on hard times, that are courting immigrants to reverse half a
century of population loss.

TheGlobal Detroiteffort includes programs that help immigrants start small
businesses, get driver's licenses and learn English. As part of the Welcome
Dayton Plan adopted last year, the Ohio city sponsors a soccer tournament for
immigrant teams. Not to be outdone, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel (D) says he wants
his home town to be known as the most "immigrant-friendly city in the country."

The welcome mats thrown out by struggling cities and states stand in stark
contrast to the reception immigrants have faced in places such as Arizona and
Alabama. There, laws requiring police to ask a person's immigration status have
raised concerns about racial profiling among many immigrants, whether or not
they are in the country legally, and many have left because of the stricter
laws, as well as the recession.

In the Washington region, Prince William County saw a drop in its immigrant
population, both legal and illegal, after it mandated that police make
immigration checks.

A new attitude

Baltimore has undergone a shift in attitude. In 2004, then-Maryland Comptroller
William Donald Schaefer (D), a former mayor and governor, chastised immigrants
who don't speak English well after a Spanish-speaking cashier at a McDonald's
had trouble understanding his order.

"I don't want to adjust to another language," Schaefer said. "This is the United
States. I think they ought to adjust to us."

Eight years later, Baltimore and many other cities are adjusting.

The 2010 census was a tipping point. Most cities that grew had Hispanics and, to
a lesser degree, Asians to thank. Cities with few immigrants lost political
power and federal money as district lines and funding formulas changed to
reflect new census numbers.

"The census has shown cities definitively what the population trend is," said
Margie McHugh, an immigration expert with the nonpartisan Migration Policy
Institute. "It got a lot of smart people in city and state governments looking
10 years ahead and thinking hard about what the economic future for cities could
be."

In Michigan, former state House majority leader Steve Tobocman (D) heads Global
Detroit, http://www.globaldetroit.com/built around the idea that immigration can
drive an economic rebound. The group plans to provide training in how to start
"micro enterprises" and has created a "welcome mat" network of social service
agencies that offer English and citizenship classes. It hopes to draw both
entrepreneurial engineers who graduate from the state's universities and
working-class immigrants who can start small neighborhood businesses.

"Immigrants have a lot to contribute to job creation and economic growth,"
Tobocman said.

Most of the immigrant-friendly measures around the country are in their infancy,
so it is difficult to assess how effective they are. Philadelphia, for example,
saw its population grow for the first time in 60 years after the mayor ordered
police in 2009 not to ask about immigration status, but the rise in Hispanic and
Asian residents that was responsible for the increase might have happened
anyway. Hispanics and Asians are the two fastest-growing groups in the country,
more because of their higher birth rates than to immigration.

Critics of  'sanctuary cities'

Critics say cities that lure immigrants end up with high numbers of undocumented
migrants. That also is difficult to measure, particularly now that immigration
from Mexico, the largest source of illegal immigration, has dwindled to
essentially zero.

The census does not ask immigration status, so it is not possible to say how
many of Baltimore's 45,000 foreign-born residents are here legally. But the Pew
Hispanic Center estimated that in 2010, Maryland had the nation's 10th-largest
populationof unauthorized immigrants.

Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County) said he is consulting with
Judicial Watch, a conservative think tank, about whether Rawlings-Blake is
"aiding and abetting" people who are in the country illegally.

McDonough said the mayor's order in effect creates a "sanctuary city" that will
draw undocumented immigrants who will compete for jobs with current residents.
Baltimore's unemployment rate tops 10 percent; for African American men, it is
at least double that.

"For the mayor to want to increase the population of Baltimore City in principle
is an admirable thing," McDonough said. "But by going after people who don't
have a lawful presence, and all of the accompanying cultural and criminal issues
associated with that policy, you are counterproductive. You're going to
discourage people who live in the city from continuing to be there."

Immigrant outreach - such as the city-run classes in Spanish - is just one part
of the mayor's agenda for growing Baltimore. She has programs that aim to
improve public schools, reduce crime, cut property taxes and create jobs,
increasing the city's appeal to all residents. The mayor's order has been her
only action aimed at immigrants, though other initiatives are being considered.

"What we want to do is attract immigrants who call home and say: 'Maybe you
should think about coming to Baltimore. I'm having a great time here,' " said
Ian Brennan, a mayoral spokesman.

Widespread support

Support for the policy appears to be broad.

"I agree with her policy in terms of trying to increase the city's numbers,"
said Del. Curtis S. Anderson (D), chairman of the city's House delegation in
Annapolis. "Her idea now to reach out to the non-documented population is one
way. But I don't think it's the most important thing she's doing."

More important, he said, is reducing the property tax rate and creating jobs.

Ryan O'Doherty, another mayoral spokesman, said the city has several pillars of
economic strength offering jobs at all skill levels: Johns Hopkins University,
the port and tourism.

As if to underscore the urgency of stemming the city's population dive, new
census estimates show that Baltimore lost an additional 1,500 residents in the
15 months after the census, bringing it below 620,000. The figures, which are
being contested by the city, show a continued exodus of black residents, while
the numbers of Hispanics, Asians and non-Hispanic whites were on the upswing.

Only Cleveland and Detroit lost more residents than Baltimore. During the same
period, the District gained 16,000 residents and is closing in on its northern
neighbor in the rankings of big cities. Baltimore is now the nation's 24th
largest city. In 1980, it ranked 10th.

Hispanics in particular have helped slow the decline in the city's population,
which peaked at 950,000 in 1950. Their numbers more than doubled over the past
decade, from 11,000 in 2000 to 26,000 in 2010. They now make up 4 percent of
Baltimore residents, a fraction of their share of the state and national
population.

Hispanics born in Mexico, Central America and South America make up more than a
third of all foreign-born residents of Baltimore, according to census figures.
The city also draws many immigrants from Africa, China and the Middle East.

Reviving Highlandtown

One place where the influx of immigrants is most evident is Highlandtown, a
neighborhood of narrow rowhouses, corner bars and grocery stores on Baltimore's
east side. It was settled by European immigrants, mostly Greeks, Italians and
Poles who never moved to the suburbs and left their homes to their children.
Merchants say that by the early 1990s, the neighborhood was dying.

But today, it is a bustling crossroads. Convenience stores advertise Corona and
Modelo beers. Restaurants featuring Mexican and Honduran fare stand beside
diners serving up Coney dogs. A storefront church, Jesus de Vida, occupies a
building next to the Madina Grocery and Halal Meats, which is run by a Chinese
couple. A refugee resettlement center guides newcomers from Nepal and
French-speaking Africa on orientation tours, including a stop at the Southeast
Anchor Library.

"One of the first things they do is get a library card," said branch manager
Cindy Kleback. "Then they can use the computers for free to communicate with
people back home. I walk past the computers and see people watching TV from
Eritrea."

Every Thursday, the library hosts a children's storytelling hour in Spanish.
Non-Hispanic parents also bring their children to expose them to another
language and culture, fostering friendships that have led to baby showers in the
library and a potluck Thanksgiving dinner.

The spreading Latin influence has been a welcome change to Fidelita Portillo,
who found few familiar products at the corner grocery when she moved to
Baltimore eight years ago to join her sister. Today, several grocers carry the
chiles, sweet breads and Goya products that remind her of her native El
Salvador.

This year, Portillo enrolled her 4-year-old in preschool and readily found
information in Spanish. The school has an interpreter available as well.

When the mayor held a small town hall meeting at the library this spring to
explain her new, immigrant-friendly policy, Portillo attended. She acknowledges
not having the proper documents to be in the country.

"I feel better knowing the mayor has assured us that the police are not going to
be going after the immigrants," she said, adding that she wants her children to
grow up without worrying that their parents will be deported. "People feel free.
We don't have to live in hiding and in fear."

morelloc@washpost.com

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 28, 2012 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Drunken-driving arrest turns up fugitive in $100 million fraud case

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 258 words

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS


LAS VEGAS - A fingerprint match in a Las Vegas area drunken-driving case led
U.S. authorities to a German fugitive in a $100 million international fraud
scheme who had been on the run for five years, authorities said Friday.

U.S. marshals recently learned that a fingerprint from a 51-year-old man
arrested in February 2011 belonged to Ulrich Felix Anton Engler, and they joined
with Las Vegas police financial crimes detectives to find and arrest him late
Wednesday, said Bill Cassell, a Las Vegas police officer.

Engler was being held by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement on an
immigration violation, pending his transfer to Germany.

He is accused of using a marketing firm called Private Commercial Office in Cape
Coral, Fla., to build an Internet pyramid scheme. From June 2003 to December
2004, it collected almost $101 million from 3,500 investors in Germany,
Switzerland and Austria, authorities said. Once the money reached the United
States, investors lost access to it.

FBI agents and local police on Friday began tracing Engler's steps in southern
Nevada, finding more than 1,000 pieces of artwork at a storage facility he
rented in Boulder City, about 25 miles east of Las Vegas.

FBI agent Patrick Turner in Las Vegas said the warrant search at the storage
facility was an effort to recover proceeds on behalf of alleged fraud victims.

A local court in Mannheim, Germany, issued a warrant in December 2007 accusing
Engler of multiple criminal fraud charges, according to an ICE statement. If
convicted, he faces up to 20 years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 29, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Baltimore's hope: Immigrants

BYLINE: Carol Morello;Luz Lazo

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 1810 words


The fate of Baltimore may rest with immigrants like Alexandra Gonzalez.

A native of Puebla, Mexico, Gonzalez feels more at home in Baltimore with every
passing year. She attends city-run nutrition and exercise classes in Spanish and
takes her two young children to a Spanish-language storytelling hour at her
neighborhood library. She plans to earn a GED and become a teacher.

"I like living here," said Gonzalez, 24, as she pushed a stroller holding her
sleeping 1-year-old daughter and bags of purchases from a dollar store in the
blue-collar Highlandtown neighborhood. "They don't look at you weird because you
don't speak English."

The degree to which Gonzalez feels welcome is no accident.

After decades of seeing the city's population slide with every census count,
Baltimore officials are trying to turn things around. One key strategy is
embracing immigrants, in the hope they will encourage friends and family to join
them.

Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake (D) has told Latinos, in particular, that she is
counting on them to help Baltimore gain 10,000 families within a decade. As a
first step, she signed an order in Marchprohibiting police and social agencies
from asking anyone about immigration status - and in the order, she explicitly
asked federal immigration authorities to tell anyone they arrest that they are
not agents of the city.

Baltimore joins an increasing number of U.S. cities, most of them manufacturing
behemoths fallen on hard times, that are courting immigrants to reverse half a
century of population loss.

TheGlobal Detroiteffort includes programs that help immigrants start small
businesses, get driver's licenses and learn English. As part of the Welcome
Dayton Plan adopted last year, the Ohio city sponsors a soccer tournament for
immigrant teams. Not to be outdone, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel (D) says he wants
his home town to be known as the most "immigrant-friendly city in the country."

The welcome mats thrown out by struggling cities and states stand in stark
contrast to the reception immigrants have faced in places such as Arizona and
Alabama. There, laws requiring police to ask a person's immigration status have
raised concerns about racial profiling among many immigrants, whether or not
they are in the country legally, and many have left because of the stricter
laws, as well as the recession.

In the Washington region, Prince William County saw a drop in its immigrant
population, both legal and illegal, after it mandated that police make
immigration checks.

Baltimore has undergone a shift in attitude. In 2004, then-Maryland Comptroller
William Donald Schaefer (D), a former mayor and governor, chastised immigrants
who don't speak English well after a Spanish-speaking cashier at a McDonald's
had trouble understanding his order.

"I don't want to adjust to another language," Schaefer said. "This is the United
States. I think they ought to adjust to us."

Eight years later, Baltimore and many other cities are adjusting.

The 2010 census was a tipping point. Most cities that grew had Hispanics and, to
a lesser degree, Asians to thank. Cities with few immigrants lost political
power and federal money as district lines and funding formulas changed to
reflect new census numbers.

"The census has shown cities definitively what the population trend is," said
Margie McHugh, an immigration expert with the nonpartisan Migration Policy
Institute. "It got a lot of smart people in city and state governments looking
10 years ahead and thinking hard about what the economic future for cities could
be."

In Michigan, former state House majority leader Steve Tobocman (D) heads Global
Detroit, http://www.globaldetroit.com/built around the idea that immigration can
drive an economic rebound. The group plans to provide training in how to start
"micro enterprises" and has created a "welcome mat" network of social service
agencies that offer English and citizenship classes. It hopes to draw both
entrepreneurial engineers who graduate from the state's universities and
working-class immigrants who can start small neighborhood businesses.

"Immigrants have a lot to contribute to job creation and economic growth,"
Tobocman said.

Most of the immigrant-friendly measures around the country are in their infancy,
so it is difficult to assess how effective they are. Philadelphia, for example,
saw its population grow for the first time in 60 years after the mayor ordered
police in 2009 not to ask about immigration status, but the rise in Hispanic and
Asian residents that was responsible for the increase might have happened
anyway. Hispanics and Asians are the two fastest-growing groups in the country,
more because of their higher birth rates than to immigration.

Critics of 'sanctuary cities'

Critics say cities that lure immigrants end up with high numbers of undocumented
migrants. That also is difficult to measure, particularly now that immigration
from Mexico, the largest source of illegal immigration, has dwindled to
essentially zero.

The census does not ask immigration status, so it is not possible to say how
many of Baltimore's 45,000 foreign-born residents are here legally. But the Pew
Hispanic Center estimated that in 2010, Maryland had the nation's 10th-largest
populationof unauthorized immigrants.

Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County) said he is consulting with
Judicial Watch, a conservative think tank, about whether Rawlings-Blake is
"aiding and abetting" people who are in the country illegally.

McDonough said the mayor's order in effect creates a "sanctuary city" that will
draw undocumented immigrants who will compete for jobs with current residents.
Baltimore's unemployment rate tops 10 percent; for African American men, it is
at least double that.

"For the mayor to want to increase the population of Baltimore City in principle
is an admirable thing," McDonough said. "But by going after people who don't
have a lawful presence, and all of the accompanying cultural and criminal issues
associated with that policy, you are counterproductive. You're going to
discourage people who live in the city from continuing to be there."

Immigrant outreach - such as the city-run classes in Spanish - is just one part
of the mayor's agenda for growing Baltimore. She has programs that aim to
improve public schools, reduce crime, cut property taxes and create jobs,
increasing the city's appeal to all residents. The mayor's order has been her
only action aimed at immigrants, though other initiatives are being considered.

"What we want to do is attract immigrants who call home and say: 'Maybe you
should think about coming to Baltimore. I'm having a great time here,' " said
Ian Brennan, a mayoral spokesman.

Widespread support

Support for the policy appears to be broad.

"I agree with her policy in terms of trying to increase the city's numbers,"
said Del. Curtis S. Anderson (D), chairman of the city's House delegation in
Annapolis. "Her idea now to reach out to the non-documented population is one
way. But I don't think it's the most important thing she's doing."

More important, he said, is reducing the property tax rate and creating jobs.

Ryan O'Doherty, another mayoral spokesman, said the city has several pillars of
economic strength offering jobs at all skill levels: Johns Hopkins University,
the port and tourism.

As if to underscore the urgency of stemming the city's population dive, new
census estimates show that Baltimore lost an additional 1,500 residents in the
15 months after the census, bringing it below 620,000. The figures, which are
being contested by the city, show a continued exodus of black residents, while
the numbers of Hispanics, Asians and non-Hispanic whites were on the upswing.

Only Cleveland and Detroit lost more residents than Baltimore. During the same
period, the District gained 16,000 residents and is closing in on its northern
neighbor in the rankings of big cities. Baltimore is now the nation's 24th
largest city. In 1980, it ranked 10th.

Hispanics in particular have helped slow the decline in the city's population,
which peaked at 950,000 in 1950. Their numbers more than doubled over the past
decade, from 11,000 in 2000 to 26,000 in 2010. They now make up 4 percent of
Baltimore residents, a fraction of their share of the state and national
population.

Hispanics born in Mexico, Central America and South America make up more than a
third of all foreign-born residents of Baltimore, according to census figures.
The city also draws many immigrants from Africa, China and the Middle East.

Reviving Highlandtown

One place where the influx of immigrants is most evident is Highlandtown, a
neighborhood of narrow rowhouses, corner bars and grocery stores on Baltimore's
east side. It was settled by European immigrants, mostly Greeks, Italians and
Poles who never moved to the suburbs and left their homes to their children.
Merchants say that by the early 1990s, the neighborhood was dying.

But today, it is a bustling crossroads. Convenience stores advertise Corona and
Modelo beers. Restaurants featuring Mexican and Honduran fare stand beside
diners serving up Coney dogs. A storefront church, Jesus de Vida, occupies a
building next to the Madina Grocery and Halal Meats, which is run by a Chinese
couple. A refugee resettlement center guides newcomers from Nepal and
French-speaking Africa on orientation tours, including a stop at the Southeast
Anchor Library.

"One of the first things they do is get a library card," said branch manager
Cindy Kleback. "Then they can use the computers for free to communicate with
people back home. I walk past the computers and see people watching TV from
Eritrea."

Every Thursday, the library hosts a children's storytelling hour in Spanish.
Non-Hispanic parents also bring their children to expose them to another
language and culture, fostering friendships that have led to baby showers in the
library and a potluck Thanksgiving dinner.

The spreading Latin influence has been a welcome change to Fidelita Portillo,
who found few familiar products at the corner grocery when she moved to
Baltimore eight years ago to join her sister. Today, several grocers carry the
chiles, sweet breads and Goya products that remind her of her native El
Salvador.

This year, Portillo enrolled her 4-year-old in preschool and readily found
information in Spanish. The school has an interpreter available as well.

When the mayor held a small town hall meeting at the library this spring to
explain her new, immigrant-friendly policy, Portillo attended. She acknowledges
not having the proper documents to be in the country.

"I feel better knowing the mayor has assured us that the police are not going to
be going after the immigrants," she said, adding that she wants her children to
grow up without worrying that their parents will be deported. "People feel free.
We don't have to live in hiding and in fear."

morelloc@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 6, 2012 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Expatriate Games

BYLINE: Emily Wax

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 779 words


There's nothing like the Olympics to lift national pride and spur international
rivalries - and to remind immigrants of the cultures they came from.

For many members of Washington's vibrant international community, the London
Games have been an excuse to renew old allegiances. They also have given the
younger generation a reason to celebrate a parent's culture, and sometimes they
have opened up old political wounds.

We found Arlington's U.S. Tae Kwon Do Collegefilled with South Koreans cheering
on their soccer team, an African sports bar in Alexandria packed with Ethiopian
Americans rooting for their female sprinters and an Eden Center karaoke hall
packed with Vietnamese Americans singing traditional songs - and booing China.

"We came out of communism," explains Binh Nguyen, president of the Vietnamese
American Chamber of Commerce in Falls Church and owner of the nightclub V3
Lounge. "We're upset if China gets too many medals. We root for the Americans!"

Here's a glimpse of how Ethiopian and Russian immigrants in the D.C. area
celebrated the first week of the Olympics.

INSIDE: Fans at Chinese and South Korean cultural centers in D.C. C2.

At an Ethiopian sports bar

When Abiy Bisrat, owner of Enat, an Ethiopian sports bar in Alexandria, featured
in the above photo, heard that Ethiopia had a very strong running team headed to
the London Olympics, he went out and bought an 80-inch television.

"We already had three smaller flat screens," he says Friday afternoon, as the
women's 10,000 meter race begins. "But I wanted to really go big. Sorry, hold
on," he says over the noise of the crowd. "I have to go turn the TV even louder,
customers will want that."

The new purchase was worth it, he later decides, after female runner Tirunesh
Dibaba pulls so far ahead of the pack that she finishes more than five seconds
in front of Kenyan Sally Kipyego.

"We loved watching her smile at the end," says Bisrat, as waitresses dressed in
the country's yellow, red and green colors serve imported Ethiopian beers and
coffees.

At a Russian bar in Dupont Circle

Inside the sultry, maroon-colored bar at Russia House in Dupont Circle,
bartender Julia Pudovikova, pictured above, 26, shakes and pours a "Moscow Mule"
cocktail and remembers when she was a child gymnast back in her native Russia.

"I wasn't that good, but I have nice memories," she says. The Russian staffers
here gather to watch the Russian gymnasts when business is slow. While Russia
has long excelled at gymnastics, the United States has been the star this year.

"I'm happy for the U.S.," Pudovikova says, pouring a stream of Russian-made
vodka for American patrons during a recent happy hour. "But I'm sad for Russia.
I guess there's always the synchronized swimming team - they are also amazing."

2 At a Chinatown center

"Every country owns a sport. We own Ping-Pong," chuckles Ken Yang, 17, as he
glances up at a flat screen showing the Olympic Games inside the Chinatown
Community Cultural Center,housed near Gallery Place.

He moved with his family to the United States from China four years ago, and he
and others say that despite the fact that China has one of the top medal counts
in the world, most Chinese Americans watch the Olympics at home. They don't have
a pub culture; they don't even sit around at Starbucks, says Linda Wang,
director of operations at the center.  Nonetheless, about 25 young people
gathered at the cultural center Thursday afternoon and said they like to have
the Olympic Games on - in the background - while they hang out, learn Chinese
calligraphy and play Chinese checkers, mah-jongg and, of course, Ping-Pong,
known in the Olympics as table tennis.

"Compared to the Chinese Ping-Pong champs [such as] Zhang Jike, we aren't that
good," Yang says. "That's why we need to watch and get better. They inspire us!"


2 At Korean Cultural Center

Korean Americans are swooning for soccer, glows Hosan Kim, 34, project officer
at the Korean Cultural Center Washington.

Ever since South Korea co-hosted the 2002 FIFA World Cup with Japan, Koreans
have been supporting their soccer team in public gatherings.

Love has made Koreans do things they never would have before, says Kim, who
organized a viewing of South Korea's Olympic soccer match at the U.S. Tae Kwon
Do College in Arlington.

"The dynamics have totally changed. We wouldn't have come out before, but now
everybody wants to meet and cheer en masse, in public for our soccer players,"
he says, wearing a white T-shirt that read on the front, "Go Team, Korea," and
on the back, "See you at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang," which is
being hosted by South Korea. "It's just a great thing to be all together," Kim
says.

waxe@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 12, 2012 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Deferred deportation program set to take applications

BYLINE: Meghan McCarthy

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


WASHINGTON - Up to 1.76 million illegal immigrants could be eligible for a
two-year reprieve from deportation under an Obama administration program that
begins accepting applications Wednesday.

Immigrants such as Reyna Montoya.

Montoya was 13 when she moved to Arizona with her family to escape the
escalating violence in her hometown of Tijuana, Mexico.

Her family had a good life in Mexico, where they were "economically stable," she
said. But they were concerned about their security as the drug cartels grew in
power.

For nearly a decade, Montoya has lived in this country illegally in fear of
deportation. She is 21 now, an Arizona State University graduate.

She is a perfect candidate for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals
initiative that begins this month.

Under the policy, individuals who are under the age of 31 as of June 15 can
apply for a two-year deferral of any deportation if they can prove that they
came to the United States before age 16, have lived here for the past five
years, have not been convicted of select crimes and are not a threat to national
security.

Applicants must have a high school diploma or GED, be enrolled in school or have
been honorably discharged from the military. The deferral, if granted, is
renewable and applicants can also apply for work authorization.

The Migration Policy Institute originally estimated that 1.39 million
individuals would be eligible for deferral. It recently upped the number to 1.76
million after U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services released new guidelines
that said young people not now in school could qualify if they enrolled before
Wednesday.

At a discussion hosted by the institute last week, USCIS Director Alejandro
Mayorkas called the policy an "unprecedented effort" to transform the
immigration system. But he stressed that the program would not serve as a
"pathway to permanent residence."

That is the criticism that has been leveled by Republicans, who have denounced
the policy as a "blanket amnesty" program that bypassed congressional authority.

But Mayorkas said there will be nothing blanket about the application of the
program.

"Remember that the decision about whether or not to defer action in response to
a request is an individualized decision," he said.

The administration has been relatively quiet in releasing information since
unveiling the program in June.

The program is funded through an application fee of $465, although exemptions
will be made for minors, homeless youth and youth with chronic disabilities
whose income is below 150 percent of the poverty level, among other exceptions.

Individuals who apply will be scheduled for a biometrics appointment and subject
to background checks against several databases. They will be asked to provide
financial, medical, school, military, employment and other records to prove that
they have met the requirements.

There is no appeal of a deferral denial, Mayorkas said.

Mayorkas said there is still information and instructions to come.

"We anticipate providing additional guidance on this subject on Aug. 15," he
said.

He could not predict how long it might take to process an application, saying
that will depend on the volume and pace of applications.

- McClatchy-Tribune News Service

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

For young Maryland immigrants, a path out of the shadows

BYLINE: Wallace D. Loh

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 786 words


They call themselves "shadows" - young Maryland residents brought to this
country as children by their parents.

They worked hard. They excelled in our public schools. They want to go to
college so they can be more productive members of our workforce. They do not ask
for a free ride. Yet they remain shadows because their parents came without
immigration papers. The Maryland Dream Act would bring these young people into
daylight.

If upheld in a referendum by Maryland voters on Nov. 6, the Dream Act would
allow these undocumented young people to pay in-state tuition rates at
Maryland's public universities - provided that they meet stringent requirements.

As an American citizen by choice, I will vote in favor of the Dream Act. It is
fair, just and economically beneficial to our state.

I staked my claim on the American Dream five decades ago. A "Latasian"
(Latino-Asian) - I grew up in Latin America speaking Spanish at school and
Chinese at home - I came to the United States alone, as a teenager. I worked my
way through college and became a lawyer, educator and university president.

At that time, exclusionary quotas limited the number of immigrants from certain
countries. Congress later repealed these and widened the doors to citizenship. I
remember well those uncertain times, so I empathize with today's young shadows.

My journey - and those of countless other immigrants who came before and after
me - would be remarkable in almost any country other than the United States. We
are a nation of nations. Most Americans have a hyphenated identity. We owe a
great deal of our national vitality and success to the enduring dreams and hard
work of immigrants.

After a couple of generations here, Americans tend to forget how difficult it
was for their ancestors to tame our rocky soil, cut rock from quarries or weave
a new life from rags. Immigrants ate their share of dust. They added grit to the
American character.

A Maryland commission's report on the "Impact of Immigrants in Maryland" notes
that 57 percent of our state's workforce expansion from 2000 to 2010 came from
immigrants. Our economy could not have grown without them. The economic
contributions of immigrants far outweigh the costs borne by local and state
government. The state would be "foolhardy" to shortchange the education of
immigrant children who will be part of Maryland's next generation workforce,
this commission said.

We know that education is the great equalizer in our democracy. It is the
passport to social and economic mobility. The U.S. Supreme Court advanced these
values when it ruled that undocumented children are entitled to a public-school
education.

It costs, on average, about $14,000 a year to educate each Maryland public
school student. It is a waste of investment and talent to then slam the door on
those with the ability and motivation - but limited money - to go to college.
Emerging economic powers invest heavily in educating their workforce of
tomorrow. Our country's future depends on preparing every student to learn and
work in a competitive, globalized economy.

The Dream Act sets a high bar. Its beneficiaries must have spent at least three
years in a Maryland high school and earned a diploma or the equivalent. Their
parents must have filed at least three years of income tax returns. They must
earn 60 credits in community college or an associate degree. They must meet full
academic requirements and get admitted to a University System of Maryland
institution. Only then are they eligible to pay in-state tuition at University
System schools.

Moreover, these undocumented transfer students will count as non-residents,
though they pay resident rates. They do not take the space of other qualified
Maryland resident students.

President Obama's recent order defers possible deportation for some "shadows"
brought here before age 16. This two-year oasis will give them a chance to
complete their education under the Maryland Dream Act.

Whatever the failings of our nation's immigration system, these young people
were brought here and grew up here. They are now trapped in a dilemma they did
not create. They have been educated and encouraged by their public-school
teachers. They have dared to dream of productive lives. In these circumstances,
I believe compassion must temper stern justice.

I support the Maryland Dream Act because I remember my immigrant days. I also
support it because I have learned what it means to be an American. When we close
the doors of opportunity to specific groups, we betray our core national belief
that everyone deserves a chance to rise on his or her merits.

The American Dream belongs to all of us or none of us.

The writer is president of the University of Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Strike aSTEM deal

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 515 words


NOT MANY PARTS of the Democratic and Republican party platforms are
interchangeable. An exception is the nearly identical passages expressing
support for keeping foreign-born students in this country after they earn
advanced degrees from U.S. universities in science, technology, engineering and
math, the so-called STEM fields. The rationale is obvious. It is folly to
educate these prized students in the United States - often with federal
subsidies - and then, lacking adequate visas for them, force them into the hands
of corporate competitors overseas.

Unfortunately, it's easier to recognize folly than to do something about it,
especially for the current Congress, and particularly in the context of the
contentious immigration debate. Yet if any immigration problem can be resolved,
this one should be.

A pair of bills - one Republican, one Democratic - propose solutions, but by
different means. The Republican measure, sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas,
the House Judiciary Committee chairman, would create 55,000 STEM green cards
annually by repurposing a similar number now devoted to the so-called green-card
lottery. The Democratic bill, authored by Rep. Zoe Lofgren of California, would
create 50,000 STEM visas by expanding overall immigration, without eliminating
the lottery.

Congressional leaders have gone back and forth on the issue for months, seeking
compromise.  So far, no agreement is in the cards. Republicans, under the
influence of anti-immigrant restrictionists, are loath to increase the number of
immigrants. Some Democrats are reluctant to ditch the green-card lottery, also
known as the diversity visa program, which benefits mainly African and Eastern
European immigrants. Others worry that a separate deal on STEM graduates now may
make it more difficult to nail down a comprehensive immigration reform package
later.

There's some logic in the Republican approach. Over its two decades, the
green-card lottery has been a great diplomatic public relations tool for the
United States. But in the current economic climate, STEM graduates are more
valuable than mostly low-skilled workers from the Third World.

What's clear is that, without a deal, this country is the loser. Globally,
demand for STEM graduates is soaring and competition is stiff. Canada, Britain
and Australia have all structured their immigration rules to favor their job
markets. China is offering cash and other incentives to lure Chinese scientists
home after they have trained overseas. Meanwhile, the U.S. system remains tilted
in favor of foreign relatives of citizens and permanent residents.

There's no mystery about the entrepreneurial energy and talent that foreign STEM
graduates have to offer. Increasingly, they dominate engineering and other
scientific departments at top universities around the country. In the decade
ending in 2005, the founders of half the firms in Silicon Valley were born
overseas. Allowing them to slip through the cracks of this nation's broken
immigration system, and into the arms of rivals in other countries, is a recipe
for long-term economic decline.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 23, 2012 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1007 words


CaliforniaMan accused in Guatemala massacre returned to U.S.LOS ANGELES, Sept 22
(Reuters) - A former Guatemalan army commander accused of taking part in the
massacre of more than 200 people during that country's civil war has been
returned to the United States to face charges he lied about his past to gain
U.S. citizenship, authorities said on Saturday.Jorge Sosa, 54, arrived at Los
Angeles International Airport accompanied by U.S. Marshals on Friday evening
following his extradition from Calgary, Canada, where he was arrested in
January, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman Lori Haley
said.U.S. prosecutors, who have no jurisdiction in Guatemala, have not charged
Sosa in connection with the December 1982 massacre in the village of Dos
Erres.Instead, he was charged with making false statements to immigration
officials to cover up his past as he sought to become a naturalized U.S. citizen
in 2008. If Sosa, also known as Jorge Vinicio Sosa Orantes, is convicted he
could be sent to Guatemala to face charges there after serving his
sentence.According to a U.S. federal grand jury indictment issued in September
2009, Sosa was a commanding officer of a Guatemalan Army special forces unit
that killed men, women and children of Dos Erres, often by hitting them with a
sledgehammer and dumping their bodies into a well.Members of the patrol, known
as the "Kaibiles," also raped many of the women and girls of the village before
killing them.The Kaibiles unit had been dispatched to Dos Erres to find members
of a guerrilla group that had ambushed a military convoy in November 1982,
killing soldiers and taking their weapons.The massacre at Dos Erres is
considered one of the worst atrocities of Guatemala's more than 30-year civil
war.Prosecutors say Sosa, who had been living in Riverside, California, lied
when told an examiner for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services that he
had never committed a crime or been a member of a foreign military.Sosa fled to
Canada following his indictment, law enforcement sources say.A Calgary-based
attorney for Sosa could not be reached for comment on Saturday afternoon.

It was not immediately known if Sosa had retained an attorney in California.The
ProPublica news service said in a story on its website that Sosa had denied
guilt in a recent telephone interview from jail in Canada, saying that he was
working for the military in another village on the day of the massacre.Sosa is
the fourth accused member of the Kaibiles living in the United States to be
targeted by ICE's Human Rights Violators and War Crimes Center.In July 2011,
Pedro Pimentel Rios, 54, was deported to Guatemala to face prosecution there in
connection with the massacre.In September 2010, 54-year-old Gilberto Jordan was
sentenced to 120 months in federal prison and his U.S. citizenship was revoked
after he pleaded guilty to lying to immigration officials about his role in the
Kaibiles.And in February 2010, Santos Lopez Alonzo was arrested by ICE agents in
Houston and charged with illegal re-entry into the country after deportation.
(Reporting by Dan Whitcomb; Editing by Alex Dobuzinskis and Jackie Frank)

California

Guatemala-massacre suspect back in U.S.

A former Guatemalan army commander accused of taking part in the massacre of
more than 200 people during the country's civil war is back in the United States
to face charges he lied about his past to gain U.S. citizenship, authorities
said Saturday.

Jorge Sosa, 54, arrived at Los Angeles International Airport accompanied by U.S.
Marshals on Friday evening after extradition from Calgary, Canada, where he was
arrested in January, U.S. Immigration and Customs spokeswoman Lori Haley said.

Sosa was charged with making false statements to immigration officials to cover
up his past as he sought to become a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2008. If Sosa,
also known as Jorge Vinicio Sosa Orantes, is convicted, he could be sent to
Guatemala to face charges there after serving his sentence.

According to a U.S. federal grand jury indictment issued in September 2009, Sosa
was a commanding officer of a Guatemalan Army special forces unit that in
December 1982 killed men, women and children in the village of Dos Erres often
by hitting them with a sledgehammer and dumping their bodies into a well.

Texas

Police officer kills double amputee

A Houston police officer fatally shot a double amputee Saturday inside a group
home after the man threatened the officer, police say, by waving a metal object
that turned out to be a pen.

Police spokeswoman Jodi Silva said the man, who was in a wheelchair, cornered
the officer and was making threats while trying to stab the officer with the
pen. The officer did not know what the object was, Silva said, the man did not
follow instructions to calm down and remain still.

Police did not immediately release the name of the victim. They had been called
to the home after a caretaker reported that the amputee was causing a
disturbance. The owner of the group home, John Garcia, told the Houston
Chronicle that the man had a history of mental illness and had said that he lost
a leg above the knee and all of one arm when he was hit by a train.

The officer, Matthew Jacob Marin, was placed on administrative leave, police
said.

- Associated Press

2 charged with taking checks from Obama campaign: Two men were charged Saturday
with depositing two checks stolen from President Obama's campaign into bank
accounts they fraudulently opened. Jessie Adams allegedly instructed Willard
Elam and another man who remains at large to open accounts at two bank branches
in Chicago's south suburbs. Prosecutors said Elam, the unidentified man and
Adams pretended to be owners of firms that work with Obama's campaign.

Rallies to protest fracking: Demonstrators rallied Saturday to protest the
natural gas drilling process known as fracking. Participants in the "Global
Frackdown" campaign demonstrated in South Africa and France and in cities in
California, Colorado and New York and around the world.

- From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 27, 2012 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Mr. Romney's immigration muddle

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 899 words


IF ONLY HE were Hispanic, Mitt Romney mused in his secretly recorded comments
unearthed by Mother Jones magazine, his electoral prospects would be so much
brighter. "I say that jokingly," said the Republican presidential nominee, who
plainly wasn't joking at all, "but it would be helpful to be Latino."

Looking at his poll numbers, the reasons for Mr. Romney's wistfulness - and for
his angst about Hispanic votes - are apparent. Among that fast-growing segment
of the electorate, President Obama enjoys better than a 2-to-1 lead over Mr.
Romney, roughly the same margin that helped him win key swing states in 2008.

So in search of some street cred that might lift his chances in Colorado, Nevada
or Virginia, Mr. Romney has cited what passes for his Hispanic roots - the fact
that his father, George, was born (to American parents) in Mexico - and has
deployed his son Craig, who speaks Spanish, in ads on Spanish-language media.

Very nice. But if Mr. Romney really wants to make inroads into Mr. Obama's lead
among Hispanics, what he needs is an immigration policy that is fair, cogent and
economically rational. That would be a refreshing change from his stance of the
past six months, during which he first embraced harsh rhetoric and draconian
policies, then tried to fuzz it away at the margins.

In Mr. Romney's latest foray into immigration policy, during a forum broadcast
online by the Spanish-language Univision network, he promised to "put into place
an immigration reform system that resolves this issue." And how exactly would he
do that? The candidate wouldn't say.

Mr. Romney did say what he wouldn't do - he wouldn't round up and deport 11
million undocumented immigrants. But he remains stuck with the more punitive
policies that he favored during the GOP primaries, when he said he would push
illegal immigrants to "self-deport" by making it impossible for them to work;
vowed to veto the Dream Act, which would grant legal status to undocumented
young people who were brought into the country by their parents; pledged to
complete the 2,000-mile border fence along the Mexican border; cozied up to
Arizona's draconian "show-me-your-papers" law by promising to drop the federal
litigation against it on his first day as president; and enlisted Kansas
Secretary of State Kris Kobach, a leading crusader against illegal immigration
and an architect of the Arizona law, as an adviser to his campaign.

Mr. Romney's positions, which are really no more than slogans, avoid all the
tough questions that would attend a serious debate on immigration reform. He
says he would support temporary work visas, but does he really suppose those
could be issued in sufficient numbers to replace the millions of undocumented
workers who he hopes would "self-deport"? He says he would staple a green card
to advanced degrees in math, science and engineering earned by foreign students,
but would he do so at the cost of eliminating other immigration visas, as
congressional Republicans insist? And what would he do about the undocumented
youngsters - as many as 1.7 million of them - whom Mr. Obama has made eligible
for temporary legal status? Mr. Romney isn't saying.

His dilemma is trying to shave off enough Hispanic support to avoid a repetition
of 2008's electoral results while not offending the Republican base, whose
inflexible opposition to most reforms combines nativism with economic
incoherence. So far, Mr. Romney has been unable to square that circle.

Mr. Obama, for his part, has failed to make progress on his 2008 campaign
promise to enact sweeping immigration reform that would include a pathway to
citizenship for undocumented immigrants. And he has angered some Hispanics and
immigration advocacy groups by stepping up the pace of deportations.

But he is right that the main hurdle to a meaningful deal on immigration - one
that would tighten enforcement and acknowledge reality by extending some form of
amnesty to 11 million undocumented immigrants - is the uniform opposition of
congressional Republicans, including those who once favored such an approach.

So the president has been left to implement partial measures that have injected
some sanity into the policy without actually fixing it. Border security has been
substantially beefed up, and illegal crossings from Mexico are at their lowest
levels in 40 years. Deportations continue, but with a sensible focus on
undocumented immigrants who have committed serious crimes. Undocumented
residents younger than 30 have been allowed to apply for temporary legal status,
provided they have no criminal record and have finished high school, attend
college or serve in the military.

Both candidates acknowledge the reality that 11 million illegal immigrants will
not be made to disappear, though Mr. Romney seems to wish that somehow they
would, on their own initiative. Yet only the president has embraced the goal of
enacting legislation that recognizes the U.S. economy relies on the 7 million
undocumented immigrants in the labor force, most of whom have been in the
country for a decade or more and many of whom have American-born children.

As for Mr. Romney, saying he would solve the problem is not the same as
presenting a blueprint to do so. By fudging the specifics, he has made clear
that he really has no policy at all and indicated that a Romney presidency would
turn a blind eye to the nation's broken immigration system.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Decline in immigrant businesses fuels concerns

BYLINE: J.D. Harrison

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 697 words


The once steady rise in immigrant entrepreneurship has stalled in the United
States, threatening to further slow an already sluggish economic recovery.

Over the past six years, the proportion of new companies founded by foreign-born
individuals has slipped to 24.3 percent from 25.3 percent, according to a
Kauffman Foundation survey published Tuesday. This updated previous studies
showing a boom in immigrant entrepreneurship over previous decades.

The group's researchers now  wonder whether "the period of unprecedented
expansion of immigrant-led entrepreneurship that characterized the 1980s and
1990s has come to a close."

The drop is even more pronounced in the nation's preeminent start-up community,
Silicon Valley, where the number of new firms with at least one immigrant
founder dropped to 43.9 percent from 52.4 percent in 2005.

"I knew the numbers were slowing, but that was shocking, and that's when I
realized this was worse than we thought," Vivek Wadhwa, director of research at
the Center for Entrepreneurship and Research Commercialization at Duke
University's Pratt School of Engineering, said in an interview about the study,
which compiled data from 1,882 firms nationally that were started in the past
six years. (Wadhwa writes a column for The Washington Post.)

The growing consensus among economists is that young businesses - rather than
small businesses in general - represent the most reliable, consistent source of
job creation, and foreign-born entrepreneurs have long been at the helm of many
of those firms. In December, the National Foundation for American Policy
released a study showing that nearly half of the country's top venture-backed,
early-stage companies were founded by at least one immigrant.

Expanded to include fast-growing start-ups with immigrants in upper-management
positions, the number leaps to 74 percent.

But increasingly strict immigration laws are making it more difficult for those
immigrants to start their enterprises in the United States, prompting a "reverse
brain drain," according to the researchers behind the Kauffman study. Of
particular concern is the growing number of foreign-born students who earn
advanced degrees at U.S. universities but after graduating are forced to return
home, where some create firms that compete against American companies.

Last month, 165 university presidents and chancellors sent a letter to Congress
and President Obama urging them to support visa changes that would allow
foreign-born students who earn advanced degrees to stay in the United States and
work or start companies here. The current immigration system, they said, poses
"a critical threat to America's preeminence as a global center of innovation and
prosperity."

Lawmakers have already proposed several remedies over the past year - most
recently, Startup Act 2.0, which would create a new visa category for immigrants
who start companies and hire workers in the United States. The bill would also
provide green cards for students who receive graduate degrees in math and
science fields from U.S. colleges. But the measure has been stalled by a bitter
partisan divide over broader immigration changes.

"Both sides support these targeted changes, but Democrats want comprehensive
immigration reform, and they're concerned that, if this is taken care of, the
urgency around immigration reform won't be there anymore and they won't be able
to resolve the larger amnesty issue," Wadhwa said. "So you have the
all-or-nothing strategy versus the all-the-job-creators-we-can-get strategy.
That's what it boils down to right now."

Should lawmakers not address the country's immigration issues, the economic road
to recovery may get significantly longer, Wadhwa warned, and the United States
will likely struggle to maintain competitiveness in global markets.

"If we wait five years to fix the immigration system, the undocumented, illegal
workers will still be here, but the high-skilled immigrants will be long gone,"
he said. "They'll be back home building the next Googles and Intels in other
countries, and we will wake up five years from now and wonder how we let this
happen."

harrisonj@washpost.com

Twitter: @jd_harrison and @onsmallbiz.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 7, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

You're not a citizen. But you still might tilt the election.

BYLINE: Leonard Steinhorn

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1345 words


If President Obama wins reelection by three or four Electoral College votes next
month, the reason may be simple: noncitizens, mostly immigrants, who don't have
the right to vote. No, I'm not talking about his immigration policy or his
popularity with Latinos. Nor does this have anything to do with voter fraud.
Rather, an Obama victory could hinge on a quirk in the Constitution that gives
noncitizens, a group that includes illegal immigrants and legal permanent
residents, a say in electing the president of the United States.

As required by Article I and the Fourteenth Amendment, the decennial census,
which allocates to each state its congressional seats and Electoral College
votes, is based on a count of all people who live in the United States, citizens
and noncitizens alike - or as the Constitution phrases it, "the whole number of
persons in each state." That means millions of noncitizens who are ineligible to
vote are included in Electoral College calculations, and that benefits some
states over others. Most of these noncitizens are here legally; however, the Pew
Hispanic Center estimates that about 45 percent of noncitizens are undocumented
immigrants.

In 2010 and most previous years, the census did not inquire about citizenship,
but the American Community Survey (ACS), which samples our population every
month, includes a breakdown of citizens and noncitizens. Plugging the 2010 ACS
citizen-only numbers into the Census Bureau's apportionment formula shows that
five states benefit electorally from their noncitizen populations: New York,
Florida and Washington each gain one congressional seat and thus one Electoral
College vote; Texas gains two; and California - with 5,516,920 noncitizens out
of a total population of 37,341,989 - gains five.

Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, North Carolina, Indiana, Iowa, Missouri,
Louisiana, Oklahoma and Montana each lose a seat under the official formula as
compared with an apportionment that counts citizens only.

It is ironic that Florida, which is in the news for its heavy-handed effort to
purge noncitizens from its voter rolls, actually has a greater voice in the
presidential election because of the nearly 2 million noncitizens who live
there.

Looking at how the states might vote in November, there is no scenario in which
Mitt Romney benefits from the inclusion of noncitizens in the Electoral College
calculation, but there are several  in which Obama could gain three to five
Electoral College votes, thus deciding a close election.

To play out a few of these scenarios, let's first assume that each candidate
wins states that are competitive but leaning his way. So Michigan and
Pennsylvania go to the president, and North Carolina and Arizona go to Romney.

That leaves eight battleground states up for grabs: Ohio, Florida, Virginia,
Wisconsin, Colorado, Nevada, Iowa and New Hampshire. Obama begins with a base of
237 Electoral College votes, and Romney comes in at 206.

If the president won Ohio, Wisconsin and Iowa, and Romney took the rest, Obama
would prevail by 271 to 267 Electoral College votes. However, if the Electoral
College calculation did not include noncitizens, Mitt Romney would win 270 to
268.

Or say the president won Ohio, Virginia and New Hampshire, with the other
battleground states going to Romney. That would result in a 272 to 266 Obama
victory - which could have been a 270 to 268 Romney win if only citizens had
been counted.

If the president won New Hampshire, Virginia, Wisconsin and Colorado, that would
give him 273 Electoral College votes to Romney's 265. But recalculate it with
citizens only, and it would be a Romney victory, 270 to 268.

Various other combinations are possible, but the bottom line is that Obama's
Electoral College tally benefits from counting noncitizens, while Romney's does
not.

So if including noncitizens distorts the Electoral College and potentially
affects the outcome of our nation's most important vote, why do we continue to
count "the whole number of persons" - noncitizens the same as citizens - in the
census?

There are many good reasons.

Communities need accurate population data when considering whether to open or
close schools, add police officers and firefighters, and provide health care and
social services. Businesses use this information to decide where to locate, what
to stock and how much to invest.

Accurate population information also guides how federal dollars are allocated to
states and localities, and this money is often critical for communities with
large numbers of immigrants, who often need social services. Who lives where
also determines infrastructure decisions at the federal, state and local levels.

Nor would we obtain the accurate information we need if we required the Census
Bureau to ask about citizenship status. Few undocumented immigrants would
willingly cooperate with census-takers or answer the questionnaire if that meant
giving the government information that could be used to deport them. Already,
the census may be undercounting undocumented immigrants by about 12 percent,
according to the Pew Hispanic Center. (The Census Bureau estimates that it had a
net overcount of 0.01 percent  in 2010, meaning that about 36,000 people were
overcounted.)

It also makes sense to use the full population when allocating congressional
districts. The lives of citizens and noncitizens are intertwined, and asking
members of Congress to distinguish between them could create unnecessary tension
and division. It is perhaps why the framers, in requiring a decennial
"enumeration" to determine congressional apportionment, chose to count "persons"
rather than "citizens of the United States," a term used elsewhere in the
Constitution.

But even if it makes sense to organize our representative system around the
total number of people residing in a congressional district, it makes no sense
to give noncitizens a potentially decisive say in determining who should be
president. A core privilege of citizenship is the right to vote and decide the
fate of our country. So we shouldn't indirectly give noncitizens a say in
allocating electoral votes.

Before Republicans cry foul that the Electoral College favors Democrats, they
should note that they, too, benefit from a distortion the Electoral College
creates.

Critics of the Electoral College have long argued that it violates the spirit of
one person, one vote, and they are right. Americans may believe that a Wyoming
or North Dakota voter should have no more say in electing a president than a
California or New York voter. But the Electoral College undermines that
principle by giving rural states, which often lean Republican, an outsize role
in electing our president. Because the Electoral College allocation for each
state is based on the state's number of representatives in Congress as well as
its two senators, states with fewer residents have more electors per person than
larger states do.

Thus the 15 least-populated states get one elector for every 190,000 to 400,000
residents, whereas California gets one per almost 700,000. (This inequality
wouldn't change significantly if Electoral College votes were based solely on
the number of citizens in each state.)

These same 15 states combined have less than half the population of California,
but together they cast one more Electoral College vote.

Perhaps the two Electoral College distortions - the small- or rural-state
advantage that often helps Republicans and the noncitizen boost that works for
Democrats - neutralize each other. Regardless, this is no way to elect a
president.

The Electoral College is an anachronism. We should abandon this 18th-century
relic and entrust the choice of our president to  all citizens, through a direct
popular vote.

outlook@washpost.com

Leonard Steinhorn is a professor of communication at American University
specializing in American politics and history. He is a political analyst for CBS
News and a co-founder of PunditWire, where political speechwriters comment on
the news.

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 9, 2012 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

A clear case for compassion

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 200 words


The Oct. 4 Metro article "The only country she's known" reported the story of
31-year-old Lundy Khoy, whose Cambodian-born parents immigrated to the United
States when she was 1.

In 2000, Ms. Khoy was arrested for possession with intent to distribute the drug
ecstasy, and she served three months in jail and four years of probation. She
has subsequently lived within the law, been employed and is working toward a
bachelor's degree in college. As a resident alien, rather than a citizen, she is
threatened with deportation to Cambodia because of the nonviolent crime
committed when she was 19.

Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies believes that strict
expulsion requirements are necessary because otherwise officials might allow
more serious criminals to evade deportation. Why? "The abuse of discretion makes
it impossible to give the executive this kind of wiggle room," Mr. Krikorian
stated.

I understand the need for vigilance against the government limiting people's
freedom. But why do we restrain the government from reasonable leeway in
granting freedom?  Shouldn't context and compassion be considered - at least for
legal permanent residents?

Patrick J. Noone, Lutherville, Md.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 16, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Ballot initiative alliance meets resistance

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1151 words


A few weeks ago, CASA of Maryland and other immigration advocacy organizations
formed an alliance with gay rights groups to urge passage of two hot-button
initiatives on the Maryland ballot in November, one legalizing same-sex marriage
and the other making some undocumented immigrants eligible for in-state tuition.

Elected officials joined them in making the announcement, which came as no
surprise. The news media had been alerted days in advance.

But for Bishop Angel Nunez of the Bilingual Christian Church of Baltimore, a
longtime CASA of Maryland ally, the news struck out of nowhere.

Nunez has long worked with CASA to promote immigrant causes, including the Dream
Act in-state tuition initiative, but he strongly opposes same-sex marriage.

"Pastors are calling me up saying, 'What's going on here?' " he said, adding
that he has been urging his 250 regular congregants, who hail from 23 nations,
to vote for the Dream Act and against the Civil Marriage Protection Act. "I
don't know if I feel betrayed or not, but right now I'm confused."

Typically, he said, he gets e-mails from CASA about its plans. But this time,
Nunez said he didn't know what CASA was up to until he read in a newspaper about
the alliance, which also includes the prominent Latino advocacy group National
Council of La Raza.

"No outreach got to us . . .  to at least say, 'I know we don't agree on this,
but this is what we're doing,' " he said.

The alliance, according to its members, aims to enable champions of in-state
tuition for undocumented immigrants and same-sex marriage to draw support from
each other's members at the ballot box. When announcing it, CASA cited an April
report  from the Pew Hispanic Center showing that 59 percent of Latinos think
that homosexuality should be accepted by society. A report released by the
National Council of La Raza and Social Science Research Solutions in April found
that 54 percent of Hispanics in the country support same-sex marriage, a
slightly higher percentage than the general population.

Experts say that younger Latinos and those whose families immigrated less
recently are more likely to be open to same-sex marriage.

But many Latino religious leaders remain staunchly opposed to the referendum
that would allow civil marriage for gay men and lesbians. The alliance has
brought to the surface a conflict many Maryland Hispanics face between
supporting an organization that has helped them in the past and going against
deeply held religious beliefs.

And while many are eager to see the Dream Act pass, their enthusiasm does not
translate to supporting the marriage equality referendum.

Calling Nunez "a huge leader in our community" and a longtime ally of his
organization, Gustavo Torres, CASA's executive director, said last week that the
failure to inform him about the alliance was "totally an oversight."

"We had conversations about this issue probably four or five months ago," Torres
said, "but I didn't mention to him directly that I'm going to endorse Equality
Maryland."

A new survey from the Pew Research Center shows that a small majority of Latino
Catholics support same-sex marriage, while a strong majority of Latino
evangelicals oppose it. Just under 60 percent of Latinos in the United States
are Catholic, and about 16 percent are evangelical Protestants, according to
Pew.

Torres acknowledged that local Latino churches have overwhelmingly opposed
CASA's decision to support the same-sex marriage referendum. "We have an
extraordinary partnership with many congregations on different issues, including
fighting poverty, comprehensive immigration reform, and the Dream Act," he said.
"But on this particular issue we have differences, it's true."

Joseph Palacios, a professor of sociology at Georgetown University's Center for
Latin American Studies, said he suspected that some Latino Catholic priests,
loath to alienate either side, were avoiding the issue in their sermons.

"They have gay people in their parishes [and] . . . so many single-parent
households," he said.

But Monsignor Mark Brennan, pastor of St. Martin of Tours, a Catholic church in
Gaithersburg with 2,500 Hispanic congregants that has often worked with CASA on
immigrant issues, said that his parishioners oppose the alliance.

"I think it's really a big mistake on [CASA's] part to join the two issues,
which are quite distinct," he said. "From what I'm hearing from my people,
CASA's stance offends them."

Brennan said he did not know whether the rift would affect parishioners'
relations with CASA on other matters. "Immigrants are eminently practical
people; I think they'll be happy to accept their help on issues that they agree
with them on," he said. But, he added, "it could cause some re-evaluation in our
community of 'Hey, what's CASA all about?' "

At the Iglesia Roca de la Eternidad, a Hispanic Pentecostal church in Landover
Hills, the Rev. Heber D. Paredes delivered a fiery speech Friday night in
Spanish blasting same-sex marriage, while a young man translated it to English
for younger congregants.

"Why does man want to redefine what God already established?" Paredes yelled as
the congregation nodded and clapped. "Man is not the inventor of marriage! God
is!"

Many congregants there have received help over the years from CASA's immigrant
services, but several said they had no idea the organization had formed an
alliance with lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) organizations.

"It surprises me," said Maria Delgado, 30, of Hyattsville, who was attending
services with her six children. "Because really they help people to work, they
help people with families."

Paredes, who has preached against the ballot measure for the past six weeks,
said that supporting same-sex marriage strays outside of CASA's mandate.

"They exist to help our community, and I don't think that's a help," he said.
"I'm surprised at CASA de Maryland; they know the Hispanic position on it."

CASA has more than 27,000 members, and Paredes said he worries the organization
will use its sway in the community to influence the vote. "They want to tie our
young people to them," he said.

Morena Burris, 48, the church's administrator, agreed. "They do represent a lot
of hope for Central and South Americans, so any time CASA de Maryland rallies
for something, our community doesn't question it," she said.

In front of Nunez's Baltimore church, where a large sign reads, "Don't be
fooled! Vote No Question 6. Marriage is always been one man one woman," Nunez
seemed saddened rather than angry over the rift with CASA.

"We're part of the community that's been there with them, that marched down to
Washington with them," he said. As to whether he will work with CASA in the
future, he said, "We will probably see after the election."

But Torres said he hoped the two sides would continue to work together on issues
they agree on.

"There's more that unites us than divides us," he said.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 17, 2012 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Cross talk

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 616 words


PRESIDENT OBAMA AND Mitt Romney faced off Tuesday night in a scrappy, at times
downright nasty town-hall debate that featured a feistier, more focused Obama
than was seen in their first encounter and that broadened the discussion to
social issues such as immigration, contraceptive coverage and gun control. If
the candidates' remarks did not break new, substantive ground, the evening
served to sharpen differences between them and to give each a chance to make a
sales pitch to crucial constituencies, particularly to women voters. The two men
tangled repeatedly over facts, from precisely how the president characterized
the Libya attack to oil production on federal land.

Mr. Romney's strategy was to describe the past four years as a failed experiment
and to further cement the more moderate image he began to try out in the earlier
encounter. "The president has tried, but his policies haven't worked," Mr.
Romney said. Pivoting from some of the conservative rhetoric of the Republican
primary season, Mr. Romney made the rather unconvincing argument that his push
for illegal immigrants to "self-deport" was a kinder, gentler alternative to
mass roundups. He implied that he was in favor of a path to legalization for the
children of illegal immigrants despite the fact that, during the primary season,
he opposed the major piece of such legislation, the Dream Act, and backed only a
narrow path for those who serve in the military.

Mr. Obama's approach was to paint Mr. Romney as a shape-shifting plutocrat who
made President George W. Bush look squishily moderate by comparison. "George
Bush didn't propose turning Medicare into a voucher," he said. "George Bush
embraced comprehensive immigration reform. . . . George Bush never suggested
that we eliminate funding for Planned Parenthood."

Dismissing Mr. Romney's invocation of his five-point plan, the president said
the Republican nominee has "a one-point plan, and that plan is to make sure that
folks at the top play by a different set of rules." Hitting on Mr. Romney's
failure to offer details on how he would pay for cutting tax rates, Mr. Obama
said that Mr. Romney, as a businessman, "wouldn't take such a sketchy deal and
neither should you, the American people, because the math doesn't add up." Mr.
Obama has a fair point. Mr. Romney's "pick a number" answer for how he would
offset such a tax cut - say, by limiting deductions and credits to $25,000 - is
hardly a serious way to make important policy.

In an exchange on Libya, Mr. Obama was effective in answering Mr. Romney's
criticism of the administration's slowness to recognize that an attack on the
U.S. Consulate in Benghazi was terrorism. The suggestion that the White House's
rhetoric was politically driven, he said, "was offensive. We don't do that." Mr.
Romney challenged the president's assertion that he had described the attack as
a "act of terror" the day after it occurred, only to be told by moderator Candy
Crowley that Mr. Obama was correct. Neither he nor Mr. Obama followed up on a
question about why requests for greater embassy security in Libya had been
denied by the State Department.

Next week's foreign-policy debate will offer a chance for the two candidates to
flesh out other differences on the subject. In the end, on the domestic front,
the debate performance of both has been about as disappointing as their dodging
on the campaign trail. Mr. Romney's tax math is indeed suspect. Mr. Obama's
silence on the subject of entitlement reform is disappointing. But Tuesday's
town-hall debate at least offered a snapshot of the candidates' views on a wider
array of issues, and a portrait of two men who are determined, in the
homestretch, to prevail.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 21, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Ballot initiative alliance meets resistance

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour;Reprinted from;Tuesday's editions

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1151 words


A few weeks ago, CASA of Maryland and other immigration advocacy organizations
formed an alliance with gay rights groups to urge passage of two hot-button
initiatives on the Maryland ballot in November, one legalizing same-sex marriage
and the other making some undocumented immigrants eligible for in-state tuition.

Elected officials joined them in making the announcement, which came as no
surprise. The news media had been alerted days in advance.

But for Bishop Angel Nunez of the Bilingual Christian Church of Baltimore, a
longtime CASA of Maryland ally, the news struck out of nowhere.

Nunez has long worked with CASA to promote immigrant causes, including the Dream
Act in-state tuition initiative, but he strongly opposes same-sex marriage.

"Pastors are calling me up saying, 'What's going on here?' " he said, adding
that he has been urging his 250 regular congregants, who hail from 23 nations,
to vote for the Dream Act and against the Civil Marriage Protection Act. "I
don't know if I feel betrayed or not, but right now I'm confused."

Typically, he said, he gets e-mails from CASA about its plans. But this time,
Nunez said he didn't know what CASA was up to until he read in a newspaper about
the alliance, which also includes the prominent Latino advocacy group National
Council of La Raza.

"No outreach got to us . . .  to at least say, 'I know we don't agree on this,
but this is what we're doing,' " he said.

The alliance, according to its members, aims to enable champions of in-state
tuition for undocumented immigrants and same-sex marriage to draw support from
each other's members at the ballot box. When announcing it, CASA cited an April
report  from the Pew Hispanic Center showing that 59 percent of Latinos think
that homosexuality should be accepted by society. A report released by the
National Council of La Raza and Social Science Research Solutions in April found
that 54 percent of Hispanics in the country support same-sex marriage, a
slightly higher percentage than the general population.

Experts say that younger Latinos and those whose families immigrated less
recently are more likely to be open to same-sex marriage.

But many Latino religious leaders remain staunchly opposed to the referendum
that would allow civil marriage for gay men and lesbians. The alliance has
brought to the surface a conflict many Maryland Hispanics face between
supporting an organization that has helped them in the past and going against
deeply held religious beliefs.

And while many are eager to see the Dream Act pass, their enthusiasm does not
translate to supporting the marriage equality referendum.

Calling Nunez "a huge leader in our community" and a longtime ally of his
organization, Gustavo Torres, CASA's executive director, said last week that the
failure to inform him about the alliance was "totally an oversight."

"We had conversations about this issue probably four or five months ago," Torres
said, "but I didn't mention to him directly that I'm going to endorse Equality
Maryland."

A new survey from the Pew Research Center shows that a small majority of Latino
Catholics support same-sex marriage, while a strong majority of Latino
evangelicals oppose it. Just under 60 percent of Latinos in the United States
are Catholic, and about 16 percent are evangelical Protestants, according to
Pew.

Torres acknowledged that local Latino churches have overwhelmingly opposed
CASA's decision to support the same-sex marriage referendum. "We have an
extraordinary partnership with many congregations on different issues, including
fighting poverty, comprehensive immigration reform, and the Dream Act," he said.
"But on this particular issue we have differences, it's true."

Joseph Palacios, a professor of sociology at Georgetown University's Center for
Latin American Studies, said he suspected that some Latino Catholic priests,
loath to alienate either side, were avoiding the issue in their sermons.

"They have gay people in their parishes [and] . . . so many single-parent
households," he said.

But Monsignor Mark Brennan, pastor of St. Martin of Tours, a Catholic church in
Gaithersburg with 2,500 Hispanic congregants that has often worked with CASA on
immigrant issues, said that his parishioners oppose the alliance.

"I think it's really a big mistake on [CASA's] part to join the two issues,
which are quite distinct," he said. "From what I'm hearing from my people,
CASA's stance offends them."

Brennan said he did not know whether the rift would affect parishioners'
relations with CASA on other matters. "Immigrants are eminently practical
people; I think they'll be happy to accept their help on issues that they agree
with them on," he said. But, he added, "it could cause some re-evaluation in our
community of 'Hey, what's CASA all about?' "

At the Iglesia Roca de la Eternidad, a Hispanic Pentecostal church in Landover
Hills, the Rev. Heber D. Paredes delivered a fiery speech Friday night in
Spanish blasting same-sex marriage, while a young man translated it to English
for younger congregants.

"Why does man want to redefine what God already established?" Paredes yelled as
the congregation nodded and clapped. "Man is not the inventor of marriage! God
is!"

Many congregants there have received help over the years from CASA's immigrant
services, but several said they had no idea the organization had formed an
alliance with lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) organizations.

"It surprises me," said Maria Delgado, 30, of Hyattsville, who was attending
services with her six children. "Because really they help people to work, they
help people with families."

Paredes, who has preached against the ballot measure for the past six weeks,
said that supporting same-sex marriage strays outside of CASA's mandate.

"They exist to help our community, and I don't think that's a help," he said.
"I'm surprised at CASA de Maryland; they know the Hispanic position on it."

CASA has more than 27,000 members, and Paredes said he worries the organization
will use its sway in the community to influence the vote. "They want to tie our
young people to them," he said.

Morena Burris, 48, the church's administrator, agreed. "They do represent a lot
of hope for Central and South Americans, so any time CASA de Maryland rallies
for something, our community doesn't question it," she said.

In front of Nunez's Baltimore church, where a large sign reads, "Don't be
fooled! Vote No Question 6. Marriage is always been one man one woman," Nunez
seemed saddened rather than angry over the rift with CASA.

"We're part of the community that's been there with them, that marched down to
Washington with them," he said. As to whether he will work with CASA in the
future, he said, "We will probably see after the election."

But Torres said he hoped the two sides would continue to work together on issues
they agree on.

"There's more that unites us than divides us," he said.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 28, 2012 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. officials pull Pakistan's Khan off plane; his party seeks apology

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 584 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


NEW YORK - Pakistani politician Imran Kahn, a vocal critic of U.S. drone
strikes, was briefly delayed and questioned by U.S. immigration officials in
Toronto before being allowed to board a flight to New York, prompting his party
to demand an apology from Washington.

Khan told his followers on Twitter that he was detained and interrogated Friday
about his views on drones. A State Department official confirmed Khan had been
briefly detained but said the former Pakistani cricket star was later released
to go the United States. "The issue was resolved, and Mr. Khan is welcome in the
United States," the official said.

Ali Zaidi, senior vice president of Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party,
demanded an apology from U.S. authorities for their two-hour questioning of Khan
and his traveling companions, as well as a thorough investigation.

The State Department gave no details about why Khan was detained. The U.S.
Customs and Border Protection agency said it was prohibited from discussing
specific cases.

Khan, who led a march to northern Pakistan this month to protest U.S. drone
strikes, vowed to continue opposing the deadly attacks. "Nothing will change my
stance," he said.

"I was taken off from plane and interrogated by U.S. Immigration in Canada on my
views on drones. My stance is known. Drone attacks must stop," Khan tweeted
Friday afternoon.

Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party said the politician arrived safely in New
York on Friday, the first day of the Muslim Eid-al-Adha holiday, after the delay
at the Toronto airport and went directly to a fundraising lunch.

Zaidi said the incident violated ethical and diplomatic norms and the Pakistani
government should complain to the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad.

Calling Khan "a celebrated national hero" and a "global icon of colossal
stature," Zaidi wrote on the party's Web site that to "subject him to such
clumsy and vicious treatment speaks volumes about the exasperation induced in
the American ranks by his heroic and patriotic-minded opposition to the drone
program."

In an e-mail, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency declined to comment
on the case but said travelers who want to enter the United States bear the
burden of proof to establish that they are eligible for admission and that
includes overcoming "ALL grounds of inadmissibility."

Pakistani authorities this month stopped a protest led by Khan from entering the
troubled region of South Waziristan, a tribal area frequently hit by drone
strikes.

Khan blames the Pakistan government for allowing the United States to operate in
the country and has said he will order the Pakistani air force to shoot the
unmanned planes down if he wins next year's elections in Pakistan.

Earlier this month, Khan led a march to northern Pakistan to protest the drone
strikes, which have killed between 2,600 and 3,400 Pakistanis, according to the
independent London-based Bureau of Investigative Journalism.

Some Pakistanis say Khan is fanning anti-American sentiment to bolster his
political career and criticize him for refusing to condemn atrocities by the
Taliban or Pakistani army.

Others praise him for reaching out to Pakistan's northern tribal areas and say
he is standing up for a war-ravaged population ignored by mainstream
politicians.

The United States says the strikes have killed top Taliban and al-Qaeda
commanders and that civilian casualties are minimal. But it has not said how
targets are selected or how the military determines whether the dead were
fighters or civilians.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 9, 2012 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

It's time to give back to your biggest supporters

BYLINE: Keith Harriston

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 697 words


Dear President Obama:

Congratulations on your reelection. You no doubt know how much the black
community appreciates the historical significance of both of your successful
presidential campaigns. If you didn't, all you have to do is Google the numbers.

In 2008, according to several exit polls, you captured 95 to 98 percent of the
black vote. For 2012, the estimates are 94 to 96 percent.

We understand a broad coalition elected you as president both terms, not just
us. But we have had your back at a rate much higher than other slices of your
coalition, and you know it.

Now, Mr. President, how about some payback?

This is not an unreasonable request. Just ask women, gays and immigrants.

For women, on your first day in office you signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay
Act. Later came your birth-control mandate that guarantees women access to free
contraceptives.

For gays, you announced your support for same-sex marriage on "Good Morning
America."

For immigrants, you stopped deporting younger, undocumented immigrants - most of
them Latino - and began granting work permits for some of them.

Noticeably missing from the list is any demonstrable policy change - or change
of mind - aimed squarely at black members of your coalition. Some of your black
supporters raised that issue even as they celebrated your victory on election
night and the morning after.

"Now he's got to do something for us," Reginald Miles, a professor at Howard
University, said minutes after networks began declaring Obama's win. "We should
get our reward."

A friend who worked in the Clinton White House heard about this line of thinking
and dismissed it. "Which one of those groups does not include black people?" she
asked. "There are black women. They are black gays and black immigrants. And
what about his health-care bill - don't blacks benefit from that?"

I understand her point, Mr. President, but she did not hear what I did from
different people in different places less than 12 hours after your victory:
Something for us.

Many blacks who supported you in 2008 adopted a stay-quiet-and-wait posture.
They wanted a second term for you. We understood that meant you had to
camouflage your blackness.

A few African Americans did challenge you, Mr. President, and urged you to reach
out more to blacks and to the poor. You know, people like Cornel West and Tavis
Smiley. But your unofficial wingmen, radio hosts Tom Joyner and Steve Harvey,
shot West and Smiley down with nasty verbal assaults.

It was safer to stay quiet and wait. In the meantime, you served up trinkets to
your black supporters.

You granted interviews and allowed yourself to be videotaped playing basketball,
that black game.

You sympathized with anger generated by the slaying of Trayvon Martin, saying in
a statement, "If I had a son, he would look like Trayvon."

But no policy changes. Nothing for us.

Mr. President, many of us got the wait-until-a-second-term message earlier this
year. In March, the media reported that you were "caught" on an open microphone
telling then-Russian president Dmitry Medvedev to pass some words on to Vladimir
Putin. "It's important for him to give me space," you said. "This is my last
election. After my election, I have more flexibility."

You could have been speaking to your black supporters, Mr. President. Now you
earned the second term, and the flexibility that comes with it.

Your legacy is secure. The first black president of the United States. One of
only three Democratic presidents to be elected to a second term in the past
century. Now, sir, you can work on the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of
your story. Something for us.

But what something, you ask. What I heard from some of your supporters in the
hours after your victory did not come with specifics, Mr. President. Blacks in
this country aren't monolithic. We want different things. Besides, it seems as
if the road you take to get the result would carry as much weight as the result.

"We need to decide what we want," Miles said. "Make calls. Write letters. Send
e-mails. And just like FDR told A. Philip Randolph, we need to make Obama do
it."

Keith Harriston teaches journalism at Howard University, where he edits
www.hunewsservice.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 11, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Immigration

BYLINE: Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 625 words


Congratulations, Mr. President. Your victory is a victory for fairness for all
Americans. It is also a victory for Latinos, and one that Latinos can take a
large measure of credit for making happen. They gave you 71 percent of their
votes.

As I traveled the country campaigning for you, especially in Latino communities
in Florida, Colorado and Nevada, it was clear that Latino voters believe that
you will fight for them in your second term.

As I talked with Latinos, one policy was mentioned again and again: your
decision to provide relief from deportation for some young immigrants. Your
courageous leadership on behalf of "dreamers" touched our community and was
essential to inspiring an unprecedented level of support for a Democratic
candidate for president.

I was there in Chicago for your victory speech; you listed "fixing our
immigration system" as one of the challenges you will address in the next term.
Now, together, we can validate Latino voters' trust by making comprehensive
immigration reform a top priority.

I respectfully suggest that we act on reform not just if we can deal with five
or six other important matters first, or if the politics look practical and
manageable. Comprehensive immigration reform should be a priority because it is
our nation's urgent civil rights struggle of the moment.

The policy is straightforward. Create legal immigration channels that are wide
enough and efficient enough that people choose to go through our system, not
around it. We should have an orderly system in which families can stick
together, people have rights, rules are enforced and employers don't cheat to
undercut their competition.

We must address reality. More than 10 ten million â[#x2c6][#x161]people live
here without documentation. Most have been here more than 10ten
years,â[#x2c6][#x161] some more than 25. Most make invaluable contributions to
our economy and our nation. They aren't going anywhere. Let's get them in the
system, on the books, paying even more taxes and living with their families
without fear.

I even have a suggestion for how to start. Call some Republicans - Sen. Lindsey
Graham, Sen. Marco Rubio, senator-elect Jeff Flake. Invite them to join the
process. The Republican Party realized Tuesday night that Mitt Romney's decision
to wake up every morning and do something to offend America's fastest-growing
population was probably a bad idea. Promoting self-deportation? Check. Vowing to
veto relief for young immigrants? Check. Cozying up to Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer
and others on America's anti-immigrant fringe? Check.

Today more than ever, you will find reasonable Republicans who will want to
stand with you in searching for an immigration solution, instead of standing
alone, blaming immigrants for all their problems.

You know you have support for comprehensive immigration reform from Democrats. I
support you. Sens. Bob Menendez and Dick Durbin are committed to leading on this
issue. We are ready to work with you and Republicans to make progress. We should
treat this issue as a top priority and meet right away. Is Camp David available?
How many people does it sleep?

Mr. President, Latinos believe in you. As you know, they were tremendously
frustrated by the record pace of deportations in your first term, but on Tuesday
they set aside those concerns and embraced your promise of progress during a
second term. I'm eager to stand with you. Let's put a bipartisan group together
to fight for civil rights for immigrants and restore America's great immigration
tradition.

outlook@washpost.com

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez was just elected to his 11th term in Congress. He is the
chairman of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 15, 2012 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Town seeks to engage Hispanic residents

BYLINE: Timothy Sandoval

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T16

LENGTH: 789 words


As Riverdale Park has seen a boom in the number of its Hispanic and immigrant
residents, town officials have taken steps to ensure that the population is
integrated into the town's affairs.

But reaching out to the Hispanic population has offered some challenges, Mayor
Vernon Archer said.

Town officials have sought to ensure Hispanic participation in civic and
community events by hiring more bilingual staff and translating some of the
town's literature into Spanish, Archer said.

The town's Hispanic population climbed to 50 percent in 2010, up from 28 percent
in 2000, according to U.S. Census data.

In 2010, 40 percent of the town's population was foreign-born, and 30 percent
spoke a language other than English in the home, data show. George Escobar,
director of the services department for the immigrant rights group Casa of
Maryland, said he thinks the population is increasing because many Hispanics
have family in the area and there are more affordable housing options than in
Montgomery County and the District.

Officials have hired bilingual staff for almost every department and translated
into Spanish some important town literature, such as invitations to the town's
Oct. 6 Riverdale Park Day and information on new developments, Archer said.

Most of the translated literature is distributed on the eastern side of town,
where most Spanish-speaking residents live, Archer said.

However, because many Hispanic residents live in apartments and move often, the
large amount of turnover in the town's population makes it tough to engage over
long periods, he said.

"The people you tried to reach out to five years ago are gone," Archer said.
"The demographics are the same, but they are a different group of people."

Escobar said the high amount of turnover is expected because the area generally
has a highly transitional population. He said because many Hispanic residents do
seasonal and temporary jobs, they may be moving to where the work is.

Some in the town believe that more interpreters should be present at Town Hall
and that more literature should be distributed in Spanish.

Riverdale Park resident Erick Mendez said he has never visited Town Hall.
Originally from Mexico, Mendez, 28, lives in a multifamily apartment complex
along Riverdale Road with his parents.

He said he felt there was a lack of staff who spoke Spanish at Town Hall, making
it difficult for him and his primarily Spanish-speaking family to become engaged
in the town's affairs.

"Some people don't speak English; they have always spoke Spanish," Mendez said.
"It's difficult for them to write stuff and to read because they do not
understand what they are talking about."

While overcoming the language barrier is important when trying to engage the
Hispanic and immigrant population in any jurisdiction, it is crucial to develop
leaders who come directly from the community to inspire activism, Escobar said.

"Translating and having bilingual people is great and necessary, but it is only
part of the solution," Escobar said. "It is really important to spend resources
on getting people to be champions of the community themselves."

Archer said he recruited the town's two Hispanic council members - Raymond Rivas
(Ward 5) and Alejandro Silva (Ward 6) - by knocking on their doors and asking
them to run in the two wards, which have a large Hispanic population.

He said he believed the two wards needed representatives who reflected the
communities.

Rivas won his seat in 2009 and won reelection in 2011, running unopposed both
times. He declined to comment for this article. Silva won his seat in 2011 and
also ran unopposed.

Silva said he thought the town has done well in reaching out to the Hispanic
population and felt that the number of translators was adequate to handle
Spanish-speakers in the town. He said Hispanic residents in his ward usually
come to him if they have any concerns about town issues.

"There is no problem from what I understand," he said. "They don't complain that
much."

Archer and Rivas plan to make presentations this month at the Park Tanglewood
Apartments on Riverdale Road, in which many Hispanic residents live, on the
town's plan to renovate and expand Town Hall, Archer said.

The literature at the event will be translated, and interpreters will be on
hand.

Archer said that although he is not completely satisfied with the outreach to
the community, he is unsure of what else can be done.

Town officials want to continue to implement plans, such as a proposal to
renovate and expand Town Hall, so that the entire community will benefit, not
just Hispanics, Archer said.

"These are the kinds of things that we are trying to do to make life better for
everybody," he said. "I am not sure what else you can do."

tsandoval@gazette.net

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 18, 2012 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Father- son m o jo

BYLINE: Tim Carman

SECTION: FOOD; Pg. R01

LENGTH: 1338 words


Thanksgiving can be a puzzling holiday for new immigrants, who are not
indoctrinated into the warm and fuzzy history behind the feast. Some immigrants
may celebrate Thanksgiving to try to conform to the customs of their adopted
country. Some may follow the holiday as a sign of gratitude for America's
embrace of foreigners. Some may just like to eat.

Then there's the case of Mariano Guas, the 65-year-old father of his only son,
David Guas, chef and owner of Bayou Bakery in Arlington. Mariano, or Mari as
he's known among friends and relatives, was born in Cuba but was forced to
abandon his homeland not long after Fidel Castro assumed power in 1959; he was
only 13 years old when he was packed off to a boarding school in Bay St. Louis,
Miss. The son of a Cuban father and American mother, Mariano already had a
passing familiarity with some U.S. traditions. His mother, Lillian, a native of
Amite City, La., routinely celebrated Thanksgiving in Cuba, a simultaneous act
of nostalgia and novelty in a country without such a holiday.

Once in the  States, however, young Mariano had to confront the hard reality
that he was essentially a refugee, caught between a Cuba that he cou ld no
longer visit and an America that was still largely alien to him. It would take
him years to embrace the abrupt cultural shift, but once he found his niche and
started his own life in New Orleans as a veterinarian and father, he would
devise a clever way to honor both his past and present. He celebrated two
separate Thanksgivings: the traditional American spread with turkey and all the
trimmings and a second Cuban feast a day or two later with some of the iconic
dishes of his native country.

Strange as it may sound, Mariano launched his Cuban Thanksgiving at the urging
of his mother, the American whose culinary mood swings were seismic. Lillian
went from preparing American-style Thanksgiving feasts on the island to
mastering Cuban dishes to pining for Cuban food so deeply that she urged her own
flesh and blood to prepare the separate, second Thanksgiving meal in the States.
"It was just a way of us honoring our Cuban heritage," Mariano says,
matter-of-factly.

As Mariano sits in his son's home in McLean, contemplating whether to pop open a
bottle of Havana Club Anejo Especial at noon, David Guas is busily preparing a
Cuban Thanksgiving feast in a small, well-appointed kitchen outfitted with a
four-burner Viking range. The meal is not a planned gathering. It's being
re-created for my benefit, with a sweet nostalgia for a Guas family tradition
that died out sometime in the mid-1990s (but recently was resuscitated in Ocala,
Fla., where the retired Mariano moved a few years ago to be near his daughter,
Tracy, and her family).

Nostalgia has been a large part of Mariano's life lately. In January, father and
son traveled to Cuba, accompanied by writer Mark Kurlansky, who profiled the
trip for the November issue of Food & Wine magazine. It was Mariano's first time
back in Cuba since he was a boy.

It was David's first step on Cuban soil, period. Together, they sampled some of
the authentic Cuban dishes that Mariano had been savoring in memory for half a
century: roast chicken with sour orange and garlic; a sweet-savory dish of
ground beef, tomatoes, garlic, olives, onions and raisins called picadillo; and
a line of Cuban pastries known as pastelitos.

The centerpiece of the Guas Cuban Thanksgiving, however, is a massive slab of
pork shoulder, a 10-to-14-pound beast that David treats as though he were
performing invasive surgery. The chef takes a sharp paring knife and makes deep
incisions into the muscle, 15 in all, and stuffs each with a clove of garlic. He
then applies a wet rub of olive oil, dried oregano, salt and pepper generously
over the meat, making sure to deepen those incisions with a fingertip so the
coating will seep into each one. This is not a recipe for the haute-apron set.

"I learned you well," says Mariano, as he relaxes in a kitchen chair, an unlit
Partagas Serie D cigar in his left hand. Father is ostensibly referring to his
son's technique for rubbing the oil deep into the knife cuts, but what he's
really doing his teasing the 37-year-old chef, which he seems to enjoy. You get
the sense this is a family schtick: the insult as paternal admiration.

Mariano knows he's not in his son's league as a cook, but you'd be hard-pressed
to get such a confession in public. When asked who taught him to cook, Mariano
shrugs. "I don't know," he says. "I mean, I just learned. I just saw what
everybody else was doing. My mother was a great Cuban cook, even though she was
American."

David seconds the namecheck of Lillian. She was an influence on him as well.
David, in fact, still has nearly obsessive memories of Lillian's tuna croquetas,
breaded nuggets of canned tuna, potatoes and mayonnaise that she would cook in
her Fry Daddy. "Once they came out of the fryer, it was like salt and lime
juice, and that was it," David says, his words assuming the rushed, excited air
of a boy recalling a fond memory. "It was unbelievable. I used to literally eat
so many that I would just get sick."

Those croquetas have their roots in Cuba. The Guas family used to own a cannery
on the island; tuna was one of its primary products. Tuna is not a topic dear to
Mariano's heart. He has memories of Castro's call for a general labor strike in
the late 1950s, which left young Mariano feasting on endless cans of the fish.
"To this day, I'm not big on canned tuna," he says.

Despite his undying love for the croquetas, David only recently prepared his
first batch. Still, he opted not to make any for his Cuban Thanksgiving feast
for his wife, public relations professional Simone Rathle, and their two young
sons, Kemp and Spencer.

Instead, his table overflows with a bounty of Cuban side dishes: boiled yuca
(salty, starchy, surprisingly addictive when briefly dried in the oven for a
crispy edge), tostones (smashed, double-fried green plantains that are gobbled
down like chips in Cuba), platanos maduros (sweet, ripe plantains fried in a
cast-iron skillet with butter and olive oil) and black beans and rice (garnished
with diced raw onions).

Almost all of these dishes, save the sweet fried plantains, could benefit from a
drizzle of mojo sauce, an olive oil infused with garlic, though David cautions
about the overuse of this common Cuban condiment.

Use it too frequently, he says, and "everything tastes like oil and garlic."

Mojo sauce also can be drizzled on the roasted pork, though that seems a
quintessential case of gilding the lily. The shoulder slices, studded with
garlic cloves like fossil footprints in stone, taste as though the meat came
scented with the pungent allium. I can only imagine what the pork is like when
prepared in the traditional Cuban method: smoked in an earthen pit, covered with
palm fronds.

The Guas Cuban Thanksgiving, at least this one, ends on a sweet note. That's not
a surprise. The two generations of Guas men explain that they're sugar junkies,
prone to raiding the fridge at midnight for something sweet to eat. For David's
final course, he has prepared flan, which he's quick to note is nothing like the
custards you'll find in Cuba.

Flans in Cuba "all have that Swiss cheese [appearance], the moon craters on the
side, from the overcooked egg. And that's actually normal," says David, the
longtime corporate pastry chef for Passion Food Hospitality before he ventured
out on his own. "They actually like to taste the egg, and I hate tasting the egg
in flan."

David prefers a velvety texture, with hints of vanilla. He wants you to taste
the cream. The way David's carrying on about his flan compared with the
traditional Cuban version, I'm expecting a major showdown when Mariano finally
samples it.

"This is excellent," Mariano gushes when he tastes the custard, not a trace of
irony in his voice.

His son practically stops in his tracks at the critique. He seems taken aback.

"Thank you," David says, finally, humbly.  "You look so surprised."

carmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 18, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Be wary of exploiting immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 261 words


The Nov. 12 editorial "Fix immigration now" commendably called for "a path to
citizenship" for law-abiding, unauthorized immigrants but mistakenly suggested a
compromise that would provide them a temporary legal immigration status with an
uncertain future.

The editorial's discussion of future immigration suggested that temporary status
- presumably as "guest workers" - would be an acceptable compromise to allow
businesses "adequate numbers of seasonal and agricultural workers." Typically,
when workers with particular skills are in short supply, the scarcity of those
skills leads to higher pay. In the instances of seasonal and agricultural
workers, employers are motivated to hire "guests" to maximize profit while
marginalizing hard-working men and women.

There are many seasonal jobs: in construction, schools, tourism and agriculture.
If immigrants are needed to fill those occupations and wish to reside in the
United States year-round, they should be able to enjoy the freedom of the
marketplace and given the opportunity to earn the right to vote. The history of
temporary foreign agricultural worker programs demonstrates that they break up
families, lead to exploitation of vulnerable people, displace U.S. citizens and
permanent-resident immigrants, and depress wages and other labor standards for
all.

In reaching a compromise to establish a sensible immigration system, Congress
should not rely on programs that exploit and displace; it should stay true to
our democratic ideals.

Bruce Goldstein, Washington

The writer is president of Farmworker Justice.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 28, 2012 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

'Deferred action' applications level off

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 861 words


After President Obama won a second term, the staff at CARECEN, a
Washington-based Latino community organization, braced for a flood of applicants
for "deferred action for childhood arrivals" (DACA), a new Obama administration
policy that allows some illegal immigrants who came to the United States as
children to get two-year work permits and a deferral of deportation proceedings.

As many as 1.7 million people are potentially eligible, but only about 264,000
applied between August, when the government began accepting applications, and
the end of October. Some held back, saying they feared that a Republican
president would rescind the policy and use the information on their applications
to locate and deport them.

But even though Obama won, the hordes of applicants have not materialized. In
fact, according to numbers released Nov. 16 by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services, the average number of applications has waned, from a peak of 5,715 a
day in September to 4,527 a day in November.

"It's actually slowed down here at CARECEN," said Andrea Rodriguez, the group's
director of legal services, adding that the organization will cancel an
application workshop that was planned for Saturday.

In September, she said, people were lining up early in the morning for services,
and some had to be turned away. But at a recent intake session, only one person
showed up.

Other immigrant-advocacy groups in the Washington area, such as Casa de Maryland
and Ayuda, have also reported either a leveling or a falling off of applications
since the election - possibly because so many local youths raced to apply in
August and September, as soon as they could.

"I think the first wave of people we helped were really activists," said George
Escobar, director of health and human services at Casa, which has not seen a
rise in applicants at its DACA clinic since the election. "They weren't afraid
to come out and defend their right to be in this country."

For many, especially families with several eligible children, the $465
application fee is a deterrent. "It's real common for people to space their kids
out by one year, so it's the family making individual decisions as to who
they're going to support," Escobar said.

Others may not know that they are eligible. Or they may be too afraid to fill
out the application, which asks for information that in effect requires people
to admit, using their real names and addresses, that they are in the country
illegally.

"There are still concerns about the information and what could happen to the
information down the line," said Shiu-Ming Cheer, a lawyer at the National
Immigration Law Center in Los Angeles.

Almost 309,000 applications had been filed as of Nov. 16, and 53,000 had been
approved, with an unknown number sent back with requests for more information.
Approval can take several months.

In the Washington area, an estimated 15,000 to 20,000 people are eligible.

Muzaffar Chishti, director of the Migration Policy Institute's office at the New
York University School of Law, said it is probably too early to identify
significant trends in applications for DACA. He noted that there is no deadline
to apply and that applications are likely to drop off during the holiday season.

"People who were sitting on the fence to see if [Mitt] Romney won are obviously
relieved, but also there is some optimism in the air that there might be a
legislative fix," he said. "So some people may be holding out to see if they get
something better."

That could mean some version of the Dream Act, a bill that would provide a path
to legal status for immigrants who arrived here as children and met certain
conditions.

The bill did not pass the Senate two years ago, but after an election in which
Hispanics overwhelmingly supported Obama, many Republicans have acknowledged the
need to appeal to immigrants. On Tuesday, three Senate Republicans introduced a
proposal with some features that are similar to the Dream Act.

According to the government figures, the highest numbers of DACA applications
have come from California, followed by Texas and New York. Virginia is 10th on
the list. And although nationwide the numbers have not risen since the election,
those applying now include many who were reluctant to do so before knowing the
vote's outcome.

In some places with fewer immigrants, local advocates say they have seen a
spike.

"In the Deep South, we do have pretty stiff anti-immigrant laws," said Hiroko
Kusuda, an assistant clinic professor at Loyola University New Orleans College
of Law.

Before the election, she added, she advised eligible youths in Louisiana and
Mississippi to hold off on applying for DACA. "I always told them, 'You know, I
wouldn't do it now,' because I wasn't sure if the new president, if it's not
Obama, would continue this program."

Now, she said, she is advising them to go ahead - in part because Obama won, and
in part because since Romney lost, "Republicans have changed their minds; they
have decided that immigrants are a very important part of their constituency."

Since the election, Kusuda said, her clients' faces have brightened. "They are
more at ease," she said.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 28, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Senators introduce Republican alternative to the Dream Act

BYLINE: Rosalind S. Helderman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 866 words


After an election that showed the GOP's huge disadvantages on immigration, three
influential Republican senators have introduced legislation that would grant
legal residency to young people brought illegally to the United States, if they
seek higher education or enlist in the military.

The proposal comes as more Republicans have called for the party to soften its
opposition to illegal immigration in the wake of massive November electoral
losses that were driven, in part, by low support among Latino voters.

The measure - sponsored by Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) and retiring Sens. Kay
Bailey Hutchison (Tex.) and Jon Kyl (Ariz.) - would offer a Republican
alternative to the so-called Dream Act, providing a pathway for young adults to
apply for legal permanent residency - but not citizenship - if they have
completed military service or higher education and have worked in the United
States for at least four years.

Leading advocacy groups that push for immigration reform characterized the
proposal as a half-measure that would provide few new opportunities for
normalization for young adults.

But Kyl said the measure is an effort to "get this ball rolling."

"We have to have a discussion that is sensible, that is calm, that discusses all
of the different aspects of the issue," he said.

Despite Republican anxiety about the party's inability to lure more Latino
voters - President Obama beat GOP challenger Mitt Romney among Latinos by 44
percentage points - Hutchison and Kyl said their bill is not a response to the
election.

Instead, they said it represents a year of behind-the-scenes work to come up
with an alternative to the Dream Act that would let such young people remain in
the United States without allowing them, as Kyl said, "to jump ahead of anybody
in the citizenship path."

Their voices, along with McCain's, are particularly potent because they hail
from Texas and Arizona, states with large and increasing immigrant populations.

The lawmakers said they are moving ahead with the legislation now so it can
receive a public airing before their Senate terms end. However, they said they
are not optimistic about the measure's chances in the lame-duck session, given
the fiscal issues that will occupy most of lawmakers' time in coming weeks.

And Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.), the Senate's lead driver of the Dream Act,
said he wants Congress to use a growing consensus for action on immigration to
take up a more far-reaching measure.

"We have some significant differences," he said, noting that the Republicans did
not discuss their measure with him before they introduced it. "But I appreciate
their efforts to help."

The bill, dubbed the Achieve Act, would extend a new visa to people younger than
28 who were brought to the United States before age 14. It would be available to
those who do not have serious criminal records and who agree not to seek
government benefits, including federal student loans.

The visa would allow young people to complete schooling or military service.
They could then apply first for a work visa and, after four years, for a visa
that allows permanent legal residency.

Although the lawmakers said they have had productive conversations with Sen.
Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), who has been working on his own alternative to the Dream
Act and has become a leading voice within the GOP on immigration reform, he
indicated that he is  soliciting input from stakeholders and is not ready to be
a co-sponsor.

"The concept is the right one, and it's one that we helped them formulate,"
Rubio said. "We're getting pretty close."

The measure was also introduced without Democratic sponsors, despite calls from
Democrats for Republicans to work on bipartisan immigration legislation.

Kyl, who held a joint news conference with Hutchison on Tuesday to announce the
proposal, criticized Obama for his June decision to declare that his
administration would stop seeking to deport those who would have qualified under
the Dream Act.

"The administration has unfortunately chosen . . . to ignore current law because
it didn't think it was good policy," Kyl said.

Clarissa Martinez de Castro, director of immigration and civic engagement for
the National Council of La Raza, characterized the GOP proposal as a step
backward, away from a growing consensus that young people brought to the United
States as children should have access to citizenship.

"It seems more an attempt to pull negotiations away from the center," she said.

Although some Republicans are likely to dismiss the proposal because it would
offer amnesty to illegal immigrants, a senior Democratic aide, who is not
authorized to speak publicly about pending legislation, suggested that the
retiring Republicans should receive little credit for advancing the idea on the
eve of their departures.

"It's not exactly a profile in courage for two senators - who happen to turn
into pumpkins in about a month - to weigh in on a bill that's been around for a
decade and that they've opposed for nearly as long," he said. "It'll be
interesting to see if members of their party will be willing to continue the
conversation they've waited far too long to start."

heldermanr@washpost.com

Ed O'Keefe contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2012 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

U.S. birthrate plummets to lowest level since 1920

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 999 words


The U.S. birthrate plunged last year to a record low, with the decline being led
by immigrant women hit hard by the recession, according to a study released
Thursday by the Pew Research Center.

The overall birthrate decreased by 8 percent between 2007 and 2010, with a much
bigger drop of 14 percent among foreign-born women. The overall birthrate is at
its lowest since 1920, the earliest year with reliable records. The 2011 figures
don't have breakdowns for immigrants yet, but the preliminary findings indicate
that they will follow the same trend.

The decline could have far-reaching implications for U.S. economic and social
policy. A continuing decrease could challenge long-held assumptions that births
to immigrants will help maintain the U.S. population and create the taxpaying
workforce needed to support the aging baby-boom generation.

The U.S. birthrate - 63.2 births per 1,000 women of childbearing age - has
fallen to a little more than half of its peak, which was in 1957. The rate among
foreign-born women, who have tended to have bigger families, has also been
declining in recent decades, although more slowly, according to the report.

But after 2007, as the worst recession in decades dried up jobs and economic
prospects across the nation, the birthrate for immigrant women plunged. One of
the most dramatic drops was among Mexican immigrants - 23 percent.

The fall didn't occur because there are fewer immigrant women of childbearing
age but because of a change in their behavior, said D'Vera Cohn, an author of
the report, which uses data from the National Center for Health Statistics and
the U.S. Census Bureau. Cohn added that "the economic downturn seems to play a
pretty large role in the drop in the fertility rate."

Although the declining U.S. birthrate has not created the kind of stark
imbalances found in graying countries such as Japan or Italy, it should serve as
a wake-up call for policymakers, said Roberto Suro, a professor of public policy
at the University of Southern California.

"We've been assuming that when the baby-boomer population gets most expensive,
that there are going to be immigrants and their children who are going to be
paying into [programs for the elderly], but in the wake of what's happened in
the last five years, we have to reexamine those assumptions," he said. "When you
think of things like the solvency of Social Security, for example . . .
relatively small increases in the dependency ratio can have a huge effect."

The average number of children a U.S. woman is predicted to have in her lifetime
is 1.9, slightly less than the 2.1 children required to maintain current
population levels.

The falling birthrate mirrors what has happened during other recessions. A Pew
study last year found that the current decline in U.S. fertility rates was
closely linked to hard times, particularly among Hispanics.

"The economy can have an impact on these long-term trends, and even the
immigrants that we have been counting on to boost our population growth can dip
in a poor economy," said William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings
Institution. He noted that Hispanic women, who led the decline, occupy one of
the country's most economically vulnerable groups.

Historically, once the economy rebounds after a recession, so does the
birthrate, Cohn said.

But other factors may also be affecting the decline and may not change much once
the economy recovers.

Almost half of all immigrants to the United States are of Hispanic origin. But
in recent years, immigration from Mexico, the biggest contributing country, has
dried up; for the first time since the Great Depression, the net migration from
Mexico has been zero.

Latino immigrants who have been here longer tend to adopt U.S. attitudes and
behavior, including having smaller families, Suro said. He added that the
decline in the birthrate among Mexican immigrants is probably so sharp because
the rate was so high that there was more room for it to fall.

Although the Hispanic birthrate may never return to its highest levels,
immigrants who have babies will probably continue to boost overall fertility
rates, said Frey, who considers the current decline a "short-term blip."
Immigrants from Asia, he said, continue to move to the United States, although
their birthrates are not likely to approach that of Hispanic immigrants at their
peak.

The recent birthrate decline among Latino women may also be related to enhanced
access to emergency contraception and better sex education in recent years, said
Kimberly Inez McGuire, a senior policy analyst at the National Latina Institute
for Reproductive Health.

At Mary's Center, an organization in the District that provides social services
to low-income people, the waiting room on a recent morning was filled with
immigrants, many with swollen bellies. But not all were planning large families.

Elsa Mendez, 22, a single Guatemalan immigrant who lives in Petworth, is set to
give birth to her first child in December, but she said that after this one, she
plans to go on birth control because she wants a better life.

"Sometimes [Hispanic] people - they have a lot of kids, and no talk about family
planning," she said. "I have neighbors who have nine kids - they come from El
Salvador and are all together in the same room."

But Mendez, a sales clerk, said she sees American families with fewer children
and wants to emulate them. "I want to have more money for her," she said,
referring to her unborn child.

Mindy Greenside, director of midwifery at Mary's Center, said many more
immigrant women are asking about contraception than did so five years ago.

One of them is Elizabeth Rosa, 37, a Salvadoran who lives in Langley Park.
Pregnant with her third child, she said it will be her last.

"To have more babies, it costs more," she said as her 2-year-old son Emanuel
played nearby.

Pointing to her belly, she said she plans to have her tubes tied after giving
birth. "The factory is closing," she said with a smile.

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2012 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Green-card pragmatism

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 486 words


PRESIDENT OBAMA'S lopsided margin of victory among Hispanic voters in the
presidential election alarmed Republicans and stirred hopes on Capitol Hill that
an overhaul of the nation's crippled immigration rules might just be possible.
But as they prepare to dance their latest minuet on reforming a broken system,
each party is starting with steps that the other finds unpalatable.

For the second time in three months, Republicans are pushing a bill that would
create 55,000 additional green cards annually for foreign students who receive
graduate degrees at U.S. universities in science, technology, engineering and
math - so-called STEM graduates. On its own, that's a fine idea, and a
bipartisan one at that; as things stand, too many of these highly sought
students are forced to leave the country upon graduation, to the detriment of
U.S. competitiveness.

But the GOP measure, which was approved by the House of Representatives on
Friday, comes at a cost: The 55,000 visas would be derived by eliminating a
similar number of green cards disbursed by the so-called diversity lottery, a
20-year-old program that awards visas mainly to low-skilled Africans and Eastern
Europeans. On top of having been a brilliant public diplomacy tool for the
United States, the lottery has offered a lifeline for the sorts of immigrants
who have energized this nation for decades by their pluck and drive.

Democrats are willing to expand STEM visas, but many are rightly reluctant to
sacrifice the lottery. So the bill is likely dead on arrival in the Senate.

The White House and congressional Democrats worry that approving measures such
as the STEM bill would make it more difficult to strike a deal later on a
comprehensive immigration package. But in holding out for a perfect deal, they
obstruct potentially good ones. Democrats agree that more STEM visas make sense;
they've said so in their platform. They should seize the opportunity before them
now - and seek a deal to keep some lottery visas.

What's more, Republicans have sweetened the deal with a provision allowing the
spouses and children of green-card holders, mainly from Mexico and the
Caribbean, to enter the country more quickly while they await their own
permanent-resident visas. That's an improvement on the status quo, under which
they must wait abroad to join their families, generally for two years or more.

Despite the hopes engendered by the election, the prospects remain cloudy at
best for a comprehensive solution that satisfies everyone and resolves the
central problem by offering a path to citizenship for 11 million illegal
immigrants. While leaders in Washington try to crack that nut, it makes no sense
to put other reasonable proposals on hold. Democrats and Republicans should be
able to reach an accommodation on STEM visas. In poll after poll, Americans have
said clearly they want the immigration mess cleaned up. So what is Congress
waiting for?

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2012 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Green-card pragmatism

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 486 words


PRESIDENT OBAMA'S lopsided margin of victory among Hispanic voters in the
presidential election alarmed Republicans and stirred hopes on Capitol Hill that
an overhaul of the nation's crippled immigration rules might just be possible.
But as they prepare to dance their latest minuet on reforming a broken system,
each party is starting with steps that the other finds unpalatable.

For the second time in three months, Republicans are pushing a bill that would
create 55,000 additional green cards annually for foreign students who receive
graduate degrees at U.S. universities in science, technology, engineering and
math - so-called STEM graduates. On its own, that's a fine idea, and a
bipartisan one at that; as things stand, too many of these highly sought
students are forced to leave the country upon graduation, to the detriment of
U.S. competitiveness.

But the GOP measure, which was approved by the House of Representatives on
Friday, comes at a cost: The 55,000 visas would be derived by eliminating a
similar number of green cards disbursed by the so-called diversity lottery, a
20-year-old program that awards visas mainly to low-skilled Africans and Eastern
Europeans. On top of having been a brilliant public diplomacy tool for the
United States, the lottery has offered a lifeline for the sorts of immigrants
who have energized this nation for decades by their pluck and drive.

Democrats are willing to expand STEM visas, but many are rightly reluctant to
sacrifice the lottery. So the bill is likely dead on arrival in the Senate.

The White House and congressional Democrats worry that approving measures such
as the STEM bill would make it more difficult to strike a deal later on a
comprehensive immigration package. But in holding out for a perfect deal, they
obstruct potentially good ones. Democrats agree that more STEM visas make sense;
they've said so in their platform. They should seize the opportunity before them
now - and seek a deal to keep some lottery visas.

What's more, Republicans have sweetened the deal with a provision allowing the
spouses and children of green-card holders, mainly from Mexico and the
Caribbean, to enter the country more quickly while they await their own
permanent-resident visas. That's an improvement on the status quo, under which
they must wait abroad to join their families, generally for two years or more.

Despite the hopes engendered by the election, the prospects remain cloudy at
best for a comprehensive solution that satisfies everyone and resolves the
central problem by offering a path to citizenship for 11 million illegal
immigrants. While leaders in Washington try to crack that nut, it makes no sense
to put other reasonable proposals on hold. Democrats and Republicans should be
able to reach an accommodation on STEM visas. In poll after poll, Americans have
said clearly they want the immigration mess cleaned up. So what is Congress
waiting for?

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Pro-immigration conservative activists launch plan to reach GOP

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1030 words


For years, pro-immigration conservative activists have tried with little success
to gain an audience with top Republicans in Washington.

But since last month's election, with the GOP's dismal performance among
Hispanics, that has started to change. On Tuesday, more than 250 activists plan
to come to Washington for a debut of sorts, hosting a news conference and
strategy session before heading to Capitol Hill for meetings with key lawmakers.

Group leaders say they hope to bring a fresh, outsiders' perspective to the
debate, with testimonials from rural and suburban sheriffs, local preachers,
even the director of the Idaho Dairymen's Association. Rather than dwelling on
the politics of the issue, these conservative leaders plan to cast the issue
based on how they see it in their communities - in moral and economic terms.

"There's a radical, loud element out there that just doesn't seem to get it,
that will never get it," said Mark Curran, the Republican sheriff of Lake
County, Ill., and a participant in this week's activities. "They shouldn't be
given any real deference anymore."

Curran, a devout Catholic, once held hard-line, anti-illegal- immigration views
but changed his mind in 2010 during conversations with clergy and business
leaders. He thinks some conservative House members could undergo a similar
conversion.

"The political realities and the realities of my faith started to collide, and I
couldn't reconcile it anymore," he said.

The effort comes at a time of soul-searching among senior Republicans, who have
concluded that President Obama's dominance among Hispanic voters and other
groups, such as Asian Americans, resulted at least in part from years of
hard-line opposition by conservative Republicans to more liberalized immigration
laws. Many believe that 2012 presidential nominee Mitt Romney alienated Hispanic
voters when he tilted to the right during his primary campaign, supporting a
policy of "self-deportation" for immigrants while attacking rivals for being too
soft on the issue.

It also underscores a shift in tactics by immigrant advocates, who for years
have made it their central goal to win a pathway to citizenship for the millions
of illegal immigrants currently residing in the United States. Now, joining
forces with conservative leaders, some advocates on the left say they are
willing to consider a scaled-back approach, perhaps a legalization plan that
stops short of citizenship, if it would bring House Republicans to the table.

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), one of the most vocal backers of a path to
citizenship, remains steadfastly in that camp. Still, he said that "we've got to
stop setting preconditions before we have conversations, and that's something
that's changed."

The conservative activists coming to Washington this week for their "national
strategy session" plan to host lawmakers from both parties at a breakfast
Wednesday before fanning out to meet with House and Senate members. The primary
messages will focus on values, including the importance of keeping immigrant
families together, and economics, such as the crucial role immigrant labor plays
for agriculture and technology businesses.

Key event speakers include AOL co-founder Steve Case and anti-tax activist
Grover Norquist, along with leaders of various state-based industry groups and
the National Association of Evangelicals.

"For years, conservative faith, law enforcement and business leaders have
supported the need for a national immigration strategy," said Ali Noorani,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigrant advocacy
group that has been coordinating the effort he calls "bibles, badges and
business." "Now, their voices are coalescing around a new consensus. And, more
importantly, the pressure they bring to bear on Republicans is unique."

Several participants said they had already been holding meetings with House
Republicans and sensing new openings. A primary concern for many conservative
lawmakers is avoiding any suggestion that they want amnesty for illegal
immigrants. Some have said they would support a legalization plan that included
a fine or other penalties. Others have said they want to help young people
brought to the country as children.

The Rev. Luis Cortes, who heads Ezperanza, a large Hispanic evangelical network,
and who has met with about a dozen House Republicans, said that many are seeking
a "workaround" of the amnesty question. At the same time, Cortes said, any
compromise could create difficult choices for Democrats and the White House.

"We're going to have to figure out who can get citizenship," Cortes said. "The
left and the pro-immigrant groups are going to have to figure out, where are
they going to trade?"

Richard Land, president of the Southern Baptist Convention's Ethics and
Religious Liberty Commission, is another key player in the new coalition. He
said finding compromise "is going to take a disciplined coalition of the middle,
the moderate conservatives in the Republican Party and the moderate liberals in
the Democratic Party who actually want to get something done."

Lawmakers have begun maneuvering in recent days to lay a foundation for
bipartisan talks. Possible GOP point people in the House include Reps. Mario
Diaz-Balart of Florida and Raul Labrador of Idaho. In the Senate, a new
Republican entrant to the conversation is Sen. Mike Lee of Utah, a tea party
favorite with credibility among House conservatives.

"Republicans understand that if we don't get serious about doing this, we'll be
relegated to a permanent minority," said Labrador, a Puerto Rico native and
former immigration lawyer.

The conservative activists coming to town this week are hoping that a dose of
pragmatism can have an effect on what has been an intractable issue.

"Those who feel strengthened by the election outcome have to be able to restrain
themselves from trying to push for too much," said Bob Naerebout, executive
director of the Idaho dairy group. "And those who feel weakened because of the
election outcome actually need to realize they have to come to the table and be
willing to negotiate in good faith a bill that has the potential of passing."

wallstenp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 5, 2012 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

The STEM green-card benefit

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 233 words


The Dec. 1 editorial "Green-card pragmatism" expressed support for additional
green cards for immigrants earning STEM graduate degrees in the United States
but criticized legislation that passed the House last week because it provided
those additional visas through repeal of the diversity visa lottery program.
That program allocates visas among applicants from countries less represented in
the legal immigrant population.

Certainly, one can have a legitimate debate about the merits of this program,
but that debate needs to be held against the broader background of the fact that
our immigration system already provides strikingly few employment-based visas,
whether as measured in absolute numbers or relative percentages.

Last year, we welcomed slightly more than 1 million new green-card holders to
our country. Of these, only 59,808 were selected through their qualifications to
work and participate in the U.S. economy.

Seen in this context, the House bill made a relatively small change in these
allocations to free up 50,000 additional visas for STEM graduates. It addresses
a need policymakers agree will help U.S. competitiveness while maintaining our
immigration system's appropriate respect for family unity and welcome of
hardworking immigrants.

Randel K. Johnson, Washington

The writer is senior vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits
at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 6, 2012 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

A GOP rebel for immigration reform

BYLINE: Krissah Thompson

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 1445 words


"Que?! Que?!"

Alfonso Aguilar shouts into the mike, gesticulating wildly to no one in
particular on a recent Saturday morning. He is taping his radio show, which is
recorded in the District and beamed into nine cities, including Houston, Chicago
and Miami.

News has broken that Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney blames his
election loss in part on "gifts" President Obama gave Hispanics and other
minorities.

Aguilar - "La Voz de Los Latinos" (the Latino Voice) - is incredulous.

"He thinks Latinos voted for entitlements," he tells listeners in Spanish. "Mr.
Romney,  Latinos didn't vote for President Obama because they liked Obamacare.
No, they voted for Obama because of your stance on immigration. In the primary,
you moved to the far right."

Not the kind of talk you'd expect from a committed Republican, a guy who stumped
for Romney and whose employer ponied up $400,000 in anti-Obama campaign ads that
focused on the administration's record deportation rates. It's a set of
curiosities not lost on a caller from Los Angeles.

"How could you have supported him at all?" Francisco wants to know.

"I'm a conservative," Aguilar responds.

But not just any conservative. Aguilar is a 43-year-old Puerto Rican-born former
official in the George W. Bush administration; an opponent of abortion and
same-sex marriage; a supporter of free markets and limited government. But on
immigration, he has differed sharply with his party's orthodoxy,
unapologetically embracing comprehensive reform, including a path to citizenship
for illegal immigrants.

With Obama promising to push immigration reform early in his second term,
Aguilar is poised to be a driving force in the debate, helping to shape how
Republicans respond to an issue of paramount importance to about 12.5 million
Latino voters - a growing segment of the electorate that has continued to skew
Democratic. In many ways, Aguilar already is a pivotal presence.

Jorge Ramos, a Univision anchor and the most influential Spanish-language
journalist in the United States, sent a tweet to his 626,400 followers recently
that could very well help define the next stage of Aguilar's career.
"Republicans you have to listen to for the immigration debate: Jeb Bush, [former
commerce secretary] Carlos Gutierrez and Alfonso Aguilar."

On the ego wall of his small K Street office, Aguilar has hung photos of himself
with Pope John Paul II, former vice president Richard B. Cheney and a former
governor of Puerto Rico, and a group shot of all the Hispanic political
appointees in the Bush administration. Aguilar and the other Latino bureaucrats
fill multiple rows, stretching along the entire facade of the White House.

The photos remind him of the Catholic faith that is his foundation and the fat
years when conservative Hispanics were on the rise. Days when Ronald Reagan told
his ad consultants to target Latinos because they are "already Republican. They
just don't know it." Reagan won 37 percent of the Hispanic vote in 1984,
according to an analysis of exit polls by the Pew Hispanic Center. Twenty years
later, George W. Bush - who declared that "family values don't stop at the Rio
Grande" - pulled in even more Hispanics, winning 40 percent of their vote.

'Piata politics'

But the 2012 campaign, Aguilar says, was a return to failed "piata politics" -
salsa-and-chips parties, Nortea music at campaign events and "viva el
candidato!" slogans with no compelling policy debate. Romney won over a
disappointing 27 percent of Hispanics, the lowest level since 1996.

"Inclusion is when you have people at the table," Aguilar says, jumping right
into his diagnosis of the on-again-off-again relationship between the GOP and
the Hispanic electorate. "This time I just don't think we were being listened
to."

Aguilar is standing in front of his photo wall, slightly disheveled, no gel
keeping his hair perfectly in place, sipping a hot drink. "Puerto Ricans love
their coffee," he says. What is he drinking? The freeze-dried coffee brewed in
the office. "It's awful," he says, but he prefers it to paying top dollar at
chain coffeehouses for espresso that "tastes horrible." He keeps talking,
nonstop, for almost 10 more caffeine-fueled minutes before inviting a visitor to
a conference room to sit down to continue the conversation.

At home in Gaithersburg, Alfonso Gerardo Aguilar Sartori drinks Pilon, a brand
of Cuban coffee. Born in San Juan to a Costa Rican father and an Italian mother,
Aguilar is a devout Catholic and a divorced father of a 12-year-old son. He came
to the U.S. mainland to attend Notre Dame, where he graduated with a degree in
government and international studies. He earned a law degree from the University
of Puerto Rico and worked for the governor of the island before returning to the
continental United States and eventually landing the top slot in the Citizenship
and Immigration Services office during the Bush administration.

Aguilar spends every other weekend in Puerto Rico, visiting his son, but when
he's at home he attends Saint Martin of Tours, a Catholic church that offers
services in English and Spanish. "I know I'm worshipping there with undocumented
immigrants," he says. "It is just a great community. The parish is where there
is a coming together and the church can have an incredible impact on that
process."

'The new Reagan Democrats'

Aguilar said he thinks Hispanic entrepreneurs and evangelicals belong in the
Republican Party. "They are the new Reagan Democrats," he says, echoing his boss
Frank Cannon, president of the American Principles Project.

He loves the diversity and cultural complexity of the Latino community,
reflected every week in the different accents, nationalities and political views
of his radio listeners. It's the kind of thing that can't necessarily be polled
or surveyed, Aguilar likes to say.

In 2009, Aguilar joined the American Principles Project, a small nonprofit in
Washington founded by conservative scholar Robert George of Princeton
University, as executive director of its Latino Partnership for Conservative
Principles. This year, he launched the weekly show on Univision radio and has
hosted conservative stalwarts such as Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), former
presidential candidate Herman Cain and former House speaker and presidential
hopeful Newt Gingrich (Ga.). Aguilar, who once flirted with the idea of running
for public office, interviews the non-Spanish-speaking politicians in English
without an interpreter because "most Latinos understand English even if they are
more comfortable in Spanish." He also has been featured on cable news talk shows
and written a stream of editorials for Spanish-language and English-language
newspapers. A prominent conservative PR firm, Shirley & Banister, is working to
further build his media profile.

"He has been a leading conservative on immigration issues, and he has been
trying to map out a way for conservatives and the Republican Party to reclaim
the immigration issue in a constructive way," said Cesar Conda, Rubio's chief of
staff. "It is his moment."

His share of critics

Frank Sharry of America's Voice, a Washington lobbying group that shares
Aguilar's desire for an overhaul of immigration laws, offers a different
critique. During the recent presidential election, "he unfortunately came across
as a party-first guy rather than immigration reform first," Sharry says, "and
that's going to hurt his credibility."

And foes of relaxing the immigration laws are even more dismayed by Aguilar and
his approach. "I don't know how to change the Hispanic voting pattern, but I
know it isn't to say I will agree with an amnesty," says Tom Tancredo, a former
congressman from Colorado who pushed a hard line on immigration and helped make
"amnesty" a political dirty word. "They will not then decide to switch
allegiances and vote for Republicans. It is naive to think that is the panacea.
. . . How will the massive immigration of people who are inclined to vote for
bigger government benefit conservatism? It is a suicide plan for conservatism."

In one important respect, the criticism reflects a question for Aguilar and
those in his party who support an immigration overhaul: What does it mean to be
a full-blooded Republican?

"Dealing with immigration is not being a weak Republican or a RINO," he says,
referring to a "Republican in name only." "To be conservative is to be for
immigration. To be restrictionist is not part of the free-market paradigm. . . .
At the end of this, hopefully we will say 2006 to 2012 was the period of
restrictionism in this new great wave of immigrants. Hopefully, this is the end
and the voices of restrictionism will lose power."

thompsonk@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 11, 2012 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Wise up, Republicans

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 755 words


The biggest problem the Republican Party faces is not uninspiring candidates or
unsound tactics. It is unpopular ideas.

This reality was brought home in last month's election. It's playing out in the
struggle over how to avoid the "fiscal cliff." And we'll see it again in coming
fights over immigration, entitlements, inequality and a host of other issues.
Here's the sad thing: Republicans get this stuff so wrong that Democrats aren't
even forced to go to the trouble of getting it right.

There will be those who doubt the sincerity of my advice to the GOP, since my
standing as a conservative is - justifiably - less than zero. But I've always
believed in competition, if only to prevent liberals from becoming lazy and
unimaginative. One could argue that this is already happening.

Take the question of what to do about undocumented immigrants. The Republican
Party takes an uncompromising line against anything that could be construed as
amnesty  - any solution that provides "illegal" immigrants with a path to
citizenship. Much has been made of the impact the immigration issue had in the
election, as Latinos voted for President Obama over Mitt Romney by nearly 3-1.

It is obvious to sentient Republicans why the party cannot afford to so
thoroughly alienate the nation's largest minority group. What the GOP seems not
to grasp is that the party's "send 'em all home" stance is way out of line with
much of the rest of the electorate as well.

A Politico-George Washington University poll released Monday asked voters
whether they favored "an immigration reform proposal that allows illegal or
undocumented immigrants to earn citizenship over a period of several years."
That would be amnesty, pure and simple - and a whopping 62 percent said they
were in favor, compared to 35 percent who said they were opposed.

You might expect Democrats, then, to be pushing hard for a straightforward
amnesty bill. But they don't have to. Because Republicans are so far out in
right field on the issue, Democrats haven't actually had to do anything to reap
substantial political benefits. They've just had to sound more reasonable, and
less hostile, than Republicans, which has not required breaking a sweat.

On the central fiscal-cliff question, the GOP is similarly out of step. The
Politico poll found that 60 percent of respondents favor raising income taxes on
households that earn more than $250,000 a year. The Republican Party says no -
and thus allows itself to be portrayed as willing to sink the economic recovery,
if necessary, to ensure that tycoons can keep their pantries stocked with
caviar.

Where is the incentive for Democrats to get serious about fiscal matters? As
long as the GOP remains adamant on what many Americans see as a no-brainer
question of basic fairness, those who believe in progressive solutions get a
pass.

The truth is that raising top marginal rates for the wealthy is probably as far
as we should go on the tax front right now, given the fragility of the recovery.
The best thing we could do for the country's long-term fiscal health is spur the
economy into faster growth, which will shrink deficits and the debt as a
percentage of gross domestic product.

That said, it's hard to imagine long-term solutions that don't eventually
require more tax revenue from the middle class as well as the rich. But why
should Democrats mention this inconvenient fact when Republicans, out of
ideological stubbornness, are keeping the focus on the upper crust?

The same basic dynamic plays out in the question of reforming entitlements.
Republicans proposed turning Medicare into a voucher program; polls show that
voters disagree. The GOP seems to be falling back to the position that the
eligibility age for the program should be raised. Trust me, voters aren't going
to like that, either.

Nor, for that matter, do voters like the GOP's solution for the millions of
Americans who lack health insurance, which Romney summarized as, essentially, go
to the emergency room. A smart Republican Party would stop focusing exclusively
on how government can pay less for health care and, instead, begin to seriously
explore ways to reduce health-care costs. A smart GOP would acknowledge the fact
that Americans simply don't want to privatize everything, which means we need
new ideas about how to pay for what we want.

Faced with an opposition that verges on self-parody, progressive thinkers are
mostly just phoning it in. This won't change until somebody defibrillates the
GOP, and we detect a pulse.

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 12, 2011 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 249 words

Where he stands on . . .

Education

Perry has said he would eliminate the Education Department, and although he has
supported aspects of the federal No Child Left Behind Act, he has said its
policies should come from state and local levels. He has defended school prayer
and religion-based teachings in schools.

Tax code

In October, Perry signed Grover Norquist's pledge to oppose and veto all tax
increases. He proposes allowing taxpayers to choose between the current tax
system or a 20 percent flat tax with mortgage exemptions for families making
less than $500,000 per year.

Social Security

The Texas governor has proposed barring the government from raiding the
program's funds, raising the retirement age gradually for all workers except
those in especially labor-intensive fields, and allowing younger generations to
invest a portion of their payroll taxes in private accounts.

Immigration

Perry has touted his experience as a border governor, but his views on
immigration are among his greatest vulnerabilities among GOP voters. He has
defended a Texas law that allows illegal immigrants to pay in-state college
tuition, and he opposes constructing a fence along the the Mexican border.

Afghanistan

Perry has said that the United States should bring its troops home safely and
soon while still maintaining a presence to "build the infrastructure that we
need, whether it's schools or otherwise." Perry said he would cut off aid to
Pakistan until the nation shows it can be a trusted ally in the war.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Justices step into Arizona debate

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1038 words


The Supreme Court on Monday intervened in another high-profile case testing the
authority of the federal government, saying it will review Arizona's crackdown
on illegal immigrants, which inspired similar state efforts across the country.

The decision adds to one of the court's most high-profile caseloads in years.

Next month, the court will hear an emergency appeal from Texas that questions
the role of federal courts in overseeing the deeply partisan issue of political
redistricting. And in March, the court has scheduled 51 / 2 hours of oral
arguments over the constitutionality of President Obama's health-care overhaul.

All will be decided before the court breaks for its summer recess and as the
2012 presidential and congressional campaigns move into high gear.

Health care and immigration have been among the most contentious issues on the
political landscape, and they sharply separate Obama from the Republicans who
want his job.

The administration successfully challenged the Arizona law as an imposition on
immigration powers belonging solely to federal authorities. But the court
apparently disagreed with the administration's contention that review of the
lower-court decisions was not warranted at this time.

The Justice Department said the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit in San
Francisco was correct to rule that Arizonawas trying to take on a federal
immigration role.

The appeals court blocked four elements of the new law: making it a state crime
to be in the country illegally and failing to register with the federal
government; making it illegal to seek work or to be working when not authorized;
requiring state and local officers to try to determine the status of someone
arrested, stopped or detained if they believe the individual might be in the
country unlawfully; and allowing the warrantless arrest of anyone who they have
probable cause to believe might have violated laws that would make them
deportable under federal law.

Arizona told the justices in asking them to accept the casethat more than half
of all illegal immigrants enter through the state and that "the Ninth Circuit
decision suggests that there is almost nothing Arizona can do to supplement the
inadequate federal efforts."

The state told the justices that its efforts were intended to cooperate with
federal laws to control illegal immigration, not to usurp the federal
government's power.

When Gov. Jan Brewer (R) signed S.B. 1070 in April 2010, she described it as a
way for Arizona to "solve a crisis we did not create and the federal government
has refused to fix."

In a statement Monday, Brewer commended the court for accepting the case and
said she was "stunned at the audacity of the Obama administration to file suit"
against Arizona and other states that passed restrictive laws.

"Arizona has been more than patient waiting for Washington to secure the
border," Brewer said. "Decades of federal inaction and misguided policy have
created a dangerous and unacceptable situation, and states deserve clarity from
the Court in terms of what role they have in fighting illegal immigration."

But the provisions of the Arizona law blocked by the appeals court "do not
represent an effort to cooperate with the federal government in enforcing
federal immigration law," Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr. told the
court in the government's filing.

The Justice Department has filed suit to block similar laws in Alabama, South
Carolina and Utah, and the agency said it is reviewing laws in Georgia and
Indiana that private groups and individuals have challenged.

Verrilli told the justices they should wait for some of those lawsuits to work
their way through the courts.

In addition to taking alternative approaches to the subjects the Arizona law
addresses, the other laws address different issues such as housing, contracting,
education and transportation, Verrilli said.

"There's no reason to think that reviewing this [Arizona] preliminary injunction
would resolve those cases," he argued.

He also said that the federal government has to be the lead authority on issues
of "law enforcement priorities, foreign relations considerations and
humanitarian concerns."

The Arizona case will probably be heard in April. Justice Elena Kagan will not
take part, presumably because she worked on the issue in her previous role as
solicitor general.

That raises the prospect of a 4 to 4 tie. In such a case, the 9th Circuit's
decision blocking portions of the Arizona law would stand, but the decision
would carry no national significance for the other state laws now being
challenged.

Although its decision to challenge the laws has enraged some state officials and
conservative members of Congress, the Obama administration also has angered some
groups because of therecord-breaking pace at which immigrants here illegally are
being deported.

About 1.2 million illegal immigrants have been deported in the first three years
of the administration, compared with 1.57 million during the eight years of
President George W. Bush's administration.

The number of those entering the country illegally has fallen dramatically, but
the issue has not cooled politically. Democrats and Republicans are eager to
court the rapidly growing bloc of Hispanic voters, who are more likely than
others to oppose the tougher restrictions, studies have shown.

The case is Arizona v. United States.

In other action, Kagan wrote for a unanimous court that a Filipino man who has
been in the United States since 1974 should be able to apply for an exception to
rules that say he must be deported for violating the law.

Joel Judulang, a lawful permanent resident, pleaded guilty to voluntary
manslaughter and later was arrested for theft. He challenged federal rules that
did not allow him to apply for an exception to his deportation order.

Kagan wrote that the Board of Immigration Appeals failed to give a "reasoned
explanation" for its actions. "That is not a high bar, but it is an unwavering
one," she wrote.

The case is Judulang v. Holder.

barnesr@washpost.com

Read more on PostPolitics.com

Congress edges toward spending deal

FACT CHECKER: Gingrich on health-care mandates

THE FIX: Mitt Romney's $10,000 mistake

CANDIDATE WEEK: Perry is confident, but is he ready?

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 19, 2011 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

An escape into a better life

BYLINE: Teresa Tomassoni

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1145 words


After a gang member held him at gunpoint inside his home, the 24-year-old gay
man knew he had to flee El Salvador to survive. He had been beaten and harassed
repeatedly on the streets by gang members. Eventually, they warned, they would
kill him.

It took two attempts to get across the U.S.-Mexican border, but in 2006, he was
smuggled into Arizona and made his way to Washington, where his brother lived.

"Finally, I can have my real life, exactly how I am," he thought.

Valerie Villalta, now 30, found that new life as a transgender woman and, in the
process, won a kind of protection she didn't even know was possible for someone
like her: asylum.

Asylum, which allows an immigrant to live and work in the country legally, is
more commonly associated with immigrants who have been persecuted in their home
countries - or who might be in the future - because of their politics, race,
religion or ethnicity. But Villalta learned that it also can apply to gay and
transgender immigrants who have been tortured because of their sexuality.

Since winning her asylum case in 2009 with the help of the Whitman-Walker Health
clinicin the District, Villalta has dedicated much of her life to providing
guidance to gay and transgender Latino immigrants who find themselves in a
foreign land with little or no knowledge of the language, the culture or the
services that can help them find peace with who they really are.

She volunteers with a health education program for gay and transgender youths
called Empoderate, or "Empower yourself" - the same program that helped her find
her way. The youth center is just a few blocks from its umbrella organization,
La Clinica del Pueblo, a bilingual community health center in Columbia Heights.

"When you try to help other people, you feel good," Villalta said recently,
sitting in the center's coral pink Girls Meeting Room. A drawing of a butterfly
emerging from its cocoon hangs above her head. "Soy mujer trans (I'm a
transgender woman)," it says.

In many ways, Villalta is that butterfly.

At least twice a week when Villalta was growing up, the boy's father and
brothers beat him with a belt or branch for looking effeminate and playing with
dolls. Before the age of 12, Villalta was raped by older neighborhood boys, she
said.

The abuse continued, and after high school, Villalta left the family's small
home town for San Salvador, the nation's capital. The young man let his hair
grow and began wearing makeup and women's clothes. Villalta also enrolled in a
two-year culinary arts program.

But the school was in a notoriously dangerous area ruled by members of the gang
MS-13, or Mara Salvatrucha. During an asylum hearing, Villalta recalled carrying
a cooking knife for self-defense as gang members shouted gay slurs and robbed,
beat and threatened to kill Villalta.

There was good reason to be fearful. An openly gay co-worker was fatally shot by
gang members, and a friend who was a transgender prostitute was killed by gangs.

Villalta arrived in Washington unable to speak English and without legal
documents to work. And Villalta was kicked out of a brother's apartment for
being gay.

A friend from the street introduced Villalta to La Clinica del Pueblo, the
District's largest Latino-focused HIV/AIDS services provider. There, Villalta
found a safe space to become the woman she believes she was meant to be.
Villalta legally changed her name last year.

In 2009, the staff at Empoderate referred Villalta to Whitman-Walker Health to
obtain prescription drugs to begin the physical transition to womanhood. There,
Villalta also learned that she might be eligible to apply for asylum.

Like Villalta, many immigrants who have suffered because of their sexual
orientation don't know that asylum is an option, said Anna Priddy, a staff
attorney at the clinic.

More than 60 transgender people have been counseled about asylum issues at the
health center in the past four years. Many of the immigrants are afraid to open
up about their sexuality when they arrive, which can make obtaining legal status
more challenging, Priddy said.

Typically, asylum applications have to be submitted to the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security within a year of entering the United States. But most of
Priddy's clients have had to seek an exception.

A dozen of the cases, including Villalta's, have been successful, making them
eligible to apply for permanent residency and U.S. citizenship, Priddy said.

Villalta has become an admired leader among young transgender and gay Latinos in
the city, said Empoderate's youth program manager, Manuel Ramirez.

"Transitioning requires a lot of courage," Ramirez said. "It's easier to please
society." In many Central and South American countries, there is a strong
"machismo" culture and clearly defined male and female roles, he said.

Almost every multicolored wall of the youth center is decorated with photos of
Villalta, a striking, model-like figure. She is shown dressed in costumes made
of condoms for an HIV/AIDS awareness event and wearing a sparkling crown after
being elected "Miss Empowerment" by her peers in 2009.

She gets calls in the middle of the night from young people seeking consolation
after finding out that they're HIV positive, and she takes the lead in
demonstrating how to safely inject hormones during workshops at the center.

Villalta also has helped connect the Latino immigrants at the center to
Washington's broader transgender community, a tightknit group that has mobilized
in recent months to draw attention to violence against transgender women. Since
the summer, at least 20 transgender women have been attacked in the District,
said Jason Terry, a volunteer from the DC Trans Coalition, a grass-roots
community organization.

In a memo released Dec. 6, President Obama denounced violence and discrimination
against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people around the world. He
commanded U.S. government agencies to step up efforts to protect victims of such
violence, particularly those seeking asylum.

These days, Villalta works as a chef at the renowned French-American fusion
restaurant Central Michel Richard, on Pennsylvania Avenue NW, where she can be
found dishing up carefully prepared hanger steaks, walnut-crusted salmon and
more.

"I feel happy when people say, 'Oh, my goodness, that was so delicious,' "
Villalta said.

The bedroom she sublets near Howard University is adorned with pictures of her
boyfriend of three years and the Barbies she wasn't allowed to have when she was
a boy. There are rows of carefully aligned Mary Kay cosmetics and two miniature
American flags. The only indication of her previous life is an 81 / 2-by-11
photo of Villalta as a 24-year-old gay man in 2006, a month before leaving El
Salvador.

"It's very important to me to have something to show how much I change, how I
was then and how I am now," she said.

tomassonit@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 480 words

Arizona

Judge rules against sheriff on immigrants

A judge dealt another setback to Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio's
immigration enforcement efforts, by barring sheriff's deputies from detaining
people based solely on a belief that they're in the country illegally.

Friday's ruling by U.S. District Judge Murray Snow sets the stage for a possible
trial in a lawsuit that alleges racial profiling in Arpaio's immigration
patrols.

The U.S. Justice Department issued a report last week alleging a wide range of
civil rights violation in Arpaio's office.

- Associated Press

Space

Soyuz docks at international station

A Russian Soyuz capsule arrived at the international space station on Friday
with a trio of astronauts, bringing the orbital outpost back to full staffing
after a failed cargo ship launch in August disrupted flight schedules.

Russian cosmonaut Oleg Kononenko, NASA's Don Pettit and the European Space
Agency's Andre Kuipers blasted off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on
Wednesday for the space station, a $100 billion research complex.

Their two-day trip ended at 10:19 a.m. Friday.

- Reuters

California

L.A. surveillance cameras not working

Most of the surveillance cameras installed in downtown Los Angeles to help
police crack down on crime have not been working for two years, according to the
Los Angeles Times.

The cameras were installed in a partnership between local business groups, which
bought them, and the Los Angeles Police Department, which was meant to monitor
and maintain them.

But officials said the majority of the cameras don't work. Some broke down and
were never fixed. In the case of six cameras purchased to watch over the Little
Tokyo neighborhood, LAPD officials admit they were never plugged into the police
station's monitoring bank.

- Los Angeles Times

Seven hurt in Georgia storms: Authorities say at least seven people were injured
in Georgia as storms roared across the state, damaging homes, downing trees and
zapping power. National Weather Service officials say a team plans to visit
Gordon County in north Georgia to determine whether a tornado was responsible
for the destruction.

Rare violin left on bus: A student left a rare violin worth $172,000 on a bus
after arriving in Philadelphia. The New England Conservatory student got on a
Megabus in Boston with the 176-year-old violin, but forgot it in an overhead bin
when she got off late Tuesday, police said. It was later found and returned. The
violin was lent to Muchen Hsieh by the Chi Mei Culture Foundation in her native
Taiwan.

Gifts for fire victims: Firefighters were scrambling Friday to replace toys lost
when San Francisco's biggest blaze in more than seven years left up to 60 people
homeless. The effort began after firefighters saw ruined gifts in the wreckage
near historic Alamo Square. Firefighters have already sent 120 items to the
victims.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 29, 2011 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Hispanics give Obama big edge over Republicans

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 967 words


President Obama holds a wide lead among Hispanic voters when matched against
potential Republican challengers, even as widespread opposition to his
administration's stepped-up deportation policies act as a drag on his approval
ratings among that group,  according to a new poll.

The survey, conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center, revealed a general-election
weakness for Republicans among an increasingly influential voting bloc - with
former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney and Texas Gov. Rick Perry each winning
less than one-fourth of the Hispanic vote in hypothetical matchups against
Obama.

Obama leads Romney by 68 percent to 23 percent and Perry by 69 percent to 23
percent among Hispanic voters, with a margin of error of plus or minus 5.2
percentage points for the sample.

The president's strong position with Latino voters comes even as Hispanic adults
overall express disapproval with the way his administration is handling
deportations of illegal immigrants, by 59 percent to 27 percent. (The margin of
error among adults is plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.)

The United States has deported more than 1 million illegal immigrants under
Obama, removing an average of nearly 400,000 per year - a record rate that has
drawn criticism from immigrant advocates who charge that the policy is tearing
apart families and punishing harmless workers. Administration officials have
said they are targeting criminals for deportation.

Obama's job approval rating has dropped among Hispanic voters by nine percentage
points since last year, the survey found, dipping to 54 percent - in part
because of a 15-point drop among Hispanic Democrats. His job approval among
voters overall stood at 49 percent in a Washington Post-ABC News poll this
month, meaning the president remains more popular among Hispanics than with the
broader electorate.

"Many Latinos are aware that deportations are up, and among them the president's
approval rating is lower," said Mark H. Lopez, associate director of the Pew
Hispanic Center. "However, even among them, the president wins in head-to-heads
against Romney and Perry."

The findings suggest major challenges ahead for Republican strategists, many of
whom believe the party cannot win the White House unless it slices into Obama's
support among Latinos.

In the latest available data from Gallup, Obama's numbers among Hispanics have
recovered alongside a rise among the broader public. Fully 60 percent of all
Hispanic adults interviewed by Gallup in late December said they approved of
Obama's overall job performance, a high in polls back to May.

The support level for Romney and Perry lags behind the 31 percent share won by
party nominee John McCain in 2008. Obama won 67 percent of Hispanics that year.

At the time, many Republican strategists said failing to improve that number in
the future could doom Republican presidential contenders in battleground states
with fast-growing Hispanic populations, such as Colorado and Florida. They set a
2012 goal of winning 40 percent, about the same level of support among Hispanics
won by President George W. Bush in his 2004 reelection victory.

Some Republicans have expressed concerns that Hispanics would feel alienated by
hard-line rhetoric against illegal immigration in the GOP primary campaign -
particularly from Romney, who has used the issue to attack Perry and former
House speaker Newt Gingrich from the right. They worry that the debate might
squander an opportunity to take advantage of Obama's declining support among
Hispanics, particularly centrists and conservatives.

The survey shows Romney's vulnerabilities, however. Even among voters who
disagree with Obama's deportation policies, a clear majority backs the president
over Romney. Obama wins more than one-fourth of Hispanic voters who identify
with or lean toward the Republican Party.

The survey of Hispanic adults and voters, conducted Nov. 9 through Dec. 7, did
not measure support for Gingrich or other current potential Republican nominees.
(A survey in early November by the Pew Research Center for the People and the
Press found that Gingrich cut further into Obama's lead among Hispanics, with
Obama leading 61 percent to 36 percent, though the sample size was small and the
error margin high.)

Gingrich, who has courted leaders of the Hispanic community for years through
his political and business enterprises, has staked out a softer line on illegal
immigrants than Romney, saying that many with deep family or community ties
should be granted legal status and permitted to stay in the United States.

The new Pew poll found that immigration is "extremely important" for a third of
Hispanic voters, although that issue trails jobs, education, health care, taxes
and the federal budget deficit on that list.

Democrats retain a strong advantage when Hispanics are asked which party they
identify with, with two-thirds of voters picking Democrats and one-fifth siding
with the GOP.

Neither party secured a majority when voters were asked which one showed more
concern for Hispanics, with 45 percent picking the Democrats and 12 percent
picking the Republicans. In 2010, 6 percent picked Republicans.

Some Republicans think that tapping Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), a Cuban American
son of immigrants, as the party's vice presidential nominee could offer a quick
fix to their Hispanic problem. At the moment, the poll found, Rubio remains
largely unknown to Hispanics nationally, with a majority saying they had not
heard of him, couldn't rate him or didn't know whether they viewed him
favorably.

wallstenp@washpost.com

Polling director Jon Cohen and polling analyst Peyton M. Craighill contributed
to this report.

Read more at PostPolitics

Newt Gingrich fights back as Iowa heats up

The Fix: How Mitt Romney could still lose

Fact Checker: Ron Paul, Reaganite?

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Pitting brightest immigrants against one another

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1263 words


With cutting-edge, high-tech jobs and an Arlington County townhouse, Neelima
Reddy and her husband seem launched on a path to success. Instead, they feel
frustrated and stuck.

Seven years after moving from India, the young professional couple are still
waiting to become permanent U.S. residents.

Rogie Legaspi, a teacher trainer in Baltimore, also is still in line for his
green card, 20 years after first arriving from the Philippines.

Under the rules of their temporary work visas, Legaspi and Reddy are unable to
change their employers or plan their lives beyond their work visa renewal about
every two years. Despite their common frustration, these foreign-born
professionals could find themselves on opposite sides of an increasingly nasty
dispute among immigrants and their advocates over the proposed Fairness for
High-Skilled Immigrants Act.

The measure, which has stalled in the U.S. Senate, is aimed at addressing the
badly clogged system that grants permanent residency permits, or green cards, to
immigrants from around the world who work in the United States on temporary
visas for high-skilled jobs.

But the proposal has gotten bogged down in a debate over assertions that it is
unfair to Americans who may be seeking high-skilled jobs during the recession
and that it favors workers from larger countries, especially India, over smaller
and mid-size ones, such as the Philippines.

"Our intention was to create a recipe for success, not to pick a fight," said
Virginia resident Aman Kapoor,  an Indian American and co-founder of Immigration
Voice, a national advocacy organization that has aggressively promoted the bill.

Under current law, the U.S. government can issue 140,000 green cards each year
to immigrants who have temporary work visas. Hundreds of thousands of
foreign-born workers are recruited to this country as teachers, nurses,
engineers and other professionals on such temporary visas, which must be renewed
about every two years. They must be sponsored by an American company or public
agency that is able to show that they cannot find an American worker who is able
or willing to do such jobs.

But the slowness of the process has left a permanent backlog of hundreds of
thousands of applicants, including many who have lived here for years on
temporary visas. Many of the applicants come from a few Asian countries, led by
India and China. But because the law also limits each country to 7 percent of
the green cards, workers from smaller countries tend to get their green cards
much faster.

The Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act would change the rules of the game,
eliminating the individual country limits and granting work-based green cards to
qualified applicants on a first-come, first-served basis.

Supporters say the measure, which zipped through the House of Representatives in
November with bipartisan support, would give people of all nationalities a more
equal chance to attain permanent residency. But it unexpectedly screeched to a
halt in the Senate last month, when Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) complained
that the bill would do "nothing to protect Americans at home who seek
high-skilled jobs in this time of record-high unemployment."

Trying to slow the bill's momentum, Grassley tacked on several amendments,
potentially adding months of debate and delay.

Meanwhile, the debate is raging online among immigrants and their advocates.
Some critics accuse the influential Indian American lobby of intimidating
workers into supporting the bill. They also complain that extra green cards,
left over from smaller countries when there aren't enough applicants to fill the
annual quota, are already reallocated to India and China.

By ending the per-country quotas, the bill would raise or lower the waiting
times for hundreds of thousands of current green card applicants. Some
immigrants from smaller countries say it is unfair that the bill might increase
their wait by about two more years.

"If this bill is passed, then thousands of people from India will get to cut in
line in front of me and add 3-4 more years to my already ridiculous wait time,"
an electrical engineer from Bangladesh wrote last month in an online post from
California. "It would be robbing Peter (me) to pay Paul."

But Reddy, 31, who works as a financial engineering manager at Fannie Mae, and
her husband, Vishal Iyer, a Web site designer at AOL, adamantly disagree.

"Why should my colleague from Bulgaria get his green card in six months, while
we have been waiting seven years, just because we were born in India?" Reddy
said. "We love America. We want to contribute to the economy and raise our kids
here. Instead, we are living in a state of limbo."

India's huge population has made it much harder for many of its most talented,
U.S.-trained professionals to settle permanently in the United States, said
Kapoor, of Immigration Voice. The official wait time, he said, can stretch to 40
years.

"The country limits have created huge backlogs, and our members have been very
diligent about advocating to remove them. Why should an engineer from Mozambique
or Barbados, with perhaps 250,000 people, have the same green card distribution
as an equally qualified engineer from China or India, with a billion people?
This creates a more equitable system without adding any more green cards."

Because the proposal would not raise the number of skilled foreigners who are
allowed to work in the United States, supporters had hoped that it would avoid
the contentious issue of why so many private companies and government agencies -
including aerospace firms and hospitals - continue courting highly skilled
foreigners to do jobs that Americans could, in theory, be trained to do and be
eager to perform.

Among the most adamant opponents of the bill are people who have long pushed for
allowing more foreign workers to remain in the country permanently, especially
those in technical and research fields who have graduated from U.S.
institutions. They argue that until the entire system is changed, it does no
good to tinker with the proportion of workers who come from one country or
another.

"The arithmetic of the zero-sum game is that no one gains unless someone else
loses," said Bruce Morrison, a former member of the U.S. House from Connecticut
who lobbies on immigration issues for various groups, including the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers. He argued that the bill would cut out many
thousands of skilled immigrants from the Philippines, South Korea and Mexico and
do nothing to ease the overall green card backlog. "Playing one ethnicity and
source country against another is not in America's national interest," he wrote
in an e-mail.

For those who wait, the uncertainty is agonizing.

"You always have a sense of uneasiness, like you may be considered a
second-class citizen," said Bryan Sebobo, 34, who was recruited in 2003, along
with a dozen other Filipinos, to teach special education in D.C. schools. Of the
13, he said, only three have attained U.S. residency after eight years of work.
"A little piece of plastic brings you so much security," he said.

Legaspi, 41, the Baltimore teacher who has waited two decades for his green
card, once gave up and went back to the Philippines, then returned to try again.

"The long wait really does affect you," he said. "There is so much uncertainty.
If you want to buy a house or get your kids started in college, it is a gamble.
Even if you are qualified for a job promotion, you may be passed over. I believe
merit and hard work should be rewarded. This is not fair."

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 206 words


l A Jan. 7 A-section article about a procedural change in immigration law
misidentified the agency that processes immigration waiver requests. It is U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, not the State Department.

l A Root DC essay in the Jan. 6 Metro section, a daughter's reflections on her
U.S.-born father's youth in Poland, incorrectly described 1933 as the year
Germany invaded Poland. That year, in which the father was nearly inducted into
the Polish army but returned to the United States, came six years before the
1939 invasion.

l A Dec. 30 Sports article about a victory by Rutgers over Florida in men's
college basketball incorrectly indicated that both teams are in the Big East
Conference. Rutgers is a Big East team, but Florida is in the Southeastern
Conference.

The Washington Post is committed to correcting errors that appear in the
newspaper. Those interested in contacting the paper for that purpose can:

E-mail: corrections@washpost.com

Call: 202-334-6000, and ask to be connected to the desk involved - National,
Foreign, Metro, Style, Sports, Business or any of the weekly sections. The
ombudsman, who acts as the readers' representative, can be reached by calling
202-334-7582 or e-mailing ombudsman@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 16, 2012 Monday
                                 Every Edition

Contractors see opportunities with biometrics

BYLINE: Marjorie Censer

SECTION: Pg. A13

LENGTH: 525 words


Since the Department of Homeland Security was founded and traveler security
ramped up, local contractors have found new opportunities in biometric
technology used for airport screenings and at border crossings.

Now, some of these firms are expanding the work they have while looking outside
the United States for more opportunities.

Take Accenture, which bases its federal business in Reston. Last month, the
company received a 13-month, $71 million contract to expand its work on the
identity management system central to the U.S. Visitor and Immigrant Status
Indicator Technology, or US-VISIT, program.

The program has two parts: a database that pairs an individual's travel history
with his or her immigration status, and a system for processing photos and
fingerprints of travelers entering the United States so customs officers can
verify their identity.

Accenture manages the biometric processing system, part of a contract that began
in 2004. Tom Greiner, Accenture's program manager for US-VISIT, said the company
recently won funding to broaden that effort, including a pilot program to test
the accuracy of systems that identify people by the iris in their eye. Accenture
is also being asked to make it easier for other federal agencies to use the
database and to expand the system to take 10 fingerprints instead of just two.

Reston-based 3M Cogent provides the fingerprint technology used in the US-VISIT
program, said Jim Jasinski, an executive vice president at 3M Cogent.

The company worked in border security before the Department of Homeland Security
was established, but he said the advent of the agency created more contracting
opportunities.

Unisys, which bases its federal business in Reston, is upgrading Los Angeles's
airport infrastructure as part of an effort that would eventually lead to using
biometrics to identify airport workers. The company is tracking contracts in the
United States and in foreign countries that would rely on biometrics such as
iris or facial scans.

"Clearly that is a fairly rapidly growing security space for us - both in the
federal sector and in the commercial sector," said Andre Eaddy, director of
cybersecurity portfolio solutions for Unisys's federal systems unit. "We're
seeing interest worldwide."

So far, DHS contract spending has not grown as significantly as that of the
Pentagon, said David J. Berteau, director of the international security program
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

But DHS's interest created "a much bigger market" for biometrics, Berteau said.

It has also given U.S. companies a leg up overseas. Accenture, for instance, won
a spot on a program in India enrolling all of the country's citizens in a
national ID program that captures irises and fingerprints, while Unisys has won
biometric work in Mexico and Australia.

In Mexico, the company's local subsidiary has been tasked with creating a
database with iris, fingerprint and facial biometric data on as many as 110
million Mexican citizens.

Jasinski said the U.S. market remains the largest single market but that
international opportunities collectively are growing at a faster pace.

censerm@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

In this GOP field, moderate is relative

BYLINE: Ezra Klein

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 936 words


Mitt Romney is the most moderate candidate in the Republican primaries. Yes,
even more so than the recently departed Jon Huntsman, whose tax-cut proposal was
more radical and more regressive, and whose endorsement of Rep. Paul Ryan's
budget put him well to Romney's right on entitlements.

But compared with recent Republican nominees, Romney's policy platform is quite
conservative, and arguably even a bit extreme. George W. Bush, for instance,
looks like a Kenyan socialist in comparison.

"Renewing America's Purpose," the collection of policy speeches that detailed
Bush's 2000 policy platform, didn't begin with tax cuts or Medicare reforms or
austerity. It began with education. In fact, it began with an education speech
delivered to the Latin Business Association, and before it even got to
education, it talked about the "Latino economic miracle" and said "the Latino
market will demand the attention of our whole economy." Then and only then did
it go on to address Bush's proposal to vastly expand federal control and
financing of America's education system.

Chapter 2 is "A New Agenda for Compassion." That included, by the way, the sole
entry on immigration, which addressed the problem that "new immigrants are
treated as suspects and strangers, not welcomed as neighbors." It then proffered
recommendations for creating a kinder, gentler Immigration and Naturalization
Service. The words "illegal immigrant" did not appear anywhere in the book.

Chapter 3 - Page 211, for those keeping track - is the first that any of the
Republican contenders might recognize: "Strengthening Social Security and
Medicare."

Here, too, Bush's words might confound the current field. He called for private
accounts in Social Security, which to be fair puts him to the right of the
current crop, though that's largely because Republicans have been cautious on
Social Security since the electorate rejected Bush's plans in 2005. When he got
to Medicare, however, his most concrete proposal was to expand the program to
include prescription drugs - an idea that became Medicare Part D, and served as
the single largest entitlement expansion since the advent of Medicare.

Finally, in Chapter 4, on Page 245, Bush got to tax cuts. Reading his speech on
the subject today, what's remarkable is how narrow a rationale Bush used to sell
them. "What is risky is when politicians are given charge of a surplus," he
said. "There is a strong temptation to spend it."

In other words, the tax cuts were there to prevent the surplus from being turned
into spending. Elsewhere, Bush made it even clearer: "Our times allow a
substantial tax cut," he said. The implication, of course, being that other
times do not permit a substantial tax cut.

If any time does not allow a substantial, permanent tax cut, this is it.
Deficits are large, and stretch as far as they eye - or the economic model - can
see. But Romney hasn't just proposed to extend the Bush tax cuts. He's also
proposed to add cuts worth more than $2 trillion.

According to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, Romney's plan - which, after
extending the Bush tax cuts, lowers the corporate tax rate, eliminates the
estate tax and repeals some high-income tax increases from the Affordable Care
Act - amounts to a tax cut of $600 billion in 2015. The International Monetary
Fund estimates America's gross domestic product will be $18 trillion that year,
so that's a tax cut of more than 3 percent of GDP. In contrast, when Bush's
first tax cut was passed, the Joint Committee on Taxation estimated it would
cost a shade over 1 percent of GDP. So, by any measure, Romney's tax cuts are
far, far larger.

They are also more regressive. Bush's tax cut was, in theory, to be paid for out
of the surplus. Today there is no surplus. Romney promises to pay for his tax
cuts, but he opposes raising new taxes or cutting defense spending. That leaves
domestic spending, most of which goes to seniors and low-income Americans. Nor
do his tax cuts make up the difference by distributing most of their benefits
among low-income taxpayers. The Tax Policy Center estimates that Romney's plan
will mean an average tax cut of $164,000 for those in the top 1 percent and $69
- no, that's not a typo - for those in the bottom 20 percent.

So, in extending the Bush cuts and adding more of his own, Romney is proposing
more than $6 trillion in new tax cuts that will disproportionately help the
richest Americans, and he intends to pay for it through spending cuts - such as
block-granting Medicaid - that will disproportionately hurt seniors and
low-income Americans. That's not a political attack, by the way. It's math. And
it is math that makes his tax cut far more regressive than Bush's proposal.

Which is not to say Bush was a moderate. Although, in fairness to him, No Child
Left Behind and Medicare Part D were compromise proposals that attracted
substantial Democratic support, particularly in the Senate. It's not even to say
that Romney, personally, is not a moderate. When Bush was president, Romney was
governor of Massachusetts, and his signature achievement was a health-care law
that later served as the foundation for President Obama's efforts.

But the Republican Party has moved far to the right since 2000, and Romney has
moved with it. Bush wanted to pay down a surplus with spending cuts and expand
Medicare. Romney wants to finance larger tax cuts by slashing domestic spending.
It's a more regressive policy that will be paid for in a more regressive way. In
today's GOP, even the most moderate presidential candidate is far to George W.
Bush's right.

kleine@washpost.com

Twitter: @ezraklein

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Rape case leads to database upgrade

BYLINE: Tom Jackman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 514 words


Following the revelation that thousands of fingerprints from deported immigrants
are not contained in a federal database, Congress has appropriated $5 million to
begin scanning in the prints that had been left out.

The disclosure of the database flaws came after Fairfax County police began
looking for a rape suspect in late 2010. Police ran the name "Salvador
Portillo-Saravia" through a computer and learned that he had been deported to El
Salvador in 2003. He returned to Sterling illegally, and just one month before
the Dec. 26, 2010, attack on an 8-year-old girl in Centreville, he had been in
the Loudoun County jail.

Portillo-Saravia was arrested Nov. 21, 2010, for public drunkenness. But when
Loudoun jail deputies ran his name and fingerprints through the national IDENT
database as part of the Secure Communities program, headed by U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, they received no notice that he had been deported.

"No match," the computer flashed back. Portillo-Saravia, now 30, was released
from the jail about 12 hours later.

ICE officials said Loudoun deputies should have requested a second, manual check
of the records. Then-Sheriff Steve Simpson and many other sheriffs in the region
said that they didn't know about the need for manual checks and that they didn't
have the resources to do them. They said they thought that Secure Communities
provided a neutral way of checking every arrestee who came to the jail, without
profiling or further digging into backgrounds.

ICE officials then said that many people - the number isn't known - who were
deported before 2005 were fingerprinted the old-fashioned way, by rolling inked
fingertips onto file cards. The prints were not digitized or placed into the
IDENT database.

After a report detailing the database gap appeared in The Washington Post, ICE
sent out reminders to jails participating in Secure Communities to consider
manual checks. It noted that the database, even with 120 million records, was
not complete.

Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.), chairman of the House subcommittee overseeing the
Justice Department, set out to find money to get those fingerprints into the
IDENT system. In May, he placed a $10 million request into the budget approved
by the House, but the amount was reduced to $5 million.

"This tragic incident identified a critical shortcoming in the Secure
Communities program," Wolf said in a news release Tuesday.

ICE officials on Tuesday declined to comment on the appropriation and how it
would be spent or on how many ink-rolled fingerprint cards need to be digitized.

Jessica Vaughan of the Center for Immigration Studies, who has followed Secure
Communities closely, said she has heard that as many as 500,000 fingerprint
cards are not digitized. "I wonder if ICE could get more bang out of those bucks
by investing the $5 million in a robust outreach program to train local law
enforcement agencies on how to handle 'no-matches,' " she said.

Portillo-Saravia was convicted in October of rape and sodomy. He faces up to
life in prison when he is sentenced next month.

jackmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 28, 2012 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

For Republicans, spotlight turns to Florida - and Rubio

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 966 words


The Republican primary in Florida has drawn attention to the state's large
population of conservative Hispanics and also to the community's most glittering
political star, Sen. Marco Rubio.

The junior senator has for months been the odds-on favorite to become his
party's vice-presidential nominee, in part because of his Cuban American roots.
Both parties view Hispanics as a crucial swing bloc in the general election, and
a strong Hispanic candidate on the Republican ticket could tilt the scales for
the GOP in a number of Latino-heavy swing states.

But critics say the factors that have helped Rubio become a celebrity in
Republican circles may make him a problematic choice to appeal to Hispanics. He
has taken a hard line on illegal immigration, opposing the DREAM Act, a bill
that would have helped illegal-immigrant college students become citizens, and
backing Arizona's tough 2010 anti-illegal-immigration law.

Although Rubio has a compelling story as the son of immigrants, the Cuban
American community in South Florida is still focused on revelations that he
misrepresented his family's history in a way that helped his election prospects.
Critics say the story could open old wounds over immigration rules that give
Cubans special rights to settle in this country.

His biggest boosters say there is no better face for the future of the
Republican Party. Rubio, 40, has become a political celebrity because of his
widely lauded charisma,  political savvy and an appeal that transcends the tea
party, whose support fueled his candidacy in 2010.

"I think he gives us a whole new dimension and he's a future star," said Edward
J. Rollins, a longtime Republican strategist. "He's young and dynamic. . . .
[And] he's still the son of immigrants who - I don't know when they came and it
doesn't matter to me - they overcame a lot of odds to come over here."

A decade ago, Hispanics were the swing group that helped propel George W. Bush
to the White House, but the community has overwhelmingly voted Democratic since
then. Cuban Americans, who make up about a third of the state's Hispanic
electorate, have remained loyal to the Republican Party, and will play a
critical role in Tuesday's primary.

Rubio has said he would not accept the vice-presidential nomination.

"I believe in his heart at this time, his answer to a request to be a running
mate would be no," said Al Cardenas, former Florida GOP chairman and a mentor to
Rubio. "But once somebody gets the nomination and that person who has that
authority is the one calling you and talking to you, there's a whole new
patriotic mix to that question and you never know what the answer is going to
be."

Rubio has said he will not make an endorsement in the Jan. 31 primary, a
decision that did not surprise those following his career. They say Rubio knows
he has a promising political future - including possibly a shot at the White
House - and would not do anything to purposely jeopardize it.

But he has still made his mark on the primary campaign. He chided Newt Gingrich
for a particularly harsh ad against Mitt Romney this week. And when the
candidates were asked in Thursday's debate to name a Hispanic politician they
would appoint to their Cabinet, the near-universal answer was Rubio.

A recent Suffolk University poll showed that Rubio is popular among the state's
Hispanic and young voters, and that his presence on a GOP ticket could help
deliver Florida, a critical swing state, for the Republican nominee.

He has moderated his tone on immigration, highlighting his support of legal
channels and saying he empathizes with children who lack legal status because
they were brought to the country by their parents illegally. And he offered a
glimpse of his charm during a speech at the Hispanic Leadership Network
conference in Miami on Friday, which was interrupted by pro-DREAM Act
protesters.

"May I say something to you?" he told the protesters. "These young people are
very brave to be here today. They raise a very legitimate issue. . . . I ask
that you let them stay, because I think they'll be interested in what I'm going
to say."

Still, critics have raised questions about Rubio's mainstream appeal to
Hispanics, in part because of the tale of his parents' migration. In his Senate
campaign, he said they fled the country when Castro seized power. But documents
obtained by The Washington Post revealedthey were admitted to the United States
as permanent residents 21 / 2 years before Castro took power.

Rubio has said it was a mistake and that it does not change the basic thrust of
their story.  Some Cubans leapt to Rubio's defense, but others say it has harmed
his reputation in the community.

"If he had been honest or truthful that they came pre-revolution Cuba, I don't
think he would have had the same political career," said George Gonzalez, a
Cuban American political science professor at the University of Miami. "Elites
are still talking in positive tones about him, but put it this way: People are
still talking about this months after it came out."

Coupled with his stance on illegal immigration, Rubio dredged up old resentments
about the special immigration rights granted to Cubans under the 1966 Cuban
Refugee Adjustment Act, said Mario H. Lopez, president of the
conservative-leaning Hispanic Leadership Fund.

"I think he unwittingly brought up some of that old tension that exists with
older generations within the Hispanic community of, well, they have a special
status and they don't want it for anyone else," Lopez said.

In an indication of the negative attention he may draw in a general election, a
coalition of liberal pro-immigration protesters showed up at the Miami
conference this week, not to target the presidential hopefuls but Rubio. Their
slogan: "Hey Marco: Latino or Tea Partino?"

sandhya@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                      August 30, 2012 Thursday 5:42 PM EST

Jeb Bush and the politics of immigration;
Former Florida governor charts a separate path from much of the GOP when it
comes to the hot button issue.

BYLINE: Sean Sullivan

LENGTH: 623 words


Jeb Bushs message on immigration is directed as much at his own party as it is
at the opposing one. And if there is a GOP migration toward moderation on the
subject in the coming years, he might well be at the forefront of the movement.

The former Florida Republican governor spoke at a Washington Post/Bloomberg
breakfast in Tampa on Thursday morning, and said that while he does not favor
President Obama's recent executive order which stopped the deportation of
certain young illegal immigrants, he does supportthe DREAM Act, a measure
stalled in Congress which would grant legal residency and a path to citizenship
for young people brought into the country illegally in their youth.Having a
solution to the fact that we have all of these young people, many of whom are
making great contributions, don't have a connection to their to their parents'
former country, yeah, of course I'm for it, Bush said.Immigration has been a
tricky issue for the GOP, which is populated with political figures who have
adopted strict, hard-line postures that some in the moderate wing of the party
worry will alienate a fast-growing Hispanic population that could play an
increasingly influential role in electoral politics.Bush offered a warning for
immigration hard-liners: Their message is not a winner.The interesting thing is
that the most vociferous anti-immigrant kind of candidates lose. Probably have
noticed, but they lose in primaries, they lose in general elections, he said.For
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, immigration has been a difficult
issue to navigate. The conservative base of the GOP opposes a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants. At the same time, Romney cant afford to
alienate Hispanic voters. So, he has largely refrained from saying much about
it.Earlier this year, Bush urged Romney to broaden his message when it comes to
immigration, and to make it an economic issue as much as it is a question of the
rule of law.When it comes to Hispanic voters, Bush said the issues that are atop
the minds of other voters  jobs and the economy  are also the ones they care
most about. But immigration is still important, Bush said Thursday, because
addressing it is one way of building credibility with the Hispanic community.Its
a gateway issue, because it's an issue that allows you ... show some
sensitivity, it allows you to be heard, he said. And I think that's kind of
theright way to look at it, that it's,it's an issue that has relevance.Bush also
offered a stern rebuke to Obama on immigration, and accused him of playing
politics. Earlier this summer, the president signed an executive order that
stopped the deportation of certain young illegal immigrants. Bush said he saw
Obamas action as a way of undercutting Romney and winning good will from
Hispanic voters, not as an effective piece of policy.This is so cynical. And he
I mean, if you're,if you,if the law says clearly that you have a case-by-case
right to review cases, and you blanket say 800,000 people comply, that is way
beyond the purview of executive power, Bushsaid.Bush will address the convention
Thursday night. Hes a popular figure in Republican circles, owing to his appeal
to the party establishment as well as conservatives, who like his focus on
education reform. Immigration has not been a dominant topic of discussion so far
at the gathering, and it will be interesting to see how much (if any) of his
speech Bush devotes to the topic.I'm not running for anything and I can speak my
mind, Bush said at the end of the Thursday morning breakfast.That may be the
case right now. But he was mentioned as a possible presidential candidate this
cycle and can reasonably expect his name to surface again in future elections.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                      September 7, 2012 Friday 8:47 PM EST

Mitt Romney and Steve King;
Mitt Romney's appearance with Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) is getting some negative
attention.

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 196 words


Mitt Romney's appearance with Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) is getting some negative
attention:

Costs outweigh any possible small benefit @buzzfeedandrew: Mitt Romney endorses
Congressman Steve King. buzzfeed.com/mckaycoppins/r

Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) Sept. 7, 2012

(Navarro worked on Hispanic outreach for John McCain's 2008 campaign).

King is very conservative, and his views on immigration in particular would
likely turn off Hispanic voters. The congressmanthreatened to sue the White
House over an executive order that halted deportations for some young
undocumented immigrants. Not long ago hecompared the immigration process to
picking the best dogs. On the other hand, King championed Sen. Marco Rubio
(R-Fla.), a leading voice on immigration policy in the GOP, as a potential
Romney running mate.

But it's not so surprising that Romney is touting King's reelection. King
endorsed Romney on a Republican National Committee conference call and recently
told Iowans that the presidential candidate's campaign has come to him for
advice.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     September 17, 2012 Monday 8:35 PM EST

Romney: GOP is 'rightful home' of Hispanics;
In a speech to the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Monday, Mitt Romney argued that
Hispanic-Americans -- a demographic that overwhelmingly supports President Obama
-- belong in the GOP.

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 167 words


In a speech to the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Monday, Mitt Romney argued that
Hispanic Americans - a demographic that overwhelmingly supports President Obama
- belong in the GOP.

"I am convinced that the Republican Party is the rightful home of Hispanic
Americans," he said, citing the ideological journey New Mexico Gov. Susana
Martinez made from Democrat to Republican. He outlined his five-point economic
plan, a plan his campaign is now emphasizing in ads and on the trail.

Romney promised to "permanently fix our immigration system." As he has before,
he specified that he would offer a path to citizenship for those who serve in
the military, make family reunification a priority, reform the temporary worker
program and let in more workers with advanced degrees. He pledged to establish
an employment verification system and punish businesses that hire undocumented
immigrants. But he did not offer a plan to deal with the millions of
non-military undocumented immigrants already in the country.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                    September 20, 2012 Thursday 6:26 PM EST

Obama does Univision forum;
President Obama on Thursday will answer questions about immigration, education
and other issues important to Latino voters at a meet-the-candidate event here
sponsored by Univision, a day after Republican rival Mitt Romney appeared at the
same forum.

BYLINE: David Nakamura

LENGTH: 191 words


CORAL GABLES, Fla. - President Obama will answer questions Thursday about
immigration, education and other issues important to Latino voters at a
meet-the-candidate event here sponsored by Univision, a day after Republican
rival Mitt Romney appeared at the same forum.

Obama will appear before a live audience, made up of students and Democratic
supporters, at the University of Miami's BankUnited Center Fieldhouse. The event
will be live-streamed in English at 2 p.m. on the Univision Noticias Facebook
Page and in both English and Spanish at Univisionnoticias.com. Univision will
broadcast the event at 10 p.m. Thursday night on its television network.

Hispanic voters, who overwhelmingly supported Obama over Sen. John McCain in
2008, had grown frustrated at the Obama administration's record on immigration
reform, but Obama in June announced an executive order that his administration
would no longer deport some illegal immigrants who came to the United States as
children and were otherwise law-abiding residents.

In Florida, the largest swing state with 29 electoral college votes, Obama is
counting on big turnout from Latinos in November.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     October 17, 2012 Wednesday 6:21 AM EST

Romney and Obama clash on immigration

BYLINE: Krissah Thompson

LENGTH: 335 words


In what has been a lively debate full of clashes, one of the biggest has been
over immigration. The question, asked by Lorraine Osorio, went first to Mitt
Romney.

"What I will do is I'll put in place an employment verification system and make
sure that employers that hire people who have come here illegally are sanctioned
for doing so," Romney said. "I won't put in place magnets for people coming here
illegally. So for instance, I would not give driver's licenses to those that
have come here illegally as the president would."

He added, "The kids of those that came here illegally, those kids, I think,
should have a pathway to become a permanent resident of the United States and
military service, for instance, is one way they would have that kind of pathway
to become a permanent resident," Romney said. "Now, when the president ran for
office, he said that he'd put in place, in his first year, a piece of
legislation - he'd file a bill in his first year that would reform our - our
immigration system, protect legal immigration, stop illegal immigration. He
didn't do it." More on that here.

Obama, who this year put into place a policy that gives illegal immigrants under
the age of 30 legal residency, challenged Romney on his pledge to help children
who came to the country illegally. "Now, Governor Romney just said that, you
know, he wants to help those young people, too," Obama said. "But during the
Republican primary, he said, I will veto the DREAM Act that would allow these
young people to have access. His main strategy during the Republican primary was
to say, we're going to encourage self-deportation, making life so miserable on
folks that they'll leave. He called the Arizona law a model for the nation. Part
of the Arizona law said that law enforcement officers could stop folks because
they suspected maybe they looked like they might be undocumented workers and
checked their papers."

Romney referred to Arizona's E-Verify policy as a model, not the controversial
policy Obama described.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                      November 9, 2012 Friday 4:40 PM EST

Why Republicans position on immigration is a political loser in 1 chart;
As Republicans and conservatives signal a shift , how did 2012 voters break down
on the immigration debate?

BYLINE: Peyton Craighill

LENGTH: 178 words


Widespread Hispanic support for Democrats on Tuesday, together with the
inexorable shifts in demographics seem to be an impetus for a review of the
strategic direction of the Republican Party. For immigration reform, the policy
reevaluation appears to be happening in real time.

After all, the national exit poll showed voters still clearly on one side of the
debate. By 65 to 28 percent, voters said most illegal immigrants working in the
United States should be offered a chance to apply for legal status, rather than
being deported.

While the exit poll question doesn't tap the subtleties of the arguments for and
against reform, the top line numbers -- along with the 71 percent Obama got from
Hispanic voters -- appear to have reshuffled GOP positioning on the matter. Wide
majorities of Democrats and independents want legal status, as do 51 percent of
Republican voters, according to the exit poll.

More than three-in-four Hispanic voters supported a chance for illegal
immigrants to gain legal status, including 84 percent of Hispanics who identify
as independents.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                      November 9, 2012 Friday 8:28 PM EST

Republicans find religion on immigration reform. Is it too late?

BYLINE: Chris Cillizza

LENGTH: 790 words


In the three days since the 2012 election, a who's who of Republicans have
admitted the obvious: the party's current position on immigration is politically
untenable.

"I think members on both sides of the aisle want to resolve this issue," House
Speaker John Boehner said at a press conference on Capitol Hill Friday morning.
Earlier in the week he told ABC News: "This issue has been around far too long.A
comprehensive approach is long overdue, and I'm confident that the president,
myself, others can find the common ground to take care of this issue once and
for all."

Former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice echoed that sentiment Friday morning
in an interview with CBS. "Right now for me the most powerful argument is that
the changing demographics in the country really necessitate an even bigger tent
for the Republican Party," she said.

Conservative columnist Charles Krauthammer called today for the building of a
border fence and for amnesty for the illegal immigrants already in this country.
Even conservative talk show host Sean Hannity had a change of heart, saying that
his position on the issue had "evolved"and that Republicans needed to find a way
to deal with the issue and move beyond it.

The message in all of these statements is a simple one: We get it.

But, a broader question remains: While the Republican establishment -- and even
some of its conservative elements like Hannity -- appear to have found religion
on the need to cut a deal on immigration reform, can they sell it to a party
base that continues to vehemently oppose anything that condones illegal
immigrants gaining legal status?

While Boehner's comments on immigration have drawn the lion's share of
attention, it's worth noting that some within the House Republican conference
quickly voiced their strong opposition to any sort of deal.

Here's what Iowa Rep. Steve King, who is already rumored to be a Senate
candidate in 2014, tweeted out shortly after Boehner's comments went public:

Obama voters chose dependency over Liberty. Now establishment R's want
citizenship for illegals. You can't beat Santa Claus with amnesty.

Steve King (@SteveKingIA) November 9, 2012

And, while it's easy to dismiss King's voice as an isolated one, it's worth
remembering that former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney adopted the position
of "self deportation" for illegal immigrants during the presidential primary
process for fear of being labeled insufficiently conservative by the GOP base.

Check out this chart detailing the findings from a major national survey by the
Washington Post and the Kaiser Family Foundation that aimed to slice and dice
the various wings of the two national parties.

Six in 10 Republicans aligned with the tea party favor deporting illegal
immigrants to their native country. A majority of "old school Republicans" --
described in the survey as "more male, white educated and wealthy" in the
Post-Kaiser findings -- feel the same way. (For more on the various segments
within the Republican party, check out this cool graphic.)

What that data suggest is that no matter what the party leadership believes
should be done on immigration, there will almost certainly be opposition from
within the tea party wing to almost anything that allows illegal immigrants to
stay in the country.And, in case you haven't been paying attention to Republican
primaries over the last few years, that wing of the party has a huge amount of
influence in picking nominees.

Despite those daunting numbers, Republicans argue that their Hispanic problem
can be fixed and cite as evidence the victory of Nevada Sen. Dean Heller on
Tuesday -- even as President Obama was easily carrying the Silver State thanks
to his overwhelming majorities among Latinos.

"[Heller] embraced [Marco]Rubio's Dream Act alternative," said one senior GOP
strategist. "He copied [Rubio's] rhetoric and tone on immigration." Added the
source:"The GOP also needs to put forth ideas to promote upward mobility. We are
working on an agenda, which we think will have great appeal to all people,
especially Hispanics."

(Worth noting: Heller overperformed Romney among Latinos but still only won 25
percent of the Hispanic vote, according to exit polling.)

What's clear is that GOP leaders -- and even some conservative thought leaders
-- have woken up to the fact that the party faces a massive demographic
disadvantage in future elections if they can't find a way to, if not win
Hispanics, lose the group by far less than the 44-point margin of the 2012
election.

What's not clear is whether the base of the party is willing to go along to get
along or whether they will rebel against the establishment figures within their
party begging them to see the political writing on the wall.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     November 15, 2012 Thursday 7:59 PM EST

Rubio appeals to GOP common sense' on immigration

BYLINE: Natalie Jennings

LENGTH: 172 words


Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) covered several topics with the National Journal's
Major Garrett in his session at the Washington Ideas Forumhosted by The Atlantic
in Washington on Thursday.

But his comments on immigration spurred the lengthiest discussion and the most
buzz afterward, as his party is coming to terms with last week's election loss
and the demographic advantages Obama had. Here's his most memorable line (around
the 14:30 mark above):

"It's really hard to get people to listen to you on economic growth, on tax
rates, on health care, if they think you want to deport their grandmother.
There's common sense here in terms of how you portray it.Policy matters too, but
rhetoric is important.

Rubio and Garrett also talked about Susan Rice (Rubio had "no pre-judgment" on
her involvement in Libya), the fiscal cliff and possibility of sequestration
("bipartisan dumb") and his political future (a planned trip to Iowa has
"nothing to do with 2016).

Aaron Blake has a good chaser for Rubio's immigration remarks over on The Fix.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                      November 30, 2012 Friday 3:56 PM EST

Ted Cruz: '47 percent' cost us Hispanics

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 202 words


In a speech to conservatives in Washington on Thursday night, Senator-elect Ted
Cruz (R-Tex.) gave an election postmortem that blamed a messaging failure for
GOP losses in 2012.

"Do you want to know why Barack Obama won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote?" he
asked the audience at the American Principles Project's "Red, White & Blue"
gala, the Daily Caller reports. "The tone of immigration contributed, but I
think far more important was '47 percent.' " "I think Mitt Romney's a good man,
a man of character, a man who ran a hard, disciplined campaign," he said. "But
Republicans nationally, the story we conveyed, was 47 percent are stuck in a
static world. We don't have to worry about them is what that clip famously
said."

The Cuban American Republican said the party should continue to oppose illegal
immigration and push for border security, while championing legal immigration.
The conservative message, he argued, should be "opportunity conservatism" - the
idea that "anybody with nothing can achieve anything."

Romney lagged far behind in polls of Latino voters long before the "47 percent"
comments were leaked.

The Atlantic has more on the event, which featured "overcooked steak drenched in
melted brie."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                      December 4, 2012 Tuesday 5:12 PM EST

Romney staffer: We didn't have to shift right on immigration;
Romney campaign manager Matt Rhoades acknowledged that, at a minimum, the move
on immigration was unnecessary and, in fact, was less effective against Perry
than an attack that Romney made from the left.

BYLINE: Karen Tumulty

LENGTH: 189 words


Campaign staffers from both President Obama and Mitt Romney's campaigns
described the details of their operations at a forum last week sponsored by the
Institute of Politics at Harvard University.

One issue was whether Romney's hard-line position on illegal immigration during
the primary season ultimately hurt him with Hispanic voters, who were a crucial
voting bloc in the November election. The stance was an effort by Romney to
position himself to the right of Texas Gov. Rick Perry, whom Romney criticized
for allowing the children of illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition rates at
Texas colleges.

Romney campaign manager Matt Rhoades acknowledged that, at a minimum, the move
on immigration was unnecessary - and, in fact, was less effective against Perry
than an attack that Romney made from the left.

"In retrospect, I believe that we could have probably just beaten Governor Perry
with the Social Security hit," Rhoades said, referring to Perry's description of
Social Security as a "Ponzi scheme."

The remarks were subject to an embargo that was lifted after audio recordings
were released Monday. Read the whole story here.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 12, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 257 words


Where he stands on . . .

Education

Perry has said he would eliminate the Education Department, and although he has
supported aspects of the federal No Child Left Behind Act, he has said its
policies should come from state and local levels. He has defended school prayer
and religion-based teachings in schools.

Tax code

In October, Perry signed Grover Norquist's pledge to oppose and veto all tax
increases. He proposes allowing taxpayers to choose between the current tax
system or a 20 percent flat tax with mortgage exemptions for families making
less than $500,000 per year.

Social Security

The Texas governor has proposed barring the government from raiding the
program's funds, raising the retirement age gradually for all workers except
those in especially labor-intensive fields, and allowing younger generations to
invest a portion of their payroll taxes in private accounts.

Immigration

Perry has touted his experience as a border governor, but his views on
immigration are among his greatest vulnerabilities among GOP voters. He has
defended a Texas law that allows illegal immigrants to pay in-state college
tuition, and he opposes constructing a fence along the the Mexican border.

Afghanistan

Perry has said that the United States should bring its troops home safely and
soon while still maintaining a presence to "build the infrastructure that we
need, whether it's schools or otherwise." Perry said he would cut off aid to
Pakistan until the nation shows it can be a trusted ally in the war.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 PM EST

Justices step into Arizona debate

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1060 words


The Supreme Court on Monday intervened in another high-profile case testing the
authority of the federal government, saying it will review Arizona's crackdown
on illegal immigrants, which inspired similar state efforts across the country.

The decision adds to one of the court's most high-profile caseloads in years.

Next month, the court will hear an emergency appeal from Texas that questions
the role of federal courts in overseeing the deeply partisan issue of political
redistricting. And in March, the court has scheduled 51 / 2 hours of oral
arguments over the constitutionality of President Obama's health-care overhaul.

All will be decided before the court breaks for its summer recess and as the
2012 presidential and congressional campaigns move into high gear.

Health care and immigration have been among the most contentious issues on the
political landscape, and they sharply separate Obama from the Republicans who
want his job.

The administration successfully challenged the Arizona law as an imposition on
immigration powers belonging solely to federal authorities. But the court
apparently disagreed with the administration's contention that review of the
lower-court decisions was not warranted at this time.

The Justice Department said the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit in San
Francisco was correct to rule that Arizona was trying to take on a federal
immigration role.

The appeals court blocked four elements of the new law: making it a state crime
to be in the country illegally and failing to register with the federal
government; making it illegal to seek work or to be working when not authorized;
requiring state and local officers to try to determine the status of someone
arrested, stopped or detained if they believe the individual might be in the
country unlawfully; and allowing the warrantless arrest of anyone who they have
probable cause to believe might have violated laws that would make them
deportable under federal law.

Arizona told the justices in asking them to accept the case that more than half
of all illegal immigrants enter through the state and that "the Ninth Circuit
decision suggests that there is almost nothing Arizona can do to supplement the
inadequate federal efforts."

The state told the justices that its efforts were intended to cooperate with
federal laws to control illegal immigration, not to usurp the federal
government's power.

When Gov. Jan Brewer (R) signed S.B. 1070 in April 2010, she described it as a
way for Arizona to "solve a crisis we did not create and the federal government
has refused to fix."

In a statement Monday, Brewer commended the court for accepting the case and
said she was "stunned at the audacity of the Obama administration to file suit"
against Arizona and other states that passed restrictive laws.

"Arizona has been more than patient waiting for Washington to secure the
border," Brewer said. "Decades of federal inaction and misguided policy have
created a dangerous and unacceptable situation, and states deserve clarity from
the Court in terms of what role they have in fighting illegal immigration."

But the provisions of the Arizona law blocked by the appeals court "do not
represent an effort to cooperate with the federal government in enforcing
federal immigration law," Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr. told the
court in the government's filing.

The Justice Department has filed suit to block similar laws in Alabama, South
Carolina and Utah, and the agency said it is reviewing laws in Georgia and
Indiana that private groups and individuals have challenged.

Verrilli told the justices they should wait for some of those lawsuits to work
their way through the courts.

In addition to taking alternative approaches to the subjects the Arizona law
addresses, the other laws address different issues such as housing, contracting,
education and transportation, Verrilli said.

"There's no reason to think that reviewing this [Arizona] preliminary injunction
would resolve those cases," he argued.

He also said that the federal government has to be the lead authority on issues
of "law enforcement priorities, foreign relations considerations and
humanitarian concerns."

The Arizona case will probably be heard in April. Justice Elena Kagan will not
take part, presumably because she worked on the issue in her previous role as
solicitor general.

That raises the prospect of a 4 to 4 tie. In such a case, the 9th Circuit's
decision blocking portions of the Arizona law would stand, but the decision
would carry no national significance for the other state laws now being
challenged.

Although its decision to challenge the laws has enraged some state officials and
conservative members of Congress, the Obama administration also has angered some
groups because of therecord-breaking pace at which immigrants here illegally are
being deported.

About 1.2 million illegal immigrants have been deported in the first three years
of the administration, compared with 1.57 million during the eight years of
President George W. Bush's administration.

The number of those entering the country illegally has fallen dramatically, but
the issue has not cooled politically. Democrats and Republicans are eager to
court the rapidly growing bloc of Hispanic voters, who are more likely than
others to oppose the tougher restrictions, studies have shown.

The case is                 Arizona v. United States             .

In other action, Kagan wrote for a unanimous court that a Filipino man who has
been in the United States since 1974 should be able to apply for an exception to
rules that say he must be deported for violating the law.

Joel Judulang, a lawful permanent resident, pleaded guilty to voluntary
manslaughter and later was arrested for theft. He challenged federal rules that
did not allow him to apply for an exception to his deportation order.

Kagan wrote that the Board of Immigration Appeals failed to give a "reasoned
explanation" for its actions. "That is not a high bar, but it is an unwavering
one," she wrote.

The case is                 Judulang v. Holder             .

barnesr@washpost.com

Read more on PostPolitics.com

Congress edges toward spending deal

FACT CHECKER: Gingrich on health-care mandates

THE FIX: Mitt Romney's $10,000 mistake

CANDIDATE WEEK: Perry is confident, but is he ready?

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 19, 2011 Monday 8:11 PM EST

An escape into a better life

BYLINE: Teresa Tomassoni

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1173 words


After a gang member held him at gunpoint inside his home, the 24-year-old gay
man knew he had to flee El Salvador to survive. He had been beaten and harassed
repeatedly on the streets by gang members. Eventually, they warned, they would
kill him.

It took two attempts to get across the U.S.-Mexican border, but in 2006, he was
smuggled into Arizona and made his way to Washington, where his brother lived.

"Finally, I can have my real life, exactly how I am," he thought.

Valerie Villalta, now 30, found that new life as a transgender woman and, in the
process, won a kind of protection she didn't even know was possible for someone
like her: asylum.

Asylum, which allows an immigrant to live and work in the country legally, is
more commonly associated with immigrants who have been persecuted in their home
countries - or who might be in the future - because of their politics, race,
religion or ethnicity. But Villalta learned that it also can apply to gay and
transgender immigrants who have been tortured because of their sexuality.

Since winning her asylum case in 2009 with the help of the Whitman-Walker Health
clinic in the District, Villalta has dedicated much of her life to providing
guidance to gay and transgender Latino immigrants who find themselves in a
foreign land with little or no knowledge of the language, the culture or the
services that can help them find peace with who they really are.

She volunteers with a health education program for gay and transgender youths
called Empoderate, or "Empower yourself" - the same program that helped her find
her way. The youth center is just a few blocks from its umbrella organization,
La Clinica del Pueblo, a bilingual community health center in Columbia Heights.

"When you try to help other people, you feel good," Villalta said recently,
sitting in the center's coral pink Girls Meeting Room.              A drawing of
a butterfly emerging from its cocoon hangs above her head. "Soy mujer trans (I'm
a transgender woman)," it says.

In many ways, Villalta is that butterfly.

At least twice a week when Villalta was growing up, the boy's father and
brothers beat him with a belt or branch for looking effeminate and playing with
dolls. Before the age of 12, Villalta was raped by older neighborhood boys, she
said.

The abuse continued, and after high school, Villalta left the family's small
home town for San Salvador, the nation's capital. The young man let his hair
grow and began wearing makeup and women's clothes. Villalta also enrolled in a
two-year culinary arts program.

But the school was in a notoriously dangerous area ruled by members of the gang
MS-13, or Mara Salvatrucha. During an asylum hearing, Villalta recalled carrying
a cooking knife for self-defense as gang members shouted gay slurs and robbed,
beat and threatened to kill Villalta.

There was good reason to be fearful. An openly gay co-worker was fatally shot by
gang members, and a friend who was a transgender prostitute was killed by gangs.

Villalta arrived in Washington unable to speak English and without legal
documents to work. And Villalta was kicked out of a brother's apartment for
being gay.

A friend from the street introduced Villalta to La Clinica del Pueblo, the
District's largest Latino-focused HIV/AIDS services provider. There, Villalta
found a safe space to become the woman she believes she was meant to be.
Villalta legally changed her name last year.

In 2009, the staff at Empoderate referred Villalta to Whitman-Walker Health to
obtain prescription drugs to begin the physical transition to womanhood. There,
Villalta also learned that she might be eligible to apply for asylum.

Like Villalta, many immigrants who have suffered because of their sexual
orientation don't know that asylum is an option, said Anna Priddy, a staff
attorney at the clinic.

More than 60 transgender people have been counseled about asylum issues at the
health center in the past four years. Many of the immigrants are afraid to open
up about their sexuality when they arrive, which can make obtaining legal status
more challenging, Priddy said.

Typically, asylum applications have to be submitted to the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security within a year of entering the United States. But most of
Priddy's clients have had to seek an exception.

A dozen of the cases, including Villalta's, have been successful, making them
eligible to apply for permanent residency and U.S. citizenship, Priddy said.

Villalta has become an admired leader among young transgender and gay Latinos in
the city, said Empoderate's youth program manager, Manuel Ramirez.

"Transitioning requires a lot of courage," Ramirez said. "It's easier to please
society." In many Central and South American countries, there is a strong
"machismo" culture and clearly defined male and female roles, he said.

Almost every multicolored wall of the youth center is decorated with photos of
Villalta, a striking, model-like figure. She is shown dressed in costumes made
of condoms for an HIV/AIDS awareness event and wearing a sparkling crown after
being elected "Miss Empowerment" by her peers in 2009.

She gets calls in the middle of the night from young people seeking consolation
after finding out that they're HIV positive, and she takes the lead in
demonstrating how to safely inject hormones during workshops at the center.

Villalta also has helped connect the Latino immigrants at the center to
Washington's broader transgender community, a tightknit group that has mobilized
in recent months to draw attention to violence against transgender women. Since
the summer, at least 20 transgender women have been attacked in the District,
said Jason Terry, a volunteer from the DC Trans Coalition, a grass-roots
community organization.

In a memo released Dec. 6, President Obama denounced violence and discrimination
against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people around the world. He
commanded U.S. government agencies to step up efforts to protect victims of such
violence, particularly those seeking asylum.

These days, Villalta works as a chef at the renowned French-American fusion
restaurant Central Michel Richard, on Pennsylvania Avenue NW, where she can be
found dishing up carefully prepared hanger steaks, walnut-crusted salmon and
more.

"I feel happy when people say, 'Oh, my goodness, that was so delicious,' "
Villalta said.

The bedroom she sublets near Howard University is adorned with pictures of her
boyfriend of three years and the Barbies she wasn't allowed to have when she was
a boy. There are rows of carefully aligned Mary Kay cosmetics and two miniature
American flags. The only indication of her previous life is an 81 / 2-by-11
photo of Villalta as a 24-year-old gay man in 2006, a month before leaving El
Salvador.

"It's very important to me to have something to show how much I change, how I
was then and how I am now," she said.

tomassonit@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 24, 2011 Saturday 8:11 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 498 words


Arizona          Judge rules against sheriff on immigrants

A judge dealt another setback to Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio's
immigration enforcement efforts, by barring sheriff's deputies from detaining
people based solely on a belief that they're in the country illegally.

Friday's ruling by U.S. District Judge Murray Snow sets the stage for a possible
trial in a lawsuit that alleges racial profiling in Arpaio's immigration
patrols.

The U.S. Justice Department issued a report last week alleging a wide range of
civil rights violation in Arpaio's office.

- Associated Press

Space           Soyuz docks at international station

A Russian Soyuz capsule arrived at the international space station on Friday
with a trio of astronauts, bringing the orbital outpost back to full staffing
after a failed cargo ship launch in August disrupted flight schedules.

Russian cosmonaut Oleg Kononenko, NASA's Don Pettit and the European Space
Agency's Andre Kuipers blasted off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on
Wednesday for the space station, a $100 billion research complex.

Their two-day trip ended at 10:19 a.m. Friday.

- Reuters

California          L.A. surveillance cameras not working

Most of the surveillance cameras installed in downtown Los Angeles to help
police crack down on crime have not been working for two years, according to the
Los Angeles Times.

The cameras were installed in a partnership between local business groups, which
bought them, and the Los Angeles Police Department, which was meant to monitor
and maintain them.

But officials said the majority of the cameras don't work. Some broke down and
were never fixed. In the case of six cameras purchased to watch over the Little
Tokyo neighborhood, LAPD officials admit they were never plugged into the police
station's monitoring bank.

- Los Angeles Times

Seven hurt in Georgia storms:Authorities say at least seven people were injured
in Georgia as storms roared across the state, damaging homes, downing trees and
zapping power. National Weather Service officials say a team plans to visit
Gordon County in north Georgia to determine whether a tornado was responsible
for the destruction.

Rare violin left on bus:A student left a rare violin worth $172,000 on a bus
after arriving in Philadelphia. The New England Conservatory student got on a
Megabus in Boston with the 176-year-old violin, but forgot it in an overhead bin
when she got off late Tuesday, police said. It was later found and returned. The
violin was lent to Muchen Hsieh by the Chi Mei Culture Foundation in her native
Taiwan.

Gifts for fire victims:Firefighters were scrambling Friday to replace toys lost
when San Francisco's biggest blaze in more than seven years left up to 60 people
homeless. The effort began after firefighters saw ruined gifts in the wreckage
near historic Alamo Square. Firefighters have already sent 120 items to the
victims.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 29, 2011 Thursday 8:11 PM EST

Hispanics give Obama big edge over Republicans

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 986 words


President Obama holds a wide lead among Hispanic voters when matched against
potential Republican challengers, even as widespread opposition to his
administration's stepped-up deportation policies act as a drag on his approval
ratings among that group,  according to a new poll.

The survey, conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center, revealed a general-election
weakness for Republicans among an increasingly influential voting bloc - with
former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney and Texas Gov. Rick Perry each winning
less than one-fourth of the Hispanic vote in hypothetical matchups against
Obama.

Obama leads Romney by 68 percent to 23 percent and Perry by 69 percent to 23
percent among Hispanic voters, with a margin of error of plus or minus 5.2
percentage points for the sample.

The president's strong position with Latino voters comes even as Hispanic adults
overall express disapproval with the way his administration is handling
deportations of illegal immigrants, by 59 percent to 27 percent. (The margin of
error among adults is plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.)

The United States has deported more than 1 million illegal immigrants under
Obama, removing an average of nearly 400,000 per year - a record rate that has
drawn criticism from immigrant advocates who charge that the policy is tearing
apart families and punishing harmless workers. Administration officials have
said they are targeting criminals for deportation.

Obama's job approval rating has dropped among Hispanic voters by nine percentage
points since last year, the survey found, dipping to 54 percent - in part
because of a 15-point drop among Hispanic Democrats. His job approval among
voters overall stood at 49 percent in a Washington Post-ABC News poll this
month, meaning the president remains more popular among Hispanics than with the
broader electorate.

"Many Latinos are aware that deportations are up, and among them the president's
approval rating is lower," said Mark H. Lopez, associate director of the Pew
Hispanic Center. "However, even among them, the president wins in head-to-heads
against Romney and Perry."

The findings suggest major challenges ahead for Republican strategists, many of
whom believe the party cannot win the White House unless it slices into Obama's
support among Latinos.

In the latest available data from Gallup, Obama's numbers among Hispanics have
recovered alongside a rise among the broader public. Fully 60 percent of all
Hispanic adults interviewed by Gallup in late December said they approved of
Obama's overall job performance, a high in polls back to May.

The support level for Romney and Perry lags behind the 31 percent share won by
party nominee John McCain in 2008. Obama won 67 percent of Hispanics that year.

At the time, many Republican strategists said failing to improve that number in
the future could doom Republican presidential contenders in battleground states
with fast-growing Hispanic populations, such as Colorado and Florida. They set a
2012 goal of winning 40 percent, about the same level of support among Hispanics
won by President George W. Bush in his 2004 reelection victory.

Some Republicans have expressed concerns that Hispanics would feel alienated by
hard-line rhetoric against illegal immigration in the GOP primary campaign -
particularly from Romney, who has used the issue to attack Perry and former
House speaker Newt Gingrich from the right. They worry that the debate might
squander an opportunity to take advantage of Obama's declining support among
Hispanics, particularly centrists and conservatives.

The survey shows Romney's vulnerabilities, however. Even among voters who
disagree with Obama's deportation policies, a clear majority backs the president
over Romney. Obama wins more than one-fourth of Hispanic voters who identify
with or lean toward the Republican Party.

The survey of Hispanic adults and voters, conducted Nov. 9 through Dec. 7, did
not measure support for Gingrich or other current potential Republican nominees.
(A survey in early November by the Pew Research Center for the People and the
Press found that Gingrich cut further into Obama's lead among Hispanics, with
Obama leading 61 percent to 36 percent, though the sample size was small and the
error margin high.)

Gingrich, who has courted leaders of the Hispanic community for years through
his political and business enterprises, has staked out a softer line on illegal
immigrants than Romney, saying that many with deep family or community ties
should be granted legal status and permitted to stay in the United States.

The new Pew poll found that immigration is "extremely important" for a third of
Hispanic voters, although that issue trails jobs, education, health care, taxes
and the federal budget deficit on that list.

Democrats retain a strong advantage when Hispanics are asked which party they
identify with, with two-thirds of voters picking Democrats and one-fifth siding
with the GOP.

Neither party secured a majority when voters were asked which one showed more
concern for Hispanics, with 45 percent picking the Democrats and 12 percent
picking the Republicans. In 2010, 6 percent picked Republicans.

Some Republicans think that tapping Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), a Cuban American
son of immigrants, as the party's vice presidential nominee could offer a quick
fix to their Hispanic problem. At the moment, the poll found, Rubio remains
largely unknown to Hispanics nationally, with a majority saying they had not
heard of him, couldn't rate him or didn't know whether they viewed him
favorably.

wallstenp@washpost.com

Polling director Jon Cohen and polling analyst Peyton M. Craighill contributed
to this report.

Read more at PostPolitics

Newt Gingrich fights back as Iowa heats up

The Fix: How Mitt Romney could still lose

Fact Checker: Ron Paul, Reaganite?

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2011 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     January 11, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Pitting brightest immigrants against one another

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1269 words


With cutting-edge, high-tech jobs and an Arlington County townhouse, Neelima
Reddy and her husband seem launched on a path to success. Instead, they feel
frustrated and stuck.

Seven years after moving from India, the young professional couple are still
waiting to become permanent U.S. residents.

Rogie Legaspi, a teacher trainer in Baltimore, also is still in line for his
green card, 20 years after first arriving from the Philippines.

Under the rules of their temporary work visas, Legaspi and Reddy are unable to
change their employers or plan their lives beyond their work visa renewal about
every two years. Despite their common frustration, these foreign-born
professionals could find themselves on opposite sides of an increasingly nasty
dispute among immigrants and their advocates over the proposed Fairness for
High-Skilled Immigrants Act.

The measure, which has stalled in the U.S. Senate, is aimed at addressing the
badly clogged system that grants permanent residency permits, or green cards, to
immigrants from around the world who work in the United States on temporary
visas for high-skilled jobs.

But the proposal has gotten bogged down in a debate over assertions that it is
unfair to Americans who may be seeking high-skilled jobs during the recession
and that it favors workers from larger countries, especially India, over smaller
and mid-size ones, such as the Philippines.

"Our intention was to create a recipe for success, not to pick a fight," said
Virginia resident Aman Kapoor,  an Indian American and co-founder of Immigration
Voice, a national advocacy organization that has aggressively promoted the bill.

Under current law, the U.S. government can issue 140,000 green cards each year
to immigrants who have temporary work visas. Hundreds of thousands of
foreign-born workers are recruited to this country as teachers, nurses,
engineers and other professionals on such temporary visas, which must be renewed
about every two years. They must be sponsored by an American company or public
agency that is able to show that they cannot find an American worker who is able
or willing to do such jobs.

But the slowness of the process has left a permanent backlog of hundreds of
thousands of applicants, including many who have lived here for years on
temporary visas. Many of the applicants come from a few Asian countries, led by
India and China. But because the law also limits each country to 7 percent of
the green cards, workers from smaller countries tend to get their green cards
much faster.

The Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act would change the rules of the game,
eliminating the individual country limits and granting work-based green cards to
qualified applicants on a first-come, first-served basis.

Supporters say the measure, which zipped through the House of Representatives in
November with bipartisan support, would give people of all nationalities a more
equal chance to attain permanent residency. But it unexpectedly screeched to a
halt in the Senate last month, when Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) complained
that the bill would do "nothing to protect Americans at home who seek
high-skilled jobs in this time of record-high unemployment."

Trying to slow the bill's momentum, Grassley tacked on several amendments,
potentially adding months of debate and delay.

Meanwhile, the debate is raging online among immigrants and their advocates.
Some critics accuse the influential Indian American lobby of intimidating
workers into supporting the bill. They also complain that extra green cards,
left over from smaller countries when there aren't enough applicants to fill the
annual quota, are already reallocated to India and China.

By ending the per-country quotas, the bill would raise or lower the waiting
times for hundreds of thousands of current green card applicants. Some
immigrants from smaller countries say it is unfair that the bill might increase
their wait by about two more years.

"If this bill is passed, then thousands of people from India will get to cut in
line in front of me and add 3-4 more years to my already ridiculous wait time,"
an electrical engineer from Bangladesh wrote last month in an online post from
California. "It would be robbing Peter (me) to pay Paul."

But Reddy, 31, who works as a financial engineering manager at Fannie Mae, and
her husband, Vishal Iyer, a Web site designer at AOL, adamantly disagree.

"Why should my colleague from Bulgaria get his green card in six months, while
we have been waiting seven years, just because we were born in India?" Reddy
said. "We love America. We want to contribute to the economy and raise our kids
here. Instead, we are living in a state of limbo."

India's huge population has made it much harder for many of its most talented,
U.S.-trained professionals to settle permanently in the United States, said
Kapoor, of Immigration Voice. The official wait time, he said, can stretch to 40
years.

"The country limits have created huge backlogs, and our members have been very
diligent about advocating to remove them. Why should an engineer from Mozambique
or Barbados, with perhaps 250,000 people, have the same green card distribution
as an equally qualified engineer from China or India, with a billion people?
This creates a more equitable system without adding any more green cards."

Because the proposal would not raise the number of skilled foreigners who are
allowed to work in the United States, supporters had hoped that it would avoid
the contentious issue of why so many private companies and government agencies -
including aerospace firms and hospitals - continue courting highly skilled
foreigners to do jobs that Americans could, in theory, be trained to do and be
eager to perform.

Among the most adamant opponents of the bill are people who have long pushed for
allowing more foreign workers to remain in the country permanently, especially
those in technical and research fields who have graduated from U.S.
institutions. They argue that until the entire system is changed, it does no
good to tinker with the proportion of workers who come from one country or
another.

"The arithmetic of the zero-sum game is that no one gains unless someone else
loses," said Bruce Morrison, a former member of the U.S. House from Connecticut
who lobbies on immigration issues for various groups, including the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers. He argued that the bill would cut out many
thousands of skilled immigrants from the Philippines, South Korea and Mexico and
do nothing to ease the overall green card backlog. "Playing one ethnicity and
source country against another is not in America's national interest," he wrote
in an e-mail.

For those who wait, the uncertainty is agonizing.

"You always have a sense of uneasiness, like you may be considered a
second-class citizen," said Bryan Sebobo, 34, who was recruited in 2003, along
with a dozen other Filipinos, to teach special education in D.C. schools. Of the
13, he said, only three have attained U.S. residency after eight years of work.
"A little piece of plastic brings you so much security," he said.

Legaspi, 41, the Baltimore teacher who has waited two decades for his green
card, once gave up and went back to the Philippines, then returned to try again.

"The long wait really does affect you," he said. "There is so much uncertainty.
If you want to buy a house or get your kids started in college, it is a gamble.
Even if you are qualified for a job promotion, you may be passed over. I believe
merit and hard work should be rewarded. This is not fair."

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     January 12, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 214 words


l A Jan. 7 A-section article about a procedural change in immigration law
misidentified the agency that processes immigration waiver requests. It is U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, not the State Department.

l A Root DC essay in the Jan. 6 Metro section, a daughter's reflections on her
U.S.-born father's youth in Poland, incorrectly described 1933 as the year
Germany invaded Poland. That year, in which the father was nearly inducted into
the Polish army but returned to the United States, came six years before the
1939 invasion.

l A Dec. 30 Sports article about a victory by Rutgers over Florida in men's
college basketball incorrectly indicated that both teams are in the Big East
Conference. Rutgers is a Big East team, but Florida is in the Southeastern
Conference.

The Washington Post is committed to correcting errors that appear in the
newspaper. Those interested in contacting the paper for that purpose can:

E-mail:              corrections@washpost.com

Call: 202-334-6000, and ask to be connected to the desk involved - National,
Foreign, Metro, Style, Sports, Business or any of the weekly sections. The
ombudsman, who acts as the readers' representative, can be reached by calling
202-334-7582 or e-mailing ombudsman@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      January 16, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Contractors see opportunities with biometrics

BYLINE: Marjorie Censer

SECTION: ; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 525 words


Since the Department of Homeland Security was founded and traveler security
ramped up, local contractors have found new opportunities in biometric
technology used for airport screenings and at border crossings.

Now, some of these firms are expanding the work they have while looking outside
the United States for more opportunities.

Take Accenture, which bases its federal business in Reston. Last month, the
company received a 13-month, $71 million contract to expand its work on the
identity management system central to the U.S. Visitor and Immigrant Status
Indicator Technology, or US-VISIT, program.

The program has two parts: a database that pairs an individual's travel history
with his or her immigration status, and a system for processing photos and
fingerprints of travelers entering the United States so customs officers can
verify their identity.

Accenture manages the biometric processing system, part of a contract that began
in 2004. Tom Greiner, Accenture's program manager for US-VISIT, said the company
recently won funding to broaden that effort, including a pilot program to test
the accuracy of systems that identify people by the iris in their eye. Accenture
is also being asked to make it easier for other federal agencies to use the
database and to expand the system to take 10 fingerprints instead of just two.

Reston-based 3M Cogent provides the fingerprint technology used in the US-VISIT
program, said Jim Jasinski, an executive vice president at 3M Cogent.

The company worked in border security before the Department of Homeland Security
was established, but he said the advent of the agency created more contracting
opportunities.

Unisys, which bases its federal business in Reston, is upgrading Los Angeles's
airport infrastructure as part of an effort that would eventually lead to using
biometrics to identify airport workers. The company is tracking contracts in the
United States and in foreign countries that would rely on biometrics such as
iris or facial scans.

"Clearly that is a fairly rapidly growing security space for us - both in the
federal sector and in the commercial sector," said Andre Eaddy, director of
cybersecurity portfolio solutions for Unisys's federal systems unit. "We're
seeing interest worldwide."

So far, DHS contract spending has not grown as significantly as that of the
Pentagon, said David J. Berteau, director of the international security program
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

But DHS's interest created "a much bigger market" for biometrics, Berteau said.

It has also given U.S. companies a leg up overseas. Accenture, for instance, won
a spot on a program in India enrolling all of the country's citizens in a
national ID program that captures irises and fingerprints, while Unisys has won
biometric work in Mexico and Australia.

In Mexico, the company's local subsidiary has been tasked with creating a
database with iris, fingerprint and facial biometric data on as many as 110
million Mexican citizens.

Jasinski said the U.S. market remains the largest single market but that
international opportunities collectively are growing at a faster pace.

censerm@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      January 17, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

In this GOP field, moderate is relative

BYLINE: Ezra Klein

SECTION: A section; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 936 words


Mitt Romney is the most moderate candidate in the Republican primaries. Yes,
even more so than the recently departed Jon Huntsman, whose tax-cut proposal was
more radical and more regressive, and whose endorsement of Rep. Paul Ryan's
budget put him well to Romney's right on entitlements.

But compared with recent Republican nominees, Romney's policy platform is quite
conservative, and arguably even a bit extreme. George W. Bush, for instance,
looks like a Kenyan socialist in comparison.

"Renewing America's Purpose," the collection of policy speeches that detailed
Bush's 2000 policy platform, didn't begin with tax cuts or Medicare reforms or
austerity. It began with education. In fact, it began with an education speech
delivered to the Latin Business Association, and before it even got to
education, it talked about the "Latino economic miracle" and said "the Latino
market will demand the attention of our whole economy." Then and only then did
it go on to address Bush's proposal to vastly expand federal control and
financing of America's education system.

Chapter 2 is "A New Agenda for Compassion." That included, by the way, the sole
entry on immigration, which addressed the problem that "new immigrants are
treated as suspects and strangers, not welcomed as neighbors." It then proffered
recommendations for creating a kinder, gentler Immigration and Naturalization
Service. The words "illegal immigrant" did not appear anywhere in the book.

Chapter 3 - Page 211, for those keeping track - is the first that any of the
Republican contenders might recognize: "Strengthening Social Security and
Medicare."

Here, too, Bush's words might confound the current field. He called for private
accounts in Social Security, which to be fair puts him to the right of the
current crop, though that's largely because Republicans have been cautious on
Social Security since the electorate rejected Bush's plans in 2005. When he got
to Medicare, however, his most concrete proposal was to expand the program to
include prescription drugs - an idea that became Medicare Part D, and served as
the single largest entitlement expansion since the advent of Medicare.

Finally, in Chapter 4, on Page 245, Bush got to tax cuts. Reading his speech on
the subject today, what's remarkable is how narrow a rationale Bush used to sell
them. "What is risky is when politicians are given charge of a surplus," he
said. "There is a strong temptation to spend it."

In other words, the tax cuts were there to prevent the surplus from being turned
into spending. Elsewhere, Bush made it even clearer: "Our times allow a
substantial tax cut," he said. The implication, of course, being that other
times do not permit a substantial tax cut.

If any time does not allow a substantial, permanent tax cut, this is it.
Deficits are large, and stretch as far as they eye - or the economic model - can
see. But Romney hasn't just proposed to extend the Bush tax cuts. He's also
proposed to add cuts worth more than $2 trillion.

According to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, Romney's plan - which, after
extending the Bush tax cuts, lowers the corporate tax rate, eliminates the
estate tax and repeals some high-income tax increases from the Affordable Care
Act - amounts to a tax cut of $600 billion in 2015. The International Monetary
Fund estimates America's gross domestic product will be $18 trillion that year,
so that's a tax cut of more than 3 percent of GDP. In contrast, when Bush's
first tax cut was passed, the Joint Committee on Taxation estimated it would
cost a shade over 1 percent of GDP. So, by any measure, Romney's tax cuts are
far, far larger.

They are also more regressive. Bush's tax cut was, in theory, to be paid for out
of the surplus. Today there is no surplus. Romney promises to pay for his tax
cuts, but he opposes raising new taxes or cutting defense spending. That leaves
domestic spending, most of which goes to seniors and low-income Americans. Nor
do his tax cuts make up the difference by distributing most of their benefits
among low-income taxpayers. The Tax Policy Center estimates that Romney's plan
will mean an average tax cut of $164,000 for those in the top 1 percent and $69
- no, that's not a typo - for those in the bottom 20 percent.

So, in extending the Bush cuts and adding more of his own, Romney is proposing
more than $6 trillion in new tax cuts that will disproportionately help the
richest Americans, and he intends to pay for it through spending cuts - such as
block-granting Medicaid - that will disproportionately hurt seniors and
low-income Americans. That's not a political attack, by the way. It's math. And
it is math that makes his tax cut far more regressive than Bush's proposal.

Which is not to say Bush was a moderate. Although, in fairness to him, No Child
Left Behind and Medicare Part D were compromise proposals that attracted
substantial Democratic support, particularly in the Senate. It's not even to say
that Romney, personally, is not a moderate. When Bush was president, Romney was
governor of Massachusetts, and his signature achievement was a health-care law
that later served as the foundation for President Obama's efforts.

But the Republican Party has moved far to the right since 2000, and Romney has
moved with it. Bush wanted to pay down a surplus with spending cuts and expand
Medicare. Romney wants to finance larger tax cuts by slashing domestic spending.
It's a more regressive policy that will be paid for in a more regressive way. In
today's GOP, even the most moderate presidential candidate is far to George W.
Bush's right.

kleine@washpost.com

Twitter: @ezraklein

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     January 18, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Rape case leads to database upgrade

BYLINE: Tom Jackman

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 520 words


Following the revelation that thousands of fingerprints from deported immigrants
are not contained in a federal database, Congress has appropriated $5 million to
begin scanning in the prints that had been left out.

The disclosure of the database flaws came after Fairfax County police began
looking for a rape suspect in late 2010. Police ran the name "Salvador
Portillo-Saravia" through a computer and learned that he had been deported to El
Salvador in 2003. He returned to Sterling illegally, and just one month before
the Dec. 26, 2010, attack on an 8-year-old girl in Centreville, he had been in
the Loudoun County jail.

Portillo-Saravia was arrested Nov. 21, 2010, for public drunkenness. But when
Loudoun jail deputies ran his name and fingerprints through the national IDENT
database as part of the Secure Communities program, headed by U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, they received no notice that he had been deported.

"No match," the computer flashed back. Portillo-Saravia, now 30, was released
from the jail about 12 hours later.

ICE officials said Loudoun deputies should have requested a second, manual check
of the records. Then-Sheriff Steve Simpson and many other sheriffs in the region
said that they didn't know about the need for manual checks and that they didn't
have the resources to do them. They said they thought that Secure Communities
provided a neutral way of checking every arrestee who came to the jail, without
profiling or further digging into backgrounds.

ICE officials then said that many people - the number isn't known - who were
deported before 2005 were fingerprinted the old-fashioned way, by rolling inked
fingertips onto file cards. The prints were not digitized or placed into the
IDENT database.

After a report detailing the database gap appeared in The Washington Post, ICE
sent out reminders to jails participating in Secure Communities to consider
manual checks. It noted that the database, even with 120 million records, was
not complete.

Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.), chairman of the House subcommittee overseeing the
Justice Department, set out to find money to get those fingerprints into the
IDENT system. In May, he placed a $10 million request into the budget approved
by the House, but the amount was reduced to $5 million.

"This tragic incident identified a critical shortcoming in the Secure
Communities program," Wolf said in a news release Tuesday.

ICE officials on Tuesday declined to comment on the appropriation and how it
would be spent or on how many ink-rolled fingerprint cards need to be digitized.

Jessica Vaughan of the Center for Immigration Studies, who has followed Secure
Communities closely, said she has heard that as many as 500,000 fingerprint
cards are not digitized. "I wonder if ICE could get more bang out of those bucks
by investing the $5 million in a robust outreach program to train local law
enforcement agencies on how to handle 'no-matches,' " she said.

Portillo-Saravia was convicted in October of rape and sodomy. He faces up to
life in prison when he is sentenced next month.

jackmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     January 28, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

For Republicans, spotlight turns to Florida - and Rubio

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A section; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 973 words


The Republican primary in Florida has drawn attention to the state's large
population of conservative Hispanics and also to the community's most glittering
political star, Sen. Marco Rubio.

The junior senator has for months been the odds-on favorite to become his
party's vice-presidential nominee, in part because of his Cuban American roots.
Both parties view Hispanics as a crucial swing bloc in the general election, and
a strong Hispanic candidate on the Republican ticket could tilt the scales for
the GOP in a number of Latino-heavy swing states.

But critics say the factors that have helped Rubio become a celebrity in
Republican circles may make him a problematic choice to appeal to Hispanics. He
has taken a hard line on illegal immigration, opposing the DREAM Act, a bill
that would have helped illegal-immigrant college students become citizens, and
backing Arizona's tough 2010 anti-illegal-immigration law.

Although Rubio has a compelling story as the son of immigrants, the Cuban
American community in South Florida is still focused on revelations that he
misrepresented his family's history in a way that helped his election prospects.
Critics say the story could open old wounds over immigration rules that give
Cubans special rights to settle in this country.

His biggest boosters say there is no better face for the future of the
Republican Party. Rubio, 40, has become a political celebrity because of his
widely lauded charisma,  political savvy and an appeal that transcends the tea
party, whose support fueled his candidacy in 2010.

"I think he gives us a whole new dimension and he's a future star," said Edward
J. Rollins, a longtime Republican strategist. "He's young and dynamic. . . .
[And] he's still the son of immigrants who - I don't know when they came and it
doesn't matter to me - they overcame a lot of odds to come over here."

A decade ago, Hispanics were the swing group that helped propel George W. Bush
to the White House, but the community has overwhelmingly voted Democratic since
then. Cuban Americans, who make up about a third of the state's Hispanic
electorate, have remained loyal to the Republican Party, and will play a
critical role in Tuesday's primary.

Rubio has said he would not accept the vice-presidential nomination.

"I believe in his heart at this time, his answer to a request to be a running
mate would be no," said Al Cardenas, former Florida GOP chairman and a mentor to
Rubio. "But once somebody gets the nomination and that person who has that
authority is the one calling you and talking to you, there's a whole new
patriotic mix to that question and you never know what the answer is going to
be."

Rubio has said he will not make an endorsement in the Jan. 31 primary, a
decision that did not surprise those following his career. They say Rubio knows
he has a promising political future - including possibly a shot at the White
House - and would not do anything to purposely jeopardize it.

But he has still made his mark on the primary campaign. He chided Newt Gingrich
for a particularly harsh ad against Mitt Romney this week. And when the
candidates were asked in Thursday's debate to name a Hispanic politician they
would appoint to their Cabinet, the near-universal answer was Rubio.

A recent Suffolk University poll showed that Rubio is popular among the state's
Hispanic and young voters, and that his presence on a GOP ticket could help
deliver Florida, a critical swing state, for the Republican nominee.

He has moderated his tone on immigration, highlighting his support of legal
channels and saying he empathizes with children who lack legal status because
they were brought to the country by their parents illegally. And he offered a
glimpse of his charm during a speech at the Hispanic Leadership Network
conference in Miami on Friday, which was interrupted by pro-DREAM Act
protesters.

"May I say something to you?" he told the protesters. "These young people are
very brave to be here today. They raise a very legitimate issue. . . . I ask
that you let them stay, because I think they'll be interested in what I'm going
to say."

Still, critics have raised questions about Rubio's mainstream appeal to
Hispanics, in part because of the tale of his parents' migration. In his Senate
campaign, he said they fled the country when Castro seized power. But documents
obtained by The Washington Post revealed they were admitted to the United States
as permanent residents 21 / 2 years before Castro took power.

Rubio has said it was a mistake and that it does not change the basic thrust of
their story.  Some Cubans leapt to Rubio's defense, but others say it has harmed
his reputation in the community.

"If he had been honest or truthful that they came pre-revolution Cuba, I don't
think he would have had the same political career," said George Gonzalez, a
Cuban American political science professor at the University of Miami. "Elites
are still talking in positive tones about him, but put it this way: People are
still talking about this months after it came out."

Coupled with his stance on illegal immigration, Rubio dredged up old resentments
about the special immigration rights granted to Cubans under the 1966 Cuban
Refugee Adjustment Act, said Mario H. Lopez, president of the
conservative-leaning Hispanic Leadership Fund.

"I think he unwittingly brought up some of that old tension that exists with
older generations within the Hispanic community of, well, they have a special
status and they don't want it for anyone else," Lopez said.

In an indication of the negative attention he may draw in a general election, a
coalition of liberal pro-immigration protesters showed up at the Miami
conference this week, not to target the presidential hopefuls but Rubio. Their
slogan: "Hey Marco: Latino or Tea Partino?"

sandhya@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      February 20, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

GOP sheriff, House candidate acknowledges homosexuality, backs gay rights

BYLINE: Bob Christie

SECTION: A section; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 461 words


FLORENCE, Ariz. - Pinal County Sheriff Paul Babeu built a reputation as a rising
conservative star by taking a hard-line stance against illegal immigration,
attacking the Obama administration and appearing alongside Sen. John McCain
(R-Ariz.) in a 2010 reelection ad in which McCain urged federal officials to
just "complete the danged fence."

But on Saturday, the congressional candidate's conservative image was called
into question as he was forced to acknowledge publicly that he is gay and was
involved with a Mexican immigrant who said the sheriff threatened to have him
deported if he revealed their relationship.

Babeu denies any wrongdoing and has vowed to continue his battle for the GOP
nomination in an extremely conservative rural congressional district. He
recognizes he is fighting an uphill battle, especially in a state where family
values, as defined by a large evangelical Christian and Mormon population, often
battle fierce anti-immigrant beliefs to define conservatism.

At a news conference, Babeu said he hopes voters will overlook his lifestyle and
stick with him.

His competitors think voters will reject him, with Arizona state Sen. Ron Gould
saying he's sure to lose major support among the family-values voters who oppose
same-sex marriage.

Babeu previously avoided a public stance on gay rights but came out in favor
them on Saturday.

"I can be a supporter and get out there and help articulate as we progress as a
culture and a society, that there should be individual liberties and there
should be individual freedoms," Babeu said. "For any other person to define
somebody else's relationship and say it not okay, that is not who we are as
Americans."

Saturday's revelation already forced Babeu to call presidential candidate Mitt
Romney's staff to say he would step down from his post as state campaign
co-chairman. Some political observers think his career could be over.

"There is no question that his budding congressional campaign is over," longtime
Arizona GOP political consultant Sean Noble wrote on his blog. "Because it is a
Republican primary in a conservative district, it's likely that the thing that
hurts him the most is that he was in a gay relationship."

Others aren't sure it's the end, but they said there's no doubt he will be hurt.

"It obviously has implications for a congressional race. There's just no
question about it," said Bruce Merrill, an Arizona State University emeritus
professor of political science professor and a longtime pollster. "I don't see
how any reasonable person cannot think that this is going to hurt him,
particularly with the constituency that he has built, which is a very
evangelical, right-wing, family-oriented conservative constituency."

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


        Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      February 27, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Visa program could help bank recapitalize

BYLINE: Danielle Douglas

SECTION: ; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 634 words


Raising money may become a little easier for local banks, if Mahbaz Khazen has
her way. The founder of U.S. Immigration Investment Center, a San Jose,
Calif.-based firm, wants to use a little-known immigration program to
recapitalize distressed community banks in the Washington area.

The program, known as EB-5, grants visa to immigrants in exchange for an
investment of $500,000 to $1 million in a U.S. business. Immigrants who can
demonstrate that the investment created or preserved at least 10 full-time U.S.
jobs are granted permanent resident status after two years.

A favorite of developers and local governments, the program has never been used
for investment in banks, according to federal regulators. But Khazen, who last
month opened an office in the District, has arranged for five foreign investors
to pour money into Gaithersburg's Harvest Bank of Maryland via the program.

Deploying capital in a community bank made the most sense to Khazen, who figured
the investment could have exponential impact through lending.

"Banks can help small businesses achieve their dreams, and provide FHA loans and
VA loans to help the community," said Khazen, a former mortgage banker. As a
result, "we can achieve the goal of reinvestment and generation of jobs on an
even larger scale."

Khazen trolled the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.'s troubled bank list for
candidates, after forming her firm in August. She reviewed some of the hardest
hit banks in Florida and on the West Coast at first, but switched focus to
regions with stronger economies.

"Having the right demographic and location helps in turning around a bank," she
said. What's more, foreign investors could have their visa revoked, if the
business fails within two years.

Khazen turned her attention to the Washington area, where she was introduced to
Stacey Conti, a consultant hired to help Harvest raise money.

The bank has been hemorrhaging money for several years because of a portfolio of
mortgages it purchased from now defunct Countrywide Home Loan in 2006. Harvest,
with $164.3 million in assets, is considered undercapitalized, a regulatory
determination based on leverage and risk ratios. It has been trying to raise $16
million to recapitalize the bank for the past 24 months.

Former banker Mehrdad Elie in October 2010 offered to buy $5 million in common
stock contingent on Harvest raising the remaining amount from other investors.
Other investors, including Rockville financier Robert Senko, have floated money
to the bank. And Khazen has wrangled another group of investors to buy some of
Harvest's $25 million in troubled loans, a deal that if approved by regulators
could help the bank to reach its goal.

"We are three quarters of the way to $16 million, and we have some people that
are deep in due diligence that we hope to hear from soon," said John McDonnell,
chairman and acting chief executive of Harvest. "Once we get there, we have to
submit the structure of the recapitalization to the regulators. It will take a
while for approval, but I'm feeling pretty good about our prospects."

In the meantime, Khazen is scouting other area banks for investment, though she
would not provide names.

"If the Harvest application gets approved, then we'll be ready to take the next
step. We do have the funds and the applicants," Khazen said, noting that she has
received over 200 inquiries from foreign investors.

Established in 1990, the EB-5 visa program is limited to 10,000 applications a
year. According to the State Department, nearly 3,500 visas were issued through
the program in fiscal 2011, up from 1,900 the prior fiscal year. About 43,280
jobs have been created and $2.2 billion invested since the inception of the
program, according to Citizenship and Immigration Services.

douglasd@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


        Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       March 13, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Championing Latinos or preying on them?

BYLINE: Justin Jouvenal

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1400 words


When the legion of struggling cleaners, cooks and day laborers needed legal and
immigration help in the Washington area, Luis Ramirez appeared to be their
high-profile champion.

He dispensed free legal advice on a thrice-weekly radio show on WURA (920 AM)
and pushed for the Dream Act in Spanish-language dailies. A Univision segment
featured his work helping two women who said they had been forced to become sex
slaves. Over the past year or so, the publicity brought him awards and helped
send hundreds of clients to his McLean-based legal services firm.

But lawyers say the carefully honed image hid one of the most sophisticated and
lucrative legal shams they have seen in the Washington area aimed at the very
people for whom he purported to advocate: Latino immigrants.

Ramirez is facing felony charges for allegedly telling clients that he was a
lawyer, even though he is not licensed to practice law in the area. People who
sought his help accuse him of taking thousands of dollars in fees for legal work
he never performed.

The case highlights a concern in the Washington area, where tens of thousands of
recent immigrants, who are often vulnerable because of language and other
barriers, rely on a relatively small number of professional services providers
that market to them.

Ramirez, a 38-year-old who was born in Puerto Rico, denied any wrongdoing. He
said that he never purported to be a lawyer and that he performed the work he
promised. He said many clients, unfamiliar with the U.S. legal system, were
confused about the difference between a paralegal and a lawyer.

"My contract is very clear: I'm a paralegal," Ramirez said. "To make a
complaint, these people will say I'm an attorney. . . . We did our work. We did
what they requested."

Some cash-strapped clients allege Ramirez failed to fill out visa paperwork or
to represent them in bond matters and say they are now facing deportation.
Others say they pulled together thousands of dollars to pay him for help in
legal cases but got nothing in return.

Ramirez, an Oakton resident, is charged with five felony counts of obtaining
money under false pretenses. The charges involve four clients in Fairfax County.
Ramirez is scheduled to appear in court June 15.

He also faces a civil suit brought by another client in Fairfax and a handful of
Virginia State Bar complaints. And a client filed a claim against him in the
D.C. courts last year.

"Ramirez is one of the better marketers out there," said Manuel Leiva, former
president of the Hispanic Bar Association of Virginia and one of the lawyers who
brought Ramirez's case to authorities. "The reason people fell for this is
because he had such a slick operation."

Ramirez and Associates works out of a well-appointed Tysons Corner office.

Ramirez says he held high-ranking staff positions in the Puerto Rican Senate
before coming to the mainland in the '90s. One local Spanish-language paper in
2011 mentioned him as a possible state Senate candidate in Virginia, although
local Latino leaders said he is not well known in political circles.

"I am not looking for fame or to run for office, but if that is what the people
want, I will make that decision," he told the paper.

Ramirez's firm's Web site says it offers "legal assistant ship," paralegal,
lobbying, notary public and translation work, but it does not list Ramirez as a
lawyer. The site does have the feel of a law firm's Web site, with images of law
books and a gavel.

On the home page, Ramirez stands before an image of a waving American flag and
offers a personal message, calling immigrants "those brave ones" with "the hope
of freedom." He concludes with a direct appeal: "Let's give them a chance."

That message, Ramirez's charisma and his nicely furnished offices impressed
clients. One was Reyna Ordonez-Viera. Ordonez-Viera, who lives in the District
and works as a janitor, said she turned to Ramirez after her husband was charged
in a drug case last year.

Speaking Spanish, she said Ramirez led her to believe that he was a lawyer and
assured her "everything would be fine." She said she paid Ramirez to represent
her husband, borrowing the $2,200 fee from a co-worker.

At the first hearing, Ordonez-Viera said, Ramirez introduced himself as a friend
to her husband's public defender and offered no legal assistance. Ordonez-Viera
said that she demanded her money back and that Ramirez gave her a $600 check,
which she said bounced.

Ordonez-Viera filed a complaint in D.C. Superior Court and went back to Ramirez
for a refund. When she confronted him on an elevator at his office, then in the
District, she said he stopped the elevator and threatened to call police and
tell them she was a drug trafficker.

"Nobody should believe him," said Ordonez-Viera, whose husband is behind bars.
Her complaint against Ramirez was dismissed because court papers could not be
served to him, according to court records.

Ramirez disputes Ordonez-Viera's account, saying that he never told her he was a
lawyer and that she was a client of a lawyer he previously worked for as a
paralegal. He denies threatening her and said her money was eventually refunded.

Leiva and other lawyers said the case highlights a pervasive problem in local
immigrant enclaves: unlicensed consultants who provide bogus or shoddy legal and
immigration work.

In the Latino community, they often go by the term "notario." In some Latin
American countries, a notario publico is legally trained and can provide
representation in some matters. In the United States, scammers sometimes get
notary public licenses and offer legal advice to clients, who do not understand
what a notary does in this country.

In a lawsuit pending in Fairfax County, Eduardo Guerrero Flores says he gave
Ramirez $4,000 to post bond for a friend who was being detained by immigration
authorities in Pennsylvania.

Flores says Ramirez gave him a bond receipt, but Flores thinks it was probably
forged because no bond was ever paid for his friend. The suit says the friend is
now facing deportation.

In his initial conversation with Ramirez, Flores says Ramirez told him, in
Spanish, "I am an immigration attorney," according to court documents.

Ramirez said Flores did not hire him to pay his friend's bond but to find where
he was in the immigration system, since he had given a false name to
authorities. Ramirez said he agreed to refund about $1,500 of the fee after
Flores complained.

Others said Ramirez had done good work for them. Diogenes Bustamante, a plumber
from Alexandria, said Ramirez helped his wife's mother get a visa to visit the
United States and assisted family members with the green card process.

"He did a great job for my family," Bustamante said.

Virginia State Bar officials said that they received 52 complaints about
immigration consultants between 2007 and 2012 and that such fraud is their
biggest concern in the area of unauthorized practice of law. The bar has
launched an education campaign around the issue.

Most alleged scams go unprosecuted. Victims, who are often illegal immigrants,
are reluctant to come forward, and some bar officials said Virginia could be
better equipped to tackle the fraud.

Unlike Maryland and some other states, Virginia does not have a law regulating
immigration consultants. Unauthorized practice of law is a misdemeanor in the
state. In 2009, the bar pushed to upgrade unauthorized practice of law to a
felony, but lawmakers said enforcement would cost too much.

"If we had legislation on the books with teeth, it would entice local law
enforcement to take up the cases and give them a specific tool to take on the
fraud," said Christine Poarch, vice chairwoman of the Virginia State Bar
Unauthorized Practice of Law Committee.

The alleged scam has left some of Ramirez's former clients losing their tenuous
grip on the American dream.

Jose Lopez, a construction worker who lives in Manassas, was facing deportation
when he went to Ramirez for help. He said Ramirez took $1,500 from him and then
failed to fill out the proper paperwork for him to apply for a visa - an
accusation Ramirez denies. Lopez expects to be deported to his native El
Salvador.

"Sometimes I think it would be better if I stayed in my country," Lopez said.

justin.jouvenal@wpost.com

Staff writers Allison Klein and Nilda Melissa Diaz contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


        Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       March 13, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

In [#xfb01]nding their own way, Irish led others

BYLINE: Peter Behrens

SECTION: Style; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 814 words


Were the Irish who started arriving in the 1840s America's first immigrants?

Many others had made the journey before them, including prehistoric migrants
across the Bering Strait and the Ulstermen who had been settling the American
backcountry since the mid-18th century. But the Catholic, Gaelic "native" Irish
of the Great Famine era were the first arrivals consistently labeled
"immigrants" rather than "settlers," "indentured servants" or "slaves."

In "The Irish Way," his acute and judicious account of the imprint of the Irish
experience on American history, James R. Barrett suggests that these Irish were
also the creators of an urban identity that became a model for millions of
families and multitudes of ethnic groups working through difficult transitions.
Barrett's point is that the Irish became Irish-American faster than anyone had
expected, and once established in cities, Irish-American policemen, teachers,
priests, saloonkeepers and politicians shaped and directed the process of
Americanization for subsequent waves of immigrants. When neighborhoods such as
Lower Manhattan, the South Side of Chicago and Boston's North End became
factories manufacturing Americans, it was the Irish-Americans, Barrett suggests,
who were the foremen and production engineers of the process.

From the Colonial point of view, the "Scotch-Irish" Ulstermen - whose ancestors
had emigrated from the Scottish-English borderlands to northeast Ireland - had
been strange enough, with their clannishness, religious zeal and disruptive
ferocity. But at least their religion was exuberantly Protestant, and their
land-hunger and ferocity toward Indians had seemed, to most, downright American.
These Scotch-Irish were quickly ranked as "settlers," Americans through and
through, but the native Gaelic Irish immigrants coming ashore in 19th-century
Boston, New York, Philadelphia and New Orleans had to fight their way past
vicious prejudice and stereotyping.

The eastern cities, after all, were well-established, with social and racial
hierarchies firmly set, when the mostly Catholic Irish arrived. The only urban
space open to new arrivals - especially papists - was at the bottom. Feeling
threatened by the number of Irish arriving, citizens proud to consider
themselves Old Americans and Know Nothings began rigorously applying a "Paddy
Irishman" stereotype to the newest arrivals. The cartoon character of that name
drawn by Thomas Nast was awesomely poor and profoundly unsuited to American
civilization. His jaw was apelike, his food was repulsive, his religion bizarre.
Straight out of the bogs, P.I. was unaccustomed to shoes and modern life.

The message was clear: The native Irish were an indigestible mass of raw
weirdness, possibly the ruin of the republic. Their foreignness would change the
United States in horrible ways, and Americans would never be able to penetrate
their miasma of Irish backwardness.

But the Irish were quick to figure out how things worked in America, electoral
democracy and machine politics especially. Most Irish immigrants could speak
English, a huge advantage. Starting in the 1840s, Barrett argues, "lace curtain"
Irish, as well as those of the working class, had a remarkable influence on
American cities.

Later arrivals found the Irish established as the visible face of authority,
especially in immigrant neighborhoods. They were policemen, schoolteachers and
priests. Soon enough they were also bishops, bosses, mayors, state
representatives and congressmen.

Ethnic hyphenation was a new phenomenon in the 1880s and '90s. The
Irish-American identity was the prototype of what became a wildly popular
product, with dozens of imitations. As other groups - Italians, Slavs, East
European Jews - arrived in the last decades of the 19th century, they
encountered the same rancor the Irish had experienced. Ethnic variations of the
nasty Paddy Irishman were applied - often by Irish-Americans, who might have
known better, although no one ever does. Nonetheless, Barrett convincingly
argues that the Irish-Americans "built and maintained relations with other
ethnic and racial groups in the face of massive migration of other peoples to
American cities."

The seventh volume in the Penguin Press History of American Life series, "The
Irish Way" is a penetrating, refreshingly unsentimental look at the role of the
Irish in shaping and creating an urban culture. The Catholic Irish were not a
founding people in America, but they were founders of a new way to be as
American as the local Irish cop or Jimmy Cagney or JFK. From the perspective of
later arrivals, Irish-Americans were definitive citizens, the only Americans the
greenhorns knew - the Americans they aimed to become.

bookworld@washpost.com

Behrens is the author, most recently, of "The O'Briens."

the irish way

Becoming American in the Multiethnic City

By James R. Barrett

Penguin Press. 384 pp. $29.95

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


        Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      March 15, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Immigrant family released from custody

BYLINE: Pamela Constable

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 747 words


Jorge Acuna, 44, was walking his dog early on March 8 when a government van
pulled up outside his house in Germantown. His wife, Blanca, and son, Jorge
Steven, a senior at Montgomery College, were inside asleep.

Within minutes, all three members of the Acuna family - immigrants from Colombia
who had lived in the United States for more than a decade - were under arrest
and being transported to a federal detention center on the Eastern Shore to
await deportation.

"I would not wish on anyone what we went through," Acuna, trembling and tearful,
told supporters and journalists in Spanish at a rally in Rockville on Wednesday.
"I saw my own son manacled by the hands and feet, for no crime other than
wanting to be in this country and study."

The rally, planned by immigrant and student activists to protest the family's
plight, turned into a celebration for Jorge Steven and his parents, who were
unexpectedly released from federal custody late Tuesday and granted a one-year
reprieve from deportation after a week of growing media and political attention
to the case.

Nicole Navas, a spokeswoman for the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency, said immigration officials in Baltimore had decided to exercise special
discretion in the case, allowing the family to go home and Jorge Steven to
finish out his final year in college.

The Acunas came to the United States in 2000, fleeing from endemic violence in
their native country, and applied for political asylum. Their petition was
denied in 2005, appealed and denied again in 2006. Ever since, they have been
living in Maryland with a pending deportation order bound to catch up with them.
Although now free, they could still be deported in the future.

Surrounded by about 100 cheering supporters Wednesday, many of them young
Hispanic immigrants like himself, Jorge Steven said he hoped his family's ordeal
would draw attention to the plight of others in similar situations.

"There are many people who are hidden and voiceless, but who still have dreams,"
he said in Spanish.

To the immigrant advocates and student groups that supported Acuna, the
government's action Tuesday was a small but dramatic victory for two causes:
halting deportations of longtime, otherwise law-abiding immigrants who are not
in the country legally and promoting "Dream Act" legislation that would allow
talented students such as Jorge Steven to receive government tuition discounts,
even if they do not have legal immigrant status.

"This young man is a poster child, a role model for the potential of our youth,"
Nancy Navarro (D-Eastern County), a member of the Montgomery County Council,
said at the rally. All nine members of the council signed a letter to federal
authorities last week, expressing concern about the Acuna family and asking the
White House and Department of Homeland Security to intervene "in this terrible
situation."

Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) also expressed concern about the family, and on
Wednesday he applauded their release, calling it a "fair and humane decision."

Supporters organized by the immigrant rights group Casa de Maryland also
launched an online petition drive last week calling for Jorge Steven's release,
gathering more than 4,000 signatures in several days.

The young man, who came to the United States at age 8, was an honors graduate of
Northwest High School in Germantown and is now a dean's list student at
Montgomery College who hopes to go to medical school.

The activists said they hoped this case would increase public support for "Dream
Act" legislation, which has been stalled at the state and national levels. In
Maryland, a bill was passed by legislators last year, but then was suspended
after opponents gathered more than 100,000 signatures for an unprecedented
online petition against it. A statewide referendum will be held on the issue
this year.

"Jorge was the most dedicated and motivated student I ever met. That's why I
came here today to support him," said Daniel Esteban, a teacher at Roberto
Clemente Middle School in Germantown, who taught him in 2005.

A lawyer now representing the Acuna family, Enid Gonzalez Aleman, said she did
not know the details of their asylum petition but that their original lawyer had
mishandled the case. The family declined Wednesday to discuss their asylum
claim. Colombia has long been wracked by violence from guerrilla insurgents,
paramilitary groups and drug gangs.

constablep@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


        Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      March 22, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

BYLINE: Ruth Marcus

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 249 words


What Romney might shake off

Maybe the reset button was too high-tech. On Wednesday Mitt Romney adviser Eric
Fehrnstrom compared the general election to an Etch a Sketch: "You can kind of
shake it up and restart all over again." In the spirit of that classic toy, here
are some campaign moments and positions Romney might care to erase:

l Immigration. Romney said that, as president, he would veto the Dream Act,
which would provide a path to citizenship for the children of undocumented
immigrants who attend college. He promoted "self-deportation" as a means of
dealing with illegal immigration. And he praised Arizona's intrusive immigration
law as a "model" for the nation. Hello? Latino vote?

l Contraception. Romney attacked Rick Santorum for reversing his stance on Title
X, the federal family planning program, and proposed eliminating Title X
funding. Hello? Women's vote?

l Labor. Romney reaffirmed his opposition to the auto bailout and railed against
"labor stooges." Hello? Union voters?

l Assorted out-of-touch rich-guy gaffes: "I like being able to fire people."  "I
have some great friends who are NASCAR team owners." "Ann drives a couple of
Cadillacs."  Hello? Normal people?

Imagine the advertising possibilities. The anti-Romney activists waving their
Etch a Sketches. (Etches a Sketch?)

Here's a new slogan for the Romney general-election campaign: Shake It Up, Baby.

- Ruth Marcus

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


        Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              385 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      March 29, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

BYLINE: Greg Sargent

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 390 words


The GOP's Latino nightmare

Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) has let it be known that he is hard at work on a new
version of the Dream Act. The version supported by President Obama and
congressional Democrats would provide a path to citizenship for young illegal
immigrants who serve in the military or attend college. But the Democratic
version has been widely rejected by Republicans, who continue to embrace ever
more extreme rhetoric on immigration, apparently to appeal to the GOP base.

The New York Times editorial board and blogger Steve Benen both noted that
Rubio's version of the measure would give young illegal immigrants legal status
but wouldn't put them on a path to citizenship. As the Times puts it, this
amounts to a "Dream Act without the dream."

The timing is also noteworthy. The Hill reported that another alternative Dream
Act measure is being worked on by two GOP senators, Jon Kyl (Ariz.) and Kay
Bailey Hutchison (Tex.), and is set to be unveiled, according to Senate sources,
just after Mitt Romney clinches the nomination.

Many Republicans agree that their party has a serious Latino problem. The
primary process has forced the presidential candidates so far to the right on
immigration that some GOP leaders fear Election Day could bring historic losses
of Latino voters that could affect down-ticket candidates. A failure by the
Republican presidential nominee to make inroads among Latinos could help Obama
hold on to western states such as Colorado and win reelection despite losses in
the Rust Belt.

It's hard not to see the timing of the push for an alternative Dream Act in this
context.

But this ultimately shows that the framing of the GOP's "Latino problem" is all
wrong. The problem isn't a cosmetic issue that can be fixed with the right kind
of outreach. The real problem appears to be that Republicans don't adopt
positions that would appeal to Latinos or would genuinely be in their interests,
presumably because candidates don't think the conservative base will let them.

It seems that the GOP's problem is underscored, not fixed, when the only version
of the Dream Act that congressional Republicans can bring themselves to support
is one that doesn't offer a path to citizenship to young immigrants in America
who go to college or serve in the armed forces.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        April 2, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

The slow trek through Dulles

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 279 words


I enjoyed the March 29 Metro article "As jets expand, so does Dulles Airport."
However, it overlooked problems that continue to plague Dulles International
Airport.

I recently saw some of them firsthand when I arrived at Dulles aboard an
international flight. Upon deplaning, passengers were directed into a so-called
mobile lounge (which resembled a discarded "Star Wars" prop) for transit  to the
immigration and customs checkpoints. Although the vehicle was full, we waited 15
minutes for a driver to appear. We then made the five-minute crawl across the
tarmac to the immigration hall.

There, now more than 20 minutes after we deplaned, only two-thirds of the
processing stands were staffed, and the line was several hundred passengers
deep. While I waited in line, several immigration officers went off duty.

At the front of the line, I was greeted by large signs touting the new Global
Entry Program, which would allow me, after paying $100 and undergoing a
background check, to enjoy the speedy processing I take for granted at other
airports. On this occasion, I cleared immigration and customs more than one hour
after deplaning.

I have been told by others that my experience was typical. They suggest I fly
out of Baltimore-Washington International Marshall Airport, where even
passengers without Global Entry status often exit the airport only 20 minutes
after arriving on an international flight.

Dulles management has a duty to work closely with the Department of Homeland
Security to ensure that immigration lines are properly staffed and to take other
reasonable measures to speed transit. Until then, I will take my business
elsewhere.

Gabriel S. Meyer, Rockville

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 4, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Perfect pupusas require a mastery of masa

BYLINE: Tim Carman

SECTION: Food; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1514 words


If any dish can play the part of humble immigrant food, it's the pupusa, the
savory masa cake from El Salvador that practically feeds the nation morning,
noon and night. When unadorned and arranged on a platter like intersecting
circles, pupusas look naked and vulnerable, imminently susceptible to smear
campaigns from the roaming trend-seeking hordes who can't see the simple beauty
of this stuffed round.

The pupusa has many humble cousins throughout Latin America, including the
gordita and the arepa, both of which are, likewise, stuffed corn-flour cakes
that can feel like a sunken sand barge in your stomach if you eat too many
(which is only too easy). But the pupusa is different. It aims for a kind of
self-contained perfection, in which the filling is neatly encased in a thin
layer of griddled masa dough, unlike either the gordita or arepa, whose
meat-and-cheese guts can spill all over the plate, frustrating your efforts at
the ideal bite.

Those of us who call the Washington area home are fortunate enough to be able to
sample pupusas anytime we want, given that the latest Census figures show that
more than 240,000 Salvadorans have settled in the region, many of them refugees
from the long and bloody civil war back in the home country. These immigrants
brought their food with them, of course, which means pupusas hide in plain sight
all over the place.

You can find pupusas on custom-built trucks squatting next to gas stations in
Silver Spring. You can find them in storefront pupuserias along 14th Street NW
(the stretch not gentrified into the land of $14 cocktails, that is). You can
even find them buried deep in restaurant menus, lost among a mess of "Mexican"
dishes cobbled together by Salvadorans who still think they have to hedge their
bets with North American diners.

But how much do any of us know about pupusas? Personally, I had been eating them
for years, not always grasping the finer details of what makes one superb and
another sub-par. The more I looked at the pupusa, in fact, the more questions
arose. Why, for example, do most pupuserias serve essentially the same ones,
like the pork-bean-cheese combo known as the "revuelta," as if U.S.-style
invention were off limits at these joints? I was also curious to know if the
cakes were prepared differently in El Salvador vs. the States. And perhaps most
important: Why is the "humble" pupusa so unbelievably difficult to make on your
own?

Finding answers to my questions wasn't always easy in a world where English is a
second language and where my pidgin Spanish frequently results in long silences
over the phone, followed by an abrupt click. Which is why I almost wanted to hug
Jaime Arbaiza, general manager of the La Casita location  in Silver Spring. With
Jaime, I had access not only to the inner workings of a modern pupuseria but
also to a man who could articulate (in English for Mr. Gringo here) the minute
differences between pupusas in the United States and El Salvador.          Or at
least I had access to a man who could turn to his mother and La Casita co-owner,
Leonor Arbaiza, a Salvadoran native who recently visited the home country.
Between them, mother and son tell me that pupusas in El Salvador tend to be
about an inch smaller - at least when purchased from one of the many street
vendors - and considerably thinner than the versions found here. Jaime chalks up
the differences to simple economics. "Over there, they try to save as much as
they can," he says.

But in the States, where the calories come cheap and everyone always seems to
want more, pupuserias tend to build their cakes bigger and fatter, sometimes to
the detriment of the filling, which can be overwhelmed by the corn masa shell.
That may sound like harsh criticism, but as Jaime points out, many Salvadorans
simply prefer their pupusas that way. It's almost a value equation.

La Casita opts for more balance with its pupusas, which is part of the reason
why I like the place so much. Standing over a couple of serving trays dotted
with pupusas, Jaime reviews the specimens, like a drill sergeant inspecting the
troops. Each pupusa should have a pillowy quality, he notes, but avoid
messiness. Ideally, the filling should not ooze from any cracks, although as a
pupusa apologist like myself might tell you, there's nothing at all wrong with
those little circles of escaped cheese, melted and browned on the griddle.

Mostly, though, La Casita's kitchen aims for thin, intact masa shells, so that
when you order a frijol con queso (bean with cheese) or a queso con loroco
(cheese with a Salvadoran flower bud whose flavor somehow smacks of green beans,
asparagus and artichokes) you actually taste the filling. "To me, it's better
when you have as much masa as you need, no more than that," says Jaime, almost
Zenlike in his philosophy toward his dough.

When I ask Jaime why most pupuserias don't experiment with their fillings, he
practically bristles. La Casita, after all, dares to venture beyond the Fab Four
of Fillings (beans, cheese, pork and loroco) to test the boundaries of the
Salvadoran-American palate. You can buy a cheeseburger-style pupusa here (filled
with ground beef and mozzarella); another stuffed with squash and cheese; and
even, on occasion, a kind of locavore corn cake crammed with crab meat, shrimp
and cheese. This, I cannot emphasize enough, is not the norm at most pupuserias.

"What I think is that Salvadorans, . . . they're used to eating the traditional
ones," says Juan Rivera, a Salvadoran native and chef de cuisine for Bandolero,
Mike Isabella's forthcoming Mexican restaurant in Georgetown. "They're going to
get the pupusa revuelta. The people are not educated to try new things."

Rivera (who usually goes by the handle "Tony Starr," a nickname bestowed on him
by Isabella) understands tradition. He grew up with one of El Salvador's most
ingrained traditions: eating pupusas for breakfast. When he was a teenager back
in his native country, Rivera would stop at a pupuseria at 6 a.m. before loading
up his gear and heading out on a fishing boat. Per custom, Rivera would down his
savory pupusas with a cup of chocolate caliente, a mixture of hot milk and water
thickened with melted chunks of rich Central American chocolate.

That experience is hard to re-create in the States with the instant hot
chocolate mixes found at many establishments. Besides that, a savory pupusa, no
matter how well made, may not be the first thing you want in the morning, which
is why I decided to develop a U.S.-style breakfast pupusa stuffed with fresh
cheese that's slightly sweetened with citrus zest and heavy cream. I figured I'd
top the finished pupusa with a pat of good butter and some local jam rather than
the cake's usual garnishes of curtido (a kind of pickled, fermented cabbage) and
a thin tomato sauce. My mouth watered at the very thought of this North American
pupusa.          Then I began the process of fashioning my pupusas and quickly
realized I had the skill set of a Doberman. Making pupusas may look like child's
play - with all that hand molding of dough - but it's not. With my cakes, the
dough was too thick and the filling too thin; more problematic, my homemade
cheese was bursting through the ruptured levee that was my masa. So I sought the
counsel of Rosa Argueta, one of the pupusa makers at La Casita.

Argueta is a minimalist when it comes to shaping masa into pupusas. She doesn't
favor the theatrical slapping and hand-flipping techniques that I've witnessed
at other pupuserias, like my favorite, La Chiquita, in Takoma Park. Her
movements are more compact; you barely notice the dough moving from the center
of one hand to the other as the masa ball is quickly and efficiently formed into
a disk. Argueta begins each pupusa with about three ounces of dough, but her
secret is that after she adds the filling and reforms the ball, she pinches off
a good half-ounce of dough, so that her cakes aren't overwhelmed by masa.

Moisture is also key. Like all the pupusa makers at La Casita, Argueta makes her
own dough. She uses the Masa Brosa brand of instant masa, which she combines
with warm water and nothing else. No salt, no added flavorings, only pure masa
goodness. The dough must have the consistency of Play-Doh, and to make sure it
doesn't dry out and crack during the seemingly endless shaping stage, Argueta
keeps her hands moist (not soaking wet) with a nearby bowl of water. Likewise,
the filling can't be too wet or the added moisture will start to weaken the
walls of the masa shell. That, clearly, was the problem with my initial
attempts.

I wish I could report that Argueta's afternoon demo turned me into an instant
pupusa master, but it didn't. My cakes were still a little too wet, a little too
thick and a little too unstable. But I took comfort in Argueta's answer to a
question that I posed on the day of my tutorial: How long did it take for you to
learn the craft of pupusa making?

"Two months," she answered. Then she smiled sweetly, as if understanding the
painful - but rewarding - road ahead.

carmant@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 15, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Stewart to run for lieutenant governor

BYLINE: Jeremy Borden

SECTION: ; Pg. T01

LENGTH: 601 words


Prince William County's Corey A. Stewart on Wednesday became the first person to
officially enter next year's lieutenant governor's race in Virginia.

Stewart, a Republican and chairman of the Board of County Supervisors, told a
couple of dozen supporters and reporters that what has worked in Prince William
can work statewide. He said that if elected, he would to focus on economic
development and transportation funding.

"The one thing [Virginia] needs to do right is to build adequate public
infrastructure," Stewart said. "That means roads. It is the number one need for
the commonwealth."

He said that funding could be realized with no tax increase by streamlining
business regulations and the size of government.

Stewart said that he is proud of leading efforts to streamline county
government, with about $143 million in cuts since first being elected in 2003;
that he would keep real estate taxes low; and that he would lead "the most
successful crackdown on illegal immigration in the United States."

Stewart said the county's 2007 policy to check the immigration status of those
arrested, a policy he helped spearhead, has led to 4,500 people being turned
over by the local police to federal immigration authorities.

The county's violent crime rate has dropped more than 50 percent since the
policy was enacted, Stewart said, although some disagree that an illegal
immigration crackdown led to fewer violent crimes.

In an e-mail response to the announcement, Harry W. Wiggins, chairman of the
Prince William County Democratic Committee, said Stewart has not focused on
Prince William enough in recent years. Stewart has considered running for
lieutenant governor before and has also considered a U.S. Senate bid.

"Neglecting his official duties to campaign for higher office is more of the
same for Stewart," Wiggins said in the statement.

The lieutenant governor's position is receiving more scrutiny this year because
of the even split of Democrats and Republicans in the state Senate. The party
that controls the lieutenant governor's position will control the Senate and
have the ability to break tie votes on non-budget matters.

Democrat Aneesh Chopra, a former White House chief technology officer, is widely
expected to run for the position. Pete Snyder, chairman of the state GOP's VA
Victory 2012, the Republicans' coordinated campaign, also is reportedly
considering a bid.

The kickoff event was held in front of a construction site at Stonebridge at
Potomac Town Center, a Woodbridge development anchored by a Wegmans grocery
store with luxury residences and office space on the way. The development is a
popular one, because it brings high-end amenities to the older, eastern side of
Prince William.

Stewart was elected on what many saw as an anti-development platform, but his
position on development has changed in recent years.

Patrick MacAuley, a Stewart supporter at the event, said afterward that although
some call Stewart's record controversial that the chairman has, for the most
part, promoted smart development during his tenure.

MacAuley added that the Stonebridge development revitalized the county's eastern
end instead of cutting into rural land on the western end of Prince William.

"This is a perfect example," he said of Stonebridge's design.

Republicans who attended the event to support Stewart were Del. Jackson Miller
(Prince William) and L. Mark Dudenhefer (Prince William-Stafford), and
supervisors Maureen Caddigan (Potomac), W.S. "Wally" Covington III (Brentsville)
and Martin E. "Marty" Nohe (Coles) and Prince William Sheriff Glendell "Glen"
Hill (R).

bordenj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 16, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration: Not a local police job

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 241 words


" Immigration muddle " [editorial, April 10] said   that the federal Secure
Communities program "has been generally successful in removing illegal
immigrants who have committed crimes."   The reality is that the program
operates as an indiscriminate dragnet. This is why the District, Arlington,
numerous other cities and the governors of New York, Illinois and Massachusetts
have opposed the program.   The District is taking the right step in drawing a
bright line between local police and federal immigration enforcement. This year,
D.C. Council member Phil Mendelson (D-At Large) introduced the "Immigration
Detainer Compliance              Amendment Act of 2011," which stipulates that
the District will only hold someone for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
if the detainee has been convicted of a dangerous and violent crime. In
contrast, the Secure Communities program, which operates pre-conviction,
ensnares people who have not been found guilty of a crime or who have committed
only minor offenses.

In the District, we work hard to build a diverse and productive workforce and
community, and we believe that immigrants are an integral part of that effort.
Mr. Mendelson's effort draws the right balance by ensuring that communities feel
safe reporting crimes and cooperating with police. That is what ultimately makes
a community more secure.

Nikki Daruwala,Washington

The writer is the executive director of DC Jobs with Justice.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 24, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Mexico migrant trend shifts

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1265 words


A four-decade tidal wave of Mexican immigration to the United States has
receded, causing a historic shift in migration patterns as more Mexicans appear
to be leaving the United States for Mexico than the other way around, according
to a report from the Pew Hispanic Center.          It looks to be the first
reversal in the trend since the Depression, and experts say that a declining
Mexican birthrate and other factors may make it permanent.

"I think the massive boom in Mexican immigration is over and I don't think it
will ever return to the numbers we saw in the 1990s and 2000s," said Douglas
Massey, a professor of sociology and public affairs at Princeton University and
co-director of the Mexican Migration Project, which has been gathering data on
the subject for 30 years.

Nearly 1.4 million Mexicans moved from the United States to Mexico between 2005
and 2010, double the number who did so a decade earlier. The number of Mexicans
who moved to the United States during that period fell to less than half of the
3 million who came between 1995 and 2000.

The trend could have major political consequences, underscoring the delicate
dance by the Republican and Democratic parties as they struggle with immigration
policies and court the increasingly important Latino vote.

Illegal immigration has emerged as one of the most emotional political issues in
the country - one that dominated much of the Republican presidential contest and
has proven complicated for President Obama.

Mitt Romney has courted conservatives with aggressive anti-illegal immigration
rhetoric. But the GOP presidential hopeful has said in recent days that he wants
to build ties with Hispanics, many of whom have chafed at his statements, and
the new immigration trends could offer him a chance to soften his stance.

Obama has been criticized by immigrant advocates for stepped-up deportation
policies that analysts have said were partly responsible for the decreasing flow
of Mexicans into the United States. The trend could offer the president a
political silver lining: the chance to take credit for a policy success that,
his aides have said in the past, should persuade Republicans to embrace a broad
immigration overhaul plan.

According to the report, the Mexican-born population, which had been increasing
since 1970, peaked at 12.6 million in 2007 and has dropped to 12 million since
then.

The reversal appears to be a result of tightened border controls, a weak U.S.
job and housing construction market, a rise in deportations and a decline in
Mexican birthrates, said the study, which used U.S. and Mexican census figures
and Mexican government surveys. Arrests of illegal immigrants trying to enter
the United States have also dropped precipitously in recent years.

Whether the reversal is temporary or permanent, it could have significant
implications for the United States. Many Mexican immigrants work in agriculture
and construction.

One in 10 people born in Mexico live in the United States, and more than half
entered illegally. Most live in California and Texas; about 120,000 live in the
Washington region.

The report does not specify how many of those who moved to Mexico had been in
the United States illegally. But the statistics imply that many of them had
been: The number of undocumented Mexicans here dropped from 7 million in 2007 to
6.1 million in 2011, while the number of those here legally increased slightly,
from 5.6 million in 2007 to 5.8 million in 2011.

"The diminished flow appears largely to be a drop in unauthorized immigrants,"
said Jeffrey Passel, a senior demographer at Pew and a co-author of the report.
He said an estimated 5 to 35 percent of the recent returnees to Mexico were
deported.

Although most Mexican deportees say they will try to return, their numbers are
shrinking, too, the study said: According to a Mexican government survey, 20
percent of deportees in 2010 said they would not return to the United States,
compared with 7 percent in 2005.

Half of those returning to Mexico took their entire families, including more
than 100,000 U.S.-born children of Mexican immigrants. Children born in the
United States to Mexican nationals are citizens of both countries.

The drop comes at a time when overall immigration to the United States continues
to grow, and reflects several factors specific to Mexico, including a relatively
strong economy and a sharply diminished birthrate.

In 1960, a typical Mexican woman was expected to have more than seven children,
but by 2009 that number had dropped to just over two - a decline that presages a
sharp reduction in the number of young workers seeking to come to the United
States.

As immigration reform continues to be a divisive political issue, experts on
both sides of the debate disagreed over the implications of the report.

Those advocating for a path to legalization for immigrants here illegally said
the plummeting of Mexican immigration should allow for thoughtful reform to take
place without the pressure of trying to stem the flow across the border.

"It gives us the space to figure out how do we fix the legal immigration system
so when the economy bounces back, how do we respond?" said Clarissa Martinez,
director of immigration and civic engagement at the National Council of La Raza,
a Latino advocacy organization.

Others warned that the trend could reverse itself if the U.S. economy improves
or the Mexican economy falters. "The idea that this respite means the problem is
over is just jumping the gun," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for stricter immigration
controls. "It's wishful thinking by people who just want amnesty."

But the era of entire villages moving from Mexico to the United States may be
over, said Randy Capps, a senior policy analyst and demographer at the Migration
Policy Institute.

Instead, he said, the current reversal may be similar to the reduced flow from
Germany and Ireland a century ago. He predicted a negative feedback loop as
fewer potential immigrants have connections to the United States.

"If this goes on for much longer, it's going to take a lot to reverse it," Capps
said. "A lot of migration is based on networks - people who know people who know
about the environment they're going to be moving into. When the jobs disappear
and the people you know aren't there anymore, this channel of communication
either dries up or it becomes so negative that it just changes everybody's
mind."

Gustavo Velasquez, 38, who came from Oaxaca, Mexico, 12 years ago and serves as
the director of the D.C. Office on Human Rights, said that the scarcity of U.S.
jobs is causing more Mexicans to think twice about moving.

It is better to be unemployed in Mexico than to be unemployed in the United
States, he said, because most migrant workers leave their families in Mexico.
"They miss the warmth of being in a welcoming community," he said, adding that
with tougher border control and more deportations, Mexicans would rather be in a
"precarious situation than in a situation of fear."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

Staff writers Stefanie Dazio, Carol Morello and Peter Wallsten contributed to
this report.

Read more Washington Post coverage of immigration issues:

Right Turn: Can Romney make inroads with Hispanic voters?
Arizona immigration law: Supreme Court again examines federal power

OPINION | Milbank: A congressional deal on immigration? Dream on.
Mexico's middle class is becoming its majority

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 25, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

An immigration trail that's easy to follow

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 823 words


Aficionados of the Etch a Sketch will recall a certain flaw in the toy: If you
use it often, some of the lines drawn no longer disappear when you shake the
device, instead leaving an indelible trace of where you have been.
This is the problem Mitt Romney is encountering: He is shaking the device,
trying to erase impressions left during this year's primary contest. But he just
can't shake away the image of Russell Pearce.

Pearce, the former Republican president of the Arizona Senate, is the author and
self-described "driving force" behind S.B. 1070, that state's law - endorsed by
Romney - cracking down on illegal immigrants. Pearce told The Post's Felicia
Sonmez this month that Romney's "immigration policy is identical to mine," and
he told reporters this week that Romney "absolutely" gave him the impression
that he saw the Arizona law as a national model.          Democrats, seeking to
use this loose cannon against his own side, called Pearce to testify Tuesday
before Congress on the eve of the Supreme Court's review of the Arizona law.
Republicans boycotted the hearing, sensing a political trap. Arizona Republican
Gov. Jan Brewer sent regrets, too.

But Pearce, whose questionable activities include touting an old deportation
program called "Operation Wetback," is less aware, and he handled himself in
just the manner Democrats had hoped. Enhancing the effect, his tie bore the
"Don't Tread on Me" emblem of the tea party, and his considerable jowls tugged
his mouth into a perpetual scowl.

Pierce, who lost his seat last fall in a recall election, labeled the Obama
administration and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce "unpatriotic." He sounded the
alarm about an "invasion of illegal aliens we face today - convicted felons,
drug cartels, gang members, human traffickers, even terrorists" (never mind that
border security has improved and violence has lessened). And he blamed the Sept.
11 attacks on "the failure to enforce U.S. immigration laws" (omitting the fact
that the hijackers entered the country legally).           Sen. Chuck Schumer
(D-N.Y.), chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee holding the hearing,
began with a claim that Pearce's bill was "endorsed as a model for the country
by Mitt Romney" - and Pearce was happy to help with the grave-digging.

Pearce dismissed as "blanket amnesty" the Dream Act, which would legalize the
immigration status of undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as
children, if they attend college for two years or join the military. Sen. Dick
Durbin (D-Ill.) asked Pearce about a child brought to this country illegally as
an infant who later graduates from a U.S. high school. "Because the parent
didn't file the papers, now the child must suffer?" Durbin asked.

"You need to blame those responsible," Pearce replied, "and not us for being a
nation of laws."

Such harsh logic accounts for the recent NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll
finding that President Obama leads Romney among Latinos by an astounding 47
percentage points. Romney himself has acknowledged that such a gap "spells doom
for us." To shrink the gap, Romney, who vowed to veto the Dream Act, went on the
campaign trail Monday with Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), who favors some legal
status for those who would be covered by the  act. Romney's campaign says his
claim during a primary debate that the Arizona law was a "model" for the nation
referred only to the electronic verification of immigration status. (Alas for
Romney, he endorsed the Arizona law more than once.) His campaign also tried
recently to disown Kris Kobach, an immigration hard-liner, before admitting that
the Kansas secretary of state is an "informal adviser."

Pearce is not a Romney adviser, but he is the embodiment of the law that Romney
embraced - and the baggage Romney now carries for seeking far-right support in
the primary. On Tuesday, Pearce sat at the witness table, shaking his head in
disagreement as others spoke about how the law encourages racial profiling and
hurts legal Latino residents.

Would Pearce continue deportations even if the border were completely sealed? To
do otherwise, he said, would be "demeaning to law enforcement."

Does he support Arizona authorities using "dress" as a way to identify illegal
immigrants? "You have to respond to reasonable suspicion to do your job," he
said.

Why didn't the law simply require that everybody stopped by the police would be
checked for immigration status, to avoid racial profiling? "I don't want a
police state," he said.

No, he only wants that for people who don't look like him.

Pearce, with a rare chuckle, allowed that it's "usually the case" that he finds
himself outnumbered when defending the immigration law. But he argued,
correctly, that the law reflects "by far the majority opinion of my party."

This is why Romney will have trouble making it disappear.

danamilbank@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 26, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Rubio's 'Dream' alternative tests Obama's reality

BYLINE: Peter Wallsten

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1227 words


Gaby Pacheco, a vocal immigrant activist, accepted a tantalizing invitation last
week from an unlikely source: Republican Sen. Marco Rubio wanted her to help
craft a bill that could legalize the children of some illegal immigrants.
Two hours later, Pacheco and other activists got a different pitch from their
more familiar White House allies. Be wary of Rubio and his plan, two of
President Obama's top advisers told them in a meeting. It wouldn't go far enough
and wasn't likely to succeed.

The group was polite but noncommittal. "We're not married to the Democratic or
Republican parties," said Pacheco, 27. "We're going to push what's best for the
community."

The events of that day illustrated how the new effort by Rubio (Fla.) has
upended the immigration debate in Washington, exposing tensions in both parties
as Obama and the GOP assess how the issue might sway the crucial Hispanic vote
in November.In recent days, Rubio has quietly reached out to a number of
immigrant advocates who are usually White House allies but have grown frustrated
with some of the president's policies. Some of the activists say they are open
to Rubio's effort - even though it would stop short of a provision in the
Democratic-backed Dream Act to create a path to citizenship - because it would
at least provide some relief to people at risk of being deported.

Rubio has not put his plan on paper, but his office describes it as an
"alternative" to the Dream Act that would legalize certain young people who came
to the United States while they were children. The measure would grant
non-immigrant visas so qualified young people could remain in the United States
for college or to serve in the military.          The plan puts Obama in a box.
Democrats are reluctant to see Rubio's efforts as anything other than a
political gambit to repair his party's tarnished image with Hispanics and boost
his own profile as a potential vice-presidential pick  or future White House
contender.

But if Obama does not at least try to work with Rubio, he could risk losing a
centerpiece of his appeal to Hispanic voters - that he is their fiercest ally in
Washington and that the GOP is to blame for lack of action on fixing the
country's immigration ills.

White House resistance to Rubio threatens to escalate criticism from Obama
allies frustrated that he was unable to deliver on a broad immigration overhaul
and angry that his administration has deported more than 1 million illegal
immigrants.

A White House official who spoke on condition of anonymity called it "ludicrous"
to suggest that the president would be an obstacle to helping the young people
or their advocates. The official noted that Obama would happily have signed the
Dream Act into law in 2010 had Republicans not blocked it and that he remains in
favor of a broader plan that would create a path to citizenship for many of the
11 million to 12 million people in the United States illegally.

The official said that the president welcomed any serious effort from
Republicans to forge a bipartisan approach but that it was impossible to fully
judge Rubio's plan until it appears in writing as a bill.

Obama seemed to disparage the Rubio effort during an interview this month on the
Spanish-language network Telemundo. "This notion that somehow Republicans want
to have it both ways, they want to vote against these laws and appeal to
anti-immigrant sentiment . . . and then they come and say, 'But we really care
about these kids and we want to do something about it' - that looks like
hypocrisy to me," Obama said.

The issue also presents a quandary for likely GOP nominee Mitt Romney, who has
alienated many Hispanic voters with his hard-right positions and rhetoric on
immigration during the Republican primary campaign.           He now must weigh
how to undo the damage without angering conservatives who are on the lookout for
a flip-flop by a candidate known for his evolving views.

At a Monday campaign event with Rubio, Romney did not take a position on the
plan.

"I'm taking a look at his proposal," Romney said. "It has many features to
commend it, but it's something that we're studying."

Several conservatives have already blasted Rubio's plan as a form of "amnesty,"
but aides to the senator say he is lobbying key players and media personalities
on the right to hold their fire.

Many Democrats have dismissed the push by Rubio, the son of Cuban immigrants who
was elected in 2010 as a conservative darling after adopting hard-line positions
on illegal immigration. Some critics on the left say his proposal would create a
second class of Americans, permitted to live in the United States but unable to
achieve the full rights of citizenship.

But his efforts appear to be further driving a wedge between Obama and his
restive Hispanic activist supporters.

The senator conferred Wednesday afternoon with several leading members of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, for example, including Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez
(D-Ill.), one of the most vocal critics of Obama's deportation policies.
Last week, Rubio sat at a dinner party beside Janet Murguia, president of the
National Council of La Raza, one of the country's most prominent Hispanic
advocacy groups, and the two discussed ways to work together on policy.

"It's clear that there wouldn't be an effort to be talking about this right now
if it weren't for Senator Rubio engaging on this," Murguia said. "We need to
know whether the president can use this as an opportunity."

Rubio's outreach to Pacheco - who was brought to the United States illegally
when she was 8 - and other young undocumented immigrants came after they had
been asking for months without success for a chance to meet with Obama. The
senator first called Pacheco on her cellphone, and the two spoke for about a
half-hour. He later met with a small group at Miami-Dade College.

"He said, 'If you feel at any point that this is something you guys cannot
support, let me know,'[#x200a]" Pacheco recalled.

The president's challenge has been evident in recent days during tense
encounters between top White House aides and Hispanic leaders, who have
continued to press for the president to simply sign an executive order
preventing the deportations of any people who would qualify for the Dream Act.
In one heated session last week between Congressional Hispanic Caucus members
and domestic policy adviser Cecilia Munoz, Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.)
grew so frustrated that she walked out, according to people familiar with the
meeting.

In their meeting with Pacheco and other young activists, Munoz and senior White
House adviser Valerie Jarrett offered warnings that going along with Rubio's
plan put at risk other efforts to pass the full Dream Act with a path to
citizenship. They told the activists that Rubio had not demonstrated he could
win support from fellow Republicans and that the president would use his clout
to push an immigration plan next year. "They said, 'Be careful we're not
lowering the bar. Citizenship is important,'[#x200a]" Pacheco recalled.But
Pacheco, who remains undocumented even after graduating from college, said Obama
should see the situation as more urgent. "We're at a point of desperation, at a
point where we cannot continue to live the way we've been living," she said.

wallstenp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 9, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

BYLINE: Felicia Sonmez

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 236 words


A GOP stumble on immigration

A Republican National Committee roundtable Tuesday, aimed at highlighting the
GOP's Hispanic get-out-the-vote effort, ended up backfiring as the RNC's
director of Hispanic outreach struggled to explain to reporters the Republicans'
message to Hispanics when it comes to immigration.

Pressed by a reporter about what she would say to an undecided Hispanic voter
who concluded after watching the GOP debates that former Massachusetts governor
Mitt Romney's proposals on immigration are too strict and are "out-of-line with
what Hispanics want," the RNC's Bettina Inclan stumbled.

"I think as a candidate, to my understanding, that he's still deciding what his
position on immigration is," she said. "So I can't talk about what his
proposal's going to be, because I don't know what Romney exactly - he's talked
about different issues. And what we saw in the Republican primary is that
there's a very diverse opinion on how to deal with immigration."

Immediately, a reporter tweeted out Inclan's statement that Romney is "still
deciding what his position on immigration is," and Democrats pounced.

The Obama campaign's director of Hispanic press, Gabriela Domenzain, said in a
statement that Romney "has proven time and time again that he is the most
extreme presidential candidate in modern history on immigration."

- Felicia Sonmez

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 10, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Vote for the best teaching strategies

BYLINE: Jay Mathews

SECTION: Metro; Pg. T17

LENGTH: 655 words


Teacher, writer and lawyer Patrick Mattimore, a frequent contributor to my Class
Struggle blog, suggested last month that readers send in effective teaching
strategies. Sure, I said. Many great ideas arrived. Now we'd like you to pick
your favorite.Here are the three finalists Mattimore and I selected, all from
teachers, listed in alphabetical order. Vote in a poll at
washingtonpost.com/class-struggle or send me your pick via e-mail at
mathewsj@washpost.com I am just going to quote from their entries so you won't
have to put up with intrusive analysis from me.

Immigration unit

Karen Craig, eighth-grade language arts and social studies, Connelly School of
the Holy Child, Potomac

"The Immigration Unit is studied in language arts, social studies, science and
foreign language. The students are grouped into families, and they pretend that
they are immigrating to the United States around 1900. They are assigned a
country from which to emigrate, as well as given an economic background.
However, they are responsible for deciding how the family is related and what
struggles they endure on the journey.

"In language arts, the students blog about their experiences throughout the
unit, using their growing writing skills and vocabulary to help convey their
thoughts and emotions. In science, biology is studied through the different
diseases that could prevent a potential immigrant in the early 20th century from
being allowed into the United States. In social studies, the laws and acts that
were aimed at preventing immigration are examined, and in foreign language, the
different countries the students could potentially emigrate from are
highlighted.

"The unit culminates in an Ellis Island Day, where the students pack a suitcase
with what they would bring to their new country, and they are processed through
a mock-up of Ellis Island itself. The next day, a field trip to Ellis Island in
New York takes place."

Choral reading

Trayce Diskin, ninth-, 10th- and 12th-grade college prep literacy, Montgomery
Blair High School, Silver Spring

"Choral reading works best with a poem or short prose passage. All each student
needs is a copy of the text and a highlighter. As the teacher reads the text out
loud, students highlight two or three sentences or phrases that resonate for
them. . . . I encourage my students to choose lines that seem particularly
powerful, significant, confusing or relevant to them.

"Now the choral reading begins. The teacher reads the passage out loud again,
but this time, students join in on the lines they highlighted. As soon as the
reading begins, the class can hear which portions of the text resonated the
most. The reading itself - both an impromptu performance and an automatic
conversation with the text - is a pretty rewarding experience for the class. . .
. Almost always a rich and engaging discussion of the passage begins."

Sludge Project

Debbie Pakaluk, eighth-grade chemistry, Norwood School, Bethesda

"Every spring students participate in the Sludge Project, which requires them to
separate a mixture of unknowns (they don't even know how many substances it
contains) and then test the properties of each of the components (density,
boiling point, solubility, flammability, as well as odor and appearance). Each
pair of students gets a plastic cup with a different 100-ml mixture. Students
use separation techniques that they have studied previously . . . as well as
ones they think of on the spot. Each pair works independently (I enforce safety
measures but do not otherwise help them) for about three weeks, and then each
student writes a paper summarizing his or her work.

"After the project is completed, we finish the year by studying compounds,
elements and finally atoms."

I like all of these. We will reveal the results in a month. I will also describe
some of the other intriguing ideas we received.

mathewsj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 18, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

The browning of America

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 583 words


MINORITIES NOW account for more than half the babies born in the United States,
a milestone in the path toward what demographers forecast will be an overall
majority-minority population in 30 years.That watershed bit of data from the
Census Bureau, reported this week, was seized on by the multicultural left,
which reads it as a triumph of demographic inevitability, and the Chicken Little
right, which sees it as a portent of socioeconomic disaster. In fact, it is
cause for neither elation nor alarm but for a rational response from
policymakers, who have so far tended to pretend nothing is happening. They're
wrong.

America's burgeoning minority population is largely the byproduct of a surge of
immigrants in the past 30 years, without whom this country would be rapidly
aging and economically stagnant - think of a Western version of Japan. A
heartening subtext of that immigration explosion is that it has occurred,
despite frictions over illegal immigrants and too few policies to grease the
wheels of assimilation, with a minimum of social disruption.

Contrast that with Western Europe's biggest countries, where the percentages of
immigrants (and minorities) are lower but the social tensions surrounding them
much more acute. To varying degrees and despite divergent policies in England,
France and Germany, there are worrying signs that Europe's second-generation
immigrants are socially and economically less integrated than their parents, who
came for work but were never made to feel welcome. Stranded in countries they
regard with hostility, the second generation has drifted in many cases toward
political and religious radicalism.

America, with a longer and richer immigrant tradition and a different immigrant
pool, has been much more successful in absorbing its influx. True, progress
across generations is uneven: Latinos tend to trail Asians, blacks and
non-Hispanic whites. But like Irish, Italian, Polish and Jewish immigrants a
century ago, the latest wave of immigrants wants to become fully American. And
while full integration often takes more than one generation, the children of
newcomers are generally doing much better than their parents.

The real danger is complacency. Education levels of today's immigrants and their
children may be no worse than their early-20th-century counterparts, but they
still graduate from college in far smaller proportions than do non-Hispanic
whites. That represents a crippling disadvantage in today's post-industrial
economy.

Elected officials have done too little to address that discrepancy. They also
have been paralyzed by the presence of an estimated 11 million illegal
immigrants, whose children, documented or not, are assimilating too slowly and
risk becoming an intractable part of the long-term underclass. In the past,
unauthorized immigrants were often eventually given a leg up and a path to
legalizing themselves via amnesty or other means, affording their children a
shot at the American Dream. Now, millions are stuck, and America is the loser.

Radical demographic shifts are occurring in Texas, Florida, Arizona and other
big states as elderly non-Hispanic white populations, who control the political
process through their votes, are being gradually supplanted by a wave of younger
Latinos. America's complexion is changing, literally. It will be up to
politicians to manage that evolution without social upheaval and to ensure that
younger Americans, even if they don't resemble their elders, get the same
opportunities.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 27, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Hardship and humor of the immigrant life

BYLINE: Juliet Wittman

SECTION: Outlook; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 1496 words


Our national debate about immigration has become so two-dimensional, so
relentlessly focused on economics and race, that we tend to ignore something
harder to define and perhaps more important: the way that exiles and immigrants
enlarge our understanding of the world and our place within it. They bring with
them their culture - music, food, courtship rituals, child-raising patterns,
ways of occupying and moving in space and of relating to other people, histories
far differently shaped than ours, and a trove of memories that can be joyous,
bitter, shadowed, mundane. From Maxine Hong Kingston to Charles Simic to Jhumpa
Lahiri, they have also given us a rich body of literature. Immigrants change our
angle of vision and set everyday life slightly atilt; The breath of strangeness
an immigrant carries just walking down the street is at once a challenge and an
invitation.

Rupinder Gill, Kimi Cunningham Grant and Loung Ung bring very different
perspectives to the immigrant experience, but each in her own way deepens our
understanding. Gill's musings are light: Her parents are Indian, she was brought
up in Canada, and like many children of immigrants, she longs to escape the
limitations of her traditional childhood and indulge in such quintessentially
North American activities as driving a car and attending summer camp. Grant's
life is peaceful, but her awareness of the ordeal suffered by her Japanese
American grandmother in one of the internment camps set up after the bombing of
Pearl Harbor pushes insistently at the edges of her consciousness, and she feels
compelled to piece together this story. Ung fled Pol Pot's reign of terror in
Cambodia as a child, and nightmarish memories roil her outwardly placid life as
a university student. It takes many years and much turmoil before she can find a
way to use her experience to help others and reconcile her two realities.
At the beginning of her memoir, "Lulu in the Sky," Ung is living a typical
undergraduate life at a small Catholic college in Burlington, Vt. She gossips
with girlfriends, eats a lot of junk food and melts when she encounters a
handsome fellow student on the street. But there are differences that go far
beyond the expatriate's usual nostalgia and the fact that Ung thinks and speaks
in four languages. For her, earthworms writhing on a sidewalk after rain summon
images of rotting corpses, a friendly neck hug provokes uncontrollable rage, and
her first attempt to make love with her boyfriend is marred by memories of the
Vietnamese soldier who tried to rape her when she was 9. Ung is intensely
sensitive to television images of war and genocide; news of Pol Pot's death
brings her close to a nervous breakdown and prompts her finally to commit her
story - and that of her ravaged country - to paper.

In two earlier memoirs, Ung described growing up in Cambodia, where she
experienced hunger and hardship, and where both her parents and many of her
relatives were killed by the Khmer Rouge. She arrived in the United States at
the age of 10. "Lulu in the Sky" alternates between her life here and her visits
to Cambodia, a country that, despite all, she loves deeply and where she
maintains warm and vital relationships with surviving family members. After
college, she goes to work for the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation and
becomes active in the international campaign to ban landmines.

At the center of Ung's story is the loving and preternaturally patient Mark -
the handsome boy on the sidewalk - and it is through this relationship that we
experience her slow healing and maturation. What begins as an undergraduate
crush, with all the usual petty jealousies and insecurities (a decade into the
relationship, Ung has still not introduced Mark to the highly traditional
brother and sister-in-law who brought her up), deepens into a love that
withstands Ung's prickliness, hesitation and bouts of despair. You can't help
liking and admiring this young woman who, having endured so much as a child, has
devoted her life to promoting justice and understanding, and who ends her
lively, humorous account with both an excellent bibliography and an
idiosyncratic list of favorite restaurants. So when you arrive at the
hard-earned happy ending, it's with a sigh of deep relief.

Grant's "Silver Like Dust" explores the experiences of her grandmother, who
spent three years in a concentration camp at Heart Mountain, Wyo., during World
War II. This was a result of Franklin D. Roosevelt's Executive Order 9066, which
allowed for the relocation inland of all Japanese and Japanese Americans living
on the Pacific Coast after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. The historical details
may be of interest to those unfamiliar with this stain on American history, the
intense prejudice and discrimination suffered by Asian immigrants even before
the war, and the fact that Japanese families who had worked hard and loyally to
assimilate lost all they had and were sent to bleak and isolated camps.
But given the extensive written record, this narrative also should have
introduced something new: showing the contemporary relevance of this attack on
civil liberties - surely not difficult in the post-9/11 environment - or
enlivening the story through specific reminiscences of the woman Grant calls her
Obaachan. Though Grant does contrast the Japanese internees' shikataganai -
roughly translated as an acceptance of what can't be changed, which she comes to
see as a reflection of wisdom and dignity rather than passivity - with the
political activism of her own generation, there's little else in the way of a
contemporary political frame.

Obaachan herself is either not much given to reflection or profoundly reticent,
so she offers few revelatory details. Grant attempts to bring their discussions
to life on the page with rather prosaic bits of physical description: She
herself twirls a grilled shrimp in garlic sauce, Obaachan kicks her sneaker-clad
feet as she speaks. When Obaachan kills a small and apparently harmless snake
she's found sunning itself on her path, Grant refers to a "ruthless side of my
grandmother" and calls the incident "comical, bewildering, and impressive" but
doesn't convince the reader. And none of this is enough to make her memoir
compelling.

Rupinder Gill's "On the Outside Looking Indian" is sometimes charming and
sometimes mildly amusing, but there's almost nothing at stake here. Gill grew up
in a very strict immigrant household, not allowed to take dance classes, go to
summer camp or do most of the other things enjoyed by youngsters in her
community - a small town an hour from Toronto. She and her sisters passed the
time watching television and eating junk food in the basement. Hers was not an
unkind or abusive home; the story she tells is the familiar one of traditional
immigrant parents struggling to make a life in a new country, and of children
who want to assimilate and would rather eat French fries than jalebi. It might
have been interesting to learn more about the parents' lives and thoughts and
the deeper differences between the two cultures, but that is not Gill's focus.
At 30, Gill decides to change her life, take some risks and experience
everything she'd been denied as a youngster. She's not planning drunken orgies,
a relocation to the Czech Republic or a jungle trek. Hers is a modest list that
includes sleepovers, learning to swim, visiting Disney World and getting a
puppy.

Significant memoirs and personal narratives have been written about quiet lives
and small events, but they require a poetic or dramatic writing style and the
ability to extrapolate from the mundane to the universal. Gill's style is
unfocused, and the challenges she creates for herself don't really go anywhere.
The slumber party doesn't live up to her teenage fantasies of horror movies and
prank calls, though it turns out to be pleasant. We might care about the
swimming lessons if Gill had to conquer a real terror of water, longed to become
a competitive swimmer or met a sexy man in the pool. As it is, she just learns
to swim a bit. No single encounter or event leaps to life - not even a visit to
India with her mother - and the narrative has little momentum or unexpected
detail to hold the reader's interest. There's just no real story here. And by
the end, Gill hasn't even acquired a puppy.

bookworld@washpost.com

Juliet Wittmanis the author of "Breast Cancer Journal: A Century of Petals" and
the theater critic for Westword, a Denver weekly.

LULU IN THE SKY

A Daughter of Cambodia Finds Love, Healing, and Double Happiness

By Loung Ung

Harper Perennial. 330 pp. Paperback, $15.99

SILVER LIKE DUST

One Family's Story of America's Japanese Internment

By Kimi Cunningham Grant

Pegasus. 325 pp. $26.95

ON THE OUTSIDE LOOKING INDIAN

How My Second Childhood Changed My Life

By Rupinder Gill

Riverhead. 277 pp. Paperback, $15

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 11, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

The harm caused by deportations

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 261 words


Ever since the Department of Homeland Security decided to conscript local police
as "force multipliers" in harsh immigration enforcement efforts, cities and
states have found themselves unwittingly or unwillingly part of the
controversial federal deportation program misnamed Secure Communities. But a
bold move last  week by the D.C. Council ["In D.C., no warm welcome for
immigration crackdown," Metro, June 5] to protect residents from the effects of
Secure Communities should serve as a model for the country.The council
unanimously sided with immigrants and other foreign-born residents and said the
city would respond to federal detention requests only when the individual
involved is an adult and has been convicted of a serious crime.

Secure Communities erodes public safety because it deters witnesses and crime
victims from contacting police for fear of deportation. It's responsible for
driving record deportations set by the president's quota of 400,000 removals a
year. The administration defends the program as a tool to target "criminals,"
but the  majority of deported  individuals  lacked criminal records or were
convicted of minor offenses. Of 1,246 people the program removed from Fairfax
County the past three years, less than a third committed serious crimes.

Real security is created by actions such as the District's that keep families
together, uphold principles of fairness and restore public trust between local
police and the community.

Sarahi Uribe, Washington

The writer is an organizer for the National Day Laborer Organizing Network.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 14, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

A teen's citizenship dream

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 231 words


Regarding the June 11 front-page article "A question of merit" and the June 12
news article "Virginia teen can remain in country":It was predictable but
unfortunate that Heydi Mejia, an undocumented immigrant, had to make the front
page of The Post to avoid immediate deportation. The United States is home to
thousands of students just like Ms. Mejia. Since we can't seem to fix the
immigration problem, can The Post put all of them on Page 1 as well?

Richard Wildermann, Herndon

l

The article about Heydi Mejia's recent graduation and imminent deportation
(since delayed) was heartbreaking. But there are rules, and her mother broke the
rules 14 years ago when she and her daughter entered the United States
illegally.

My heart goes out to them; I'm sure they are fine people. But when you break the
rules, there are - and should be - consequences.

Ashley Whitt, Woodbine, Md.

l

The article about the deportation proceedings for new high school graduate Heydi
Mejia was heartbreaking. Since she was brought to this country from Guatemala at
age 4, she has done nothing but prove to be a successful "citizen" and an
outstanding student. She has dreams for her future in the only country she has
ever known.

When will the members of Congress ever stop bickering and deal with this
nation's painful immigration issue?

Ms. Mejia deserves to stay and become a true U.S. citizen.

Ann Wild, Chevy Chase

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 16, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Reporter interrupts Obama's policy speech

BYLINE: David Nakamura

SECTION: A section; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 513 words


A reporter for a conservative news Web site interrupted President Obama's
announcement of a new immigration policy in the Rose Garden on Friday, drawing a
rebuke from the visibly agitated president.

The reporter, who later identified himself as Neil Munro of the Daily Caller,
shouted out questions while Obama was explaining that his administration will
block deportations of young illegal immigrants. That prompted the president to
respond: "Not while I'm speaking."          At the end of his remarks, however,
Obama returned to Munro, who was standing in the press corps area of the
manicured lawn outside the West Wing and had asked why Obama's new policy
favored "foreigners over American workers."

"And the answer to your question, sir - and the next time I'd prefer you let me
finish my statements before you ask that question - is this is the right thing
to do for the American people," Obama said, before Munro shouted out again. The
president added: "I didn't ask for an argument. I'm answering your question."

As Obama finished and walked off, Munro shouted: "What about American workers
who are unemployed while you import foreigners?"

On the Daily Caller's Web site, Munro issued a statement explaining that he
thought Obama was wrapping up his remarks when he asked the question.

"I have no intention of interrupting the President of the United States. I know
he rarely takes questions before walking away from the podium," Munro said in
the statement. "When I asked the question as he finished his speech, he turned
his back on the many reporters, and walked away while I and at least one other
reporter asked questions."

Daily Caller editor in chief Tucker Carlson, who was at an airport in Chicago
and did not watch the news conference, praised Munro's approach.

"That's what reporters do, try to get their questions answered. And that's what
politicians do, try not to answer questions," Carlson said in a phone interview.
"They come out and make a statement and run back into their fortress. Why should
we play along with that?"

Carlson described Munro as an experienced White House reporter in his mid-40s
who has worked at the Web site for two years. He said Munro is an immigrant from
Ireland who is married to an American and has children.

Carlson emphasized that Munro had not orchestrated a planned stunt to draw
attention.

"I had no idea," Carlson said. "He's an aggressive person."

But retired ABC News reporter and anchor Sam Donaldson, 78, said in a telephone
interview: "I never interrupted any president while he was making a formal
presentation of any sort. You don't do that, do you?"

Carlson added that White House press secretary Jay Carney had e-mailed him after
the incident asking Carlson to contact him.

"I'm a believer in politeness, but we ought to be polite to everybody," Carlson
said. "I also think these things are structured in such a way that gives the
politician all the cards."

Carlson added that he would give Munro a raise if the publication could afford
it.

nakamurad@washpost.com

Staff writer Karen Tumulty contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 16, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 385 words


Obama's immigration decision may boost Rubio's VP chances

One under-the-radar consequence of the Obama administration's shift in
deportation policy is that Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, the leading Hispanic
voice in the Republican Party, will now stand at the center of a critical debate
heading into the fall - a role that could boost his chances of emerging as Mitt
Romney's vice presidential pick.

The politics of Obama's order  blocking the deportation of thousands of young
illegal immigrants are clear: It should help him rally Hispanic voters
frustrated by current immigration policies.

It also could exacerbate GOP problems among Hispanic voters. A recent Wall
Street Journal poll had Obama leading Romney among Latino registered voters 61
percent to 27 percent. And those political winds may well convince Romney that
the way to counteract a major-league defeat among Hispanics is to put Rubio on
the ticket.

"If in fact this announcement turns into more Latino enthusiasm for Obama, it is
one more reason for Mitt Romney to look at Marco Rubio," said Miami-based
Republican strategist Ana Navarro.

A recent Quinnipiac University poll showed that picking Rubio would give Romney
a tangible boost in Florida. Outside his Cuban-heavy home state, Rubio's
potential impact is less clear.

But Rubio would bring to the Romney ticket not just his ethnic background but a
sign of commitment to immigration issues and Hispanic voters. He's done what
Romney, fearing a backlash from anti-immigration hawks, has been unable to do.

Rubio has presented his own version of the DREAM Act, allowing some young
illegal immigrants to stay in the country. (Romney has avoided taking a stand on
the proposal.) The senator has criticized Republicans for "rhetoric that is
harsh and intolerable and inexcusable."

In fact, Rubio responded to Obama's decision before Romney did. His statement
praised the goal but criticized the method.

"Today's announcement will be welcome news for many of these kids desperate for
an answer, but it is a short-term answer to a long-term problem," he said. "And
by once again ignoring the Constitution and going around Congress, this
short-term policy will make it harder to find a balanced and responsible
long-term one."

- Rachel Weiner

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 17, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

BYLINE: Greg Sargent

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 396 words


A GOP vote for Obama's move

Was President Obama's announcement that he will block deportations of hundreds
of thousands of young illegal immigrants an abuse of power and an affront to the
Constitution that will only encourage further lawbreaking? Many apoplectic
Republicans and conservatives have argued as much.

But not Mark Shurtleff, Utah's conservative attorney general. He dismissed those
objections in an interview on Friday, arguing the move was good law enforcement
policy and even a "conservative" solution.

"This is clearly within the president's power," Shurtleff told me. "I was
pleased when the president announced it."

Shurtleff, a Mitt Romney supporter who is a die-hard conservative on many other
issues, is perhaps the nation's most prominent Republican staking out an
alternative to the GOP's hard line on immigration. His support for the
president's policy represents a larger split within the party, between those who
see Arizona as a model for the nation and those who want the party to take
another approach to demographic (and related political) realities.

Shurtleff noted that this decision was not made via executive order and that the
administration has discretion to decide whom to prosecute.

"Law enforcement makes decisions based on the resources available to them -
until Congress acts, we'll be left with too many people to deport," Shurtleff
said. "The administration is saying, 'Here's a group we could be spending our
resources going after, but why? They're Americans, they see themselves as
Americans, they love this country.' "

By allowing children brought here illegally to attend school and work, Shurtleff
added, the president's plan could encourage them to stay out of gangs - which
Shurtleff  called a "conservative" goal. He dismissed the claim that illegal
immigration would be encouraged, noting that Obama's plan applies only to those
who came to this country before age 16, who are younger than 30 and who have
been in the country for at least five continuous years.

Shurtleff also rejected the argument that this constitutes "amnesty" because it
gives illegal immigrants the legal status they were trying to steal.

"You're not giving [legal status] to the parents who came here," Shurtleff said.
"You're giving it to the child who was brought here. That child didn't get to
choose."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 18, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Romney knocks immigration move but details no alternative

BYLINE: Philip Rucker;Dan Balz

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1008 words


NEWARK, Ohio - Mitt Romney criticized President Obama's decision to stop
deporting some illegal immigrants who were brought to the United States as
children as an election-year political move, but he repeatedly declined in an
interview Sunday to lay out an alternative plan.

The Republican presidential candidate said he wants a "long-term solution,"
unlike what he derided as Obama's "stopgap measure," but would not say what it
would entail other than to provide permanent residency to those who serve in the
military.

"With regards to these kids who were brought in by their parents through no
fault of their own, there needs to be a long-term solution so they know what
their status is," Romney said on CBS's "Face the Nation."

Romney's struggle to offer a clear alternative on the immigration issue was a
fresh reminder of one of the challenges he faces, which is to go beyond his
steady criticism of the president with a more detailed description of the
policies he would implement to replace what Obama has done.

Immigration is a problem particularly because of conservative stances Romney
took during the Republican primary campaign that now could cause him difficulty
in appealing to Hispanic voters in the general election. But even regarding the
biggest issue of the campaign - the economy - there are many unanswered
questions as to what he would do.

Romney is midway through a bus tour of six potential battleground states and on
Sunday, he stumped across the most critical of all, Ohio. He spoke at a pancake
breakfast in Brunswick and a rally in the town square of Newark and then
campaigned with House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) at a hamburger shop in
Troy.

But his speeches were short and general. At the rally here in Newark, Romney
revved up a couple of thousand supporters by promising to "shock the world with
how our economy's coming back," but in a speech that clocked at just nine
minutes, offered only broad outlines and few specifics.

Those specifics included developing U.S. energy resources, cutting back on
government regulation of business - including the repeal of Obama's health-care
law - and putting the country on track toward a balanced budget.

Stuart Stevens, the campaign's chief strategist, acknowledged that voters want
to know more about what a Romney presidency would be like. But he took issue
with critics who have said the Republican hasn't offered details about how his
presidency would differ from Obama's.

"As the campaign goes on, you'll have more specifics," Stevens told reporters
Sunday after the Newark rally. "But I think that Governor Romney has been more
specific [than] the president on most of these big issues." He cited Romney's
proposals on Social Security and Medicare as two examples. But he begged off
questions about immigration and how Romney would balance the budget.

Stevens said voters have a clear sense of Obama. "They know how they feel about
this president," he said. "They know what they've experienced the last 31 / 2
years and they're disappointed."

But he acknowledged that many of these same voters don't know Romney well. "We
hear the same thing," he said.

The campaign's response has been an opening round of ads, which describe, in
general terms, what the candidate would do in the opening stages of his
presidency. "Okay, let's talk about what a Romney presidency would be like,"
Stevens said, adding: "People want to know this."

The renewed spotlight on immigration comes as Romney tries to narrow Obama's
wide lead among Hispanic voters. The candidates will address a national group of
Latino officials this week in Orlando, where Romney will face pressure to
further define his position.

Romney made his first extensive comments in the CBS interview about immigration
policy since Obama's announcement Friday regarding the citizenship status of
child immigrants who go on to become law-abiding residents.

When anchor Bob Schieffer asked Romney whether he would repeal Obama's policy,
he said: "Well, it would be overtaken by events, if you will, by virtue of my
putting in place a long-term solution, with legislation which creates law that
relates to these individuals such that they know what their setting is going to
be, not just for the term of a president but on a permanent basis."

Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, suggested that Obama's decision was
motivated by politics, not policy.

"If he felt seriously about this he should have taken action when he had a
Democrat House and Senate, but he didn't. He saves these sort of things until 41
/ 2 months before the general election," Romney said. Campaign politics, he
added, was "certainly a big part of the equation."

Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) has been trying to draft compromise legislation for
young immigrants, but Romney largely has been standoffish, declining to take a
position on the outlines Rubio has described.

And in his campaign appearances Sunday in Ohio, Romney never mentioned
immigration. Instead, he focused almost exclusively on the economy and sharply
criticized the president's stewardship of it.

In a sign that the campaign is intensifying, though, Romney was followed by
hecklers at two of his rallies; at an event in Troy, about a dozen Obama
supporters shouted "Romney, go home!" and "We are the 99 percent!" throughout
Romney's eight-minute speech. Earlier Sunday, Obama strategist David Axelrod
tweeted: "I strongly condemn heckling along Mitt's route."

When Romney's bus drove in dramatic fashion onto a rolling apple orchard in
Brunswick, his breakfast crowd was drenched and the pancakes were soggy. But the
candidate - accompanied on Father's Day by his wife, Ann; two of their five
sons; and five grandchildren - pointed to the weather as a political good omen.

"I didn't know it was going to rain this morning," Romney said, as the storm
clouds began to drift east. "It looks like the sun is coming out. I think that's
a metaphor for the country. The sun is coming out, guys. Three and a half years
of dark clouds are about to part."

ruckerp@washpost.com

balzd@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 19, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Asians outnumber Hispanics among new arrivals to U.S., analysis shows

BYLINE: Carol Morello

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 790 words


Immigration from Latin America has dropped so precipitously that Asians now
outnumber Hispanics among new arrivals in the United States, a new study shows.
The switchover has been in place since at least 2009, according to the Pew
Research Center, and is primarily the result of plunging immigration from
Mexico, the birthplace of more U.S. immigrants than any other country. This
year, Pew said more Mexicans may be leaving the United States than arriving for
the first time since the Great Depression, due to weakness in the U.S. job
market, a rise in deportation and a decline in Mexico's birthrate.

At the same time, the number of Asian immigrants has held steady or increased
slightly. Pew's analysis of census data estimated that 430,000 Asian immigrants
came to the United States in 2010, making up 36 percent of all new immigrants,
compared with 31 percent who were Hispanic.

The reversal is a reminder of how the recession and an uneven recovery have
altered not only how people live but, to a degree, who lives in the United
States. Demographers and immigration analysts cautioned that the two largest and
fastest-growing groups may eventually switch places again when the economy grows
robust. But in the meantime, the about-face has the potential to tweak
perceptions of immigrants and their role in society.

"If it continues, the face of immigrants in the country will change, and perhaps
the reaction to immigration will change," said William Frey, a demographer at
the Brookings Institution who has found that India is fueling most of the Asian
population growth. "People have different perceptions of Asians than they do of
Hispanics. Asians have always been seen as the model minority."

Most Asian and Hispanic immigrants arrive in the United States with very
different backgrounds. Pew estimated that 13 to 15 percent of Asian immigrants
over the past decade were undocumented, compared with 45 percent of Hispanic
immigrants. More Asian immigrants are admitted with employment visas than those
from other countries.

Pew noted that just 16 percent of recent Hispanic adult immigrants have college
degrees, compared with 28 percent of all adults in the United States. In
contrast, more than two in three adult Asians who have immigrated in recent
years either come to the United States to attend college or already have at
least a bachelor's degree, a distinction making them "the most highly educated
cohort of immigrants in U.S. history."

"It's the way people are," said My Lan Tran, an ethnic Chinese immigrant from
Vietnam who  heads the Virginia Asian Chamber of Commerce. "It's always been
that way, for 6,000 or 7,000 years. It's like asking why the moon is yellow.
That's just the way it is."

The typically high education levels of Asians have often fit U.S. immigration
policy goals.

Rob Paral, a Chicago-based demographic consultant to the American Immigration
Council, said many of the poorest neighborhoods in big cities have Asian doctors
who immigrated on the promise that they could stay permanently if they promise
to work in an under-served area.

"Asians are the group most likely to arrive explicitly because a hospital could
not a find a native-born American to do their intern rounds," he said. "Maybe
now we'll have the luxury to look at what Asian immigration means, showing how
we can use immigration policy as a tool to fill our needs."

Despite the reversal in positions for new immigrants, Hispanics still far
outnumber Asians in the United States. There are already more Hispanics than the
41 million Asians that Pew predicts will live in the United States by 2050,
around the time when non-Hispanic whites are predicted to be a minority.
Currently, the nation's 18 million Asians make up 6 percent of the U.S.
population, including multiracial people. More than eight in 10 come from just
six countries - China, the Philippines, India, Vietnam, South Korea and Japan.

By comparison, the nation's 52 million Hispanics make up almost 17 percent of
the population.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
opposes the Dream Act that would make legal some immigrants who came to the
United States as children, said most Americans won't even notice that Asians
outnumber Hispanics as new arrivals.

"I don't think things are necessarily going to change much," he said., executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which describes its vision as
"low immigration, pro-immigrant." "Even if Asians are the biggest new immigrant
group, the blip of a few percentage points is not going to change the fact
today's immigration flow is remarkably un-diverse. That's what drives much of
the political concern in the public."

morelloc@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 19, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Frozen faces, gazing through gate to new lives

BYLINE: Michael E. Ruane

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 811 words


The little girl with the dark circles under her eyes looks as though she's been
crying. She's clutching a doll and has her left arm looped in the arm of the
girl beside her.

It is 1908. The place is the immigration depot on Ellis Island in New York's
harbor. It looks chilly, because many of the children are in hats and scarves.
But the youngsters, and some adults, have gathered for a group photograph.
The haunting photo is among the first that visitors see in the National
Archives' new exhibit on the history of the travails of immigration, which
opened Friday in the Archives' main building in downtown Washington.

Titled "Attachments: Faces and Stories From America's Gates," it is a look at
the difficulties and prejudices faced by immigrants down through the years, and
the harrowing roads some traveled to reach America.

Told with documents, letters and affidavits, the exhibit's power is in its
black-and-white photographs - many blown up to huge size - of people.

The elegant shot of Wong Lan Fong, 27, the bride of Chinese merchant Yee Shew
Ning. She appears coiffed and prosperous to convince immigration officials at
California's Angel Island in 1927 that she is not a prostitute.

The photo of 13-year-old, Polish-born Michael Pupa, his hair carefully parted.
It was taken in 1951 after his  parents had perished at the hands of the Nazis
and he had made his way to the United States, a boy survivor of the
Holocaust.The striking 1926 photo, which curators found in a "dead letter" file,
of the Italian musician Pasquale Taraffo posing with his gigantic harp-guitar.
The picture was designed to prove Taraffo's profession so he could enter the
country to perform.

The exhibit is one of "individuals who found themselves at America's gates, and
for one reason or another had a difficult time going through those gates,"
curator Bruce I. Bustard said.

"We're not trying to make any comment on the contemporary [immigration] debate,"
Bustard said. "We are trying to . . . get people to realize that the debates
around immigration have their own long and . . . complicated and conflicted
history."

Bustard said the first immigrants to be photographed were Chinese in the late
1800s, followed by other Asians, and then almost all immigrants after World War
I.

Government officials sought to document those who were seeking entry, and the
immigrants  sought to impress -  and sometimes deceive - those controlling
entry.

In some instances, the government recorded would-be immigrants' height, weight,
condition of teeth and hat size.

Bustard said there were many cases of "paper sons" and "paper daughters," in
which immigrants posed as legal relatives of someone already here to gain
entrance.

One story in the exhibit is that of Rock Hang, a Chinese cook in Seattle who was
trying to gain reentry to the United States of a boy he claimed was his son.
When the boy arrived in 1906, officials doubted the story and had him deported.

Some who arrived were deported for other reasons.

Dubas Wasyl, an Austrian farmhand who, officials noted, had "normal" ears and
two missing teeth, was deported from Ellis Island in 1906 after it was
discovered that he had served time back home for stealing peas and consorting
with thieves.

Francesco Zaccaro was sent home in 1907 after he was found to have been jailed
for eight days in his native Italy for "applying [a] vile name to a woman."  He
had been in the United States for just three days.

An entry in his file reads: "Excluded as a person having been convicted of a
crime involving moral turpitude."

Some immigrants got in but traveled long and tortured routes.

Stephan Bondareff, a soldier in the White Russian army, left Russia after the
Bolshevik Red Army won the Russian Civil War in the early 1920s.

He fled to Turkey, Bulgaria, England and France. He was hired as a Cossack
"trick rider" in a Wild West show in France. When the show traveled to Mexico,
he slipped across the Rio Grande into Texas.

He made his way to Michigan and went to work for Ford. He became a citizen in
1938 and died in 1978.

Richard Arvay, an Austrian Jewish filmmaker, fled to Paris when Nazi Germany
annexed Austria in 1938. After Germany defeated France in World War II, Arvay
spent a year in a concentration camp.

It's not clear if he escaped or was released, but he moved to southern France,
according to the exhibit catalogue, then Italy, and then was granted entry to
what was supposed to be a temporary refugee camp in Oswego, N.Y.

The refugees promised to return to Europe after the war.

But in 1944, Arvay filled out a U.S. background form, with a handwritten note
that read:  "I . . . would find it impossible to live in a country where all my
family have been killed and as far as I know no member of my relationship or
friends are alive."

Arvay was allowed to stay and became a citizen. He died in 1970.

ruanem@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 21, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

A disregard for personal freedom

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 155 words


Regarding the June 18 front-page article "Alabama law casts a long
shadow":Alabama has made it a crime for undocumented immigrants to purchase a
home, pay a utility bill or sign a contract - the latest case of Republicans
blatantly advocating for big-government measures whenever it advances their
political agenda.

Whether it is through ignorance or an impudent disregard for personal freedom,
conservatives who claim to love liberty use their power to implement roadside
checkpoints and to require drivers to provide their immigration status to
authorities.

If we believe in the American values of equality, the free market and liberty,
we would agree that, in Alabama at least, conservatives are the biggest threats
to social and economic freedom.

Natural rights are held by all, not just by those who carry around their
identification papers.

Carlos Alfaro, Washington

The writer is an executive board member of Students for Liberty.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 23, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

The source of an immigrant's plight

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 231 words


Regarding the June 11 front-page article "A question of merit":Eli Saslow wrote
a sad story about recent Richmond area high school graduate Heydi Mejia, but he
did not address the elephant in the room: her mother bringing her illegally into
this country when she was 4 years old. It mentioned that fact, but it really
glossed over it as the cause of Mejia's pending deportation to Guatemala. And it
didn't include Mejia's reaction to what her mother had done to her.

I feel for Mejia, who got a reprieve from deportation last week, but who is
responsible for her plight? The article had many words about grief but not one
word about the true cause of her grief.

Dennis Hughes,

St. Petersburg, Fla.

l

Eli Saslow's article represented a powerful counterpoint to the declining
influence of newsprint in the digital age. Less than one week after the
publication of  this heartfelt tale, about a Virginia teen who has been in this
country illegally since the age of 4, the White House announced a change of
policy that allows her and hundreds of thousands of other young immigrants like
her the opportunity to avoid deportation and pursue the American dream.

Kudos to The Post and print journalists everywhere who strive day in and day out
against technology and the bottom line to ensure that our country remains true
to its highest values.

Dennis S. Askwith, Gaithersburg

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 25, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

For Obama, a tough year at the high court

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A section; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 908 words


The Supreme Court this week will conclude its term by handing down
much-anticipated rulings on health care and immigration, President Obama's
remaining priorities before the justices. It is a finale that cannot come
quickly enough for the administration, which has had a long year at the high
court.          In a string of cases - as obscure as the federal government's
relationships with Indian tribes and as significant as enforcement of the Clean
Water Act - the court rejected the administration's legal arguments with
lopsided votes and sometimes biting commentary.

The administration's win-loss record will sting a lot less, of course, if the
court upholds the constitutionality of Obama's signature domestic achievement,
the Affordable Care Act. That decision on health care, which will define the
term, could come as early as Monday and almost certainly will be announced by
Thursday.          The court also will decide the fate of Arizona's tough law on
illegal immigrants, which the Obama administration challenged in court before it
could take effect. The government's argument that the law conflicts with the
federal authority to decide immigration policy got a sour reception from the
justices, but the government hopes for at least a split decision on other
aspects of the measure.

The administration's ungainly portfolio at the Supreme Court this term has drawn
attention from all points on the ideological spectrum.Ilya Shapiro, a
constitutional scholar at the libertarian Cato Institute, said the government is
to blame for "outlandish claims of federal power" that the court was correct to
reject.

Adam Winkler, a liberal law professor at UCLA, recently wrote that the court
headed by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. has been "unusually hostile to the
Obama administration."

His conclusion: "This is the year of the Supreme Court's Obama smack down."

It might also have something to do with the (bad) luck of the draw. It is the
job of Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr. to defend the actions of
Congress and the executive. In some of the government's high-profile losses in
Verrilli's inaugural term, the administration was defending decisions made long
before Obama took office.

But whatever the reasons, the losses so far cannot be blamed on the conflict
between an increasingly conservative court and a progressive administration. For
instance, the authors of the Indian cases that went against the government last
week were Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan, Obama's choices for the
court.

At least so far, 5 to 4 decisions that have divided the court along ideological
lines have split fairly evenly between wins for liberals and for conservatives.
And there have been a string of high-profile losses in which the government has
failed to win the vote of a single justice - liberal or conservative.

The court was unanimous in rejecting the government's arguments that federal
discrimination laws protect employees of religious organizations who perform
some duties central to the group's faith.The justices in Hosanna-Tabor
Evangelical Lutheran Church and School v. EEOCfor the first time recognized a
"ministerial exception" to workplace discrimination laws. They dismissed the
government's view that the fired employee's claim should be viewed as if she
worked for a labor union or social club protected by the First Amendment's
guarantee of free association.

"We cannot accept the remarkable view that the Religion Clauses have nothing to
say about a religious organization's freedom to select its own ministers,"
Roberts wrote.

In United States v. Jones, the government argued that it did not need a warrant
to attach a Global Positioning System device to a suspected drug dealer's car
and monitor his movements for a month. The court again disagreed unanimously,
although the justices split on whether Antoine Jones's constitutional rights
were violated when the device was put on his car or whether the government's
surveillance compromised his privacy rights.

And in Sackett v. EPA, the court rejected the argument that property owners
accused of violating the Clean Water Act do not have the right to quickly
challenge those allegations in court.          It is a case in which the
administration was defending a decades-old EPA enforcement technique upheld by
lower courts. It was not indicative of any activism by the Obama environmental
regime; Mike and Chantell Sackett's plan to build an Idaho lake house was
stopped when George W. Bush was president.

While the Supreme Court passed up an earlier chance to consider the same issues
in an appeal from General Electric, it took the case of the Sacketts.

"I wonder if the case had been involving a large corporation if the result would
have been 9-0," Paul D. Clement, a former solicitor general in the Bush
administration, told reporters at a Chamber of Commerce briefing last week.

Others have questioned the aggressiveness of Verrilli's office and the
administration. As in the Sackett case, the government's support of the fired
teacher in the Hosanna-Tabor case began during the Bush administration.

Still, Shapiro said, the government "made a much broader argument at the Supreme
Court" than it had been making in the lower courts.

This week's decisions in the Arizona immigration case and on the health-care law
will determine whether such cases are remembered as footnotes or
harbingers.barnesr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              408 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 25, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

A lawful step for the immigration system

BYLINE: David A. Martin

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 951 words


President  Obama recently announced  a policy to stop deportation of most
undocumented immigrants who came here as children and to give them a
quasi-status, called deferred action, that can let them work legally. Perhaps
800,000 Dreamers (as these young migrants are known, because they would be
covered under most versions of the long-stalled Dream Act) will benefit.
Pundits have been quick to label this initiative a kind of presidential penance
for alienating Latino supporters through his alleged policy of "record
deportations." Others say the new initiative is lawless, defying or nullifying
statutes Congress has passed.

Both camps are wrong. In fact, the Dreamer policy was largely made possible,
both politically and legally, by the administration's resolute, focused
deportation policy. Immigrant advocacy groups should begin appreciating this
balanced accomplishment.

Since Obama's inauguration, advocates have pressured the president to trim way
back on deportations, in the name of prosecutorial discretion. Some even
suggested that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) should deport only
people with serious felony convictions, which would cut removals to no more than
half - and probably more like a quarter - of the 397,000 ICE enforced in 2011 .
But prosecutorial discretion, contrary to advocates' apparent assumption, isn't
authority to negate whole realms of enacted law. It is authority to choose
strategies and to direct resources while still achieving the basic aims of the
relevant legislation.

The policy that calls for high-volume deportations is not only, or even
primarily, Obama's. It is Congress's policy, expressed both through the
substantive immigration laws and - importantly - through annual appropriations
acts. Appropriators have showered the enforcement agencies with resources over
the past two decades. For the past four years, those resources have been enough
to support 370,000 to 400,000 ICE removals a year. Enacted appropriations have
the force of law. (Incidentally, Obama's removal level is only slightly higher
than the last year of the Bush administration. He may hold a record, but it's by
only 2 percent.)

Congress has also grown increasingly specific in its enforcement mandates - for
example, not only funding more than 30,000 ICE detention beds but firmly
directing that they be in constant use for removals. Appropriations legislation
has also specified the creation of a data system, now known as Secure
Communities, permitting ICE to link seamlessly to state and local arrest
information in order to concentrate efficiently on removing people with criminal
records.

For Obama to drop enforcement way below the levels Congress has called for
through appropriations laws would be more than legally dubious. It would also
set a dangerous precedent that could haunt progressives. Picture a Romney
administration thwarting, say, the new consumer protection laws by refusing to
spend half the money Congress continually provides for their enforcement. Such
hypothetical actions, by any administration, would conjure the ghost of Richard
Nixon, who belligerently impounded huge sums that Congress had appropriated
simply because enforcement didn't conform to unilateral executive policies.

Hard-liners may say: But Obama is not enforcing the law; he is rewriting it
through his latest initiative. This, too, is incorrect, precisely because the
administration has pledged to stay at the level of removals that corresponds to
appropriations, even while keeping Dreamers off the deportation list. Its
three-year track record of high-volume deportations, maintained in the face of
sharp criticism from key supporters, shows its commitment to law-bound
enforcement.

Some might still object: How can Obama give these people work authorization? But
such an approach is no novelty, and it certainly is not lawless. Foreigners
given deferred action have been eligible for work permits for 25 years under
regulations - carrying the force of law - adopted during the Reagan
administration.

Because ICE's annual appropriations, vast as they have become, still allow for
removal of only about 4 percent of the estimated undocumented population,
enforcement is inevitably quite selective. Hard-liners are only bluffing when
they posture about across-the-board enforcement rigor. In reality, they are
essentially asking for random removals - just charge whomever a field agent
happens to stumble across, until that month's resources run out. How can that
make for effective policy?

Instead, ICE is systematically applying the kind of judgment and discretion that
properly belong to the executive, in order to adjust the focus of enforcement
within the bounds that Congress marks. This approach began with a prosecutorial
discretion guidance memo from ICE Director John Morton in June 2011. Although
its implementation is still uneven, ICE is turning the removal spotlight toward
criminals, recent arrivals and repeat immigration violators - and away from
youths who are not culpable for their illegal presence. The Dreamer policy is
simply a more detailed element of that broader effort. Our country's best chance
for a long-run cure to our sick immigration system is to combine sophisticated
enforcement with humane realism about its targets.  Polling suggests  that this
precise mix is winning support for Obama's Dreamer policy. May it someday be a
model for full legislative reform.

David A. Martin, a professor of law at the University of Virginia, served as
general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1995 to 1998
and principal deputy general counsel of the Department of Homeland Security from
2009 through 2010.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              409 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 26, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Among Romney and GOP, disorder on the border

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: A section; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 835 words


Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer is many things - immigration provocateur, bete noire of
Latinos, presidential irritant - but nobody has ever accused her of being a
legal scholar.           On Monday morning, the Supreme Court struck down three
of four contested provisions in her state's immigration law and left the fourth
in jeopardy. But Brewer decided to call it a win.

"Today's decision by the U.S. Supreme Court is a victory for the rule of law,"
the Republican governor announced in a statement that left the strong impression
it was written before the opinion was released. She used the word "victory"
twice more in her written statement, and added the word "vindicated" to her oral
remarks. To be sure, the ruling left intact part of the immigration crackdown,
the "show me your papers" component, which the court suggested might be
vulnerable to future challenge. But Brewer certainly couldn't have called it a
victory if she had read the vitriolic dissent of Justice Antonin Scalia against
the opinion by a union of the court's liberal bloc with Chief Justice John G.
Roberts Jr. and Justice Anthony M. Kennedy.

In an extraordinary display of judicial distemper, Scalia departed entirely from
the law at one point and attacked an Obama administration policy that wasn't at
issue in the case. Footnoting a New York Times news article rather than case
law, Scalia opined on a recent news conference by President Obama.

Scalia's dissent, more campaign speech than legal opinion, claimed that the
Obama administration "desperately wants to avoid upsetting foreign powers" and
is acting with "willful blindness or deliberate inattention" to Arizona's
illegal immigrants. Saying the majority opinion "boggles the mind," Scalia
suggested that states are "at the mercy of the Federal Executive's refusal to
enforce the Nation's immigration laws."

Scalia's stump speech capped a rough couple of weeks for immigration
hard-liners. The reaction to Monday's decision was overshadowed by the high
court's looming health-care ruling, but the case was the latest in a string of
political victories for Latinos, who have been alternately ignored and abused
the past few years.

During the Republican presidential primaries, Mitt Romney condemned Texas Gov.
Rick Perry for supporting a law that granted in-state tuition rates to the
children of illegal immigrants, and he vowed to veto the Dream Act, which
offered the possibility of citizenship for young illegal immigrants. Romney also
spoke of illegal immigrants going through "self-deportation" and, in remarks his
campaign later sought to clarify, Romney described the Arizona law as a national
model. No less an authority than Newt Gingrich called Romney anti-immigrant.
But now Romney, trailing Obama by 41 percentage points among Hispanics in a
recent USA Today-Gallup poll, is struggling to change his image. After Obama
said that he would stop deportations of certain young illegal immigrants, Romney
demurred repeatedly when CBS News's Bob Schieffer asked whether he would repeal
the Obama policy.

Last week, Romney launched a 15-state Hispanic outreach effort called "Juntos
con Romney," and he promised the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials that he would pursue the "moral imperative" of bipartisan
immigration reform. When a report came out last week that Romney wasn't
considering Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, the Republicans' Latino star, to be
running mate, Romney quickly knocked down the report. Monday's ruling created a
new complication for Romney, who refused to react to the decision other than to
say it showed the need for "a president who will lead on this critical issue and
work in a bipartisan fashion to pursue a national immigration strategy." Romney,
who happened to be traveling in Arizona, avoided giving reporters a chance to
ask questions. The Washington Post's Philip Rucker reported that a campaign
spokesman was questioned for seven minutes but declined to say whether Romney
agrees with the Supreme Court or supports Arizona's law. Eventually, Romney
produced some mild criticism of the decision, saying that "I would have
preferred to see the Supreme Court give more latitude to the states, not less."

It wasn't exactly what immigration hard-liners had wanted: The Supreme Court
invalidating most of the Arizona law in a 5-to-3 vote, and the Republicans'
presidential standard-bearer becoming skittish about a law he once praised. But
Brewer did not let such concerns get in her way.

"The key components of our efforts to protect the citizens of Arizona to take up
the fight against illegal immigration in a balanced and constitutional way
[have] unanimously been vindicated by the highest court in the land," she
declared.

Beg your pardon, Governor, but would you remain inside your vehicle while we
check your legal credentials?

danamilbank@washpost.com          For previous Washington Sketch columns, go to
washingtonpost.com/milbank.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 30, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 514 words


texas          Answers sought in border agents' deaths

The families of two U.S. immigration agents shot more than a year ago in Mexico
renewed their demand Friday that the U.S. government explain why the agents were
there and how guns purchased in the United States fell into the hands of their
attackers.

The parents of slain Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent Jaime Zapata
joined with the sister of agent Victor Avila to press the government on whether
an operation similar to one in Arizona that allowed illegally purchased guns to
be smuggled into Mexico in the hope of tracking them to higher-ranking criminal
figures.

The families spoke in Zapata's home town of Brownsville, Tex., one day after the
U.S. House voted to hold Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. in contempt for not
providing documents for a probe of Operation "Fast and Furious" in Arizona. In
that case, ATF agents lost track of weapons. Two guns in that operation were
found where border agent Brian Terry was slain.

Tom Crowley, a spokesman for the Dallas field division of the ATF said the
agency "has always said that this investigation has no connection whatsoever to
Fast and Furious."

- Associated Press

Students who bullied monitor disciplined

The four students who bullied bus monitor Karen Klein have been suspended from
school and bus services for a year, the Greece Central School District in New
York said Friday.          In lieu of a hearing, the middle school students and
their families accepted the disciplinary measures, which include 50 hours'
community service working with senior citizens and a bullying prevention
program, the school district said. Because the district must legally provide the
students with an education, they will attend an alternative Reengagement Center
for at least 30 weeks.

Klein's story drew national attention last week after a video of the 68-year-old
grandmother being verbally assaulted went viral. Max Sidorov of Toronto launched
a campaign on Indiegogo.com seeking to raise $5,000 to give Klein a vacation.
With three weeks left, the campaign has  raised nearly $670,000.- Michael Cavna

SCLC appoints CEO: The Southern Christian Leadership Conference is bringing back
a past president as the civil rights organization's chief executive. The SCLC
plans to announce Monday that Charles Steele will serve as chief executive in an
effort to "restore the financial stability and credibility of SCLC."

- Associated Press

Aimee Copeland, the Georgia graduate student who just weeks ago was fighting for
her life after contracting a rare flesh-eating bacterial infection, will be
released from the hospital on Monday to continue her recovery at a
rehabilitation center, her father Andy said Friday.

Amish farmers, whose beliefs stop them from inoculating their children but not
their horses, thronged a first-ever free veterinary vaccination clinic in
Albany, N.Y., this week to fend off a disease that has killed a dozen horses and
a four-year-old girl.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              411 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 30, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

In immigration debate, young adults focus on people, not politics

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 426 words


Young adults offer hope for immigration system

Cardinal Roger Mahony is the archbishop emeritus of Los Angeles.

Two recent events highlighted the complexity of the immigration debate in our
country: the decision by the president to defer the deportation of young people
brought to this country as minors, and to allow them to get work permits; and
the U.S. Supreme Court decision on the Arizona immigration law.

As politicians ratchet up the rhetoric from every possible perspective, and as
groups either applaud or bewail recent immigration decisions, there is one group
in the country that really "gets it"-our young adults. They are the ones who
will eventually take the leadership and make the changes needed in our broken
immigration system.

And why? Because they were in high school and college with classmates and
friends who were undocumented. They came to know them as brothers and sisters,
not as a threat to our nation and our future. Our young adults don't see an
"illegal," but, rather, someone with a name, a face and a story like theirs.

This positive reality was experienced recently at Georgetown University as The
American Project (TAP) gathered dozens of young adults from across the country
to take a leadership role in bestowing dignity and respect on our immigrant
brothers and sisters. The focus was on our individual creation by God and how
God's commands to care for one another, including the foreigner in our midst,
cascade down the Hebrew and the Christian Scriptures. The voice of God could not
be clearer or more consistent, and our young adults really understood that.

TAP's goals that weekend were to have young adults from various backgrounds meet
each other, to discuss from their perspective the plight of today's immigrants,
and to affect change.

The young people explored many social networking resources in order to link
others who are like-minded across the country. They challenged each other to
return to their campuses, their work, and their activities as new instruments of
understanding.

No successful legislative initiatives will result until the emphasis shifts away
from political advantage to this or that group and refocuses on the inherent
human dignity of our immigrants as brothers and sisters. It is obvious that the
ones to shift hearts and minds down the road will be today's young adults. They
put the focus on this national debate where it should be: on the individual
human dignity of each person and the resulting worth of each person.

Our young adults get it.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 5, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

Winner: Teaching that's outside the box

BYLINE: Jay Mathews

SECTION: Metro; Pg. T14

LENGTH: 659 words


Reliving immigration beat unpacking sludge in our first reader vote on creative
teaching strategies.

Teacher-lawyer Patrick Mattimore suggested the friendly competition to me. It
seemed that discussions of what works in schools are often too vague. Why not
celebrate very specific lessons? Many teachers submitted their best ideas.
Readers picked their favorites.            The winner's prize, in this era of
journalist frugality, was getting her name in the paper.

Readers debated for weeks on my Class Struggle blog what constituted a teaching
strategy. Many students who experienced the competing strategies firsthand sent
in their votes.

The winning finalist was Karen Craig, an eighth-grade language arts and social
studies teacher at Connelly School of the Holy Child in Potomac. Here's how her
immigration project works: Her students are grouped into make-believe families.
They pretend they are immigrating here in about 1900. In language arts, they
blog about the experience. In science, they study the diseases that afflicted
immigrants. In social studies, they analyze immigration laws. In foreign
language, they take a look at countries that provided the most immigrants.

"It was very helpful to my studies," said Caroline Holmes, one of Craig's
students.

Sara Downes, a reader who lived in Australia, said the immigration unit reminded
her of the First Fleet unit her son did in third grade there. First Fleet was
the initial group of convicts sent to Australia from Great Britain. The
Australian students worked on various projects to earn a "ticket of leave,"
which the third-grade convicts learned meant parole.

Two parents, Brooke Morton and Maureen Appel, were particularly impressed with
Holy Child's field trip to Ellis Island at the end of the project. Their
children saw what the immigrants they were pretending to be saw when they
arrived.

In second place was Debbie Pakaluk, an eighth-grade chemistry teacher at the
Norwood School in Bethesda. Her sludge project sounds hard to me. Students pair
up. Each get a 100 milliliter mixture of glop in a plastic cup. They have three
weeks to report its ingredients. They check the odor and appearance and test for
density, boiling point, solubility and flammability.

This is the second time I have encountered such an exercise. My two sons did
something similar with a brilliant science teacher, Paul Korn, at the Chandler
School in Pasadena, Calif. Twenty years later, Korn is still doing it, and
parents there are as thrilled with the results as the parents in Pakaluk's class
are. Sarah Foster Wetstone said her two daughters are now science majors in
college, in part because of "Debbie and her infamous sludge project."The obvious
difficulty of the assignment scares the Norwood students, just as it frightened
my boys. It needs a tough teacher. "It takes great discipline on Debbie's part
not to help her students," Norwood teacher Annette Matzner said. "As teachers,
we're taught to help students when they struggle, but it's the struggle of this
project that makes it both memorable and life-changing."

David Eacho, a former Pakaluk student, said the project "made me love chemistry
so much more." He just finished studying Advanced Placement chemistry as a high
school sophomore.

Mattimore and I picked three finalists from dozens of entries. I loved the
teaching strategy that took third place: something strange and wonderful called
choral reading. The entrant was Trayce Diskin, who teaches literacy at
Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring. Her students highlight the parts
of a literary work they find most compelling and read only those parts aloud
when the class recites the work. This brings many surprises and much discussion.

In our online poll, choral reading got 6 percent, vs. 52 percent for immigration
and 42 percent for sludge. The e-mail count was 58 percent for immigration, 34
percent for sludge and 8 percent for choral reading.

mathewsj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 9, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

In Northern Virginia, a leader among Vietnamese immigrants

BYLINE: Luz Lazo

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 994 words


Binh "Gene" Nguyen was inhigh school when his mother sent him to learn to do
nails.

"Don't fight. Just do it,'" Nguyen recalls his mother saying.

The young man soon mastered the art of manicures and pedicures, and before long,
Nguyen was teaching the trade to fellow Vietnamese immigrants.

The industry that he had so reluctantly entered has been expanding ever since.
Growing with it is Nguyen's profile as a business and community leader in
Northern Virginia, where the Eden Center in Falls Church has long been the hub
of the region's Vietnamese American community.

Today, the 41-year-old not only runs the nail academy his family founded in
1988, but he owns the highly regarded restaurant Present and the nightclub V3
Lounge.

And as the founder and president of the new Vietnamese-American Chamber of
Commerce of Greater Washington, Nguyen now has a title to match the influential
role he made for himself.          He owes his success, he said, to his start
doing nails, a trade his relatives took to soon after they arrived as refugees
in Southern California in 1983. With his family's nail academy in Northern
Virginia, Nguyen helped establish an industry in Washington that hardly existed
in the mid-1980s.

Nguyen has trained hundreds of Washington's nail technicians, many of whom have
gone on to open their own shops.

"It is easy for a Vietnamese person to find a nail job now," Nguyen, dressed in
a dark suit, said on a recent morning as he flipped through a textbook and
demonstrated to four immigrant women how to do gel nails.

"They don't need a lot of English, they don't need a high education, and they
don't even need high skills," he said. "This can be learned."

At the Eden Center, where Vietnamese Americans own most of the 120 small
businesses, Nguyen has become the go-to person.

Last year, when police raided 13 businesses at the plaza and arrested 19 people
on misdemeanor charges that included gambling and alcohol violations, Nguyen was
among the first to protest. He said innocent bystanders were caught up in the
sweep.He organized community meetings with police and government officials. Shop
owners and residents came to his nightclub to discuss their concerns about more
police raids.

"Even before the raids, during the hardship of the economy, a lot of the tenants
have had concerns about the policing," Nguyen said. "We feel we have been
unfairly targeted."

Authorities said a gang known as the Dragon Family had been operating illegal
gambling machines at Eden Center. Nguyen and other merchants said they had not
heard of the gang.

"[Gene] didn't just sit around," said Due H. Tran, who as the chamber's lawyer
defended some of the people arrested during the raid. "He cares about civil
rights. He went through the same obstacles that many people face in this
socially and economically challenged environment where he went from nothing to
riches. And he didn't just stop there. While he was climbing the ladder, he
turns around and he says, 'How can I help the next family?' "

Some Vietnamese business leaders also credit Nguyen with helping fellow
immigrants establish their own businesses in the region.

"If you need advice or you need support in some way, you can always go to him,"
said Thai Nguyen, an Annandale resident who owns an immigration consulting
business in Falls Church. "We got a leader, somebody who is going to stand up
and say, 'Please be fair to everybody.' "

An American name

As a young boy, Nguyen strived to assimilate into his new country. After he
arrived in the United States, a friendly seventh-grade classmate suggested
"American" names.

"She told me, 'You want to fit in? You have to have an American name,' " Nguyen
recalled. John and Michael were too common, Nguyen thought. So he picked Gene.

From that moment, he was Gene to Americans and Binh to Vietnamese. The new name
opened doors to mainstream America, he said.

A bullet scar on his left leg, though, was always a reminder of his roots, he
said.

Nguyen was 2 when his father was killed fighting the communist takeover of South
Vietnam. His mother made several attempts to send her two children out of the
country, and during one of those attempts, Nguyen was shot in the leg. He was 8.

A few months later, his mother sold everything the family had, including her
wedding band, and took Nguyen and his older sister on a boat trip out of My-Tho,
their hometown in southern Vietnam.

"We stayed together, trying to survive," he said, recalling their rescue at sea
and three years at the Galang refugee camp in Indonesia.

"When we came to America, we ended up in one of the poorest neighborhoods. I was
in central L.A. watching the gangs go by every day. . . . We fought poverty," he
said. "I was very disappointed because that's not the America that I had in my
mind."

His mother, Tu Nguyen, a teacher and dentist in Vietnam, found work in the
booming nail industry in California. She opened a nail shop, where her children
helped.

"I was thinking about keeping them busy at the shop so I didn't have to worry
about them," she said.

When the nail industry got competitive in Los Angeles, the family sought new
opportunities in Virginia. The young Nguyen helped establish Nails for You, a
nail salon and academy that was originally in Alexandria and now is in Falls
Church.

At its peak, from 1993 to 2000, the academy had two locations and as many as 200
students, Nguyen said. He became an advocate for government regulation of the
industry and was among the first licensed nail technicians in Virginia.

It was at the academy that he met his wife, Tina, Nguyen said, recalling his
experience as a nail technician as a blessing and an opportunity to help other
immigrants.

"We tried to make it, live the American dream, build it up slowly," said Nguyen,
who lives in Annandale with his wife and three children. "I am proud to be an
American, and in my heart I will never forget who I am. I am Vietnamese. That's
where I came from."

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 15, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Red, white, blue - and gray

BYLINE: Roberto Suro

SECTION: Outlook; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1713 words


Acentury ago, the immigrants from across the Atlantic included settlers and
sojourners. Along with the many folks looking to make a permanent home in the
United States came those who had no intention to stay, and who would make some
money and then go home. Between 1908 and 1915, about 7 million people arrived
while about 2 million departed. About a quarter of all Italian immigrants, for
example, eventually returned to Italy for good. They even had an affectionate
nickname, "uccelli di passaggio," birds of passage.

Today, we are much more rigid about immigrants. We divide newcomers into two
categories: legal or illegal, good or bad. We hail them as Americans in the
making, or brand them as aliens fit for deportation. That framework has
contributed mightily to our broken immigration system and the long political
paralysis over how to fix it. We don't need more categories, but we need to
change the way we think about categories. We need to look beyond strict
definitions of legal and illegal. To start, we can recognize the new birds of
passage, those living and thriving in the gray areas. We might then begin to
solve our immigration challenges.

Crop pickers, violinists, construction workers, entrepreneurs, engineers, home
health-care aides and particle physicists are among today's birds of passage.
They are energetic participants in a global economy driven by the flow of work,
money and ideas. They prefer to come and go as opportunity calls them. They can
manage to have a job in one place and a family in another.

With or without permission, they straddle laws, jurisdictions and identities
with ease. We need them to imagine the United States as a place where they can
be productive for a while without committing themselves to staying forever. We
need them to feel that home can be both here and there and that they can belong
to two nations honorably.

Imagine life with a radically different immigration policy: The Jamaican woman
who came as a visitor and was looking after your aunt until she died could try
living in Canada for a while. You could eventually ask her to come back to care
for your mother. The Indian software developer could take some of his Silicon
Valley earnings home to join friends in a little start-up, knowing that he could
always work in California again. Or the Mexican laborer who busts his back on a
Wisconsin dairy farm for wages that keep milk cheap would come and go as needed
because he could decide which dairy to work for and a bi-national bank program
was helping him save money to build a better life for his kids in Mexico.

Accommodating this new world of people in motion will require new attitudes on
both sides of the immigration battle. Looking beyond the culture war logic of
right or wrong means opening up the middle ground and understanding that
managing immigration today requires multiple paths and multiple outcomes,
including some that are not easy to accomplish legally in the existing system.

A new system that encourages both sojourners and settlers would not only help
ensure that our society receives the human resources it will need in the future,
it also could have an added benefit: Changing the rigid framework might help us
resolve the status of the estimated 11 million unauthorized migrants who are our
shared legacy of policy failures.

Currently, we do not do gray zones well. Hundreds of thousands of people slosh
around in indeterminate status because they're caught in bureaucratic limbo or
because they have been granted temporary stays that are repeatedly extended.
President Obama created a paler shade of gray this summer by exercising
prosecutorial discretion not to deport some young people who were brought to
this country illegally as children. But these are exceptions, not rules.
The basic mechanism for legal immigration today, apart from the special category
of refugee, is the legal permanent resident visa, or green card. Most recipients
are people sponsored by close relatives who live in the United States. As the
name implies, this mechanism is designed for immigrants who are settling down.
The visa can be revoked if the holder does not show "intent to remain" by not
maintaining a U.S. address, going abroad to work full time or just traveling
indefinitely. Legal residents are assumed to be on their way to becoming
Americans, physically, culturally and legally. After five years of living here,
they become eligible for citizenship and a chance to gain voting rights and full
access to the social safety net.

This is a fine way to deal with people who arrive with deep connections to the
country and who resolve to stay. That can and should be most immigrants. But
this mechanism has two problems: The nation is not prepared to offer citizenship
to every migrant who is offered a job. And not everyone who comes here wants to
stay forever.

It may have once made sense to think of immigrants as sodbusters who were coming
to settle empty spaces. But that antique reasoning does not apply when the
country is looking at a long, steep race to remain competitive in the world
economy, particularly not when innovation and entrepreneurship are supposed to
be our comparative advantage. To succeed, we need modern birds of passage.

The challenges differ depending on whether you are looking at the high end of
the skills spectrum, the information workers or at low-skilled laborers.

A frequent proposal for highly skilled workers comes with the slogan, "Staple a
green card to the diploma." That is supposed to ensure that a greater share of
brainy international students remain in the United States after earning degrees
in science and technology. But what if they are not ready for a long-term
commitment? No one would suggest that investment capital or design processes
need to reside permanently in one nation. Talent today yearns to be equally
mobile. Rather than try to oblige smart young people from abroad to stay here,
we should allow them to think of the United States as a place where they can
always return, a place where they will spend part, not all, of their lives, one
of several places where they can live and work and invest.

Temporary-worker programs are a conventional approach to meeting low-skilled
labor needs without illegal immigration. That's what President George W. Bush
proposed in 2004, saying the government should "match willing foreign workers
with willing American employers." An immigrant comes to do a particular job for
a limited period of time and then goes home. But such programs risk replacing
one kind of rigidity with another. The relatively small programs currently in
place don't manage the matchmaking very well. Competing domestic workers need to
be protected, as do the migrant workers, and the process must be nimble enough
to meet labor market demand. Nobody really has pulled that off, and there is no
reason to believe it can be done on a grand scale. Rather than trying to link
specific migrants to specific jobs, different types of temporary work visas
could be pegged to industries, to places or to time periods. You could get an
engineering visa, not only a visa to work at Intel.

Both short-term visas and permanent residence need to be part of the mix, but
they are not the whole answer. Another valuable tool is the provisional visa,
which Australia uses as a kind of intermediary stage in which temporary
immigrants spend several years before becoming eligible for permanent residency.
The U.S. system practically obliges visitors to spend time here without
authorization when they've married a citizen, gotten a job or done something
else that qualifies them to stay legally.

We also could borrow from Europe and create long-term permission to reside for
certain migrants that is contingent on simply being employed, not on having a
specific job. And, legislation could loosen the definitions of permanent
residency so that migrants could gain a lifetime right to live and work in the
United States without having to be here (and pay taxes here) more or less
continuously.

The idea that newcomers are either saints or is not written indelibly either in
our hearts or in our laws. As the size of the unauthorized population has grown
over the past 20 years or so, the political response has dictated seeing
immigration policy through the stark lens of law enforcement: Whom do we lock
up, kick out, fence off? Prominent politicians of both parties, including both
presidential candidates, have engaged in macho one-upmanship when it comes to
immigration. So, President Obama broke records for deportations. Mitt Romney,
meanwhile, vows to break records for border security.

Breaking out of the either/or mentality opens up many avenues for managing
future immigration. It could also help break the stalemate over the current
population of unauthorized migrants.  No election result will produce a Congress
that offers a path to citizenship for everybody, but there is no support for
total deportation, either.

If we accept that there are spaces between legal and illegal, then options
multiply.

Citizenship could be an eventual outcome for most, not all, people here
illegally, but everyone would get some kind of papers, and we can engineer a way
for people to work their way from one status to another. The newly arrived and
least attached could be granted status for a limited time and receive help with
returning to their home countries. Others might be offered life-long privileges
to live and work here, but not citizenship. We'd give the fullest welcome to
those with homes, children or long time jobs.

By insisting that immigrants are either Americans or aliens, we make it harder
for some good folks to come and we oblige others to stay for the wrong reasons.
Worse, we ensure that there will always be people living among us who are
outside the law and that is not good for them or us.

outlook@washpost.com                                                 Roberto
Suro is a professor of public policy and director of the Tomás Rivera Policy
Institute at the University of Southern California. He is a coauthor of "Writing
Immigration: Scholars and Journalists in Dialogue."

Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 24, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Mexico's middle-class migrants

BYLINE: William Booth;Nick Miroff

SECTION: A section; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1765 words


For a generation, the men of this town have headed north to the land of the
mighty dollar, breaking U.S. immigration laws to dig swimming pools in Memphis
and grind meat in Chicago.

In the United States, they were illegal aliens. Back home, they are new
entrepreneurs using the billions of dollars earned "on the other side" to create
a Mexican middle class.

The migrants "did something bad to do something good," said Mexican economist
Luis de la Calle.

Where remittances from El Norte were once mostly used to help hungry families
back home simply survive, surveys now reveal that the longer a migrant stays up
north, the more likely the cash transfers will be used to start new businesses
or to pay for homes, farm equipment and school tuitions.

From Santa Maria del Refugio, a once rural, now almost suburban, community of
2,500 in central Mexico's Guanajuato state, young men have gone to the United
States seeking the social mobility they could not find at home.

Their money, and many of the workers themselves, have since returned, as the
U.S. economy slowed in the global recession. For the first time in 40 years, net
migration is effectively zero. About the same number of Mexicans left the United
States last year as arrived. Migration experts expect the northward flow to pick
up again as the U.S. economy improves. It is also possible that as Mexico
provides more opportunity for upward mobility, some potential migrants will stay
home.

In Santa Maria, dollars scrimped and saved in the United States have transformed
a poor pueblo into a town of curbed sidewalks, Internet cafes and rows of
two-story homes rising on a hillside where scrawny cattle once grazed.

"Look at this place - it's practically a city now," said Roberto Mandujano, 50,
who moved back to his home town and opened a hardware store five years ago.
"There was nothing here when I left."

Mandujano is a member of a new demographic in Mexico, the anxious, tenacious,
growing middle class who own homes and cars and take vacations. They see the
United States more as a model than an exploiter.

Born into a family of 10 siblings, Mandujano set out from Santa Maria and
crossed the Rio Grande at age 17. He found work on landscaping crews and highway
projects, and eventually earned a plumber's license. Now back home in Mexico, he
runs half-marathons on the weekends and owns a well-stocked store ("my little
Home Depot") and a U.S. green card, traveling back to Texas whenever he wants.

"On an airplane," he said with pride.

Development experts and economists here have struggled to measure the extent to
which remittances, the money sent home by migrants, have fueled middle-class
growth. The Mexican government is good at counting the dollars flowing into the
country. Less understood is what recipients are doing with the money.

Invested remittances

Some 12 million Mexicans - which represents 15 percent of Mexico's labor force -
reside legally and illegally in the United States, according to the Pew Hispanic
Center. Researchers say the longer that migrants work in the United States, the
more their money drives upward mobility.

"We have found that in the first three to five years, the ultimate destination
of the remittances is to help the families, but after seven years, the money is
saved and then invested," said Victor Corona, a professor at the University of
Zacatecas and an expert in migration.

Still, the remittance system has exacted a toll: absent fathers, strained
marriages, frayed families. Development officials say that Mexico's reliance on
remittances should be replaced by an economy that produces good jobs in Mexico -
and that middle-class growth that relies on migration is ultimately a sign of
weakness, not strength.

In Central American countries such as Guatemala and El Salvador, which are even
more dependent on cash sent from the United States, remittances have also
nurtured new businesses and an incipient middle class. But far more money goes
to Mexico.

During the past decade, remittances sent by Mexicans from the United States have
exploded, from $3.7 billion in 1995 to a peak of $25 billion in 2007.

According to the most recent social and economic data, a narrow majority of
Mexicans are no longer poor but members of the middle class, marking a profound
demographic shift in a country where 80 percent of the population was living in
poverty in 1960.

The middle class in Mexico does not look like its counterpart in Europe or the
United States. Its members make far less money. At the lower rungs, they are
more vulnerable. They are less educated. Many lack formal employment, leaving
them with no insurance, health care or pensions.

Persistent inequality in Mexico means that its emerging middle class remains
closer to the country's poor than to its affluent.

The cash transfers are just one of many factors driving the growth of the middle
class. In the 1980s and 1990s, Mexico swung from one crisis to the next: a major
earthquake in the capital, bank nationalization, the sudden devaluation of the
peso, an armed rebellion in the state of Chiapas.

In the past 15 years, the country has tamed inflation. Families now have far
fewer children, and they invest more in them.

Mexico is more competitive, more global, more urban, and with the opening of
markets, prices for most consumer goods have dropped. The government has also
made a concerted if imperfect effort over the past 20 years to provide a social
safety net that subsidizes schooling, health care and food.

Then there's Western Union's cash wire.

Mexican workers sent home nearly $23 billion last year, greater than the direct
foreign investment made by all multinational corporations. Remittances are now
equal to the foreign currency exchange generated by Mexico's tourism industry or
its oil sector.

According to economic surveys, about half of the 112 million Mexicans have
family living in the United States, and one in five has a relative who regularly
sends money back home. The average amount sent in May was $329.

After China and India, Mexico is the world's third-largest recipient of
remittances, World Bank data show.

The largest stack of remittance cash - nearly 62 percent - goes not to the
poorest Mexicans but to the lower middle class, according to surveys of
recipients conducted by Mexico's Interior Ministry.

Tougher border enforcement on the U.S. side has put the cost of migration out of
reach for poor Mexicans, who can't afford the thousands of dollars in fees
smugglers charge for fake documents or a GPS-guided trek through the Arizona
desert.

A study for the Inter-American Development Bank found that 43 percent of those
who received remittances from the United States described their family's
economic situation in Mexico as "good to excellent." Only 24 percent said it was
bad or very bad.

"It feels like a luxury to be here with my family, in my own country," said
Santa Maria business owner Fernando Muñiz, who first went north at age 15 and
built tract houses in Arizona.

Now Muñiz owns his own home, debt free, and a few years ago opened a mini-market
and an Internet cafe, with eight computers and decent broadband, with money he
saved working in the United States.

"My son is 6 years old and already knows how to use a computer. I didn't learn
how to use one until I was 28," said Muñiz, whose father was poor and died poor,
even though he went to the United States many times for agricultural work.

"I would have liked for my father to see this," Muñiz said.

They used to work in Houston

Although a weak U.S. job market and tougher border enforcement - along with a
surge of kidnapping and killing in Mexico targeting migrants - have slowed
illegal immigration to the United States over the past few years, the Bank of
Mexico predicts that remittances will hit record levels again in 2013, as the
U.S. economy picks up.

Just down the road from Santa Maria, Luciano Figueroa and his brothers employ
nearly 50 workers between their butcher shop, cattle ranch and spacious
family-style restaurant called Tres Hermanos (Three Brothers), where an American
flag flutters atop the roof.

Figueroa swept his arm toward the dining room of his packed barbecue joint.
"Every one of these waiters used to work in Houston," he said. "Now they work
here."

A decade ago, when Figueroa's father was so poor he had to sell his last cow,
Figueroa's oldest brother went to work at a meat packing plant in Chicago.

He came home four years later with $8,000. The brothers invested the money in a
meat saw and 25 head of cattle, opening a butcher shop next to the highway. Five
years later, they'd earned enough to open the restaurant.

"Now I feel like a businessman," Figueroa said.

Their cattle herd has grown to 200, and with the Japanese automaker Honda
opening a new assembly plant less than two miles away, Figueroa said he's
planning a trip to the United States soon.

"To Disney World," he said.

Supporting a family in the U.S.

A face-to-face survey of 1,200 Mexicans released last month by the Pew Research
Center found that more than half of respondents thought Mexicans who move to the
United States have better lives. But just 37 percent said they would be willing
to go, and 19 percent said they would do so illegally.

It is harder to measure the cultural and political influence of returning
migrants such as Mandujano, the hardware store owner and avid runner, whose
lifestyles have changed dramatically from the corn-and-beans existence of their
forebears. Studies indicate they have higher expectations for better government.
They are bringing American habits, customs and consumption tastes back home.

Mandujano said he had an epiphany one Sunday in a Houston park while drinking a
can of beer on his day off and watching Americans jogging all around him.

"I thought: 'What am I doing?'[#x200a]" he said. "I went out and bought a pair
of running shoes the next day."

With their daughters in high school and college, Mandujano's wife remains in
Houston. After decades of saving and sending money home to Santa Maria, he now
does the reverse, supporting his family in Texas with earnings from the hardware
store in Mexico.

"Every month I pay off their Sam's Club card," he said, shrugging. "I can do it
online."

boothb@washpost.com

miroffn@washpost.com

More world news coverage:

- Syrian rebels still hopeful as government regains initiative in capital
- Iraq attacks raise specter of al-Qaeda's return

- Influential Chinese commentators dispute Japan's claim to Okinawa          -
Read more headlines from around the world

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      July 25, 2012 Wednesday 8:12 PM EST

Baltimore's hope: Immigrants

BYLINE: Carol Morello;Luz Lazo

SECTION: A section; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1847 words


The fate of Baltimore may rest with immigrants like Alexandra Gonzalez.

A native of Puebla, Mexico, Gonzalez feels more at home in Baltimore with every
passing year. She attends city-run nutrition and exercise classes in Spanish and
takes her two young children to a Spanish-language storytelling hour at her
neighborhood library. She plans to earn a GED and become a teacher.

"I like living here," said Gonzalez, 24, as she pushed a stroller holding her
sleeping 1-year-old daughter and bags of purchases from a dollar store in the
blue-collar Highlandtown neighborhood. "They don't look at you weird because you
don't speak English."

The degree to which Gonzalez feels welcome is no accident.

After decades of seeing the city's population slide with every census count,
Baltimore officials are trying to turn things around. One key strategy is
embracing immigrants, in the hope they will encourage friends and family to join
them.

Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake (D) has told Latinos, in particular, that she is
counting on them to help Baltimore gain 10,000 families within a decade. As a
first step, she signed an order in March prohibiting police and social agencies
from asking anyone about  immigration status - and in the order, she explicitly
asked federal immigration authorities to tell anyone they arrest that they are
not agents of the city.          Baltimore joins an increasing number of U.S.
cities, most of them manufacturing behemoths fallen on hard times, that are
courting immigrants to reverse half a century of population loss.

The Global Detroit effort includes programs that help immigrants start small
businesses, get driver's licenses and learn English. As part of the Welcome
Dayton Plan adopted last year, the Ohio city sponsors a soccer tournament for
immigrant teams. Not to be outdone, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel (D) says he wants
his home town to be known as the most "immigrant-friendly city in the country."
The welcome mats thrown out by struggling cities and states stand in stark
contrast to the reception immigrants have faced in places such as Arizona and
Alabama. There, laws requiring police to ask a person's immigration status have
raised concerns about racial profiling among many immigrants, whether or not
they are in the country legally, and many have left because of the stricter
laws, as well as the recession.

In the Washington region, Prince William County saw a drop in its immigrant
population, both legal and illegal, after it mandated that police make
immigration checks.

A new attitude

Baltimore has undergone a shift in attitude. In 2004, then-Maryland Comptroller
William Donald Schaefer (D), a former mayor and governor, chastised immigrants
who don't speak English well after a Spanish-speaking cashier at a McDonald's
had trouble understanding his order.          "I don't want to adjust to another
language," Schaefer said. "This is the United States. I think they ought to
adjust to us."

Eight years later, Baltimore and many other cities are adjusting.

The 2010 census was a tipping point. Most cities that grew had Hispanics and, to
a lesser degree, Asians to thank. Cities with few immigrants lost political
power and federal money as district lines and funding formulas changed to
reflect new census numbers.

"The census has shown cities definitively what the population trend is," said
Margie McHugh, an immigration expert with the nonpartisan Migration Policy
Institute. "It got a lot of smart people in city and state governments looking
10 years ahead and thinking hard about what the economic future for cities could
be."

In Michigan, former state House majority leader Steve Tobocman (D) heads Global
Detroit, built around the idea that immigration can drive an economic rebound.
The group plans to provide training in how to start "micro enterprises" and has
created a "welcome mat" network of social service agencies that offer English
and citizenship classes. It hopes to draw both entrepreneurial engineers who
graduate from the state's universities and working-class immigrants who can
start small neighborhood businesses.

"Immigrants have a lot to contribute to job creation and economic growth,"
Tobocman said.

Most of the immigrant-friendly measures around the country are in their infancy,
so it is difficult to assess how effective they are. Philadelphia, for example,
saw its population grow for the first time in 60 years after the mayor ordered
police in 2009 not to ask about immigration status, but the rise in Hispanic and
Asian residents that was responsible for the increase might have happened
anyway. Hispanics and Asians are the two fastest-growing groups in the country,
more because of their higher birth rates than to immigration.

Critics of  'sanctuary cities'

Critics say cities that lure immigrants end up with high numbers of undocumented
migrants. That also is difficult to measure, particularly now that immigration
from Mexico, the largest source of illegal immigration, has dwindled to
essentially zero.

The census does not ask immigration status, so it is not possible to say how
many of Baltimore's 45,000 foreign-born residents are here legally. But the Pew
Hispanic Center estimated that in 2010, Maryland had the nation's 10th-largest
population of unauthorized immigrants.

Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County) said he is consulting with
Judicial Watch, a conservative think tank, about whether Rawlings-Blake is
"aiding and abetting" people who are in the country illegally.

McDonough said the mayor's order in effect creates a "sanctuary city" that will
draw undocumented immigrants who will compete for jobs with current residents.
Baltimore's unemployment rate tops 10 percent; for African American men, it is
at least double that.

"For the mayor to want to increase the population of Baltimore City in principle
is an admirable thing," McDonough said. "But by going after people who don't
have a lawful presence, and all of the accompanying cultural and criminal issues
associated with that policy, you are counterproductive. You're going to
discourage people who live in the city from continuing to be there."

Immigrant outreach - such as the city-run classes in Spanish - is just one part
of the mayor's agenda for growing Baltimore. She has programs that aim to
improve public schools, reduce crime, cut property taxes and create jobs,
increasing the city's appeal to all residents. The mayor's order has been her
only action aimed at immigrants, though other initiatives are being considered.

"What we want to do is attract immigrants who call home and say: 'Maybe you
should think about coming to Baltimore. I'm having a great time here,' " said
Ian Brennan, a mayoral spokesman.

Widespread support

Support for the policy appears to be broad.

"I agree with her policy in terms of trying to increase the city's numbers,"
said Del. Curtis S. Anderson (D), chairman of the city's House delegation in
Annapolis. "Her idea now to reach out to the non-documented population is one
way. But I don't think it's the most important thing she's doing."

More important, he said, is reducing the property tax rate and creating jobs.

Ryan O'Doherty, another mayoral spokesman, said the city has several pillars of
economic strength offering jobs at all skill levels: Johns Hopkins University,
the port and tourism.

As if to underscore the urgency of stemming the city's population dive, new
census estimates show that Baltimore lost an additional 1,500 residents in the
15 months after the census, bringing it below 620,000. The figures, which are
being contested by the city, show a continued exodus of black residents, while
the numbers of Hispanics, Asians and non-Hispanic whites were on the upswing.

Only Cleveland and Detroit lost more residents than Baltimore. During the same
period, the District gained 16,000 residents and is closing in on its northern
neighbor in the rankings of big cities. Baltimore is now the nation's 24th
largest city. In 1980, it ranked 10th.

Hispanics in particular have helped slow the decline in the city's population,
which peaked at 950,000 in 1950. Their numbers more than doubled over the past
decade, from 11,000 in 2000 to 26,000 in 2010. They now make up 4 percent of
Baltimore residents, a fraction of their share of the state and national
population.

Hispanics born in Mexico, Central America and South America make up more than a
third of all foreign-born residents of Baltimore, according to census figures.
The city also draws many immigrants from Africa, China and the Middle East.

Reviving Highlandtown

One place where the influx of immigrants is most evident is Highlandtown, a
neighborhood of narrow rowhouses, corner bars and grocery stores on Baltimore's
east side. It was settled by European immigrants, mostly Greeks, Italians and
Poles who never moved to the suburbs and left their homes to their children.
Merchants say that by the early 1990s, the neighborhood was dying.

But today, it is a bustling crossroads. Convenience stores advertise Corona and
Modelo beers. Restaurants featuring Mexican and Honduran fare stand beside
diners serving up Coney dogs. A storefront church, Jesus de Vida, occupies a
building next to the Madina Grocery and Halal Meats, which is run by a Chinese
couple. A refugee resettlement center guides newcomers from Nepal and
French-speaking Africa on orientation tours, including a stop at the Southeast
Anchor Library.

"One of the first things they do is get a library card," said branch manager
Cindy Kleback. "Then they can use the computers for free to communicate with
people back home. I walk past the computers and see people watching TV from
Eritrea."

Every Thursday, the library hosts a children's storytelling hour in Spanish.
Non-Hispanic parents also bring their children to expose them to another
language and culture, fostering friendships that have led to baby showers in the
library and a potluck Thanksgiving dinner.

The spreading Latin influence has been a welcome change to Fidelita Portillo,
who found few familiar products at the corner grocery when she moved to
Baltimore eight years ago to join her sister. Today, several grocers carry the
chiles, sweet breads and Goya products that remind her of her native El
Salvador.

This year, Portillo enrolled her 4-year-old in preschool and readily found
information in Spanish. The school has an interpreter available as well.

When the mayor held a small town hall meeting at the library this spring to
explain her new, immigrant-friendly policy, Portillo attended. She acknowledges
not having the proper documents to be in the country.

"I feel better knowing the mayor has assured us that the police are not going to
be going after the immigrants," she said, adding that she wants her children to
grow up without worrying that their parents will be deported. "People feel free.
We don't have to live in hiding and in fear."

morelloc@washpost.com

lazol@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 28, 2012 Saturday 8:12 PM EST

Drunken-driving arrest turns up fugitive in $100 million fraud case

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A section; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 260 words


LAS VEGAS - A fingerprint match in a Las Vegas area drunken-driving case led
U.S. authorities to a German fugitive in a $100 million international fraud
scheme who had been on the run for five years, authorities said Friday.

U.S. marshals recently learned that a fingerprint from a 51-year-old man
arrested in February 2011 belonged to Ulrich Felix Anton Engler, and they joined
with Las Vegas police financial crimes detectives to find and arrest him late
Wednesday, said Bill Cassell, a Las Vegas police officer.

Engler was being held by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement on an
immigration violation, pending his transfer to Germany.

He is accused of using a marketing firm called Private Commercial Office in Cape
Coral, Fla., to build an Internet pyramid scheme. From June 2003 to December
2004, it collected almost $101 million from 3,500 investors in Germany,
Switzerland and Austria, authorities said. Once the money reached the United
States, investors lost access to it.

FBI agents and local police on Friday began tracing Engler's steps in southern
Nevada, finding more than 1,000 pieces of artwork at a storage facility he
rented in Boulder City, about 25 miles east of Las Vegas.

FBI agent Patrick Turner in Las Vegas said the warrant search at the storage
facility was an effort to recover proceeds on behalf of alleged fraud victims.

A local court in Mannheim, Germany, issued a warrant in December 2007 accusing
Engler of multiple criminal fraud charges, according to an ICE statement. If
convicted, he faces up to 20 years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              418 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 29, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Baltimore's hope: Immigrants

BYLINE: Carol Morello;Luz Lazo

SECTION: Metro; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 1839 words


The fate of Baltimore may rest with immigrants like Alexandra Gonzalez.

A native of Puebla, Mexico, Gonzalez feels more at home in Baltimore with every
passing year. She attends city-run nutrition and exercise classes in Spanish and
takes her two young children to a Spanish-language storytelling hour at her
neighborhood library. She plans to earn a GED and become a teacher.

"I like living here," said Gonzalez, 24, as she pushed a stroller holding her
sleeping 1-year-old daughter and bags of purchases from a dollar store in the
blue-collar Highlandtown neighborhood. "They don't look at you weird because you
don't speak English."

The degree to which Gonzalez feels welcome is no accident.

After decades of seeing the city's population slide with every census count,
Baltimore officials are trying to turn things around. One key strategy is
embracing immigrants, in the hope they will encourage friends and family to join
them.

Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake (D) has told Latinos, in particular, that she is
counting on them to help Baltimore gain 10,000 families within a decade. As a
first step, she signed an order in March prohibiting police and social agencies
from asking anyone about immigration status - and in the order, she explicitly
asked federal immigration authorities to tell anyone they arrest that they are
not agents of the city.          Baltimore joins an increasing number of U.S.
cities, most of them manufacturing behemoths fallen on hard times, that are
courting immigrants to reverse half a century of population loss.

The Global Detroit effort includes programs that help immigrants start small
businesses, get driver's licenses and learn English. As part of the Welcome
Dayton Plan adopted last year, the Ohio city sponsors a soccer tournament for
immigrant teams. Not to be outdone, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel (D) says he wants
his home town to be known as the most "immigrant-friendly city in the country."
The welcome mats thrown out by struggling cities and states stand in stark
contrast to the reception immigrants have faced in places such as Arizona and
Alabama. There, laws requiring police to ask a person's immigration status have
raised concerns about racial profiling among many immigrants, whether or not
they are in the country legally, and many have left because of the stricter
laws, as well as the recession.

In the Washington region, Prince William County saw a drop in its immigrant
population, both legal and illegal, after it mandated that police make
immigration checks.

Baltimore has undergone a shift in attitude. In 2004, then-Maryland Comptroller
William Donald Schaefer (D), a former mayor and governor, chastised immigrants
who don't speak English well after a Spanish-speaking cashier at a McDonald's
had trouble understanding his order.

"I don't want to adjust to another language," Schaefer said. "This is the United
States. I think they ought to adjust to us."

Eight years later, Baltimore and many other cities are adjusting.

The 2010 census was a tipping point. Most cities that grew had Hispanics and, to
a lesser degree, Asians to thank. Cities with few immigrants lost political
power and federal money as district lines and funding formulas changed to
reflect new census numbers.

"The census has shown cities definitively what the population trend is," said
Margie McHugh, an immigration expert with the nonpartisan Migration Policy
Institute. "It got a lot of smart people in city and state governments looking
10 years ahead and thinking hard about what the economic future for cities could
be."

In Michigan, former state House majority leader Steve Tobocman (D) heads Global
Detroit, built around the idea that immigration can drive an economic rebound.
The group plans to provide training in how to start "micro enterprises" and has
created a "welcome mat" network of social service agencies that offer English
and citizenship classes. It hopes to draw both entrepreneurial engineers who
graduate from the state's universities and working-class immigrants who can
start small neighborhood businesses.

"Immigrants have a lot to contribute to job creation and economic growth,"
Tobocman said.

Most of the immigrant-friendly measures around the country are in their infancy,
so it is difficult to assess how effective they are. Philadelphia, for example,
saw its population grow for the first time in 60 years after the mayor ordered
police in 2009 not to ask about immigration status, but the rise in Hispanic and
Asian residents that was responsible for the increase might have happened
anyway. Hispanics and Asians are the two fastest-growing groups in the country,
more because of their higher birth rates than to immigration.

Critics of 'sanctuary cities'

Critics say cities that lure immigrants end up with high numbers of undocumented
migrants. That also is difficult to measure, particularly now that immigration
from Mexico, the largest source of illegal immigration, has dwindled to
essentially zero.

The census does not ask immigration status, so it is not possible to say how
many of Baltimore's 45,000 foreign-born residents are here legally. But the Pew
Hispanic Center estimated that in 2010, Maryland had the nation's 10th-largest
population of unauthorized immigrants.Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore
County) said he is consulting with Judicial Watch, a conservative think tank,
about whether Rawlings-Blake is "aiding and abetting" people who are in the
country illegally.

McDonough said the mayor's order in effect creates a "sanctuary city" that will
draw undocumented immigrants who will compete for jobs with current residents.
Baltimore's unemployment rate tops 10 percent; for African American men, it is
at least double that.

"For the mayor to want to increase the population of Baltimore City in principle
is an admirable thing," McDonough said. "But by going after people who don't
have a lawful presence, and all of the accompanying cultural and criminal issues
associated with that policy, you are counterproductive. You're going to
discourage people who live in the city from continuing to be there."

Immigrant outreach - such as the city-run classes in Spanish - is just one part
of the mayor's agenda for growing Baltimore. She has programs that aim to
improve public schools, reduce crime, cut property taxes and create jobs,
increasing the city's appeal to all residents. The mayor's order has been her
only action aimed at immigrants, though other initiatives are being considered.

"What we want to do is attract immigrants who call home and say: 'Maybe you
should think about coming to Baltimore. I'm having a great time here,' " said
Ian Brennan, a mayoral spokesman.

Widespread support

Support for the policy appears to be broad.

"I agree with her policy in terms of trying to increase the city's numbers,"
said Del. Curtis S. Anderson (D), chairman of the city's House delegation in
Annapolis. "Her idea now to reach out to the non-documented population is one
way. But I don't think it's the most important thing she's doing."

More important, he said, is reducing the property tax rate and creating jobs.

Ryan O'Doherty, another mayoral spokesman, said the city has several pillars of
economic strength offering jobs at all skill levels: Johns Hopkins University,
the port and tourism.

As if to underscore the urgency of stemming the city's population dive, new
census estimates show that Baltimore lost an additional 1,500 residents in the
15 months after the census, bringing it below 620,000. The figures, which are
being contested by the city, show a continued exodus of black residents, while
the numbers of Hispanics, Asians and non-Hispanic whites were on the upswing.

Only Cleveland and Detroit lost more residents than Baltimore. During the same
period, the District gained 16,000 residents and is closing in on its northern
neighbor in the rankings of big cities. Baltimore is now the nation's 24th
largest city. In 1980, it ranked 10th.

Hispanics in particular have helped slow the decline in the city's population,
which peaked at 950,000 in 1950. Their numbers more than doubled over the past
decade, from 11,000 in 2000 to 26,000 in 2010. They now make up 4 percent of
Baltimore residents, a fraction of their share of the state and national
population.

Hispanics born in Mexico, Central America and South America make up more than a
third of all foreign-born residents of Baltimore, according to census figures.
The city also draws many immigrants from Africa, China and the Middle East.

Reviving Highlandtown

One place where the influx of immigrants is most evident is Highlandtown, a
neighborhood of narrow rowhouses, corner bars and grocery stores on Baltimore's
east side. It was settled by European immigrants, mostly Greeks, Italians and
Poles who never moved to the suburbs and left their homes to their children.
Merchants say that by the early 1990s, the neighborhood was dying.

But today, it is a bustling crossroads. Convenience stores advertise Corona and
Modelo beers. Restaurants featuring Mexican and Honduran fare stand beside
diners serving up Coney dogs. A storefront church, Jesus de Vida, occupies a
building next to the Madina Grocery and Halal Meats, which is run by a Chinese
couple. A refugee resettlement center guides newcomers from Nepal and
French-speaking Africa on orientation tours, including a stop at the Southeast
Anchor Library.

"One of the first things they do is get a library card," said branch manager
Cindy Kleback. "Then they can use the computers for free to communicate with
people back home. I walk past the computers and see people watching TV from
Eritrea."

Every Thursday, the library hosts a children's storytelling hour in Spanish.
Non-Hispanic parents also bring their children to expose them to another
language and culture, fostering friendships that have led to baby showers in the
library and a potluck Thanksgiving dinner.

The spreading Latin influence has been a welcome change to Fidelita Portillo,
who found few familiar products at the corner grocery when she moved to
Baltimore eight years ago to join her sister. Today, several grocers carry the
chiles, sweet breads and Goya products that remind her of her native El
Salvador.

This year, Portillo enrolled her 4-year-old in preschool and readily found
information in Spanish. The school has an interpreter available as well.

When the mayor held a small town hall meeting at the library this spring to
explain her new, immigrant-friendly policy, Portillo attended. She acknowledges
not having the proper documents to be in the country.

"I feel better knowing the mayor has assured us that the police are not going to
be going after the immigrants," she said, adding that she wants her children to
grow up without worrying that their parents will be deported. "People feel free.
We don't have to live in hiding and in fear."

morelloc@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 6, 2012 Monday 8:12 PM EST

Expatriate Games

BYLINE: Emily Wax

SECTION: Style; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 809 words


There's nothing like the Olympics to lift national pride and spur international
rivalries - and to remind immigrants of the cultures they came from.

For many members of Washington's vibrant international community, the London
Games have been an excuse to renew old allegiances. They also have given the
younger generation a reason to celebrate a parent's culture, and sometimes they
have opened up old political wounds.

We found Arlington's U.S. Tae Kwon Do College filled with South Koreans cheering
on their soccer team, an African sports bar in Alexandria packed with Ethiopian
Americans rooting for their female sprinters and an Eden Center karaoke hall
packed with Vietnamese Americans singing traditional songs - and booing China.
"We came out of communism," explains Binh Nguyen, president of the Vietnamese
American Chamber of Commerce in Falls Church and owner of the nightclub V3
Lounge. "We're upset if China gets too many medals. We root for the Americans!"

Here's a glimpse of how Ethiopian and Russian immigrants in the D.C. area
celebrated the first week of the Olympics.

INSIDE: Fans at Chinese and South Korean cultural centers in D.C. C2.

At an Ethiopian sports bar

When Abiy Bisrat, owner of Enat, an Ethiopian sports bar in Alexandria, featured
in the above photo, heard that Ethiopia had a very strong running team headed to
the London Olympics, he went out and bought an 80-inch television.

"We already had three smaller flat screens," he says Friday afternoon, as the
women's 10,000 meter race begins. "But I wanted to really go big. Sorry, hold
on," he says over the noise of the crowd. "I have to go turn the TV even louder,
customers will want that."

The new purchase was worth it, he later decides, after female runner Tirunesh
Dibaba pulls so far ahead of the pack that she finishes more than five seconds
in front of Kenyan Sally Kipyego.

"We loved watching her smile at the end," says Bisrat, as waitresses dressed in
the country's yellow, red and green colors serve imported Ethiopian beers and
coffees.

At a Russian bar in Dupont Circle

Inside the sultry, maroon-colored bar at Russia House in Dupont Circle,
bartender Julia Pudovikova, pictured above, 26, shakes and pours a "Moscow Mule"
cocktail and remembers when she was a child gymnast back in her native Russia.

"I wasn't that good, but I have nice memories," she says. The Russian staffers
here gather to watch the Russian gymnasts when business is slow. While Russia
has long excelled at gymnastics, the United States has been the star this year.

"I'm happy for the U.S.," Pudovikova says, pouring a stream of Russian-made
vodka for American patrons during a recent happy hour. "But I'm sad for Russia.
I guess there's always the synchronized swimming team - they are also amazing."

2 At a Chinatown center

"Every country owns a sport. We own Ping-Pong," chuckles Ken Yang, 17, as he
glances up at a flat screen showing the Olympic Games inside the Chinatown
Community Cultural Center, housed near Gallery Place.          He moved with his
family to the United States from China four years ago, and he and others say
that despite the fact that China has one of the top medal counts in the world,
most Chinese Americans watch the Olympics at home. They don't have a pub
culture; they don't even sit around at Starbucks, says Linda Wang, director of
operations at the center.  Nonetheless, about 25 young people gathered at the
cultural center Thursday afternoon and said they like to have the Olympic Games
on - in the background - while they hang out, learn Chinese calligraphy and play
Chinese checkers, mah-jongg and, of course, Ping-Pong, known in the Olympics as
table tennis.

"Compared to the Chinese Ping-Pong champs [such as] Zhang Jike, we aren't that
good," Yang says. "That's why we need to watch and get better. They inspire us!"

2 At Korean Cultural Center

Korean Americans are swooning for soccer, glows Hosan Kim, 34, project officer
at the Korean Cultural Center Washington.

Ever since South Korea co-hosted the 2002 FIFA World Cup with Japan, Koreans
have been supporting their soccer team in public gatherings.

Love has made Koreans do things they never would have before, says Kim, who
organized a viewing of South Korea's Olympic soccer match at the U.S. Tae Kwon
Do College in Arlington.

"The dynamics have totally changed. We wouldn't have come out before, but now
everybody wants to meet and cheer en masse, in public for our soccer players,"
he says, wearing a white T-shirt that read on the front, "Go Team, Korea," and
on the back, "See you at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang," which is
being hosted by South Korea. "It's just a great thing to be all together," Kim
says.

waxe@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved
